What's the best way to take Trenalone in the offseason? I'm going to tell you. Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. I'm your host Adep Farooqi. This is your forum for whatever you have on your mind. Be it bodybuilding, non-Bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation, anything for bodybuilding, competition related. We are now less than 6 weeks from the Olympia. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question. I'm taking 125 grams of carbs every day and I'm losing two pounds a week. I'm in very good condition. I have two months left until I compete. My question is, should I lower my carb intake each week or do a rotational diet or should I wait until I stop losing weight before changing my diet? If you're losing weight, I mean ostensibly body fat consistently there's then don't change anything. I always tell people the most food you could possibly eat and still lose body fat is the ult is the ultimate diet. There's no like everyone says what's the best diet the best diet is the is is the diet you can follow where you're eating the most amount of food and still still losing body fat. Obviously you want to make sure you get enough protein. Obviously you want to make sure you get enough essential fats and stuff like that. But once you have that aspect taken care of, anything else you can eat, if you could eat 500 grams of carbs a day and and lose weight, get in shape, you're you're a lucky man. You know, most people can't do that. So, there's no reason to reduce food or calories, you know, or anything or add more cardio if I if you're succeeding in achieving what you need to do, which is, you know, two to three pounds of of weight loss per week. Now, obviously, if you're 50 or 60 pounds out of shape, you might need to speed that that up a little bit if you didn't give enough yourself enough weeks, you know, if you're not going to make it. But my point is, if you're dropping consistently, don't change anything. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Would you consider outdoor walking at a brisk pace if you have enough hills to be adequate adequate for low inensity steadystate cardio per your cardio recommendations? Here's the problem. People go and walk outside and they stop and they look at trees and then if they're walking, you know, in a city, they have to stop at traffic lights. If it's not continuous walking and you're gonna be, you know, distracted uh from continuous walking, then then no, no, that doesn't count as cardio. But if you could actually go outside and walk at a brisk pace and and can can do it continuously without stopping, then then that's fine. So a casual walking the dog sometimes is not adequate. You know, people say, "Well, I walk the dog, you know, three times a day and I I walk like two miles." Well, yeah, but you stop, the dog goes to the bathroom, you know, you check your phone. I I think I hit my I pulled on the wire. You hit your phone. You check your phone. And so that that's not adequate. That's not adequate. Sorry. But you know what? These questions, Sid, are from the Dave Plum Experience app. And I want to just make a note that a lot of people have been signing up lately. And I want to thank everyone. It's an app you download from the iTunes store, the Android store. It's $29 a month. You get me as your coach in your back pocket. You get all my writings, all my videos in an organized way. I answer everyone's email, excuse me, everyone's questions in an open forum. So you get to see everyone's questions, everyone's answers. I do a Q&A video exclusively for the app members every single week. Um, so it's like an extra ask Dave. It's a great learning experience. All my diets are in there. All my drug protocols are in there. Offseason pre-contest, keto diets. Anything you could possibly want from me is in there and it's always being updated with new uh content uh weekly. So it's a great it's a great app. It's a great gift to buy for someone. And uh once again, thanks for all the support all these years. Let's go to the rest of our questions. Our questions from our social media atlas, from our Instagram page, our Facebook page, and most importantly, really where we've been taking most of our questions uh over the course of the last few weeks really is our YouTube community page. Um great resource for getting in touch with us and a great platform for us to engage with our audience, especially for this show. So again, uh if you haven't already done so, go check us out on our YouTube page in the post section. uh we're going to start posting a lot of the content that we generally post on our social media platforms there as well, especially leading into the Olympia. Just another avenue for you to interact with us and interact with uh our bodybuilding hungry audience. >> Two quick plugs I want to make also said. Um number one, I want to thank Scott over at Old School Bodybuilding Clothing. I know a lot of people think I own the company. I don't own the company. Scott, my good friend Scott does. and uh he sent us these Olympia shirts that you put them on the uh they're like it's hard to tell here but >> yeah I was going to say move away from the microphone that's that's >> they have a silver a silver and and gold foil on them. They're they're very high-end shirts. They cost a lot more money but they're really really nice and it on the back it has a whole thing about the Olympia coming up and he sent those over to us for us to wear. Thank you so much. You know we're just friends with Scott and I love the guy. I love his wife. So, um, thank you for that. The other thing is Jim Nation on Instagram made an awesome I don't know if you've seen it documentary about Dallas Macccarver. Have you seen it? >> No, I haven't. But I I So, just for those who haven't check it out and uh while Dave gives a little bit more of a further explanation, I'll pull it up on the screen. Gymnation. Okay. Pull it up. Yes. HD. Yeah. >> Yeah. So, they do I guess quote unquote documentaries. They're not documentaries in the sense where it's like a real full scale. It's more of a, you know, their historic telling of, you know, the individual characters. >> Yeah. They pull footage that from this that on YouTube already. >> Yeah. Let me pull it up real quick. >> It it it's so good. It's so First of all, the the guy from the the from Jim Nation contacted me and said, "Dave, I'd really like you to see it. I spent a really long time on it." And you know what? I can tell he spent a long time on it because when I watched it the it must have taken him a thousand hours to pull all that footage that he pulled to put it all together in a coherent way uh to tell the story that he told he did you know hats off to you that I mean that could have gone on Netflix that thing was so good and uh you know it was actually kind of sad in a sense that um I watched it I and I got very depressed because I you know I realized that Dallas we really lost Dallas who's 26 years I mean, it's it was a shame that this guy died. Uh, and uh, but the but the the thing was very well done, I thought. And if you want to give the guy a couple hits, watch it. It's worth it. It's like about 35 minutes. And I watched it this morning and I I I couldn't stop. I was like mesmerized by it. It was It was very, very well done. So, you know, good job. >> We'll uh put the link to that documentary in the article description below. I mean just it's crazy to think we just posted about this on our Instagram. >> Was it seven years ago I think between him and Rich Piana. >> Uh we lost them both in in a span of I want to say three to three days or something like that. I think if the timeline my timeline is correct >> Rich Piana had gone into the hospital beforehand. Uh and then I still remember you know getting I'm not going to say exactly from who but we got a phone call about 7 a.m. um you know and he's telling us that Dallas died. I'm like what are you talking about? Like we we had just had Dallas Macccarver on. Dave, I don't know if you remember. This is literally >> uh three four days before his passing. We had him and Aaron Singerman on uh together for you know episode of Live with or whatever. Um you know, and just it all happened so suddenly. But again, >> they quoted a lot of Yeah, they had us in there a lot as far as quoting you know what, you know, me saying a lot of stuff about Dallas from you know, just different interviews and different stuff. So, um, it's funny. It was so long ago because it felt it was it feels like it was yesterday. It was so long ago. Nick Tragilli still had hair in that in the country, which he hasn't had hair for for a long time, as far as I know. So, it was it was but it was it was well done. It was worth watching it. Um, it it it can it scares the crap out of you because, you know, after you watch it, you think you have a hundred things wrong with you. You know, you're checking I'm like running I have a blood pressure cuff on one hand, I'm checking my blood sugar on the other hand. It it it it's scary to know that a 26-y old kid like that could have, you know, died. And, you know, it could have been any one of us. I mean, really, if you think about it, it's uh, you know, it was I know he was pushing the envelope, but it wasn't like he wasn't he wasn't doing that much more probably than everyone else does in this bodybuilding industry. So, it was uh it was a reminder that we're all mortal and that you never know when your day is going to come and live life to its fullest. I know he did, but um, we lost him way too early. Seven years and never to be forgotten. Dallas Macccarver and Rich Piano. As we proceed to the rest of the questions, again, the rest of our questions are from our social media platforms. Um, I have a feeling I know what your answer is going to be, but again, people have questions, curiosities. What is more powerful, IGF-1 or HGH? I heard IGF-1 is stronger, but it seems like most people don't use it. Why would that be? You know, on paper, theoretically, IGF-1 is is more powerful because, right, growth hormone induces IGF-1 release from the liver. So, you would think that, you know, if you take IGF-1 itself, you should grow better, but you don't for some reason. And I don't know if it's the quality of what's out there, uh, or something else, but I I will say this that I've seen better results from taking growth hormone. And like I said, it doesn't make sense. theoretically, but practically that's that's what I'm noticing. So, if I had to choose one or the other, I would probably choose GH. Um, if you can do both, then, you know, you can incorporate both, but but I I I feel that the growth hormone effects are better. Now, it is a there is a possibility, we haven't, you know, no one's really realized that there is a possibility that growth hormone potentially could have a direct effect that we unaware of, right? Maybe maybe there are growth hormone receptors that we just haven't located yet on muscle. Uh and so in in addition to IGF-1 stimulating muscle growth, maybe growth hormone directly stimulates muscle growth or through some other cascade that we're unaware of. All I know is that when you take growth hormone, it seems to work better than IGF alone. Um now I had a very good experience with IGF when I first used it, but I was getting it directly from a source that was making it. I I don't know what's what what I have to assume what's on the market is good. I think a lot of people are not getting the results they want because they use too much. And I've talked about this before about shutting down receptor receptor numbers because you use too much of it. But the the fact remains that growth home seems to work better than IGF-1 and that's just the way it is. >> We got this question not too long ago, but I think it was a little bit more about for diet sodas. Uh Gatorade zero, is it okay to drink while dieting? Yeah, it theoretically going back to theoretically. Theoretically, yeah, it's got zero everything in it. So, I mean, it should be fine. I don't know if I would be drinking 25 of them a day, but if you're drinking, you know, two or three of them a day, probably not a big deal. Um, sometimes people have like an adverse reaction to too much of the artificial sweetener. Never really did that to me, but I do know some people that get a little bloated from it. Sometimes it it upsets their GI tract. Um, I don't know if it's the artificial sweetener or if it's the preservative, you know, but they they usually use a lot of citric acids or or acidic compounds to kill bacteria in a lot of these drinks and sometimes too much of that can irritate a person's stomach. So, I don't So, people then assume it's the artificial sweetener, but it could just be that. Um, so my my suggestion is everything in moderation. If you want if you want to drink one while you're training or you want to drink one, you know, at night when you rather than cheating, that's fine. I always used to drink diet soda. I was a big and I didn't drink diet coke a lot. I although I once in a while have one now just to wake myself up a little bit. But um I'll uh I would drink a lot of like diet ginger ale and that was like my go-to like to get me through the tough times when I was really hungry and I and I never had any problems with it. So, but some people do have problems. It's you got to kind of experiment with it and see how your body responds. >> Um training related question. How would you go about structuring a training split for someone's whose lower body is a bit ahead of their upper body? >> You know, I remember Maz Ali told me in I think it was 9 after 92 Suburban championships in Jersey. He said, "You know what? You should don't even train your legs." He's like, "Your legs are so good." He goes, "Um, just train your upper body and and bring it up to match your legs." And in 94, I came back and did the Suburban. And of course, I I continued to train my legs. I just worked real hard to bring my upper body up and and obviously I did the it worked, you know. Um I never think I always think that not training a body part is not the right way to go. I think you should you got to just figure out a way to figure out why the body parts that are not big enough are not big enough. And usually it has to do with training technique. Uh I have had guys tell me, "Yeah, my chest won't grow, my shoulders won't grow." And I have them send me training video and I see that they're doing, you know, bench presses like and they're they're stopping like like almost like, you know, six inches off their chest and they're they're doing limited range of motion. You're not even engaging the pec muscle. Same thing with shoulders. I see them coming like they're doing this. They're not even coming all the way down with the with the with the dumbbells. So they're doing partial reps and you don't grow from doing partial reps. So a lot of times you got to lighten the weight up, learn proper technique, full range of motion, control the negative. So a lot of that a lot of times when a body when when you have a body part that's lacking and in this person's case obviously it's its whole their whole upper body it's problem because they're just not you know training properly and a lot of times it's like you know you think well I got to grow so I got to lift heavier weight and then you sacrifice form for weight. Um or you start copying like Branch Warren or or Ronnie Coleman's form which is really terrible form but for them it works because they feel the muscle working. uh you guys if anyone else were to do that they're either going to get injured or they're going to get no results from it. So don't copy other people. Copy the people who have impeccable form because impeccable form always yields very good results. Species related question and again we open the show up for whether you have diet training or if you have questions about species nutrition. Um why do you put soy in your supplements? And in his question, isn't that an indicator of a poor quality product? >> Yeah, there there's there's no there's no so there's no significant soy. They use soy lecithin in all protein and um actually now I think that we've they've switched it to like a a sunflower lecithin, but it's just an emulsifying agent and so it makes it so the product doesn't stick together. There's there's like nothing in this trace amounts. It's no one's putting soy into whey isolate to to compensate or or to to have any significant macro effect on the amount of protein in there. They're doing it so that the protein, you know, is powderized properly. Um, and I think we've switched I think most companies, including us, have switched from soy leithin to some sort of a sunflower leithin now. Um but um yeah, that's why you you'll see soy and look, there's a lot of shy companies out there, but no one is putting soy into their way to to pat it. That's for sure. But you have to list this stuff on the label because some people have soy allergies or in in the case of um any kind of milk allergies. That's why I always I'm always horrified when I see um products say lactosefree when they and the first ingredient is like milk. Just because you put lactase enzyme and that doesn't guarantee that all the lactase all the lactose, excuse me, is being digested by that lactase enzyme. So, it's really you're doing a real disservice to people. Uh especially because people are very sensitive to lactose like myself. Um, same thing with like, you know, you have to list what's on the label on the label. And you can't you really shouldn't say um um like in other words, if someone had a peanut allergy and and and we're producing product in in a facility that has peanuts, you have to kind of put that also on the label because some people have such bad peanut allergies that they go into anaphylactic shock and they die. Um and and so that's why it's important that you list every single ingredient and you put these allergens on the label if you're using these products because even though they might be trace amounts, you have to list it. And that and that's I hope it's a long convoluted answer to what your question was, but I hope it it explains it better. >> Another HGH related question. Can HGH spike prolactin levels? >> You know, theoretically, I guess it can. uh sometimes when you stimulate your GH in that area that that's where prolactin is produced. I haven't seen it. I don't you know I look at a lot of blood work. I haven't seen people with high high prolactin levels uh from GH usage. It's usually from DECA or tremble. Um but I guess it's possible. Um but it's unlikely. >> Uh question about Olympia class winners or rather open class winners. Now, I had to Google this just to make sure that Samson data was not in this category, but why do you think there are no open class winners over six feet tall aside from Arnold? And do you think we'll see another one? Is open bodybuilding a shorter man's game? Now, I had to Google it myself. Now, Google says that Sam is 5'11. >> I'm 5'9 and a half. He's definitely a head taller, so he'd probably be as close. Now again, if you want to look ahead and maybe say speculation wise, someone like a Quinton Aaria could profile as a Mr. Olympia candidate, but in your opinion, uh, is that point valid? Has open class bodybuilding become more of a shorter men's game? >> No, I I think it's it's just easier, you know, to have a more complete physique when you're shorter because there's less to fill out, so to speak. Um, I think that um the taller men look better. However, usually Arnold always said a good a good tall man always beats a good short man, but you gota you gota have a good tall man to to do the uh to do the work, right? I mean, Cedric was great. He was over six feet. Tony Freeman was over six feet. I I would say Samson's over six feet. I don't believe he's 5'11. Um he I stood next to him. He's pretty tall. Uh Dallas Macccarver was over six feet. Uh you know what's his name? Um Quinton is over six feet. Andrew Jack is over six feet. So there's a lot of good, you know, there's a lot of good over six foot guys. It seems to me though that the 5 foot1 to 5 foot10 range is usually the sweet spot. That's where you get the Ronnie Coleman's, the Dorian, the Hanees, you know, those are those guys are in in that range. And Jay, those those are the most dominant, you know, Mr. Olympias. So that must be the sweet spot. It's like tall enough to still be tall and and and beat the shorter guys, but it's not too tall where you where you have trouble filling out your frame. And that's historically been what's happened in bodybuilding. >> Well, you just mentioned his name in the question. Next question is about him and that is four-time Olympia champion, Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler. How the heck does Jay Cutler still have all of his hair? >> I I don't know. I don't know what his secrets are. But you know what? A lot of Chris Aceto has his hair. Some people are just resistant to hair loss. And Jay got good hair jeans. And unless he's sneaking off the turkey without telling anyone and getting some extra hair moved around his head. Um, I have to just believe he has good hair jeans. You know, Dorian has all his hair, too. I mean, so it's uh it just is what it is. I think Ronnie has his hair. Ronnie, remember when Ronnie grew his hair back for a little while? >> I think he just likes a shaved head, but I think Ronnie has hair as well. And so, uh, some people just are resistant to hair loss. And just like some guys never get acne. I don't know why they don't get acne. just they just don't do they don't get it. Whereas other people they look at a you know a shot of testosterone and they start breaking out. So genetics dictates everything in this world and uh we all we all are only as great as our greatest genetic weakness you know and so uh thank your parents if you lost your hair I have. >> Question about trend in an offseason scenario. Um, in an allseason setting when you take trend acetate, do you take that with test alone or can you throw that on top of your two compound cycle, i.e. test, trend EQ? >> You know, offseason I and I've probably answered this question a hundred times, but I like to do two compounds because I like to switch every six weeks. So, I might do trend and test for six weeks, then I'll do uh test in EQ for six weeks. I'll do test in in DECA for two weeks. I might even do test and masteron for two weeks, you know, sometimes if I'm if I feel up to it. When I when I was competing, um I I don't with all my competitors, that's how I run the cycles. I don't do three compounds, four compounds at one time because I don't I don't see any added benefit. I see it more of a benefit by switching compounds every six to eight weeks because just as the body's getting used to one anabolic, we switch it to another one. And it see anabolic seems to bind to the androgen receptor in just a slightly different way. And that for some reason confuses the androgen receptors and sometimes prevents down reggulation. Uh or at least it it it seems to re-energize the androgen receptor in a way and and it works better. I I I can't I don't think anyone really knows why, but I have I'm making you know theoretical guesses here, but because it binds to the engine receptor differently, maybe it doesn't cause as much down reggulation because you're switching compounds every so many weeks. Um, if you start stacking three and four drugs at a time off seasonason, there's nothing to switch to. It's like you got to just stay on the same drugs the whole time. And I I just don't think it works as well. Plus, I think when you eat when you take less drugs, uh, in terms of, you know, less toxic load on your body, you tend to have a better appetite. Your appetite opens up. That's why I try to keep guys on long acting injectables that have the least amount of toxicity. Stay away from the orals in the offseason so that you can eat. If you can't eat, you can't grow. And that's the bottom line. So, keep the toxicity low. Pre-contest, you can stack all the drugs you want. It doesn't even matter if you're a little toxic. I mean, not that we want to be toxic, but if your appetite sucks in the in pre-contest, that's probably better because you're starving anyway. So, that's not an issue. And plus, in in the pre-contest stage, we're not looking to put size on. We're looking to maintain size. So, different strategies offseason. Keep the appetite open. long acting injectables, switch compounds every six to eight weeks. >> Um, so we talked about notable bodybuilding personalities that we've lost over the course of the last decade and one of those we actually lost or we did lost a short while before Olympia weekend last year, but we heard of his passing on Olympia weekend and that is Big Lenny. question is your favorite memories of meeting the Delery Misfits and in particular Big Lenny, your favorite Big Lenny moments. >> Yeah, I can't I don't even remember. I I remember the the one of the last uh times I met Lenny or saw Lenny or hung out with him at least was at I believe it was the Orlando Olympia. Mr. G showed up and Big Lenny were there and you know we were we had been billing a fight between the two of those guys like you know for charity or something like that. I think that's what Mr. G was trying to build it as for for like like two years like before that and it never happened. So we we were goofing around and we kind of did like a a fake you know fight type video or or like them squaring off against each other and uh you know and Lenny I could tell was was was hurting at that point. He definitely was in some sort of heart failure at that point, but he still had a great personality, great sense of humor about it. He was fun. You know, it probably it's, you know, I tend to say I I tend to be attracted to people who have interesting personalities and I'll I'll we'll keep we'll we'll describe Lenny as an interesting personality rather than say anything more. If Lenny probably lived around the corner from me or lived in Cape Carl, I probably would hang out with him all the time just because he I found him funny, you know? He was he was a good guy. He was he he Yeah. He had some weird opinions and had some strange odd, you know, fetishes, but at the end of the day, he was he was actually a pretty normal guy in the sense that, you know, he he had some interesting conversations and his observations about the world were very very astute. You know, even though he would say things that were politically incorrect, he really observed the world and and had some interesting, you know, and very accurate assessments. So, like I said, I I wish I I he lived closer because I probably would have been friends with him. Maybe I could have influenced him in a positive direction away from, you know, all the uh destructive things that he did to himself because he really didn't need to do all that. And and there was no need for him to have died the way he did. Uh that was just neglect on his part. And uh I you know, sometimes I I always I always question why some people, you know, die early and some people, you know, live forever. And I think when you no longer have like a will to live like and you're not really f you're not doing anything that you're really passionate about. You're kind of philandering. I think you find a way to exit this world. I really do. Um and uh I really believe that you know now there are also people that probably cause their own demise because of of bad habits whether it be drug use or you know or something else. But I think like in Lenny's situation he just he really didn't have any goals anymore and and he was kind of just wandering the you know roaming the earth at this point. And I think uh it was time for him to move on and that's why he left us. But uh he picked a good weekend to do it on Olympia weekend and we'll always remember him every every year come Olympia time because of that. >> Okay, a couple of quick hitters. Um keto diets, what is the science behind a cheat meal when on a keto diet? Yeah, ketogenic diets obviously because they're they're very very low carb and your body is using fats as a fuel source. insulin levels are really low, which is good, right? Because insulin is a fat storage hormone. So you want the lower the insulin in your body, the higher the growth hormone levels will be naturally in your body and the more of a conducive environment it is to burning fat. body burns fat optimally in a low insulin, high growth hormone environment, which is what you're inducing with a ketogenic diet by eating low carbs. Um, however, thyroid hormone that's produced from the thyroid gland, uh, the gland cranks out something called thyroxine, which is T4. And thyroxine in the circulation converts to T3, which is the active thyroid hormone. that rate of T4 to T3 conversion which is very important right because if you don't get T3 production your metabolism drops because T3 is active thyroid that conversion is very dependent on insulin levels so if insulin is low you know you're going to you're not going to convert as much T4 to T3 which makes sense right because if you're not eating a lot of food your body wants to conserve fuel so it's gonna it's going to lower active thyroid output however if you give the body a cheat meal once a week a higher carb meal uh it tricks the body. So now the body says, "Oh, we" because what happens, you get a huge spike of insulin, right, from the cheat meal, and the body says, "Oh, we're fine." And it starts converting T4 to T3 again. So it never really gets stagnated. It but but if you ever talk to someone who's been on a ketogenic diet continuously for six, eight weeks, even someone who's been on a low, low carb diet, I know guys that low carb diet never have a cheat meal and it that the diet, it's almost like the diet stops working. Well, why does it stop working? because T4 to T3 conversion has basically slowed down so much that your your T3 levels are low. Now, if you're taking Cytol or T3 uh exogenously, it doesn't really apply, but it is always good to spike insulin once a week uh especially if you have enough time to get ready for a show and you can do that. Now, it doesn't you don't need to eat a thousand grams of carbs. You only need to eat, you know, like 40 50 grams of carbs will do the trick. You know, depending on who the person is, that will dictate how much food you eat at the cheat meal. But the point is that it's nice to spike that uh insulin level once a week to make sure the T4 and T3 conversion is optimal. >> Take one last one. Fiber related. The best time of the day to take fiber. >> Um any time of the day it works. Uh I usually use it around 2:00 p.m. and around and before bed. That's just me by convention. Sometimes I don't remember. Sometimes I do it four 4 pm and before bed, which I I go to bed by, you know, usually do the last dose around midnight. Uh it it doesn't really matter, you know. Um I know people that use it first thing in the morning and then they use it, you know, before bed. You know, some people eat it as a snack. You know, they they put water in it and they let it gel and they put it in the refrigerator and they eat it. It becomes like Jell-O almost. You could put it in the freezer and eat it like ices, you know, because it become it tastes like Italian ices. The flavoring system we use in there is really good. It's probably the best flavoring system of any fiber supplement on the market. But because we used the highest quality psyllium, the highest swell rate psyllium, which is the most expensive, by far the most, it's super expensive. Um, and it has nothing to do with a lot of people think, oh, everyone uses 95% psyllium. Yeah, everyone uses 95% psyllium, but of the 95% psyllium, there's a high swell rate, medium swell rate, and low swell rate. Most people use the low swell rate or maybe if they're they're, you know, if they're if they're not trying to cheap out, they'll use the medium swell rate, which has nothing. It's not even close to the high swell rate psyllium. The high swell rate sium much more expensive, but works much better. That's why when it goes into the water and it absorbs it, it instantly turns to jell-o. That's why if you're going to if you're not going to eat it like Jell-O, mix it and gulp it down, which is what most people do. Um, but like I said, it has a nice flavoring system to it. So, it doesn't really matter when you take it. Like I said, if you're going to eat it like Jell-O, you might want to sw you might want to chase it down with a with a glass of water after just to make sure that you flush it down into your system. And uh everyone has their own times they take it. Um sometimes when I'm on the road and I forget, I you know, people always say, you know, should you take your vitamins around fiberized time? I try to separate it by an hour. But but look, there's been times I got back to my hotel room. I'm traveling like in Pittsburgh. I down my vitamins. I because I just ate a meal and then I I do a fiber shake right after and I go to sleep. So, it it's going to get everything's going to get absorbed no matter what. It's just, you know, if you have the ability to space out things, it works better that way. >> That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave Mer. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything that we have coming up over the course of the next few weeks, less than six weeks heading into the Olympia. Right now on the channel, all new episode of the After Hours podcast and Heavy Muscle Radio with Dave Palumbo and Chris Aceto. Uh probably tomorrow, tomorrow's going to be Thursday. Uh we have an exclusive interview. Well, it's not really exclusive, but an interview with Mr. Olympia Samson Dada and Quinton Aria. Uh Quinton flying to England to stay with Samson, train with him, eat with him, stay with him in preparation for the Italy Pro. That's going to be this weekend. So, uh, an insight into that partnership, how it came about, and really all the intricacies and what Quinton learned staying with Mr. Olympia. That's going to hit the channel tomorrow. RX Muscle, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadique Farooqi. We'll see you next time.