Ah Styles here with rxmuscle, how are we here at the Carlos Allara Cholo Classic number 2 with the 247 family, Cristian Otero and Forty Forty. You just won here and you just won a little while ago in the United States. Tell us how you feel. I feel happy, super happy, really. I did this competition with pride because obviously, well, we did the one in Miami two weeks ago, and well, starting the season here in Puerto Rico to support Puerto Rican sports, we decided to do this so that family and friends could come see me and share this experience with me. This is what I like to do, and this is part of my life. Last year I traveled for [unclear] and my body was completely different. Here we have your trainer, Cristian. Tell us what you did differently from last year to this year to get in this condition. Well, good afternoon. First of all, on behalf of 247, as you said, last year he debuted in the bodybuilding area as such.  Well, since this category opened recently, the sport of bodybuilding in the United States hasn't been around for many years and is gaining popularity, we worked directly on reducing his size a bit and working on his waist and sides. We focused on achieving good conditioning and, obviously, the most important thing: getting the complete package. Excuse me, good posing and obviously addressing his weaknesses and working with him in this progressive sport. And what's this bodybuilding called? Bodybuilding. We worked on the areas he really needed, that is, we focused on his weaknesses, and thank God, this is the result. What's next for you now? Well, next, God willing, with my help, as always, He's there for me, as always, hand in hand with me, wherever I stand, this is going to be a national competition. We're planning to get a national competition between July and June that's feasible while I rest, and to do it, and with my help, to keep progressing little by little in this sport. And what is there anyone else who wants to acknowledge here before...  Let's go. Well, truly, my friends and my family are obviously always there for me, supporting me. These two, come here for a moment. It'll be just a moment. These two people have been with me for years, supporting me through thick and thin. They believed in me. From the beginning, many people made fun of me, both as an athlete and as a coach. And today, my group is one of the toughest in Puerto Rico and is already making waves in the United States. The most important thing for teams to progress and evolve is that they have unity and are a family. And this team we have here is more than a coach, more than a trainer, more than athletes like us. For him, he's a father, a friend, and a role model for us. And as I've always said, a coach is always there for you through thick and thin, just like friends. Congratulations to these tough guys, neckbreakers, 247, the smile erasers. Here we have the family, the toughest of the tough. What else? Macaracchimba, La Pauta, and everything. Johnny is with the best, 247, rxmuscle, comom Boom