Welcome back to Iron Rage, the show where John Romano and I vent our frustrations with the world and we get to complain to you guys and you guys get to watch. Now John, uh this week our topic is going to be um on putting up pictures online of competitors who might not be in shape. Now, there was a controversy by a competitor named Jana Roller. She's from Canada. She was a, you know, former, you know, overweight girl who lost a lot of weight, but obviously and decided she wanted to compete to show, you know, the great transformation she made. She knew she wasn't in this best shape of like, you know, she wasn't in the kind of shape that the other competitors would be in. For her, it was it was it was supposed to be like a a big monumental, I guess you type of could say, moment for her to be able to stand up on stage in a bikini and show off what she's got. The photographer who took the pictures at the show, decided by himself, not talking to any promoters, that you know what, I'm I'm not going to put these pictures up because maybe she's not happy with the way she looks. I don't want to, you know, embarrass her because she'll probably wind up contacting me and telling me to take them down. I'll just email them to her, which was which was nice of him to do. he didn't have to do put them up at all. And he emailed them to her and said, "Look, I didn't put your pictures up because I I didn't know if you'd be happy with them." And she was appalled. She went on online and she's posting everywhere about how how she was felt slighted and, you know, discriminated against because she's over because she was heavy on and on and on. Now, as a former morbidly obese individual yourself, which a lot of people may not know, how do you feel about her reaction to what this photographer did? You know, it it what's appalling is that she got on the stage. That that's what's appalling. Okay. The girl had a butt for a stomach. I mean, it was just the most not in shape, no muscle. This is a bodybuilding show. You're supposed to build your body and then diet down to being shredded and then compete. Whether you're doing physique, fitness, figure, bodybuilding, it doesn't matter. It's the same. It's the same discipline. Get big, diet down, compete. Okay, the the while the issue here is the photographer opting not to post her pictures, I got to give the guy props for not doing that, for thinking ahead and saying, "Man, this girl looks like death eating a cracker. Why? Why in the world would she want her pictures up all over social all on the internet so that these social media trolls can get their hands on it and just destroy her in every which way they possibly can, which is what they do for a living. So, out of their mother's basement. So, so by not putting her pictures on there, I think he was doing her a favor. Okay. So, she got offended, wanted her pictures put up. You know who really deserves the the eyeire for this is the promoter. The the she should have sent pictures to the promoter ahead of time. And that promoter should have said $150 giant debacle. $150 giant debacle. And you should have gone for the giant de not taking the $150. But these freaking promoters are so goddamn greedy that they'll take the $150 and not care if you're putting a dog on stage with no leash. So the the it should never have competed ever never never she have been on a bodybuilding stage. The fact that the photographer decided not to post her pictures with the rest of the bodybuilders because she looked like, you know, not even close to a bodybuilder is good judgment on his part because he probably would have in a normal situation would have avoided a lot of strife. But the idea here is greater than the fact that he did not post the pictures. The the greater issue here is people using bodybuilding competitions for other than a competition. It's a bodybuilding competition. You enter it to win. You don't strap on a pair of rollerblades, grab a shopping cart, and go out on the Indie 500 to see if you can win. That's that's just to see if you can get around the track. That's not the idea. The idea is to compete to win. If you have the slightest chance of not winning, then don't compete. let alone look like, you know, this girl. So, the photographer did the right thing. And for for him to get strife for it is what is appalling. Yeah. I my my viewpoint on this thing is I I don't have a problem with anyone who wants to get up on stage getting up on stage, especially if they've overcome obstacles, beat diseases, whatever the case may be. Everyone's got their own story and their own two cents. But you know what the I look I deal with contest pictures all the time and I have tons of people constantly emailing me remove my pictures for for a lot less reasons than this girl would have to remove them. So and I'm sure this photographer has experienced the same thing. So he was he wasn't being crude. He wasn't being discriminatory. He was actually just trying to be a nice guy and he took a lot of flack from this girl over it as if he was wouldn't post her Olympia pictures or something like that. Now, if she she said she's proud of her loose skin, that's fine. You know, if you want to get up on stage and you know you're not in shape, that's fine. But you know what? You have to be ready to be ridiculed, like you said, by the internet. It's it's it's it's not just the people in the audience anymore. It's the Court of Public Appeals on social media. And she probably averted that happening by appealing to the masses ahead of time and saying, "Hey, my pictures weren't up. Look at what I accomplished. I went from this to this. Now everyone knows who she is." So you'd have to be a fool to make fun of her at this point. You know, her pictures up there cuz you kind of know the story. But you're right, John, for in a sense, people are competing at this show to win to qualify for national, you know, uh to get a national qualification, then to go to nationals and turn pro. You know, I've seen it happen before. People get made fun of on stage. I hear the people in the audience, you know, snickering and and and whatever. So, you know, I don't know if this is the right venue to me. If I were her, I probably would have done a transformation. Here's my fat pictures. Here's what I look like now. This is what I accomplished. This is how I ate. And try to be inspirational on social media. And I think people would respect that more. Once you put once you cross that line and sign that dotted line and get up on that stage to be judged judged by the panel of judges, you are looking for criticism because they don't judge you on how good you are. They judge you on what's wrong with you. They do that at the Olympia level. We judge what's wrong with Phil Heath. His shout his shoulders are too narrow. Kai Green stomach is too big. You we don't say who what's great about people and these people we're talking about are tremendous. So obviously this is a problem. Um I think the photographer took a bad rap on this. I completely wholeheartedly support and the fact that he sent her the pictures via email which he didn't have to do was a very very I guess you could say honorable thing for him to do. So I think that he was per I think the photographer became the victim in this situation and that was just not the case. I I I just I just want to know where where this uh you know mantra came from that okay um I've overcome multiple sclerosis had my arm amputated um you know have had you know congenital menitis and five other rare forms of skin disease. I've overcome it all. I look terrible scarred all over my body. I'm AI'm a quasi uh amputee. Hey, I think I'll do a bodybuilding contest. Where where how is that connection made? I mean, it's like why not go do cliff diving or with or bungee jumping or, you know, surf competition? Why do you choose a bodybuilding show that is there to to espouse the best the best of what a physique can be, not what's mangled pieces left over after some lifealtering dilemma. Right? I don't know where this came from, but it's wrong. And people have got to stop using bodybuilding contests as proving grounds for some kind of monumental physical accomplishment. That's not what it's for. Go. How come you're not out in the bikini circuit at the at the pool bars contests? What's why you do pick a bodybuilding contest? You know, I'll give you a good example, too. Like, I have obviously two terrible shoulders. I always complain about them. Everyone knows about it out there. I'm getting on July 10th, I'm getting the left shoulder replaced and then probably within a year after that, I'll get the other one replaced. Once I got those shoulders replaced and I can work out again, you know, like a normal human being. Um, if I were to put more muscle back on and and look a certain way, I would never ever consider getting on a bodybuilding stage because I know that I would still not look good. I might look better and I might say, "Hey, look what what I accomplished. Anyone out there who's suffering with joint disease, you can still, you know, be able to train after getting shoulder replacements." I would put that on my social media. I would maybe talk about it on the show. Maybe Johnny will shoot a video of me, but I certainly wouldn't get on a bodybuilding stage. And I'm not a pro, so I can go do the Mr. Long Island if I want to. I'm not going to the Mr. Long Island and going to compete because I have going to have two huge scars and I'm not going to look like I'm going to look like a shell of my former self. So I I don't understand why, you know, people feel the need that they have to get, like you said, on a bodybuilding stage. There's so many other avenues to promote what you've accomplished and what you've overcome. in this day and age with social media that I I think you're right. I I hate to admit you're right because it's it's a fine line and I don't want her to think this woman to think that we don't respect what she did and accomplished, but it doesn't really belong on a figure stage at a at a top at a top regional show, you know. No, it and you know it's it's it's disrespectful to the real competitors who put the time and the energy and and the and the goal and the drive in to get there to be that best package they could be. I hate that. Yeah, I can't believe I just used that word. But um it it's it's it's disrespectful to them. We got to wait. It's disrespectful to the audience. We have to wait through this person's routine who has not a hope in hell of making the top 35. We we we have to wait through this crap. And then you get, you know, so now you got her and you got the girl who, you know, fell off a boat and she was stranded in the in the ocean for 14 days on a on a door. Now she comes in. Oh, I'm going to compete in a bodybuilding contest. And then you got, you know, the the person who survived, you know, stage 17 brain cancer and has a big plate in their head and no muscle. Well, I think I'm going to compete in a bodybuilding show. And you've got all of these mangled refugee refuges of of of society deciding they're going to espouse them their their accomplishments half naked on a stage and I'll just make everybody else wait for me because, you know, even though they are the ones that suffered and and and got to where they are because they have a legitimate, you know, chance at at competing. we're just going to go ahead and wait for you to, you know, do your thing because we're so proud of you for a your accomplishment. That's [\h__\h] It does thing that in our show. Yeah. This this another thing, John, and I know this is once again, this is a very very sensitive subject. And I and I'm not we're not trying to offend anyone here. We're trying to just give our opinion on this. I know someone's going to get offended and there's going to be a lot of people offended, but that's just the way it goes. Let's face it, John. If I'm doing a show and look, I've helped a lot of competitors who looked amazing. They get up on stage and take for instance the guy Steve Annex in New York who competes at every show. He never has a tan on. He's fat. He doesn't really know how to hit the poses. He's been doing competing for 30 years. It's at these New York shows. When you see the pictures after, okay, and you see this tanned, pristinely conditioned, amazing athlete standing next to this guy Steve Annex on stage who's who's pale, who's not looking at the camera. He's he's like he's turned around the wrong way. He doesn't really know how to hit the poses. It ruins the pictures. It ruin It's embarrassing to show people, hey, this is I won. Look, I won the class. And then you see this person who doesn't belong there next to you. It It ruins the pictures. It does. And like I said, I know it's a sensitive topic, but it's it's not Yeah. I mean, Johnny's got I don't know how you got the footage so fast. That's pretty good, Johnny. I mean, look at the guy next to me. The guy really worked his ass up. This guy's like almost 60 years old to the right. And then you got Steve next to him who's just distracting. You know, no one's even filming the other guy. And, you know, it comes down to the fact that look, you know, not everyone should be competing, you know. No, it's it's Look, I found that tricycle at a at a garage sale from the 1950s. I completely restored it. It's in perfect condition. What do I do now? Go enter it in a Moto GP because I want to show everybody how amazing my restored tricycle is? It's the wrong venue. And you're I'm not being disrespectful to the person's accomplishment or is my attack ad homonym in any way, but the it's you're in the wrong place. That's the problem. You are in the wrong place. Somebody, whoever told you that you should compete, you should go find that person, get a Glock, and shoot them in the face because that's the worst thing that anybody could ever have told you to do. So save us, save the fellow competitors, save the competition for real competitors and leave your astonishing accomplishment for the wet t-shirt contest or the dance competition or, you know, the bungee jumping parade, whatever. Don't pollute bodybuilding with this stuff. You know, the the funny thing is that um I've told a lot of competitors that I work with who I coach, "Don't do the show. You're not ready." You know, and I've held them back and we've done a show maybe three, four weeks later. I won't let my guys get on stage if they're not in shape because I don't want to I don't want to embarrass them and I don't want to embarrass myself by, you know, as the coach for them. So, there's nothing wrong with that. You know, the show should be for the people who are in shape. And that's the bottom line and that's what the topic of the rant was. If you guys agree or disagree, let us know below. And you know what? Let us know what topics you'd like John and I to rant about in the future. We're open to suggestions. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo with John Romano for another edition of Iron Rage.