If you stop peeds at some point in the future, will you lose every gain you made while on them? I'm going to answer that question. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your 30 minute question and answer show. Weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever's on your mind. Bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation, it is all on the table. We welcome you in on the 9inth day of April in the year 2025. Glad to have you board. We're going to take questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app, from our Instagram page, from our YouTube community page, which has been very active. Um, but Dave, before we go to the questions, I did want to give you an opportunity. Um, the Jumbo Palumbo documentary launching last week, gotten a lot of great views on it, a lot of great feedback, a lot of great reception to it. Um, you know, if you wanted to give a moment to, you know, uh, address those that have gotten an opportunity to watch the documentary and those who have not, what they may be missing out on. You know, I overwhelmingly we've gotten very positive reviews on it. People seem to like it. I've been getting a lot of people telling me they want more more. are we this was good but we want to know you know what how you got to where you are you know we want to know the the past and you know that's that's something I do want to do at some point I don't know if Alexi wants to do it our our filmmaker or if someone else wants to do it would require obviously interviewing a lot of people I'd have to I should probably start making my list of all the people who I throughout the years I've grown up with and who know me and who would uh be necessary to interview in in a documentary all the dirt on you haha I and I say this all the time. I have friends that have photographic memories. They tell me stuff that we did back in the 90s. I don't even remember the stories. Matter of fact, as they're saying it, it comes back vaguely, but they're giving me details. I maybe just because I I've done a lot since then, you know, but these guys remember every detail. That's the people you want to interview for my, you know, for for a documentary like that. The guys that can give you the stories. my friend Mike Popkin who I went to kindergarten with. He can tell you everything right through you know college with me basically of every story and every uh every little nuance of it. So I am a poor historian of myself. I probably would that would be better if we got other people to tell the story and then I can kind of fill in the gaps, you know, after all these people are interviewed. So I think that would be something good. But I I I think this was very wellreceived because it was it was entertaining. It kind of like gives you an update of what I'm doing now, what I'm going through with the divorce and everything like that. You know, it showed a lot of vulnerability, which I really I'm not comfortable doing because I'm kind of like one of these emotionally closed people, but I I think people enjoyed that uh to see that I, you know, I wasn't a robot and that I was, you know, that I'm a human being and I, you know, I I have downs and ups and stuff like that, too. And it's how you get through it that defines who you are. And so, yeah, thank you for all the the the positive comments. I don't read the comments, but you know, but I but I had a lot of people reach out to me and give me a lot of positive feedback on it and they really enjoyed it and they and they want more. So, I guess I guess we did something good. You know, as we used to do those uh day in the life of Dave Palumbo videos a lot back in the day. Uh and I think people really enjoyed to that and I and I have to try to do more of that because I do have very busy days. So, people probably would be entertained by some of the insanity that goes on in my day. So, if we could find if anyone out there lives in my area and is a video person and wants to uh wants a wants wants a job, let me know. So, there you go. Uh again, if you haven't already seen it, uh we'll put the link right in the first line of the article description. The Jumbo Plumbumber documentary. Very well done. Shout out to Alexa. Did a great job with this. And uh yeah, if uh we can get him back out here from from the United Kingdom, we'll uh shoot some more features and uh we can make a second part of the documentary. But we go right into the questions. First two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo experience app. Uh first question, this is a good one. This is one that um when I was reading it to you, you're like, "Oh, yeah, that's what that's what Dorian said." So, the question is about um the question is about a former Mr. Olympia, but you detected that it was Dorian who once stated that if we once we stop peeds, we lose all of our gains over a short period of time. However, I remember you watching a video where you stated that in order to drop below 260, you were nearly starving yourself. So what is the truth? Yeah. What I found was that and and I think a lot of bodybuilds will attest to this, you know, look, if you if you go off anabolics, you know, and you don't take any kind of PCT or hormone replacement, you're going to lose a lot. You you and you don't continue to eat and train, you're going to lose your gates. There's no doubt about that. That that's but that we're talking about a different situ I'm the situation I'm talking about is you decide I don't want to take out I don't want to do cycles anymore. I'm not I'm at an age where I or even if you're younger and you just decide I don't want to do it anymore. Okay, you can maintain your gains, okay? If you eat right, you keep your six meals per day, five, six meals per day, you still train at the gym, you get enough sleep. In other words, you take your supplements, you do everything that you normally would. You can maintain a good level of muscle in that. You're not going to lose all your gains. Will you lose some? Yeah, a little bit. I when I went from um now I stayed on hormone replacement when I went off when I in 2004 when I said all right I had enough I'm not going to compete anymore. I said I'm not taking any more anabolics. So I I just started taking 200 milligrams of testosterone a week and I did that you know for about 10 years actually. And that's what I meant by because I was still eating five, six times a day and I was training as as as well as I could, you know, still as heavy as I could, you know, with, you know, my usual day plea workouts, you know, high intensity, you know, lower volume and I wasn't really losing much. And I matter of fact, I was still guest posing for many years. I couldn't even believe how many guest posings I was still getting. And I and I thought I was small, you know, because I wasn't 285 anymore off seasonason. I was walking around at, you know, at 250. But 250 is, you know, very lean is still a good look, I guess, for guest posers. And that back in the the mid 2000s, they still were hiring guest posers back then. So, you know, it I I found it very hard to get down. I wanted to get my weight down because my blood pressure was a little high. So, literally, I had to cut back my food intake. I had to lower the weights a little bit that I was lifting. And slowly but surely, I whittleled myself down. But, I wanted to get smaller. So, if I didn't want to get smaller and I wanted to stay bigger, I could have stayed bigger. Now, the question is, when I went on to onto when I went off hormone replacement in about 2013, when I was trying to have my kids, um, I still was not trying to get bigger. So, I wasn't eating I was only eating like three meals a day, three, four meals a day max at this point. So, and I still didn't really lose any weight, you know, even on nothing, even on just on HCG. So, I truly believe you can maintain muscle mass if you eat right. You know, assuming you got the muscle from the steroids, you can maintain a lot of that. You know, it's always was the uh old adage uh don't do a cycle because as soon as you go off the cycle, you're going to lose all your gains. And that's why guys would never go off because they were literally afraid that if I went off for 10 weeks that I would lose everything I I I had gained for the last, you know, four years. And that's just not the case. As a matter of fact, I used to look great in the offseason when I would go off for my 10 week cycle every every year. I was at the peak of my powers. I I would get a little deflated. You know, I thought I didn't look good, but no one else noticed. No one else said, "Hey, you look small." I never got that comment. A matter of fact, I used to get people thinking I looked bigger because I was leaner because you know what? You don't hold as much water when you're off steroids. So, I I don't buy into that. I think it's it's it's the same mentality that people have. Oh, these women say to me, "I can't use cytool. I don't want to use thyroid hormone because I'm going to get really fat when I I heard you get really fat when you stop taking." Well, yeah. If you when you come off a contest diet and if you start eating like a pig and you don't go to the gym, you're going to get fat. It has nothing to do with the stopping the side. It has to do with the fact you're just not eating right and you're not training right. So, people have a million one excuses why their bodies change, you know, so drastically. They never want to take inventory of what they're doing or not doing and put the blame on themselves. Second question. Again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Uh, I know bodybuilding and alcohol don't go hand inand, but as someone whose mind races and takes something like a couple of beers at night to settle down and be able to fall asleep, I was wondering if there were any alcoholic beverages that you knew of little to no uh calories, sugar, etc. The bad stuff. It's it's not the calories that are the problem, unless you're dieting for sure, obviously. It's it's the fact that alcohol is toxic to your body, you know, and it's it puts stress on your liver and it's it's not good for muscle gains, okay? It's like the worst thing you could put into your body when you're trying to be your best as a bodybuilder. Um, you could take, you know, I'd rather you take, you know, like some like the uh to go to sleep at night, take my Somalyze, which has the melatonin and gabber in it. I sell a product called um Euphoria on my Dave Palumbo.com website too that that's a like a souped-up version of GABA and you could guys take it during the day and it just relaxes you. Um, but probably the best way if you really have high anxiety and you have like a trouble, you know, because your energy levels up here, you know, taking something that's going to knock you out is really not solving the problem, you know, and I know it sounds a little tutti frutti, but meditation, yoga, you know, go on YouTube and and Google a 10 or 15 minute meditation u video on YouTube and just put headphones phone's on, you know, listen to it on your phone. Close your eyes, turn the lights down, and you know what? I guarantee you when you're done listening to it and breathing like the way they tell you and following the instructions of the meditation, you'll feel like you just took a half as annex. I'm telling you, meditation is the best thing if you really got to calm your mind down. If your mind is that off the charts that you have to drink, you know, five shots of alcohol at night, there's a problem. Okay? Now, taking something like Euphoria and meditating will help even more because it'll help your focus a little bit more. But even when you start meditating, it doesn't it's not easy right away. You have to you got to got to get into it. And if you have a lot of thoughts in your head while you're listening to the thing, that's fine. Just kind of push them aside. Let them come and move them and just let them come and move them. Eventually, you will learn to quiet your mind. I promise you that. And uh that's uh I it's the best solution because if you have to rely on drugs to relax you ultimately you're going to have a drug problem because you're going to become taking them all the time. And that's why a lot of people get addicted to drugs. They say oh you know what I'll just take one try this half as annex. Oh and then they say oh that felt so good. You know what I I'll only use it when I need it. And then before you know it you need it every day. And that's not good. Let's take questions from our Instagram, uh, YouTube community page, Facebook, other various social media platforms. We got a bunch of good ones, so let's get right to it. Raw muscle glutes always asks great questions. Do you think someone can build a great amateur physique, great muscle, highly muscular body using only test, no other anabolics? Yeah, I think you can because I think testosterone is the one of the most powerful anabolics you can put into your body. the the problem and here's what I you know I've brought this up innumerable times in the past is that for some reason when you mix two compounds together two different compounds testosterone and something else or two anabolics they have a synergistic effect we don't really know what causes this synergism but they really augment each other tremendously so like if if you going to take 400 milligrams of testosterone versus 200 testosterone 200 deca you would think the testosterone would build more muscle because it's more anabolic but when you 200 with testosterone with 200 deca you grow infinitely better because it's there's the synergism. It creates like a cycle cycle effect or pharmacological effect if you want to call it that and you just start adding muscle at a much more accelerated rate. So you know having said that you know it is you can build a lot of muscle with just testosterone but if you add one other compound even in a small dosage you're going to augment that process tremendously. Now, some guys can't take anabolics because they're being drug tested or something like that. And that I understand that. But if you have if it's just a matter of what you're trying to figure out from a health perspective, you're better off doing a little less testosterone with another anabolic because you'll get a better anabolic effect out of more bang for your buck, so to speak. Uh these questions, I know this one wasn't, but the two prior were from the day experience app. That's an app I offer. You can download it at the Android store, the iTunes store. It's $29 a month. You get me as your coach in your back pocket. All my videos, all the writings I've ever done in one place. All my protocols, my drug protocols, my keto diets there, everything is there. I answer everyone's questions on the app in an open forum so everyone sees everyone's questions and answers. It's a real good learning experience. I do a Q&A video every single week just for the app members. So, it's like an extra Ask Dave. So, it's a really good learning experience. We put up a workout every week. There's there's a lot of great stuff in there and I know a lot of people love it. People have been doing it for years. We have constantly new subscribers coming on board and I want thank you guys for supporting it because when you support it, it makes me want to work harder. Thank you. Question about uh Reddit True Tried. Your thoughts on it? Would you recommend? Would you consider it for prep for one of your clients? Yeah, that's like the new GLP-1 agonist on the block. I think it's like three drugs in one whereas the Mjaro was two drugs in one and the OMIC is one drug, you know, but they're all like GLP-1 agonist and they kind of add to each other's effects. I haven't personally had anyone use the ret I think it's called retrruid. I I always forget how you pronounce that exactly but the that version is supposed to be the newest best one. I have a lot of people who use the mjaro from titanical center.com. It's you know that's the tzapatide or tzepide and that works tremendously well. It really curbs appetite. It burns fat really well. Controls blood sugar really well. And the new one I think Titan has the new one too from what they tell me. So you can check it out there because a lot of times it's hard to get from your doctor and a lot of thesearmacies are out of it because everyone's, you know, wants to lose weight. So if you can't get it or it's too expensive, you go to titanmedcenter.com, you tell them that Dave Palumbo RX Muscle Center, they're going to give you a great discount. It works well, but you must you must take a fiber supplement and a good fiber supplement. And I'm not telling you have to use my fiber, but I recommend using fiber twice a day when you're on any of these GLP-1 agonists because they do make you constipated. They slow transit time of food through your intestinal tract, which is one way of making you kind of lose your appetite between meals or curb your appetite, but you can get backed up. So, you must take a fiber supplement twice a day with this. As long as you follow the directions, nausea shouldn't be a problem because if you take too much of it, you can get a little nauseous. But if you follow their their dosing protocol, you're not going to have any problems. And it's I I think it's a very very good tool. It's great for people who cheat, you know, who people who like to snack between meals. If you have good discipline already and you're really disciplined the way you diet, I don't think it's going to do anything for you. But if you're one of these people that likes to reach into the jar, you know, into the almond jar and steal a few almonds or take a scoop of peanut butter in the middle of the day, it's going to work well for you because it's going to curb that appetite. So, I highly recommend. I know we also have a sale, I Yeah, that's what I was going to bring up right now. It says, "Titan radiant package designed to support hair growth, skin rejuvenation, and overall radiance. 10% off when you choose two or more therapies from the package. GHK-Cu, injectable biotin, uh hair capsules, hair foam, and aphrodite serum. Uh so 10% off when you choose two of those um package from therapies from the package. And of course, as they've always mentioned, when it comes to Titan Medical Center, you mentioned Dave Palumbo RX Muscle. They're going to hook you up. I I haven't personally tried the injectable biotin, but it sounds interesting. I might I think I'm going to have them send me some of that to give that a whirl and then I know some of the other therapies a lot of people use. So, give it a shot. Tell them we sent you, like I said, and if you want to get some of that uh the GLP-1 agonist, you can ask them about that as well. They're very helpful. Uh question about aminos. Um now he's saying or his question is why is not having aminos during a cut prep phase important? Do you cut or when do you cut aminos uh from your client's protocol near nearing a contest? Yeah, like offseason I I always, you know, you can't have too many, right? You know, more protein the better type of thing. So, when you you know, when when I have guys like doing working out during the the gym, they I have them sipping my amino evolved or some kind of essential amino acids, you know, during the day if they're sitting around like, you know, like we're doing right here, I might drink some aminos. But when you're dieting, you don't want to you, you know, ostensibly if your coach has figured out your your your requirements properly and you get, let's say you're eating six meals a day, all the macronutrients that you need for that day is in there. If you start sipping aminos during the day, your body can turn those amino acids into glucose and use it as fuel. So, you don't want to do that. You want your body burning body dipping into stored body fat to use that for fuel. So, you got to be very careful. There's no free calories while you're dieting. can't just indiscriminately take glutamine and taking essential amino acids, branch chain amino acids because your body can use all of those amino acids, all that stuff is protein and it can use it as fuel. It can turn it into glucose. You're going to stop a lot of your fat burning. I told you whenever I help a lot of guys from India and um one of the big things over there, they love to take tons of glutamine, branch chain amino acids. like they're powder crazy over there, you know, creatine every and a lot of times I just take that stuff out of their diet and all of a sudden they start losing weight again. They're like they think it's like a like I'm a miracle worker or something like that. I'm like your body you're just giving your body too much stuff to use for fuel. You can't do that. It's not going to dip into stored body fat unless it feels that it's in a deficit. So if I'm giving you five or six meals a day already, I'm giving you plenty of food. You're not losing any muscle. Okay? Now, the rest of the day, you got to be in a deficit. Every time you get a little hungry, you can't just sip an amino acid because that's going to sabotage the diet. And once people come to that realization, then they say, "Ah, I see what I'm doing wrong." And look, we've all fallen into that trap, myself included. So, uh, I'm know, you know, when I was younger, I would I would do an extra whey protein shake at night because I'd be hungry and and my friend Doug would be like, "What are you doing that for? You don't need it." I said, "Yeah, but more protein." He's like, he goes, "You're not letting your body dip into that to that hard to burn fat, which on my body was in my middle back. Most people it's glutes and hamstrings. My glutes would come in and then I thought I was in shape." And he's like, "No, your middle back is not in shape." And sure enough, if I suffered like another couple weeks, you know, not having those little extras, all of a sudden, I noticed all that detail. So, a little while ago, we had a question about uh somebody who was trying to settle down at night. you know, you offered the alternative um of meditation, right? You know, I guess mindfulness. So, this is a little bit more along the lines of the phys philosophical route questions from Tyler Smith. How much value do you see in grounding? Also, have you looked much into toe spacing, wearing shoes that allow for space that can allow you to strengthen your feet and improve your allound movement? I mean, I know you're very big into stretching, into mobility, but grounding, is that something you see or have looked into and what applications it may have for a body? I actually used to sell grounding pads on on Dave Palumbo.com, believe it or not, I'm a big believer in it. I Yeah, I I should get back to it more. The idea is that we walk around with with a certain electrical charge in our body. And grounding means that your your feet are touching the bare ground. So either the cement ground or the dirt and your body can discharge all the electricity that it that it's it's it's accumulating over the course of the day. And you can measure that. There's there's ways to measure how much you got in you. And if you if you live like if you sleep on like the third floor, you're in like a or you're in an apartment complex on the 20th floor, you're never grounding because you're never touching the floor. Um but if you go walk that's why they say if you walk on the beach, you know, at the water, that's the best way to ground yourself. That's why you feel so calm. And so what they did was they created pads like that you can put on your bed. Like I remember I used to sell these things that for some reason they became too expensive and I wasn't making any money doing it so I stopped doing it. But you put a it's a pad and it has a little out plug that you plug in not to the regular outlet. You know how like you have like three prongs in an outlet? Well the little round middle bottom part it just plugs into there. That's the grounding port, believe it or not. So when you plug a plug in that bottom portion just grounds the the electrical device you're plugging in. doesn't really offer any electricity. So, you plug this little thing just into that little port and when your legs or wherever you It's usually it's usually the strip of material on it goes across your bed and usually your legs lay on it like your calves and when your calves touch that that's plugged into the grounding port it grounds your body. So, even if you're on the 20th or 100th floor of a building you can ground yourself through that grounding port and that's the you know the theory behind it. A lot of like all the tour to France cyclists sleep in these sleeping bags that are grounded like the whole body is completely grounded in these in these bags and supposedly they can show that performance increases. Uh they can show that cortisol levels are lower. They can when they test the charge of the body they can show you you're discharged better. Uh so it's a subtle type of of of effect but there seems to be a lot of science behind it. Like I said I got into it for a while. I was really into because I was selling the the grounding pads. I was selling the I might even say still have some of the books on my on my Dave Palumbo website. I have I don't know if we sold out of them, but it's a very interesting you should go and Google it. It's an interesting read and it makes sense logically and there are a lot of earth and I think I think I was selling the earththing earth earthing.com because they call it earththing you know and uh there is some serious real science behind it you know especially for athletes at an elite level that want to get a little extra edge on people for recovery purposes I think it's great when I was bodybuilding I was I was doing it for the the last half of my career like I said I I haven't done it in a while but I've been you know I've been moving around a lot so maybe I'll get back to because it there is some solid science behind it. Now, the other thing you asked me about was what was the other question, S? Um, oh, so, okay. Have you looked into like toe spacing and wearing shoes that allow for space that can allow you to strengthen your feet? You know, Ben Pulski and I got into this discussion about 10 years ago and he was, you know, a big believer in those, you know, those those shoes where you can, it looks like gloves. Yeah, exactly. And he said, you know, it's important because you build your strength in the bottom of your foot. My see my problem is that and a lot of guys have the same problem I do especially athletes for some reason. A lot of athletes with flat feet which means that the arch in your foot that is normally supported by not muscle but by a tendon is just is just genetically is just not there or it's not it's it's overstretched. So you have what's called a flat foot as opposed to an arched foot. So for people like us especially when you get heavy as a bodybuilder you know over 250 pounds you you got to get what's called orthotics for your shoes. So the orthotics creates an arch that and it corrects the arch deficit that you have so that when you walk around in these things in your shoes you have it's like you have a normal arch and when you you know do your leg workouts and you and just when you're walking around on a daily basis you don't you're using the right muscle groups because if you have no arch what happens is you're not using the right muscle groups you get strains in your knee your lower back you're you know all gro I was getting groin strains back in the day so for me I can't wear those me strengthening my feet, my my toes and the muscles of my feet is not going to fix the fact that I have no arch support. And that's the same case with any bodybuilder that has flat feet or or has a fallen arch. You can't fix it by strengthening the the the muscles in your in your foot because it's not a muscular thing. It's it's a connective tissue issue. A matter of fact, when I had I had was about two years ago when I had my ankle fused, uh the reason I had to fuse is because my my lack of arch got so bad that the bones actually collapsed on the bottom of my foot and they weren't even supporting my ankle properly. And so I had to have like an artificial they had to actually fuse those bones to create an arch for me in that foot. And I still wear orthotics in that shoe. So, you know, some people just don't have good feet. Other people, you know, have great feet and they can get away with it. I think that most bodybuilders, like I said, that are over, you know, 240, 250, all can benefit. I think everyone can benefit from from wearing orthotics. I'm not a big believer in doing anything barefoot or wearing those shoes. Maybe if you're a gymnast, that's a different story. But not for bodybuilding. For bodybuilding, we need biomechanics. That's number one uh importance is the biomechanics of your feet and how the rest of your body is aligned so when you're training, you're using the right muscle groups. Because if you're not, you're using e accessory muscle groups that are not supposed to be doing the movements and they don't get big. So, a lot of guys who have problems with building like adductors and glutes of their legs, it's because they're falling forward and their quads are doing all the work because they can't sit back on their heels when they're doing squats or leg presses because they have an arch deficit. So big believer, go to your podiatrist, go to your local chiropractor, have them make you a custom pair of orthotics, change them every two and a half, three years, and make sure you put them in a new pair of shoes, and I'm telling you, you'll thank me for it. Question about your uh carb rotation uh diet, which again is available on the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Do you recommend carb rotation diet if you want to lean out specifically while bulking? Yeah, I think I think most people should start on, you know, a diet that that's some carbs. The only Look, I there are people who come to me, they have to lose a lot of weight, you know, men and women. They're like, "Look, I don't want this to take a year. You know, I know I have a lot of weight to lose. Give me the best, most efficient diet that you think is I'm going to be able to stick to." And I usually put them right onto a ketogenic diet in that case because the ketogenic diet is obviously going to work very quickly because it's low carbs. It's ver virtually no carbs essentially, right? Your body, but your brain is in ketosis. So you feel good on the diet. You don't feel hungry. If I have to put a a overweight person on a low carb diet, they can still lose weight, but they're going to be hungry during the day because in between meals, their blood sugar is going to drop. You know, when you're on a ketogenic diet, the blood sugar levels are stable because your brain is using fats as fuel. So it's a better it's a better option, you know, and I think that's that's important. So, but for most bodybuilders, we're starting their diet 18 weeks out from a show. I start them on some days they have carbs, some days, you know, they don't, but most of the days they do. And then I I I alter the diet as the weeks progress depending on their progress. If they're losing weight, eating carbs, and I don't take it out. If they if they're not, I cut I cut back some of the carb days, we do more protein, fat days. You know, in some cases, we do go full ketogenic diet. A lot of times I never do, you know. So, it really depends on the person I'm working with and how their body progresses. With women, women do very well on ketogenic diets. They like the way they feel on it. They're never bloated. It's a very good diet for them mentally and physically. Works really well. We'll take one more question. This about Jay Cutler and carb intake. I've always hear everyone talk about eating say 1,000 gram of carbs. Jay Cutler talks about eating 1,000 grams of carbs on prep. This confuses me. 1,00 grams of cooked rice on a scale is actually 280 grams of carbs. Are they talking about 1,00 grams of carbs on a scale or 1,00 gram of actual carbs? Now, they're talking about a thousand grams of actual carbohydrates, which is an enormous amount of carbohydrates, and for most people, they can never metabolize that in the course of a day. But Jay Cutler is not your average guy, right? He's a four-time Mr. Olympia, three-time Ornastic Champ. He's a genetic freak. You know, I'm sure even even I didn't eat that many I would eat that many grams of carbs on on an offseason, but I wouldn't eat it I wouldn't eat that much pre-context. I'm just not that I'm not a good carb burner. I'm good, but I'm not great like that. And a lot of times guys have to do that because they don't eat enough fat in their diet. So they'll they'll compensate with carbs. So in other words, maybe if I didn't eat all the fat I could have eaten that many carbs, but I would have looked terrible because if my body doesn't get enough essential fat and fats in the diet, it doesn't matter how many grams of carbs I eat, I look I look flat as could be. So for me, I I found that more fats, less carbs worked better. You know, Jay was, you know, Jay was an easy gain or hard loser, you know, essentially. So you he he did better on higher carbs, you know, because it it seemed like it stimulated his metabolism and uh you know, I think toward the end of his career, his metabolism was way better than when it early on. I'm sure early on he wasn't eating a ton of carbs, you know, but maybe he was. I don't know. Everyone's metabolism is different. The worst thing you can do is listen to a genetic freak. Like don't don't ask Dexter Jackson what he ate for his diet because Dexter had a crazy metabolism. Don't ask guys that, you know, that have like Matt Grego, you know, Chris has to give him a burger and fries every day. the guy's and he doesn't do cardio. That's if you copy what he does, you're going to be a fat slob. So, never ask a genetically gifted person what they do. You want to find out what the average person needs to do to get in the best shape of their life. So, yes, did Jay Cutler do a thousand grams of carbs? He probably did, but he's not the average guy. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave reminder right now on the channel. All new episode of Heavy Muscle Radio, all new episode of the After Hours podcast. Of course, this past weekend was the Arnold South America, which saw a good veto not only win dominate, but really announce himself to the world as a viable viable threat in the upcoming Pittsburgh Pro. Pittsburgh Pro about four and a half weeks away. Dave and I will be there. We will provide wall-to-wall coverage. Very excited about that. So again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything we have coming up on this channel. If you like what you're watching, hit the likes up, comment below, and as always, we appreciate all of your support. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadiq Farooqi. We'll see you next time.