ileen,ileen,ileen,ileen,ileen,ileen,ileenileen,ileenileen,ileenileen,ileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileenileen with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here for rxmuscle.com. I have a legend in Chris Aceto here, the technician. That's right. And then we have another legend, Kai Greene. Oh, man, no legend. Thank you for joining us tonight. Hey, I'm honored. Thank you for having me. Andrew Jack wins his first Arnold Classic. Maybe the tallest man to do it. You know what? He was big as shit. Beep, beep, beep, beep. Amazing, amazing. Tremendous. I don't think I've seen shoulders like that in a long time. I like his package. Shape. Shape, symmetry, it was beautiful. Beautiful to see, beautiful to watch. He was also the best poser tonight. Which is interesting, right? Because usually the biggest guy doesn't do the best posing. But he moved like something reminiscent of something very beautiful to watch. I think it was well-deserved. You think he was watching Kai Greene videos? Nobody can pose like Kai. Yeah, that's true. No, he had a great routine. And, you know, I'm listening to what Kai has to say. And actually, the key words that I hone in on is beautiful. Yeah. You know, it's a big guy with a lot of muscle, with showy, you know, body parts, the side tricep, big delts, midsection. And it's beautiful. And that's what he posed to. He won the best pose. And he posed to, I'm the Mona Lisa. And it's the, what is even more interesting is Nick Walker won the most muscular. Yeah. And he was the most muscular. Yes. For sure. And the only person, I think, who could extinguish that physique is somebody with... Bigger and broader. Beautiful. That's not to say Nick has an ugly physique. And he looked even better tonight, I think, with his midsection was really, like, flat tonight. I see a two-time Mr. Olympia. Let's get Derek. Derek Lunsford. Come here. More time. Come here. Uh-oh. And I have a four-time Mr. Olympia and Jay Cutler over there, too. Come here for a second. Wow. We'll get Jay in a second. Is he even a little... He's the one who... These are all your guys, too, Chris. How come all your guys are here? I wore the shirt last year. He's got his Muhammad Ali shirt. Oh, man. I had to pull it out for the... Hold on. Let me get Derek. Derek, come over here for a second. Let me just say that. Then I'll let you go. Come here. Here we go. Andrew Jack. Tell me... I mean, you went against him. You beat him at the Olympia. He was third. A lot of people thought he could have been higher. Did he do the job here tonight? I mean, clearly he did. He had a great posing routine. He got the posing award. And he came out with the title. I mean, we did the interview a couple weeks ago. I said he's got a lot of momentum right now. The fans wanted to see him win. And he came out with the victory this time. Was it nice to sit on the sidelines and watch the show for a change? It was fun. But when they said 750, I was like... Andrew's going to have fun with that. It was great. You know? Listen, you're not in it unless you prep and you sign up and you step on stage. So, congrats to all those guys. I'm happy for them all. And it was fun to watch, man. I've done it for you now come September. It's going to be a good time. I'm motivated. Thanks, man. I appreciate it. All right. Can we get Jay Cutler over here? Where's Jay? Fourth time Mr. Olympia. Three-time Arnold Classic champ. Can you believe I got Kai over here? Yeah, no. I can't believe he made it out, man. He always looks so nice. Yeah, he's very stylish, right? I like that tie. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I didn't pick it out. Did the right guy win tonight? I think so. I mean, we talk about when Mr. Olympia walks in the room, Andrew Jack, just like crazy shape, structure, size. I mean, the muscle's just out of control. I mean, he's just got it all. He's got the it factor. And I think that's really what it came down to. I mean, Walker, he's a beast, right? But, you know, it just came down to, you know, they picked more of a symmetrical guy that, you know, he had a momentum. We talked about that. The Olympia, he was on fire. And, you know, Chris never brags about too much, man. He never told me really. I never asked. Get my timing off. I didn't ever ask how he looked, but I listened to, obviously, what you guys talk about. It's just different times, man. I mean, he's the guy right now. Nick Walker, potentially the best back double, back lat spread. I mean, usually the guys that win from behind, look at Derek, win the show. What do you think that did it for Andrew that pushed past Nick? Because Nick had the most muscle, obviously. Nick had probably the best conditioning in the show, too. With. With. With, okay. With makes a big difference in this. You know, when you're the widest guy, you know, there's a lot to look at. And I think that, you know, when you talk about winning, you know, yes, Nick had the crazy hamstrings, all that going on. But I still think Andrew with the lat spread. I mean, you heard the crowd when he did his individual routine and spread the lats. I mean, there's no one wider. And. And he's got a small waist, too. Well, I mean, he's got the small waist, but he's just. I mean, we talked about him being stretched out too much that he had a lot of holes years ago. And he's coming to his own now. And it just. Everyone knew it was a matter of time. I mean, remember, the guy hasn't been bodybuilding that long on a professional. I mean, he was kind of like a. I don't want to call him a social media guy, but he was like training with Larry Wheels. It's like a strong guy. And then he comes in, gets his card. And he's only been on the circuit for, what, three, four years. Yeah. And it's like he's just getting started. I mean, that's what's crazy about it is like, where is this guy's. Silly. Yes. I mean, it's endless. I mean, now it's like momentum, like crazy Olympia. I mean. Could you take Derek out? Listen. So you stand up next to each other. You know, we talked about this all the time. I mean, Derek's got that crazy density right now. And a whole year of training to put a lot of oomph. That year of training can do a lot for someone that's been training for show after show. And I think with Andrew, he's just on a tear right now. So I'd be a little nervous if I had to be watching this show and knowing I had Olympia to stand next to that. What do you think happened to Hadi Chopin today? Did he deserve third? Oh, man. You know what? I'm a Hadi Chopin fan. I absolutely am. I thought that I think the position was well-deserved, honestly. I think we've seen him better. Yes. And I think from the rear earlier in the prejudging, I was a little concerned. And I think the way things turned out by the end kind of showed that we were in the right place. But we know Hadi Chopin has been much better in the past. He wasn't at his top A game tonight. I think he's been pushed a little bit. And I think it's been good reason to imagine. You know, behind the scenes, there's a lot of difficulty going on for him. Yeah, he admitted that. Chris, you know, Hadi Chopin, you know, usually we're used to seeing that shrink-wrapped look around the waist. He had it in the front, but he really didn't have it behind. Did that leave him vulnerable? Did he have a little bit of bigger guys? Yeah, I thought he was sharper tonight and fuller tonight. And I think he looked really good tonight. I think yesterday, kind of like the Olympia. You know, he was not really that on the money on the first night but came back the second night. I just think that, like, where he gave up some is in the back double. He was going up against Nick. He was going up against Andrew. He's really got to be super tight on a back double because he doesn't have a thick back, though. He's got the great back lat spread width. So, you know, you're cutting hairs. After someone wins, like prejudging, I think Andrew pretty much won prejudging. I don't think anyone denied that. Is it hard for a guy to come back from that and then pass someone like him? Well, when you're standing, oh, and it's Andrew Jack, it's a whole different game. But I think with Hadi, I think his back, like he said, he improved for tonight. But when you don't have that crazy detail in the glutes and hamstrings that, you know, you've seen before, his legs actually looked a little smaller from behind, in my opinion. So I think that really, tonight, that kind of hurt him a lot, even though he improved in certain areas. Because he was, I mean, he was gnarly from the front. He won, like, the most muscular against Nick Walker, who, you know, had more muscle, I feel like. But he just had more detail, that midsection. I mean, when you have that crazy midsection, you do those quarter turns and he's got all that stuff going on. I mean, it makes a huge difference. But I think the legs looked a little shallow from behind because of the lack of conditioning in the lower body. Most improved bodybuilder tonight? Nick Walker? You know what? I think Nick is nasty to begin with. I really think he's got... He's had a few bad shows, though. You know what? From the rear, I think he shut it down, personally. I think that he held it together from the prejudging and the night show. I don't mean to interrupt you, but from a presentation standpoint, and that's your expertise, would you like to see Nick maybe do something a little different, like on the front poses? I feel like maybe the presentation's a little weak. I wouldn't say that. I'd have to look at it again. I think every athlete comes up there and does what they feel comfortable doing. And I think if you're not comfortable doing more, you know, then you stay in your comfort zone. You know what I mean? Because showing your best, it's one thing to be a good poser or to aim to be entertaining when it may not seem to count in the way of showing your best foot forward in competition. Guest posing is one thing. But when you come up there and you're competing and you want to try the best and show your best at all times, you want to maybe not try to do some things you've never done before or play with some ideas that are not well within your realm of comfort. Can Nick improve those front poses or is that just a structural problem? I mean, everyone can always improve posing. I mean, he does a couple things that I would kind of suggest different, like when he rolls the lats, especially in the lats spread, and then to get the pop. And sometimes when he pushes forward to, you know, remember, he has a longer midsection. So I would do, it's always about the transitions. Listen, in pitchers, Nick Walker's a killer in the pitchers. But the problem is, is you have to maneuver from those pitchers, you know, for the pose to pose. And that's where I feel like he loses a little ground, especially going into even the side pose. He's so dense, but he needs to really focus on bringing the midsection in so there's just more taper there because that's what loses a little momentum for him. What did Martin do wrong tonight? Because a lot of people thought Martin and Nick don't have any share of love for each other. That's for sure. Matter of fact, Martin didn't even shake Nick's hand on stage. What did Martin do wrong here? Because we haven't really seen, it seems like every other show Martin kind of messes something up. Well, I like the way he looked actually tonight compared to the way he looked in the prejudging. I think he brought it in a little tighter tonight, and I think that did help him. I think he's still just figuring it out. I think he's got an awesome physique. He's obviously an amazing talent that is any day now. We get a chance to see him bring it. Is he letting his emotions maybe affect his physique? I don't know. I don't know. Any insights? A thousand percent. Yeah. He looked disappointed through the whole prejudging, the whole finals. I saw him backstage. He just puts a lot of pressure on himself. And we always talk about sometimes he can be your own worst enemy. And nerves are a crazy thing. When you're backstage, you want to be as relaxed as possible and just not let anything get. But when he wasn't getting the calls, his whole demeanor fell apart. And listen, man, we always talk about that. I always tell the guys, you've got to be aggressive out there. You've got to act like this is yours. I mean, command the stage. I mean, you saw Phil Heath do that so many years, even against Kai. And I mean, against Monty, where it's like, I mean, yeah, you guys almost got into fistfights over it. You know, it was so much intensity. And I think that, like, you have to go out there and know what your ability is. And he's a young guy. He's probably the youngest guy in the lineup here. So, yes. So I think he still has. It's just going to take a little time. But there's nothing crazy about his physique. But it's all put together right. Oh, it flows, dude. And once he puts it together, I mean, he's going to go win some shows this year for sure. Chris, do you agree? Yeah. Every time we talk about Martin Fitzwater, I say he's a collection of lack of weaknesses. And lack of weaknesses. And he's got a great structure. So lack of weaknesses. He can win all kinds of shows this year. You know. And he's close. You know. And he's going. I mean, he's close. And this lineup, I mean, these lineups are just deep. You know. You can't leave any stone unturned because you'll be exposed. So he was just a little off. Fix that tan too, Martin, please. Uh-oh. Yeah. I mean, listen. You're going up against former Mr. Olympia, Arnold Classic winner prior, Andrew Jack, who's just out of this world. Like another level. But you can't get upset about it. You've got to just keep pushing forward and believe in yourself. And he'll come back. What do you think about Brandon Curry? Still pretty impressive for his age. Right? Back from the back too. I would have had him for. You know what? I like the way he brought his glutes and hamstrings in. You know what? It's awesome to see him still at this time walk in there and still give a great fight. I think there are even some improvements too in overall conditioning and physique. So yeah, I'm inspired by Brandon Curry. When you look at those guys up there, do you ever say, maybe one more time? Or are you like, I can't stand with these guys anymore? You know what? I think sometimes it can be very intimidating. You know, it can be. You almost have to have an amazing kind of resolve, I think, to imagine or almost be delusional.