Okay, I'm in control. and welcome inside the RX Muscle Studios in New York for a special episode of Iron Debate brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecnutrition.com. I'm your host Sadiq Farooqi. Glad you can join us as we are literally a week away from the time that Dave, Johnny, and I are going to be departing to Las Vegas for the 2016 Olympia. One that has been the most looked forward to in over a decade with some of the deepest lineups in every division that we have seen in recent memory. We are pleased to be joined by the fourtime Mr. Olympia, no stranger to RX Muscle. And of course, we are talking about Jay Cutler from Las Vegas. Jay, how you doing today? Everything's happy to be back on. Absolutely. And of course, joining us from Portland, Maine, the man they call the technician, Chris Aceto. Chris, we're less than 10 days out. How do you feel? Are we 10 days out? I don't want to miss someone's peak or something, but actually I feel good. And uh you know, this is going to be the probably best preview show uh of the year for the Mr. Olympia. Nobody can match this no matter what um Steve Blackman tries to pull out of his hat. Well, of course, joining me here in studio, the man with the final word on all topics, that is Dave Palumbo. Dave, I don't know, maybe exactly 10 days, nine to 10 days out of the Olympia as we have Jay Cutler here on Iron Debate. When you have Jay Cutler on Iron Debate, it doesn't get much better than that. Uh, you know, uh, I always like I always believe that former competitors, especially, you know, competitors that have proved themselves on the stage are the best guys to give insight into the the current crop of competitors. You know, it was always hard, I think, Jay for Jay to give his opinion when he was competing because, you know, he was competing with the same these guys, you know, and it it I understand why people are afraid to let voice their opinion. Now that he doesn't compete anymore and he's retired, he can kind of give his full-fledged opinions and, you know, there his insights are usually very accurate. So, I think it's going to be a great show and I'm looking forward to seeing what people have to say about, you know, what Jay thinks. Also, if anyone out there is watching, guys, subscribe to the channel, like the page because you know what? Uh, we're going to give you more and more and more leading up to the Olympia. You're not going to want to miss any of these interviews. And if you have questions for Jay Cutler, here's your opportunity. Post them in the in the in the chat box down there because we will get to them at the end of the show. As Dave mentioned, if you haven't already subscribed to our YouTube channel, if this is the first time you're watching us, hit the subscribe button below. You're not going to miss any of our shows. And of course, with the Olympia right around the corner, you're not going to want to miss any of our preview videos, our inhow coverage, and of course, all the wrap-up interviews with Dave, Chris Aceto, and some of the top minds in the industry. Let's get right down to it. Again, if you have any questions for Dave, for Jay Cutler, or for Chris Aceto, you can chat on the chat box on the right hand side of the video player. 2014 it was Kai versus Phil. And while Phil got the better off that matchup on route to then his fourth straight stand out. Well earlier this year at the Arnold Classic we saw a showdown between Kai Green and Cedric McMillan. Now while Kai Green came away with the crown, the 2016 Arnold Classic crown, many thought that Cedric should have won. And in the if not for the posing round, many feel that he would have won. So, now here's the question, and Jay Cutler will go to you first on this one. If it comes down to a one-on-one showdown between Cedric McMillan, who missed last year's Olympia, and Phil Heath, who in your opinion walks away with the send out? Uh that's a tough that's a tough call because I think uh structure-wise I mean Cedric you know he's just been missing the peak really to you know I always said he's Mr. Olympia in the making. I think you know we've kind of got away from that. We've heard it so many times about different guys but I think Cedric standing there I mean he has the physique to do it. the the whole thing's going to come down to his conditioning. And I think now he's kind of figured that out, at least according to his last showings, um that he can stand with pretty much anyone. Now, um it's really going to come down to Phil Heath, man. I mean, Phil Heath still has a lot of detail and you know, we can talk. Let's go to the backside because listen, that's where where the comparisons are going to be the most questionable in a lot of the guys um is when they turn around to the back and Cedric has that crazy rear double bicep and he's got the lat spread. But you know, Cedric's going to the problem with Cedric that I see no matter what his physique looks like and this is just this is my humble opinion is Cedric tends to lack the confidence to show how great he really is. meaning he just kind of goes through the motions and doesn't display with any aggression which you know going back to when I was winning shows and fighting you know questionably the best bodybuilder in the world with Ronnie Coleman you had to learn that aggression and that wasn't my demeanor at all looking back at my career and Chris can relate to this cuz he worked with me since I was a kid um I had to develop that that confidence and that aggression and that that showmanship that really showed like, hey, I'm ready to win this. I'm coming for it. I'm going to display it. Because sometimes it doesn't always come down to just the physique, man. You got to have the attitude and you got to have the showmanship to be able to display those things. So, you know, popping into those poses and showing off those strengths and getting in the guy's face, man. not, you know, to the point where Kai and and Phil were arming each other on stage, which I I think I mean that was a little different, but Cedric's going to walk out there like, "Hey, this is my [\h__\h] I'm going to take the show. I'm going to win this thing." And and if he's confident like that, guys, the guy is very, very dangerous. And and it's going to be up to the judge's decision. But I think Stanley, he can stand there with anyone on the planet at this point. Two things last Arnold Classic. Arnold Schwarzenegger on stage said that Cedric had the better physique out of the two between him and Kai. Chris, last year when we had Guru Mania part one, I went around the panel and I asked I gave you a competitor and I wanted you to give a short phrase. When I mentioned Cedric McMillan, you said potentially greatest ever. So, let's go back to this question. If it comes down to a one-on-one battle between Cedric and Phil Heath, what do you see playing out? You know what? I I agree with everything Jay said and to to add to that. Um, I I I think, you know, the onus is on Cedric to display that because look, you know, as good as he looked at the Arnold, it wasn't really until he probably realized, did they just call me and Kai? Because you know Cedric, we all know Cedric. When when they called Kai and Cedric, I know for a fact in Cedric's mind, he's like a shark at that point, saying, "Okay, you mean it's not me, Kai, and four other guys? I'm gonna whoop this guy. And that's when his, you know, in that prejudge and his confidence, you know, matched or displayed or complimented his physique. And we all left prejudge and said, "Well, that was a slam dunk." And we all left prejudging saying, "Wow, is Kai that off?" I mean, people scratching their heads, you know, is Kai that off or is Cedric that good or is Cedric improved that much? I think it was a combination of yeah Kai being off in prejudging Cedric being a little tighter than he's been the previous year but also it came down to the comparison when you say Jay Cutler Ronnie Coleman Jay Cutler knows that in that comparison all eyes are on those two you either sink or swim and in that case you know when it came down to Cedric and Kai he swam and you know I you know to get back to But Jay has said he just needs to display that when he comes out by himself and when he comes out in a comparison. Hypothetically, I think if you compare those two, I think he compares far far better than Kai against Phil. Uh because he's got height and non-squattiness that Kai has had. Kai has, you know, does not have height. He Kai does not have a crazy vtaper like Cedric. While Kai has his own strengths and attributes, they're always negated, I feel, at the end by Phil. I always come back to, well, Phil had more detail, more tie-ins, the better, most muscular. Um, so I think if you contrasted Phil's strengths versus Cedric's strengths, you really start to cut, you know, fine hairs to determine which of these guys are better. I've always felt Kai versus Phil. I always think like, okay, Bill's got them. Kai's got his strengths, you know, it's very competitive, but I've always gone back to those those comparisons. Phil has them. Um, I think the more interesting comparisons are Cedric alone or Roden alone versus uh uh versus Phil. Jay, I wanted to go back to you about Cedric. And when we talk about Cedric McMillan, actually, let me take that back. It seems as if not enough people are talking about Cedric McMillan, and I wonder if that is a combination of him missing last year's Olympia. Now, granted, that obviously not on him. Um, you know, he had the bad luck at the uh Arnold Brazil, missing the athletes meeting. Do you feel as if maybe him not participating last year is a reason that not more people are talking about Cedric coming into this edition of the the Olympia given how much talk has been about Big Romney, Kevin Leavone and Phil Heath and all for good reason. Uh you know absolutely uh you know when you sit out a show you know they forget real quick and and obviously the advertisement has been around those top six guys or top five guys from last year. Um, Cedric also is is reserved. Um, he's at home getting the job done. He has a different lifestyle from a lot of these other guys where, you know, he's a family guy and he's involved. I mean, he's still working or doing whatever he's doing, which a lot of these guys are just sitting on the couch playing video games. So, uh, he's he's putting in the work. Um, I know he's at he was recently in in Hong Kong for the Arnold Classic. uh and uh you know I think um you know I think that him not being as vocal has affected um the talk and and I think the Olympia lacks um media coverage. Um, I think right now you're not seeing as much these days because now you have med media and media media channels being the magazine and social media where the guys are stuck in contracts where they can't talk to other guys and and vice, you know, it's just I just think, you know, with their social media channels, people should be more active on it because it's only going to help build their brands and build their popularity more. Um, I understand if you're reserved. I was the same way. I didn't like necessarily being in front of cameras, but you have to learn when you become a contender and you want to be a contender and you want to be recognized as one of the greatest bodybuilders in the world, you need to you need to be vocal. You need to say, "I'm coming for this. It's mine." Um, and and you need to give reason why. And I think uh right now there's been a lot of silence. I haven't heard anything about the contest. I live in Las Vegas. Once again, there's not much talk of it here locally. Um, and I just feel there can be so much more done um with these guys to to build them better. Dave, let's go to you in studio again. The topic is Cedric versus Phil Heath. Should that be the final pairing to decide who walks away with the 2016 Sandow? You heard what Jay had to say. You heard what Chris had to say. What do you think? I'm gonna I'm gonna change it from physiques to psychological state because I think that Cedric and and and Kai's psychological states are are weak as competitors and I think that Kai is is is very vulnerable to dare I say mental toughness. I think that's why Phil beats him. I think Phil is mentally tougher than him. I think Kai crumbles when he gets to the Olympia. I think when he's not in that Olympia situation, he doesn't feel the pressure as much. He's he's a little more confident. I think Cedric has the same problem. I think he's he's also he's not mentally strong. And when he's in a situation where he feels like he's he's ahead of everyone else, he's cocky, he's great on stage, he's entertaining, and he wins shows. And when he doesn't feel that that confidence, he's terrible. And uh for some reason, maybe Cedric felt superior to Kai on that day and he felt good about himself and he really shined. And I think that's why people saw him as the champion at that Arnold Classic. Uh, at the Olympia, it's going to be a whole new ball game. When you compare Kai Green's I mean, when you compare Cedric McMillan's physique to to Phil Heath, I think Cedric's intimidated by the fact that Phil's Mr. Olympia. I think he's intimidated by the fact that Phil has a strong mindset and I think he's going to have trouble. I think he would have trouble beating him. Even though his physique may be better, I think Phil may come out ahead on that on that forefront. Uh, I also wanted to address something that Jay said which I found interesting also. I didn't feel like they they've really promoted that Olympia that much. No one really knows if there's a live stream or not. Um, we've been I mean for the last two months promoting the show. I mean with interviews and um really putting it out there and I think a lot of people have contacted me and really thanked me for all the content we're putting up all the athlete interviews, these analysis shows. Uh so you know this to me is one of the most exciting Mr. Olympias probably since you know I think Jay beat Ronnie you know that first time. So I I don't know why uh it's kind of like uh just it kind of crept up us crept up on us the Olympia just out of nowhere. So I'm I'm looking forward to it though. I think it's going to be one of the best ever. Jay, let me go back to you just about the first point that you made about Cedric and that is about the mindset that a competitor has to have on stage to own the show, to own the moment, and to have the I guess for lack of a better phrase swagger to say that the standout is his during your career. And if you had to impart any wisdom on say a Cedric, what would your advice be to to gain that mental edge on stage and to show the poise of a champion? Listen, man. You got to have the physique to do it. And, you know, that's going to build confidence. I mean, I I can relate. You know, there's no one better to actually ask the question of confidence and and coming from, you know, someone that maybe wasn't as confident. I always said in the very very beginning, I just wanted to be successful. I never planned on being Mr. Olympia. And when I, you know, I had a backing with with Chris Aceto telling me in my ear, you can beat these guys and and then that coming to reality um on the European tour 2000 when I stood next to Coleman. Luckily, a lot of guys didn't go, you know, I got to actually have those comparisons and that's when, you know, I came back in 2001 Olympian. I I stood next to to the best and and pretty much beat the best even though I didn't win. Um, but you know, you look at how I walked out in 2009 after I lost to Dexter Jackson and I came out there with full confidence and you know, listen, I wasn't the champ. There was a reigning champ and you know, I mean, you got to be you got to be confident and you got to know that, okay, this physique is is the best it can be. Um, I mean, there was times where arguably I was better than 2009, but I knew right then that, you know, I was better than the whole crop of guys. I think Cedric, you know, if he puts together the full package, he he has the the condition, the size, the balance, um, and he just needs to be one cocky mother effort to get up there and be able to show that cuz, you know, Phil Heath ain't coming out there and and just quietly hitting poses. He's going to be the most arrogant mother you could ever seen walking out for his sixth Olympia because he knows, hey, the odds are getting tighter and tighter for me to win this thing being at number six. There's a lot of guys and listen to go back what Dave said I'll be honest with you guys from a guy that competed in this thing and watched for over 20 years. This is the most competitive Olympia between probably second and and 15 that we've ever had. I mean these guys I mean we're going back to the 90s now with the competition where there's not really bad guys. It's just going to be a question on it's splitting hairs with all these top guys. Um, you know, we can talk about the top four or five and we know who those guys are probably going to be unless there's a huge surprise. But shoot, if you try to pick the top six in this show, more than likely no one's going to be able to do that because six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, it's going to be very, very close. And it's going to be it's a crab shooting who that is going to be cuz there's a lot of guys that are on equal levels that are competing and it's going to come down to the condition that they bring that day. Listen, some guys are going to miss their peak, but um you know, Cedric can be anywhere from, you know, first to to sixth or seventh or eighth at this show. And and not even saying, "Hey, Cedric's a bad bodybuilder." It's just a lot of guys that are that are great at that level. So, it's hard to really single out the guys. And I hate to do it cuz I know what that feels like standing up on that stage and being a front runner to being 15th at my first Mr. Olympia. It's it's just it's tough to sit there and call the shots. But, you know, Cedric just needs to be he needs to be arrogant, man. He needs to be, you know, come out of his shell a little bit. And if he looks that good, and it's only that day, that's when it's really going to show. You're watching Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com, brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecutrition.com. Again, I'm your host, Sik Farooqi. If you're watching us for the first time ever on our YouTube channel, hit the subscribe button below. Uh, if you're watching right now and you're expecting Ask Dave, Ask Dave is going to be tomorrow at 400 PM and rather 3 PM, 400 PM. We have that super mystery guest that we're not going to reveal until Showtime at 400 p.m. Eastern Standard Time right here on rxmuscle.com and the RXMuscle YouTube channel. Let's go to our second topic of debate. And when we talked about Phil Heath in the first one, now we're going to singularly focus on Phil Heath coming into this Olympia for his sixth sandout attempt. The question is this, and Jay, we'll start with you on this. In your opinion, what is it about Phil Heath, the package, the presentation, scoring that allowed him to retain the title last year? And if he shows up the way that he did last year, can you see him coming in and winning his six stand out this year? Um, I mean, you say it in the when you ask me the question, you talk about, you know, the the shape, the balance, the symmetry, um, presentation. That's what won Phil Heat that Olympia. Um, he was just, uh, in my opinion, you know, better on that Saturday night. Um, yeah, Friday he was off. There's no question. Rhoden was right there. Um, I sat in the front row. I was I was actually um a little surprised that Dexter Jackson was second to be honest. I mean, I I've been seeing Dexter for a long time. And I know people say he's better than he ever was, but I don't think that's necessarily true. Uh, but you know, I thought Rhoden had a really legit shot besides a little bloating, stomach control that might have hurt him a little bit. Um, but Phil came back Saturday night and I knew when he came out like he had refreshed his body. Um he he deserved to win Saturday. There's no question. And he when you're Mr. Olympia man, it's it's happened to me on several occasions. Um people thought I shouldn't have won on Friday and then I come back Saturday better and and you're a little more relaxed and you know, you're a little debt sweating out and dehydrating a little more and and eating a little food and just the less nerves. That's it makes you better. I mean, the two-day show is an advantage to the guy that's winning. Uh the problem is is the guys that are behind him trying to play catch-up and trying to win the title and overcome, you know, that that whole Mr. Olympia uh status. You know, we have to you have to be, you know, much greater to beat the guy. It's uh you know, odds are stacked against those guys to really to be thrown that guy. Phil has to be drastically off to lose this Olympia. Um I don't foresee that to be honest. I see Phil being as good as he ever was, if not better. Um he has the confidence. Um, I know, you know, he he's doing everything he can to bring the best package. And it's it's really going to be um if Phil's off, who's going to take the title, not anyone else being that much greater than Phil Heath? And that that's that's my opinion, honestly, guys. So, you can argue against it. Um, but I I just don't foresee Phil Heath losing this and uh, you know, it being worse than last year. Let me jump in here real quick because last year as you referenced many thought that after prejudging Shawn Rhoden looked to be if not the clear favorite. He looked to have the edge uh going into the finals. Did you have an opportunity to talk to Phil after prejudging? Um, you know, I still have a great relationship with Phil Heath and uh, you know, his his persona really, you know, remember with me, our discussions aren't like a lot of the media displays Phil Heath and you know, Phil Heath still, you know, is trying to be better himself. You know, he never agrees that, you know, when he wins these things, he's his absolute best. I think he stated it. But as the champ, you got to be careful what you say because, you know, you don't want to you don't want to talk negatively. And that's the thing that bothered me most about winning is no matter what style always won, everyone always questioned, uh, you know, okay, you could have been better here or there. And that was really disappointing, especially when you're winning the best title in the world. It don't matter how you win it, as long as you're better than the people standing next to you. And you're always going to have threats. You know, I love these these people that say, "Oh, Phil has no threats. His biggest threat is himself. That's bullshit." You know, you got the guys to compete against. and you know, he may show not the best respect for some of those guys coming behind him because listen, on anyone's day, they can be beat. Um, all you got to do is do something like in 2001 where I I should have won. And you win the fans and you win the fans, eventually the momentum gets you to the place where you're trying to be. And that's all these guys need to do. And and Sean's done this, not last year, but even prior, I thought he was tremendous. I think the year before um he really has been pushing the envelope on being there, but it just seems like he's just fallen short of that second place, man. I don't, you know, I mean, I thought he was better than Kai Green the two years pro, you know, whatever that year was. 2013, was it 13 or 14? 14, you know. So, it's just, you know, I just think Phil's, you know, Phil's got a great advantage, but um, you know, Sean, I don't know. I hear he looks tremendous. Listen, it don't matter till that day, but he needs to control his stomach this year. Um, because they're going to be looking at that number one. So, if I have any advice for Shawn Rhoden, it's going to be, dude, you know, those transitional poses, those side poses, you got to have the abs. Um because listen, the guy's abs destroy everyone's on stage. He's still got the smallest waist and the biggest legs in the lineup besides big Rammy uh legs being obviously bigger, but his waist is a lot bigger than than Roden's. And he has the package. He has the tools. He's got the quarter turns. He's got the hamstrings from the side. And you know, yeah, they say his back isn't Phil Heath par, but listen, my back wasn't um you know, Ronnie Coleman's level either. And you know, they say the back wins the show, but listen, it's the whole package and the transitions and and uh how you display it, like I said. So, you know, I know he's doing everything he can possibly do to win. So, um it's going to be exciting for me to watch from the front row again. Chris, let's go to you the same question. In your opinion, as somebody who's been around the sport for over 20 years now, what is it about Phil Heath that won him his fifth straight stand out last year? And if he brings the same Phil Heath as 2015 to this year's edition, does he walk away with the sandal? Uh, I've been around the sport more than 20 years. I've had this t-shirt I'm wearing, Johnny, I think for 20 years, right? Um, actually, no, I wore it at the 2004 Olympia. I'm trying to wear it all week. I heard you stole it from my cats. No, I didn't steal my cats. The question about about Phil Listen is is the question uh break the question down for me real quick again. No, what is it about Phil Heat's presentation last year what he brought in the finals? Yeah. It's a two-day show. The last two years in prejudging in my mind he didn't win the Mr. Olympia or the last two years in my mind. Uh you could give him the edge in prejudging and say he showed a lot of vulnerability. That's why I, you know, I try to kid and and and say, you know, try to find personal digs on Phil because it's hard to find digs on his physique, right? You know, he comes back last year. You know, I thought he was clearly behind in prejudging last year and, you know, not like way behind, but I just thought he was like I left prejudging thinking, you know, rodents ahead and I thought it was like a done deal, you know. Um, and then the minute the night show started, I just thought Phil was fresher and Sean looked more tired and I could just feel it like the the second that night show started, I I thought, "Okay, Phil's got a fresher look to his body tonight and he's, you know, defending Mr. Olympia. There's absolutely no way he's going to lose this show." Um, I thought his physique was much better two years in a row at the finals. and say what you want. Yeah, the prejudging is important, but you know, your last look, right, is the finals. I mean, the prejudging is important, but you can change your mind. You can't, you know, I know people for sure on the inn, you know, who just thought like Sean's going to be Mr. Olympia. Me, too. And then they go to the finals and you just take, you know, you do this like you just drop your pen like, okay, everyone already forgot yesterday. It seemed like it was six months ago. All right, Phil looks, you know, fuller. Phil looks tighter. His color's better. His confidence seems genuine tonight, whereas at prejudging, you know, by the way they compared him, he obviously knew he was in a dog fight. Um, and you know, he probably knew, I don't know, I assume that he wasn't at his very best in prejudge. And so, you know, I think that reflected on the way he, you know, we talked about Cedric needing to fight. Even Phil did not fight in prejudging last year. just like it was like a different Phil Heath the year before too in prejudging. So, how do you defend how do you crown Mr. Olympia Mr. Olympia by the fact that on Saturday night he gets the job done? Uh, and that's a fact. I mean, I've said that over and over. It's a fact that on Saturday night he's been better. And if you judge it, you know, and you you say, "Okay, he's better on Saturday night." No matter whe whether you had him in first or second or first and a half place, you know, close to second on prejudging, you still got to close the deal, right? You got to close the show. You can't have you can't take the title from Mr. Olympia at the night show of the finals when they're going to take the pictures of, you know, when the whole audience and all the judges are there saying, you know, you look left and you right, look right. I I I said it to Dave last year. Dave, what do you think? Prejudging. Dave says, I got Broden winning it. And then of course the night show starts and I said, you know, I know if I have to ask Dave that's not a good sign. I'm like, Dave, what do you think? He said, I think Phil's got it. I'm like, [\h__\h] So I knew that I if I had to ask him then, you know, that's already my, you know, internal mechanism for looking for unfortunately a confirmation of what I don't want to hear. So I think he wins because, you know, part of it, you know, he's got the physique period and the experience, you know, counts for a lot. you know, the experience counts for a lot coming into the Mr. Olympia of being Mr. Olympia, you know. Um, that said, either for this Olympia, either he's got to be super confident that things are going to go his way and or he's got to realize that like Jay said, this is, you know, this could be a dog fight again. you know, it can be a dog fighting game because, you know, we we talking about rodents, we're talking about Cedrics, you know, funny Wolf's not there, but you know, we're not talking about other people who potentially not maybe can win the show, but they're very impressive in the lineup when you get a comparison of five people. You know, we talked about Cedric versus Phil, but we didn't talk like Cedric. I mean, what's that lineup? What's that call look like? Rhden next to Cedric next to Phil. I mean, we just talked about those those guys, you know, those are three people we've talked about. We've never seen that comparison. We've never seen ever. So, let's Phil alone. Phil, we've never seen ever Phil versus Rhoden side by side, pose for pose, just those two guys. Let's take a look at our Mr. Olympia competition. Even though Rhoden's been on, you know, arguably on his tail for since 2012. Let's go to you in studio here again. question is in your opinion, your eyes, what you saw last year at the Orleans Arena, why did Phil Heath walk away with his fifth straight stand out? And if he brings the same Phil Heath from last year into the 2016 edition, does he make it six in a row? I'll tell you why. When Dexter Jackson is almost winning the Olympia in in in second place, you know, everyone was off. Okay, that's why Phil Heath won the Olympia because no one was at their best. Rhoden was kind of at his best and then he had that abdominal issue that got worse I thought the next day. Um or it certainly didn't get better and Phil was able to get better and he won. when Dexter is right there ready to take the because Dexter is this guy that he won't beat everyone unless they beat themselves and then he's right there shredded to the bone and and and you got to say Dexter that you got to move him in there when when Jim Mang has to put Dexter Jackson in that second position you know as the head judge you know that everyone was not at their best and that and that's a problem and that's why Phil Heath wins the Olympia because Phil comes back at night better than Dexter and so Phil wins Dexter second and And that's how it goes. Uh, but I will say one thing. I was very surprised they had Phil ahead after the uh the prejudging. I I think what should be implemented and I don't know if anyone will ever take my my advice. Why not after Friday night release the scorecards? You know how they put the scorecards up after the show? Why not put the prejudging scorecards up after Friday night on IFBBpro.com like they do so we can see who's winning going into the into into day two? I'd like Jay's opinion on that because that would really have much more transparency so the guys know where they stand after the first round. Jay, you want to chime in? Um, yeah, I don't think it will happen. Um, you know, 50/50, right? Is that how it's scored, right? Supposedly. So, um, you know, Go ahead. Go ahead. I still think Mr. Olympia, you know, it's they're still looking at it as like uh you know, he's still Mr. Olympia and you know, you still have that that aura when the judges sit there and they judge it. They're leading into the show. I mean, Phil right now, you know, half his name's written as the winner is a Mr. Olympia right now. So, I think, you know, they they know this now like they were back in those days and the tissue is not as round. You can't be better at 47 years old. It's in it's an absolute impossibility. And and I know he'll disagree and I know he'll he'll you know and Dave I think you're on point saying you know what he just beats people cuz he's consistent and he just has a you know he has the great lines. Listen he's a tremendous bodybuilder. He's one of the top three probably greatest bodybuilders of all time because of his consistency has winning records and the physique. I mean if you ask any guy what's your ideal physique they say Daxter Jackson. But the truth is is Shawn Rhoden still has better structure. He's bigger. He's he's got all the flowing body parts. He's got a smaller waist. His abs and thighs are still better. Um and he's got a better, you know, wider back. And you know, his condition wasn't bad at all. It's just yes, he had a little distension, but I just don't I do not agree with him being in third place last year, but that's that's gone. It's it's decided. Um, and you know, I've gotten off track a little bit just because, you know, I I tend to disagree with certain things, but it the shows decide on Saturday night. I won shows on Saturday night. I maybe there's prejudgings I should have lost, guys. I mean, and I was still ahead according to the scorecards, too. Um, but listen, I was Mr. Olympia, so it is what it is. And I don't think, you know, nowadays they're going to change it because, you know, our RX Muscle debate decides where they should show scorecards on Friday night. You know, yeah, Dave, they they they don't want to listen to Dave Plumble's [\h__\h] with the calcul all Saturday of like the mathematical problem. It's he talk three hours like interviewing people of all this guy's got four points, this guy's got five, the math is and you know, speculating which judge had you know, I'm kidding, Dave. I know. You know, and this is this this guys just to just to to to reiterate a little bit this this is like one of those things where you know you say okay I've heard Chris you've analyze these guys and say well Sean Roen wins front double he wins has you can't compare it I don't do that I I listen that's the that's the you know who that's [\h__\h] stupid that's like buying a house and saying you know that's like falling in love we do it all the time Chris I heard like say well so and so wins this double bice, you know, listen, you can't it's the whole that Shawn wrote is a prime example because listen, the guy's got a lot of shots he's comparable with, but his transitional stuff is what killed him last year. You know, he didn't he didn't place as high because of his transitional poses, which is the stomach. Um, you know, because obviously in certain poses your stomach's not going to push out. I mean, he still had the best abs and thighs on the stage, you know. I mean, does this disagree or agree? agree 100% with what you're saying, Chris. Do you agree? Yeah, I know. I agree with you. I agree with you. I mean, I I I don't understand. I can't even believe like when people say, "Well, so and so had the the best front double." You know, I'm watching the show and I'm just watching, you know, Bill and Shawn, which I thought was the show last year, for example. And you, you know, you can you can lose or win poses and still win the prejudges. You don't have to say, "Oh, I gave him a 54." Chris, you're you're full of crap. You and I sit there all the time and we go pose for pose and we score it like like a [\h__\h] scorecard. Yeah, but you do that just for No, I I I I understand that, Dave. I understand that, Dave. But what we don't say is who has the most thin skin? I mean, you can lose the front double bicep, but how much are you losing it by? It's like this. It's like this, Dave. It's like me talking to a head judge at a pro show in the last just so I can hide, you know, and and saying, you know, I don't want to [\h__\h] and moan, but you know, all this guy had all firsts and the head judge say, do you know how long it took me to actually decide to give the guy first? He said it might have been that with the other judges. In other in other words, you can give someone a front double bicep, but you're barely giving them a front double bicep. So, essentially, it's a draw on that. And you can give someone a side chest pose, but you're barely giving him that shot. And then someone you give give him the back shots, the opposing guy, but he's, you know, you say, "Oh, he's got the back shots, but he's absolutely destroying him." So, it doesn't, you know, those destroying shots may ne negate the front double and the front last spread if they're close shots. So, going back to asking the, you know, the judge is, you know, really all first place votes and and him telling me, you don't know how close in in these judges minds that that was a hard decision to make. It wasn't like, yeah, it came out on paper, someone had first place votes. This is not a Mr. Olympia contest, by the way. Uh, but it was ridiculously close. It took me a long time to decide who I thought was in first place. Let's go on now to our next topic of debate. Again, you're watching Iron Debate here on rxmuscle.com, brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. We hope you're enjoying all of our Olympia coverage. This is the Iron Road to the Olympia brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. In a week's time, uh Dave, Johnny, and I were going to be heading over to Vegas. Uh we're going to be covering the press conference on Thursday, the Meet the Olympians on Thursday night, and in between, you never know who we're going to be interviewing. So, keep it locked to rxmuscle.com. And if you haven't already subscribed to our YouTube channel, do so now. You're not going to miss anything between now and the rest of the Olympia and, of course, the post Olympia tour. One of the biggest stories of this Olympia has been the return of Kevin Leavone. After a 13-year hiatus, he's going to be taking the stage again, getting a special invite to the Olympia now at age 52. And of course over the last few months has been all speculation, leap pictures, pro progress picks, and you know, obviously the um interview that never was here on rxmuscle.com. That said, Jay Cutler, is it a good thing for the sport that Kevin Levrone is coming back coming back to the sports crown jewel event? Uh, absolutely. You're talking to someone that's out in the surface more than anyone at trade events and and shows and the biggest question leading into this Olympia was what do you think about Kevin's return? No one's asking about Kai or Phil. I mean listen people think Kai Green's still competing. I mean that's how much it's publicized you know. So so the biggest question is you know oh Kevin Leoni. So um you know that's the biggest hype leading into the show. I mean, I don't even think, you know, I don't know what kind of questions I would have got if he wasn't competing. So, it's absolutely great for the sport because he has a lot of fans. He's knocked at the door enough times. Um, he was in an era where they call it the golden years of bodybuilding where, you know, the competitive side. I mean, you could had a number of guys winning the Mr. Olympia. So, people still have their high hopes for him. Um, and, you know, I think it's it's it's spectacular for the business. No question. real quick because this is a question obviously we get all the time. Is Jay ever going to make a comeback? And over the last 12 to 18 months, we've gotten the question often before the uh big announcement at the Pittsburgh Pro uh whether Kevin Leavone will ever make a comeback and it seemed as if it was all innuendo, but then of course it became reality. What goes into the mind of a competitor, especially someone at such a high level as a Kevin Leavone, to make that dedication, to make that decision, then dedicate the time and do everything you need to do to enter not just a competition, but the top competition in all of bodybuilding. You know what? You know, you're talking comebacks. I mean, I did it, but after a year hiatus, it's a whole different animal than what Kevin Lone out of 13 years um has a has a child. I don't have any children. Um he devoted himself to many other ventures which you know obviously I did some but it was stuff I was doing all when I was competing. Uh so, uh you have to I mean you have to pick up where you left off and sometimes that can be difficult because once you step out of that lifestyle and I I did this in 2013, it's very hard to get back um that that work ethic because and that mindset and and really trying to visualize what how what your best really is. And I was I was looking at the pictures of myself in the gym and think I was the best I ever was. And when I stood up on that stage in 2013, I I I I woke up real quick and realized that I was a former shadow of myself um in comparison to a lot of these guys. So the density, man, is is in almost impossible to get back. Uh that's the biggest obstacle and and if you don't have the confidence that you're you're at least on that level. And there was always that question mark when I went back and and am I good enough to compete with these guys? And listen, I was winning when the last time I stepped away. I mean, besides I mean, lost because of an injury, but you I I knew nothing else other than winning. So, anything other than winning was was a defeat to me. And I finished sixth place, which, you know, could have been eighth or ninth with anyone's question. Uh, and you just it's very hard to calculate what's going through his head, but I'm sure he's very positive about it, but it it's going to be tough for him to stand up there with those top top guys. We'll ask you where you think he's in a place in just a bit, but Chris, I wanted to get your thoughts as well. Kevin Leavone making this return after 13 years at the age of 52. Is this a good thing for the sport of bodybuilding as the way we follow it? I think it's an unbelievable thing for the sport of bodybuilding. I mean, it's it's it's not somebody who competed in in quote that era. It's somebody who competed in that era with a tremendous following, a strong personality, uh flashy body parts, uh a little weird. Do I say that in a good way? You know what I mean? um you know uh somebody who for for whatever reason for 20 years now or whatever 13 years 10 years people have always floated the idea that he's coming back or maybe he's floated the idea um and you know how many times has he floated it and then you know harpooned it and when every time it's harpooned you know his credibility goes down in terms not his credibility but people like come on man not a gang he's not coming back and then uh you know and here he is you know, 10 days out and he's coming back. So, I think it's tremendously, you know, exciting for the show. There's absolutely no downside for the show. Getting back to what Jay has said in terms of publicity, what Dave has said, it's been a quiet show. I mean, it has snuck up on us, you know what I mean? It's been a quiet I mean, you know, when Jay was chasing Ronnie, people like started talking about that eight months out, you know what I mean? Have you seen Jerry in the offseason? Yeah, I've seen Goldman in the offseason. The they're guest posing together at Weinebergers and people start the pre prejudging from Weineberger show and it goes on, you know, from body weights to, you know, everything else. So, um, you know, that was the excitement and I I think I think without Kevin being in the show, I I I think um it there's there's like less edgy element to it. We know, right? We're going to go to the the the press conference and all the questions are going to be for Kevin. You know, piss the [\h__\h] out of Phil off, right? But I mean, rightfully so. You know, you know what gives you the audacity to think at 52 that you're coming back to win the title? Holy [\h__\h] And a giant bug just landed on me. Um, it was on a bed bug. Dave, can you see this? It might not be a tick. I had a tick in me the other day. Jay, you guys got tons tons of ticks, I'm sure. by with Massachusetts. Yeah, but luckily I'm there. He's probably on He's probably on Leon's cycle. He's so big. Uh so, you know, I mean, it's exciting. There's no negativity to it. The only the only person it's negative to is to Philictions are all over the place. Uh Dave is on record saying that he believes Kevin Leavone will win the show. There are those that don't even think he'll crack the top 10. Do you see him placing in the top six? Let's go with that. No. Top 10. Man, that's a tough prediction. It's going to be I'm gonna You know why? And I don't want to like I I've been in favor and I've been kind of commenting on his stuff. I think it's awesome he's coming back and I'm I'm excited for it. He was a huge inspiration to me. I remember I turned professional um 1996 and I won nationals in 93 and Kevin was already you I think that's the year he placed second at the Mr. Olympia or whatever. So um or second or third or whatever it was, right? I I I told Jay you beat him in 93. You'll beat him 92 second place. So So um top 10 is going to be tough for him. I'm sorry Dave, but there's just so many guys, man. And the guys you guys aren't even talking about like the the um the Josh um Yeah. from Australia, Nathan Dasher. And I mean, you got these so many William Bonnics and I mean, come on. These guys are like been training non-stop and Kevin coming back and training for one year for this show. I just don't see the density and the muscle. I don't care how how good he looks. It's these hamstrings from all these quarter turns and it's changed, man. The legs of these guys are so much bigger. And I can't see Kevin, listen, he competed at the 20 2003 Olympia with me. And I mean, his legs were down in size then. I I just don't see how why wouldn't he train him hard then? Um, and he's now saved it so he's training them harder when he's 52. I just don't I don't get I know. So listen, I know if I had I loved pulling my legs down at 300 lb and showing that I was strided. You know, if you got bigger legs, let's show some stuff. I mean, unless you're really trying to keep it a surprise. I mean, but you're showing everything else, but your legs, it makes me question uh what what's really looking like downstairs. And and cuz [\h__\h] I love taking my clothes off. You guys saw my videos in the gyms, and I didn't I didn't care. Anywhere I dropped my pants, no matter where I was, and and show how I looked. Um but, you know, tank top photos in the gym and trying to compare certain poses with other stuff. and I've seen all the comparisons online. Uh it's it's uh it's it's a long shot for him um to be um in in there, but I feel he's still going to get the biggest applause of anyone on that stage. There's no question. So Jay Cutler on record saying that he is not positive that Kevin Levrone is going to crack the top 10. Dave, again, you're on record for saying that Kevin Levrone, after the 13-year hiatus is going to win the 2016 Olympia. Kevin Levrone is the boy who cried wolf. You know, he's been telling us he's going to compete for how many years now? And and and we've been waiting for the comeback and we finally got it. But if you remember in 1991 when the show was supposed to be Flex Wheeler verse Paul Deo at the 91 Nationals and then a guy by the name of Kevin Leavone shows up out of nowhere. Uh he shocked a lot of people. I've seen Kevin's physique go from zero to 100 in six weeks. And you know, to me, even though he's 52, he doesn't have injuries. His body can transform overnight. Doesn't matter that it's 10 years or 13 years. The bottom line is he would go from nothing no physique to huge physique. And he's trained probably longer now than he has in the past. So, I I think that he has a good shot at doing well. Will he win? I'm going on record as as putting it out there because if I'm right, it's the greatest prediction of all time. I think he will be very competitive with the top six bodybuilders out there because Kevin Levrone is not a normal human being. He doesn't respond to the way I would respond or Jay would respond if we went back to the gym. He's just subhuman in that sense. He has genetics that go beyond what we are capable of explaining scientifically speaking. Uh, and and and that's all there is to it. Uh, I have not seen his legs and I agree with Jay. Legs are huge and they're hard to bring back to their former splendor with very little training. But Kevin Levrone is Kevin Levrone. So, I would not bet against him. So, but it is exciting. I think it's a great move on his part. I think it's good for the sport. People are talking about it. They're excited about the Olympia for the first time in a long time. And you know what? If he brings attention to the Olympia and makes it more exciting, then you know what? It was worth the price of admission. You're watching Iron Debate on your on rxmuscle.com brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Jay, we've been getting this question and for the sake of the audience, for the sake of the fans, they want us to put it out there. You said Kevin Levrone is and has been one of your biggest inspirations seeing him come back after 13 years. And I'm pretty sure you know what we're going to ask you. Yes, maybe. Possibly. Someday, will we ever see a Jay Cutler comeback? 100% no. I love it. Yes. So, the door right answer. The chapter has been closed on that question. Again, you're watching Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com. Reminder, Ask Dave will be tomorrow at 3:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. And then at 4:00 p.m., we're not going to say who. We've been teasing it for a couple of days. We are going to have a super secret mystery guest at 4 pm right here on rxmuscle.com. Let's go to our fourth question. Again, if you want to get your questions in for Jay Cutler and if you're watching us on our YouTube channel, comment on the chat box on the right hand side of the screen. The fourth topic this year is going to be the first year that we see the classic physique division. Now, this is a division that many have been calling for. Dave, one of the uh louder voices calling for this division that it was out of necessity that there needed to be another division between men's physique and 212 in the open. There needed to be another physique, another division rather, and that answer was called the classic physique division. Of course, Sadique Hanzic getting an automatic invite. We've seen some impressive impressive performances this year by Arash Rabar. his live with episode is live right now on our YouTube channel. Uh Darham Charles Stan McCoy, it's going to be a very competitive division. Jay Culler, we're going to go to you first on this one. The fact that so much uh was made of this new division and there have been such a loud calling for it. Do you in any way see the classic physique division as a threat to the open division of men's bodybuilding? Is this something that could eventually spell the downfall in a sense of the open class? Uh, on the amateur levels, yes. On the professional levels, no. It's like, okay, I'm going to I'm going to make a comparison and it may not be a good one or it may be a great one, but it's like, you know, the home run derby in the in the pros versus little league home run derbies. You know, that's the way I see it. It's people still want to see the big boys out there doing what they do. As long as there's bigger physiques with the balance and the conditioning that pretty much the same as in the classic. Um, you know, yes, the guys are smaller, but um, I feel the classic division is more for the guys that just they can't get big enough to compete in the open classes because being Mr. Olympia, it takes a phenom to do that. That's why there's only been 13 in the history of the the sport in 50 plus years. You you can't you don't start off just like I didn't start off saying I was going to be Mr. Olympia. There was always talk of the possibility, but you never know what that physique is going to transition into. And I think a lot of these guys get into the classic. I mean, the way they judge that, the the waist have to stay small, so they can only get so big. Um the training routines are pretty much the same. It's going to be the guys that seem to tend to hold more condition. These guys don't probably don't get fat in the offseason. The guys that are going to remain the top guys, they stay lean no matter what. Um so that gives them the advantage, but people are still going to pay to see the big boys. It's it's it's not like women's fitness um or physique that now, you know, they trans transcended more towards the bikini era, which I know nothing about, by the way. I don't I don't know any of the top people. I don't even know any of these guys competing in classic at the So if you're asking me the first year of them bringing to to the Mr. Olympian. I promote amateur uh contests throughout the United States. I don't know any of these guys going in. I don't follow it. I don't I don't see I mean I know who Arash is. I know who Sadiq is, but I mean I still view Sadi as a as a men's physique guy. So we have he hasn't even tested the waters yet. Um, if anyone asked me who's favorite, I guess it would be, you know, more of Arash and and these other guys like I mean even Darren Charles who was a former bodybuilder, Danny Hester, who was a former bodybuilder. I I I just don't, you know, I don't see any threat whatsoever for a long period of time. Yes, you can sit there and say, "Oh, in the media it's it's it's more appealing, but [\h__\h] the media doesn't exist half the time in bodybuilding because there's no mainstream advertising or marketing that ever goes into it." So, we're looking at stuff on the internet, still in the magazines, very little. Um, that's what I see. I mean, you're still headlining. What are all the advertisers for the Mr. Olympia? They're not advertising the 212. They're advertising the top dogs as the Mr. Olympia. It's the draw. It's what Joe Weider, the movement he started from the very beginning. It's still called Joe Weer's Mr. Olympia, whatever. It's it's always going to be that way because you have to in my opinion you still have to respect the man who started it and that was Joe Weider. So if for you to take the bodybuilding and push it to the side and not make that the the the headliner the whole show I think it's absolutely ridiculous because you you have to just out of respect to the Weers with the the whole movement that they started it. It is what it is guys you know. I just think it's still going to be the the granddaddy of all is is the Mr. Olympia competition. Chris, let's go to you on this one. And I think the reason why this is even a topic of discussion is because you and we've discussed this on Iron Debate before in the sense that many uh upand cominging bodybuilders, you know, those who are maybe in their teens right now in their early 20s, you know, maybe they see classic physique as a more attainable look or in a division that they may have some more success in. But again, going back to the question, now that classic physique division has been introduced, it's going to be at the Olympia. Do you see this division as a threat to the open class? Uh, I think Jay gave like pinpoint perfect summary. It's like a bulletproof, no pun on George Farah, uh, summary, an exact, unarguable answer to that because I have argued on, you know, our radio show that the the men's classic bodybuilding is a threat. Um, but to hear Jay talk about it, you you you have to you have to break it down this way. In the NPC, it's a major threat. It's a major threat because if you go to like the men's board shorts, the men's what is that's men's physique, right? Men's physique. You have 900 guys, you know, in a class and and you know, they call out 70 at a time, it means the numbers are there. And if the numbers are there, that means the competitors love it. And if the competitors love it, that means promoters will promote it. Um, and if promoters will promote it, then it feeds into a quote pro league, right? Um, so I think it's it's a threat on that level. Uh, of course, as Dave predicted, those guys have nowhere to go, a lot of them, and can be good bodybuilders, but they can't, you know, they're nowhere near Olympia men's bodybuilding caliber. So, they have to go somewhere to, let's say, men's classic and men's classic bodybuilding at the Olympia stage. That said, um, you know, the moat around the Mr. for Olympia is besides Joe Weider will always be Phil Jay, Coleman, Dorian, Haney, even the guys who didn't win it. Gaspari for God's sakes, Mike Christian, Samir Bonoot, you know, like warrior legends, the people who blasted their body and took it to the next at next and unthinkable level. Um, and that's what people do want to see. Listen, we go to pro shows. I've gone to pro shows. I have people in pro shows. You go to, let's say, uh, you know, Memphis men's IFPB pro show and, you know, there's there's no excitement about it. Even though the physiques are good, there could be a second or third tier men's pro show. But I'll tell you what, at the Olympia last year, the last call out when they put Phil next to Shawn dead center side by side, the roof blew off the state place. If you go back, you'll never get you'll never replicate actually the excitement. I'll ask Jay, 2001 Olympia last call out, it was like the Super Bowl. I mean, the So, people get sucked into seeing the freaks battle it out. And I mean sucked in in a good way because we all do. So I don't think at the Olympia level there will ever be, you know, people like people like big giant houses even if they're ugly as hell. You know, you can get a nice house that's 2,000 square ft, but you know, and your friends would be say this is a beautiful house, but you can have the ugliest [\h__\h] house and it's 13,000 ft and a waste of space and everything else. People go nuts over it just be because of its size. And it's the same thing at the Mr. Olympia that people love the, you know, the crazy freaks in there, the Kai Greens, you know, the Phils, the Wolves, you know, the Ramy's. They want to see like Rolley, they the blood, you know, they want to see that. And and I think that's the that is the moat. That's the that keeps the Mr. Olympia intact is that our excitement for it no matter what. I mean, we're 10 days out. There's no, you know, there's no hype running into the show outside of Phil. I mean, uh, LeBron they, you know, it's kind of like, yeah, not promoted, but we know it will be sold out, and when we get there for the prejudging, the electricity will be like crazy, right? So I I think I think uh at that level at the Olympia level we don't have to worry about uh a rash or bar and Danny Hester and and the like stealing the thunder of you know Ramy Phil Coleman Jay Dave let's go to you on this one for the final word again you've been one of the more vocal proponents of having a classic physique division and on the eve of it debuting at the Olympia. Again, the question is this. Do you see this as a threat to the men's overall division, the classic open class? I don't think it's a threat at all. I think it it I think it has its own unique niche. And I think that's why I was I was pushing for it. I felt there was a big discrepancy between men's bodybuilding and men's physique. And I thought that there needed to be a division where guys had a men's physique-like look, but they posed on stage. I don't know why the men's physique guys didn't pose, but I understand that that's got its own appeal. So, I think there three unique divisions and I think Jose Raymond put it best a couple interviews ago where he said it's like a it's basically a farm system. You know, you start out at men's physique and you might move up to classic physique if your legs are really good and then if you start putting on too much muscle and you can't make the classic physique cut off anymore, then you move up to men's bodybuilding and and and and then luckily for in the pro ranks you got 212 and open. So, you got two options there. So, you know, everything leads to the next and some guys might not want to go to the next level. They might stop at one level and say, "I'm going to stay here." So, I think that the men's open bodybuilding will always be the most appealing to watch. And as a fan, um, you know, to compare it to what happened with women's bodybuilding and how women's physique replaced women's bodybuilding is not really a good analogy because not we don't necessarily want to see big, you know, monster women looking like men. And I'm not talking about physically looking like men. I'm talking about I mean muscular looking like men. I'm talking about facially looking like men. That's not appealing. That's not something that I want to see and I don't think a lot of fans want to see. And that's why I think women's bodybuilding failed in that in that venue. And that's where women's physique kind of rescued it. In men's open bodybuilding, that's not the case. I don't think there's ever been a guy a fan who said, "Hey, that Mr. Olympia, he's just too big." No, we like that. We like the look. As long as it's aesthetic and and the conditioning is there, it's appealing, it's fun to watch, that's why we all got into the sport, even if we can't all be Ronnie Coleman, we all might in our minds aspire to be like that or at least try to get to that point. So, I think it will not replace the sport. I think it will, however, add excitement to the sport and and encourage more people to get in because when people see Ronnie Coleman or they see Phil Heath, they might say, "That's a great physique, but I can never look like that, so I'm not going to compete." But if they see men's physique guys and classic physique guys, they can attain that look and it sucks them in, so to speak. And once they're sucked in, they want to go all the way. That's just what happens usually. So that's going to conclude the debate portion of the show. Again, you're watching Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com. We are going to be in Las Vegas in a week to cover the Mr. Olympia competition. If you haven't already subscribed to our YouTube channel, hit the subscribe button below. You're not going to miss any of our coverage. We're going to have all sorts of interviews, analysis, uh, post show wrap-ups. It's going to be very, very comprehensive on social media. Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and of course our Instagram, official_rxmuscle. We do have a few questions for Jay. Many of our fans eagerly have been awaiting their opportunity to ask the four-time Mr. Olympia some of the most burning questions. The first one, Jay, uh, the question is, what do you think? And these two have been compared a lot. Justin Compton versus Dallas McCarve. What do you make of them two? Uh, you got two great guys, two newcomers coming up around the same ages. Um, listen, besides the Kevin Leoni, more talk this year has been to me about Dallas Maccar because, you know, he's he's doing a great job marketing himself as like the strongest bodybuilder out there. The guy's, you know, deadlifting 800 lb. And it just goes to show you what people think is impressive. and they think, "Okay, well, this guy's as strong as Ronnie. He's the next coming of of Mr. Olympia." Um, but his back is probably his weakest body part. So, um, I think, you know, it's going to be a pretty solid comparison. Both guys are still need work from behind. I think Compton still, um, he has a little bit of what, um, I think Dennis Wolf had earlier in his career where from the backside, he still looked a little thin. um even though he's got a pretty wide back, he still needs more hamstring depth. And the quads are crazy, you know, sweep from the front, but he still needs to have a little more um depth to his his glutes and hamstrings. I hate to even say that, but that's, you know, that's what it's about. Dallas Macauver, it's the same kind of thing. I think in the standing in the lineup, he's going to be pretty pretty damn impressive because he's tall and he's big and he's wide and and whatever. But, you know, once you turn these guys around, they're going to they're going to get damaged um by some of these guys that aren't um you know, even really being talked about as as true threats. So, you know, all these people that are picking Dallas for the top six, I know um or Compton, I I think it's going to be really tough for them to be there cuz um you got guys like Wrinkler and, you know, even the Bonics um you know, and you know, listen, Steve Klo is still a big guy in the lineup, too. I mean, people aren't talking about him much, but you know, the comparison with him next to Dallas Maccgar could be a really good one, too. Um, because he has, you know, he's still same thing. He's not really damaging from behind like some of these other guys. But, um, Nathan Dasher, I mean, he he's a new guy coming in. I mean, they got to 10 with these guys and, you know, that aren't really being, you know, talked about in the top four or five. So, you know, that that's why I say these top 10 guys, you know, when you talk about Levoni coming in there and and standing next to some of these these newer physiques with the fresh muscle and when you're younger, when you're 25, 26, there's a lot more pop to that muscle and there's a lot more there's the the kind of the the in between lines and the fullness has a different look. And you can go back and look at when I was 25 or six, you know, even my first Olympia and the muscle just had so much freshness, so much look to it. And then you look back into my, you know, my late 30s when I was competing, I didn't have that crazy pop. The shoulders uh start to slope a little bit and you just don't have that that more squared off look. These guys have that. They got that re really fresh new muscle look. And that's where you're going to have to see, you know, that's what it's going to be questionable. the guys, you know, that are a little older. So, um, you know, it's it's uh it's going to be tough for those guys, but I would pick um I would pick them to be close, but I would have to give the edge right now um uh probably to Compton. I would have to say that would probably be a logical prediction, but it could be a wrong or right one. I'm not sure. Well, on that note, we are actually going to have Justin Compton here on rxmuscle.com. 5:45 Eastern Standard on Friday. So again, Justin Compton, the followup to the Raising Compton or Chronicles of Compton. That's going to be 5:45 Friday afternoon here on rxmuscle.com. Uh we're getting a couple of questions about Victor. Uh your thoughts on Victor Martinez 2016 form. Um you know, I think Victor's gotten a little back from where he fell down. Um, you're not going to get the victor from 2003 Night of Champions and and um, you know, that's a long time ago. Uh, can he be a contender for the top 10? Absolutely. Um, you know, he had some leg size issues. It looked like the last show that was down a little bit, but listen, you're only as good as your last contest, so it's really hard to make predictions off that. But, uh, we're not going to see um, you know, when he was third at the Olympia um, against me and Ronnie. uh you're not going to see um anything that I think is really going to be shocking especially when you get him into the mix with some of these newer guys that you know the whole the whole mystique of certain guys um it's just going to it's going to kind of put put an end to any kind of prediction that you know he can battle in that top six. I just don't see it. Um he's the same age as I am. He's a few days um actually his birthday is right before mine. So 43 years old. It's it's tough to get necessarily better. Um, but I expect I would if you would asked me would Victor be top 10, I would probably say he has a very good chance of being in the top 10 uh this year. And then of course the obligatory Big Ramy question. Do you see Big Ramy putting himself in contention to win this year or do you feel that he is another year away from series contention to win a standout? Um, I could see Ramy winning the show. Um, I think Ramy doesn't even have to be 100% to win the competition. He needs he has enough muscle density. Um, and enough push to the muscle where he's as long as he's conditioned enough, he can overwhelm all these guys. And we can talk about Phil Heath's lines and everything else, but there's no lines that are going to stand and defend um someone like Big Romney cuz he's he's the biggest freak of all time we've ever seen in bodybuilding. I mean, I would honestly compare him to a Victor Richards, but actually with condition. Um, uh, cuz he was the biggest mystique we've ever seen. And Ramy has just outrageous body parts and enough flow and condition where, you know, if he listen, he was fifth last year, um, he wasn't even in shape last year. So, if he's in shape working under Chris, I mean, and you listen that we're 10 days away from telling what that's going to be. Um, this guy can win. He can be second. He can be third. He can be fourth. He can be fifth. I don't see him placing out of the top six. But there's no one in in the sport of bodybuilding. If Rammy is 95% or, you know, I hate to give these stupid percentages because it's nonsense, but um he uh he he can win he can win this this competition um very handedly um and and uh and probably present one of the best physiques we've ever seen to win the Mr. Olympia. That includes Ronnie Coleman's. Two more questions. Let's go to the 212 division real quick. The question we've gotten a couple of them. Can Jose Raymond, in your opinion, realistically beat Flex Lewis. Uh, you know, it's hard because I'm tight with Jose. He's he's a Cutler nutrition guy. So, um, you know what? We saw it last year. Um, I thought Jose um should have won last year. I'm going to go on record and say that. Um, you know, Flex Lewis has those lines and, you know, he has that, but I think he missed his mark a little bit last year and and Jose was probably the best he's ever been and um, knowing from experience he reached that best only a couple times probably in your career. Um, I know Jose, you know, he had knee surgery earlier this season. Um, I think it's going to be tough for him to be better than he was at that Olympia because he was just, you know, listen, he has to be Jose needs to be blasting full um enough to be able to overwhelm these guys cuz he's not going to beat him with a with a smaller waist and he's not he's not the prettiest guy to look at. That's not how he wins bodybuilding contest. He's vacu vascular as hell and, you know, he goes out there and he's aggressive and he he just he's like a little fire hydrant. You know, he just blows these guys away like that. But, you know, I just don't see uh I don't see him um you know, being better than that. And if listen, if he is and Flex is off, there's there's a good chance, but um it's going to be tough for him to dethrone Flex Lewis. I think Flex Lewis is right now is pretty much AI would pretty much wrap that. He really doesn't have a ton of heavy heavy competition because there's not a lot of like even if David Henry steps up, you know, he still doesn't have the leg size. um you know um Koreah I I mean he still to me doesn't have the leg size. There's just a lot of factors with the 212s where the guys get in great condition, but I don't see anyone really challenging um Flex Lewis unless Jose is back to what he was and and I just I'm not so sure that he's in that place u mentally or physically right now to be at his best like he was last year. He was he had a great run last year and um you know we'll see in in 10 days. You know, I'm wishing him the best, but uh it's going to be really hard to defth Flex Lewis at this point. One last question, the hot seat question. Yes or no. Will there be a new winner in the men's open class? No. So, Phil Heath, according to Jay Cutler, is going to go into Vegas in a week's time and win his sixth straight stand out. that I I I hate to come on Dave Palumbo's show and and predict that that Phil he's going to beat Kevin I knew that was I had I had to say it Dave if I'm right the greatest prediction of all time Lonnie Lonnie Teper will say he will retire his Swami outfit and he will give it to me and never to be seen in the sport again. So well with that Jay we want to thank you once again. And I know you have a very busy schedule, especially just a week before the Olympia. So, we definitely appreciate you coming on here on rxmuscle.com and offering your thoughts and opinions on the upcoming Olympia. Well, hopefully you guys can get me on camera and uh um at the Olympia, I'd like to uh to give you my feedback after Friday night's prejudging and see if Dave and I agree or Chris Aceto and I agree um who's who's going to walk away with this thing and see how right I am, you know. Wrap up with Jay Cutler. that that'll be uh monumental in there. We are just selling that right now. I'd love to get I'd love to get my thoughts cuz um I'm excited. I I I've haven't been this excited in a long time uh to uh to watch a bodybuilding contest to be honest, guys. Chris, let's get a quick thought out of you. The thing that excites you the most about this upcoming Olympia in a week's time in a paragraph or less that it's an open show. M in other words, I I I don't think uh either an open show means Phil wins it or he doesn't win it. Simple as that. Simple as that. It's like a black and white show. Either Phil is going to come out and win um or he's not. He's going to get beat by someone. And you know, the more we talk about, you know, what we've talked about here, you know, no wonder why Jay is excited about the show because you got to see these guys next to each other. But I really think that the excitement lies in the hype is Leone of course you know the that type of excitement but you know the excitement is Phil is either going to nail this thing down or not. Well on that note and again Jay just said it. So, there is a very good possibility that these wrap-up videos that we're going to be doing from outside the Orleans Arena is going to feature the one and only four-time Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler. And on that note, we are out of time here on Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com. Reminder, tomorrow 3 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. Ask Dave returns Thursday at 3. And then at 400 p.m. the super mystery guest that we've been teasing for the last couple of days. You're going to find out who the identity of that secret guest is. 400 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. And then at 5:00 p.m. we're going to be joined by reigning Miss Bikini Olympia Ashley Cotwaler. 5:00 p.m. a whole packed slate here on rxmuscle.com. For Johnny Styles, Dave Palumbo, Jay Culler, and Chris Aceto. I'm Sadique Farooqi. We'll see you next time.