This is fourtime Miss Olympia Jay Cer. You're watching rxmuscle.com. I'm standing here with fourtime Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler at Unique Fitness Extreme gym here at Bros versus Pros 24. Jay, they uh flew you in on a private jet here. Uh you made it just in time. I made it. I think Steve was a little nervous. He text me at like 9:30 and he's like, "Are you in New York yet?" I said, "Yeah, man. I'll be there in an hour and a half. I think I'd be in New York by now." What' you think of Red Eye? Yeah. Yeah. I came out of Vegas. Uh I've been busy, man. in the last week. Uh, you know, I was at Mel's gym, his grand opening last weekend. And then, uh, I was at Had a mob scene there. Yeah, it was great. It was actually great turnout. You know, his location's a little different. I mean, it's, uh, it it people drove a far distance to come see it. Sport St. Charlotte is is out there. Yeah. But, you know what's funny is Mel has a pretty big following already. He's got like he's got like those um, I don't know what if you want to call them, I hate to compare it to like the second chance guys. Yeah. Yeah. Like the Percenter guys. So he's got a whole crew. He trains with a bunch of guys. So he has a great support. Everyone's really happy what what he's doing. And uh what's kind of nice is, you know, he's kind of a family orientated gym. And it seems kind of odd because Mel, you know, he he kind of looks a certain character, but we know how Mel is his personality and he is like a a real family guy. So the turnout was really great. And then I went I flew back to Vegas. Uh I was in the office before that down at Did you lay by a male's pool? Did you get the whole pool experience? I I get to sit there. I was actually working on emails all day on Sunday when I You was in the pool probably, right? Of course. Yeah. And uh and then yeah, I flew back to Vegas. I had to go visit the military. I went to go visit uh the troops on Wednesday and Thursday and then I was home for a day and then I flew here. How do you manage the schedule? This schedule has got to be busier than when you competed without a doubt. It Oh, it is. It is. But it's it's really what I enjoy to do. And I'll be honest, I mean, I think I've said it a few times, but I really didn't like competing as much. The whole transition was great, but actually getting up there on stage, you know, and draining the water and kind of going against what you do to get that size in the gym, which the average person does, I mean, it kind of goes against everything we ever did. And even though I was winning a lot of the time, it really wasn't the most enjoyable time. I loved getting out there and hearing the crowd, but I really liked, like, you know, meet the Olympians when I stayed later than everyone else. And being at the expo, I was always there. I just wanted to spend more time with the fans. So, this is really awesome. We we have a huge, you know, line coming in here and, you know, this is what I do. You know, you don't realize how much you really don't like competing till you're done competing because I know you still had that when you did the last Olympia. I think you were almost like you didn't want to give up. You wanted to try one more time. But I'm sure right now you're probably saying, "What the hell was I doing?" Yeah. You know what though? I did I like I said, the last one was for the fans. I was able to get up there and I was somewhat not not perfect. I mean, as I aged and had a few injuries, it it did it did uh hinder a lot of my training, but I was able to to get up there without a torn bicep, uh the fans were like ecstatic to see me back up there. And it's funny, now I'm posting stuff cuz I'm, you know, putting stuff out there about me training and everything. It's like, "Come on, one more time. You have to you you haven't given it all for the fans yet." And I'm thinking like, "Oh, shoot." You know, you gave it all 10 times over. What do you think about Lefron making a comeback at 50? You think he'll do it? You know what? I I noticed like he's got some swell going on. I mean, he he like we've heard him before say, "I'm going to do a comeback." And it's kind of like it's just, you know, chatter, you know, but now he's actually his physique. I saw he put on like a good probably 15 pounds and more than that. Yeah. But I don't know what he's looked like lately. I haven't seen anything out there on him. If Levrone can get back to 85% 90% of what Levrone is, what is it his best? Can he beat Phil Heath? No. I mean, come on. Can anyone beat Phil Heath? I mean, can Phil Heath be beaten this year in your m mind? I I don't I don't think so. I mean, I think there's going to be guys that, you know, people are going to hype up as a show gets closer when they start presenting pictures, but I really think Phil, uh, you know, we've seen him last year falter a little bit and Kai Green had that opportunity. The door was pretty much wide open and you only have so many wide open doors before uh, and Kai's getting older, you know what I mean? So, what about Shawn Rhoden? You know, Sean Rhoden, he's in he's improved. I mean, I see him. I've been training in Venice a lot. I've been staying out there. So, he's made some improvements in those areas. I think his back and his chest. I know I talk to Chris almost every day and he seems to be uh pretty high about his improvements. So, it's just going to be uh you know, I I wouldn't have been upset if he won last year to be honest. Me neither. I think he looked good. I really didn't think anyone everyone was so fixated on Kai and Phil that it kind of took away from Sean which I kind of felt bad but I sat in the front row man and he looked great. Uh he had the best overall balance of everything between conditioning size and he looked pretty similar from morning to night. I was pretty happy with how he looked and if he can improve on that he has a great chance. But you know it's just the side shots that's where it's going to be harder because as Phil's a freak from the side. Well, he's just got a lot of depth and you know that 10 years away Shawn took, that's the density it it takes and that's what the difference between my physique at 25 and 35 when I started winning. I mean I was huge at you remember at 25 I was huge. I competed against you. Yeah. But I just lack that depth and that's just that it can only be uh presented with years of training. How's Cutler Nutrition doing now? It's doing very well. So, I mean, we're in a lot of places, obviously international. Uh, you know, we've been doing a lot with bodybuild.com, really getting that that traction. Uh, you know, I'm still traveling quite a bit for that. And, uh, what's the, um, most unusual place that you find yourself in like countrywise that you never thought you'd be in, you know? I I mean, Colombia is a strong market. I went to Greece with the poor economy. I they they had a a great um the run with the product line so far. Um, I'm working on trip to Malaysia. Uh, I go back to Columbia for the second time. I'm going city. I go to Mexico City. I mean, August is three international places. And then, you know, September, I can start stepping back a little bit. I got some uh some domestic stuff, but the Olympia, of course, is going to I'm not going to Spain this year. Sitting out Spain Arnold. Uh, and then I do uh Russia the weekend of the nationals. I do um couple other places. I think I'm just might get confused a little bit with the scheduling, you know. Yeah. You don't get tired of the travel? I burned out a little bit on her. I don't want to say I'm I get tired until the next week and then I get the fans riding me and it kind of gives me motivation. It's kind of like how I why I competed for so long because the fans kept me in the game. And that's true. That's the truth. I mean, I I know I was making great money and I wanted the opportunity to to be, you know, at that higher level, but the fans really did a be a big favor by, you know, always writing to me and keeping me motivated. And, you know, I'm out there. socially. So, it really it really helps a lot. Well, good luck with all the business ventures you got and thanks for coming down to Bros Pro. Oh, it's pretty cool. I mean, it's the first time I've ever been around that experience. I wish I could actually sit and watch the event, but obviously you see what's going to happen here in the next 5 minutes. Well, make sure they're allowed and uh make sure you let me know who wins cuz I am interested. Who's your pick to win this thing? You know, the the pros, we have a Williams and Jeff Beckham, right? They they don't usually win. I got news to you. You usually get some guy, you know, Charlie from the gym who's been lifting his whole life and no one knows. That's what Bros versus Pros is all about is making stars out of the regular gym guys. How many guys are showing up to do this thing? We got 30 people in this thing. Over 30. So, and what's the biggest one you ever did? Um, this might be close, but we've done some bigger ones maybe in bigger, but I think this is the most people because probably most of the people here to see you, too. Well, it's pretty I mean that's that's good. But, I mean, this is kind of like where your area is, so I mean a lot of people hear about the event which is pretty cool. Uh, you know, I I know I've seen it online. And I've watched it before, but I watched it when like the de like when Jose was doing it. You probably can't get Jose to do it anymore, huh? He's like too I'm too old. He told me. He's like, Jose, you're watching this, man. You're representing Massachusetts. I expect you to be in the pros versus bros sometime when it's on the East Coast. Okay, that's uh I'm challenging you now. I'm not going to be in it, but maybe I'll come watch it. So, I asked him to come down. Now you got Jay Cutler telling you you better come down or you're letting down the East Coast. For now though, we're going to get over to the bros vers pros and get started. Jay Cutler, thanks very much for coming on. Fourtime Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler here all day long. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.