Heat. Heat. Johnny Styles snapping with the one and only four time Mr. Olympia four time Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler. Jay, you were here in Australia. You just made it. How does it feel? Everyone was waiting for me, man. I was waiting to show up and there was a rumor. There was a rumor. Nobody has seen Kai. There was a rumor you were not going to be here. Oh, I'm always here. I'm always coming for the fans of Australia, man. What's What's And I knew you were here, so I had to show up and do this interview. So, yeah. Tell them, Jay. Tell them what's the main difference between you've traveled all over the world. What's the main difference you see on the people here in Australia and the people in the US or other stuff? You know, I I I've been to Australia. I came shoot first time I think I came in year 2000. And I came with Dexter Jackson actually, but and it was funny that we ended up both winning the Olympia years later, but we actually came and tooured together for Danny who does distribution of my product lines here uh with Nutrition Systems. But, uh, the fans are really intense here. Like, it's, you know, internationally, we go a lot of places and the fans, um, they don't get to see as many of the top bodybuilders and they don't have bodybuilding at the level. Now, obviously with the Arnold since it's actually grown, they get to see more, but they just there's a lot of younger generation and they a lot of them men's physique kind of thing, but they still follow the icons like myself and Ronnie Coleman and, you know, some of the newer guys like Kai and Phil, but it's just really cool to see the excitement of the faces. They just seem more um more up to speed. They're following the Snapchats and the social media platforms a lot deeper than a lot of people do in the States. Because I think like I said the people in the states have a lot more opportunity to see us. There's a lot more shows in different venues and expose between the Auropas and you know all the Olympias and Arnold being held there consistently. Um plus all the local shows you know they don't get to see it as much out here. So I see a lot more excitement in the people uh when I come year to year here which is every year now. Yeah. Well, these guys, all these guys want to know the question of the weekend has been how do you manage to fly 14 hours and come back? Well, when you were competing, did it did it help you lose water, gain water? You know, personally, you know, I think when I was competing, um, I didn't retain water on the flight. You know, I used to fly with Chris all the time and we would we would kind of laugh about it cuz I would actually get drier on the plane. So, it really didn't affect anything. I would eat like normal and pretty much drink like normal and my physique didn't change. Like my ankles still they don't swell or anything is to this day like yeah I still don't I don't have any retention when I fly. Maybe it's just cuz I'm on the plane so damn much. I mean I fly every week. Um and I'm in and out of here. I mean I'm out Sunday morning at 10:00. So I'm not I'm on the ground I'm on the ground less than I'm in the air for this event. So I don't know. I just think a lot of it has to do with your eating and how much sodium you take in. And you know, I drink still two gallons of water a day. I drink consistently. So, it really just has to be in how in tune you are with your body. So, last two questions before this humongous line comes over. We just got Jose Raymond all fired up cuz he's fired up about the Arnold. What was your take on Joseph in the Arnold? Jose's my guy, you know, I don't he's with Cutler Nutrition and whatever, but I thought he won in my opinion, but I wasn't active prejudging and, you know, I know his physique and remember, you're talking to someone that, you know, I competed and listen, I won shows in, you know, great condition. I probably wasn't the most ripped guy at any show I ever did. Um, but I outmuscle guys and that's what Jose does. Listen, he's not the prettiest physique to look at, but the guy's got a pretty damn good package and he went out there and I think he outmuscled the guys to win that show. And uh, you know, he's just going to keep his head up and come back and take a run at Flex Lewis again at the Olympia because I know that's what he's shooting for, you know. But I'm sure it was disappointing for him. I really haven't discussed in length about it, but he's got a lot of fans, I think, that feel the same way. And I'm a fan of Jose Raymond. Without spoiling anything, the rematch, Kai Green, Cedric McMillan. Any predictions from the legend? Um, I know how it works, you know, and and Kai won in Ohio, so he should be in the driver's seat to win this. I don't know if Cedric, you know, if Cedric watches this, he's probably not going to watch it before, but he just needs to be more aggressive, man. And just like, you know, get some just get some uh excitement. I Yeah, I don't want to say that cuz I mean, he goes to the gym and trains every day. I'm sure the guy's a [\h__\h] beast, but he needs to get out there and just get in his face a little more and show why he thinks he's the greatest on that stage right now. Um, and I feel that way about a lot of guys. I felt that way about Kai Green when I competed in 13. I was trying to tell him like, "Hey, go after Phil." I knew I wasn't in the race for it. So, I told Kai, "You got to be aggressive, man. Go after it." And, uh, you know, I think now, you know, he's in a good position to win again. Um, I don't know if he's going to do the Olympia again. I still think Phil probably will win there. Um, he's looking good, but you never know with Big Ramy either. So, I would have liked to seen Big Ramy in this show. I don't know why he's waiting, but I I think he's doing New York or something. Chris has something special or New York or whatever. So, for the guy that hates the Honey Buns, right? [\h__\h] the Honey Buns. The legend Mr. Bro, Jay Cutler, the one and only four time