Standing here with fourtime Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler. He's here doing a little seminar at the Be Francis powerhouse gym size of New York. You're all over the place. You in Chicago yesterday, you're here in New York today. You're what? Are you going up to New York City tomorrow? Yeah, I'm actually going to stay in the city a couple days. Uh got a couple things I'm going to do there and then uh actually head home uh to Vegas for a day and then I'm in Florida again next weekend for an event at Bokeh Nutrition. So be out there touring around. But I got Bokea the Long Island of Florida. I got delayed a little bit heading out here. Um they're a little uh unfortunately uh the plane had some issues. So I got in at about 5 in the morning. And you sure wasn't on your plane? Cuz usually he's got the issues on the flight. Uh yeah, I I haven't talked to him in a couple days. But, you know, don't jinx don't jinx it. I don't I I'm trying to hope that I can get uh where I need to be next uh without any issues. Chris was going to Australia and and someone on got into a fight with their wife on the plane. They had to land on the plane and you had to wait 24 hours to get uh the plane from Yeah. You know what the funny thing is is Chris finds things to do in the airport. He loves it. I think he secretly likes to be too. I mean, he just seems to find a you know, it's like he relieves his stress a lot different from a lot of other people do. I think it's just like peace and quiet for him sitting in an airport. Let me ask you, being the prodigy you were yourself as a young teenager, uh, you know, Cody Montgomery, obviously three-time teen national champion, wins the USA's first time in in a men's open show, and now he's going into the or at least he's applied. I'm sure he will be accepted to the Arnold Classic. Do you think that's a good move for him? He's already I didn't know he was already doing it. Yeah, I was shocked to see Tommy. You know what? Uh, I think he's I think he's making a good move. I honestly think Yeah, because listen, man, it's going to give a lot of people motivation. There's too many guys that that earn their pro cards and they they like, "Oh, I'm not going to compete. I need to take time." I think they wait too long. I mean, it's it's going to be big publicity because listen, the guy is a phenom. I mean, he he was a team champion collegiate, you know, won that the USA. I mean, he's 20 years old. The guy's going into Arnold Classic. You think he's not going to get publicity out of it? I mean, he's the youngest guy in the whole industry and he's entering the biggest contest besides the Mr. Olympia. I mean, all eyes are going to really be on him and a couple people. I mean, if you asked me, if you said to me, "Okay, who's the lineup?" And you said, "Okay, Cody's doing it." To me, right now, he's the standout. I mean, Kai Green, obviously, cuz he had some, you know, some things at the Olympia, which he was a little controversial, but I really think it's a good move for him. I I really do. I mean, I don't think he's going to win, but I don't think he's going to be last either. He makes top five, that's a huge feather. Yeah. I mean, if he makes top six, I mean, if he makes top 10, it's it's huge. I mean, that guy's what? He 21 now. I mean, he's going to come in shape. So, you can legally drink yet? Yeah. Or rent a car. You can't rent a car till you're 25. So, Chris might have to pick him up the effort. Chris is going to have to drive, but we don't know. Chris Chris has a main driver's license. I don't think that counts in a lot of states. Love you, Chris. Does that remind you of yourself? You know, Cody Montgomery, you got Chris Aceto leading you around by hand. I remember I remember going to California when I was, you know, I turned pro at 23. I remember going there and I couldn't rent a car, man. I had people rent a car for me. I think Ed Connors did or whatever. So, Yeah, it's like it's like deja vu, you know. Now, let's talk about Kai Green for a minute because Kai Green obviously controversially sits out the Olympia. We don't really know what's going on behind the scenes. Uh, is it a mental thing with Kai? Is it a strategic move? What do you think? I mean, you got some good insights into the industry. Uh, you know, I think Kai I think he's taken a little easier route. You know, I think he should be in the Mr. Olympia. I think uh if he does choose to sit out, I think he's trying to make a statement in a in a business that really the statement really isn't going to hold too much weight. I think people view things different ways. Um I think he has a a sure thing to be able to place, you know, one or two at the uh Arnold, but listen, it's not a sure thing he's going to win either. He missed an opportunity being off the stage like he was. Listen, you're talking to a guy that skipped the Olympia one year and missed a huge opportunity uh 2002 to possibly win that title with the momentum I had. Big mistake. big mistake. Uh he should have been on that Olympia stage and you know what? He should have been sitting out this year's Hono Classic because quite honestly he could have been Mr. Olympia this time. You think he could have earned that title this year looking at the lineup? You know what? I sat in the front row man and you know what I mean listen Phil's my guy. You know I have you know I'm a huge fan of Phil Heath. But Phil Heath wasn't at his best. I mean Friday I mean he Kai could have swung enough momentum if he came in there like he says he's going to every year. I mean, everyone wants that 2009 physique at Arnold Classic he had. But, you know, I was one of those guys that counted out and I'm not going to sit there and say it can never be done because in 2009 I can blew everyone away and that was 8 years after my prime supposedly of, you know, when I should have won the Olympia. Kai can still do it, man. That what that would have been seven years. I mean, listen, the guy's got an unbelievable physique walking in the gym. He is still Mr. Olympia more than any guy I've ever seen. And you know, cuz you see him more than I do. and he just needs to be mentally prepared to win the Mr. Olympia, which I do not think that he's at right now. Maybe maybe he needs to have some Jay Cutler sessions, you know, because I don't know what's going on in that guy's head because you're right. How could you sit out when you're in your prime? He's running out of time, man. And you know what? I I mean that. I think he's I think he's great. I don't think he's regressed. I think that his condition just needs to be a little better. You know, it could be adisement. It could be what he does. I don't know what it is, but the fans are waiting, man. and Kai Green, the fans are waiting to see what you can bring. Bring it to the Arnold. Bring it back to the Olympia. That's just that's speaking from a businessman, a fan favorite, someone that knows the insides and outs and has been sat out of shows that I should have been in before. Get back on that stage and and make the fans happy and do yourself a favor and win it. You heard it from fourtime Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler here at Bev Francis powerhouse gym in Siasta, New York. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.