Live from the RX Muscle Studios, this is the Heavy Muscle Show with your hosts Dave Pumble featuring the black pack, Jimmyia, Mr. K the producer. I'm going to tell you the phases that there are. If you skip any of them, you're [\h__\h] Oh, so you have to So, this is stepbystep instruction women's brains. They're the ones that Pete the intern is a very young guy. He's a good-look guy. You could probably do some magic with that guy. Plus, you have to open. That works. Actually, it's better to go this way. You can go. You can go this way. Go around the back. This is what it's better to do. Okay. You have to go through each phase and I'll just stop. Too much too much to learn. Well, just pay attention, Jimmy. This is I don't have to pay attention. Jared, hold the microphone up so you can we can hear. All right. What are you drinking over there? Why am I very nice? My friend Jake, I'm very random, by the way. Jeff, nice to meet you. Nicole. I'm spanking it. All right. Spank it. Ready to spank. I'm ready. High low. Good. By the way, these are gorgeous. Cool. Now, um, so anyway, long story short, um, I have a question for you. I want you to be honest. I'm going for an audition. My friends and I have been talking about this for a long time. How old do I look to you? Being totally honest and not like lowering it 5 years. I could care less. 28. Okay, cool. 38. Pretty good. Get out of here. Yeah. You're 23rd. I am. How'd you know? No. Are you serious? I really am. I just want to have no idea. All right. Cool. Um, from here now that's the opener. That's how you open. Wait, you're really a Yeah. So, that's how you would start a conversation with her if she's by herself. If she's with her friends and you have to engage, hey girls, how you doing? What if she says like, I'm not interested. You know, walk right out of the gate. Yeah. I have a boyfriend. What do we do? My Is he black? Is he Korean? Well, then I can't date him. I only date black and Korean. Like that's what I do. I keep going. I Because what I do is after 5 minutes of giving them a taste of like my my personality is kind of like a fish tank. Yeah. And they just get to see what's inside. Do you find that girls you could pick up girls like this even if they have boyfriends? That's what I was just getting to. Okay. If they have a See, most pretty girls feel like losers is something that most men don't know about female psychology. They're really pretty. They feel like losers if they don't have if they don't say they have a boyfriend because they're so pretty, right? So, they say that and they kind of have like these placeholders like these guys are kind of dating. They're waiting for something better. You're what? There's 7 billion people on this planet. 7 billion on Long Island. You're one of how many? Let me tell you something. Most of the women and I've interviewed thousands upon maybe tens of thousands at this point. Most girls that are super super pretty have a guy that they're screwing and that is kind of like they're waiting to get out of that relationship. They're not either emotionally or physically they're not getting what they want. So, they have they say they have a boyfriend, but after 5 minutes of talking to you and they realize just how cool you are, all of a sudden that can be manipulated. And if you talk to them and you're flirty and you keep sexual stuff like, "I'll spank you. I'm going to powder your tushy." You text them stuff with sexual stuff in it. You make sure to keep it sexual, not platonic. Then, platonic blows for you. That's the end of it, right? Because then they'll start to see you as just another friend. Be another guy that's going to change your oil. So, if they don't like you, you'll find out right away and that's the end of it. You don't have to worry about it. One word like this. Sure. They're not looking. They're not engaging. But if she's laughing, you guys want to naturally click. Do you know that we're only wired to click genetically personalitywise with 30% of the girls that we meet physically about 40 to 50%. But genetically only about 30%. That means click. Like where you laughing where it's like how many guys do you meet? I guarantee you, you meet tons of guys that you think are cute, but how many do you actually click with that make you laugh and make you like Wow. Very small number. Very small. And my only problem is they they fall in love with her all the time. They scared the death of her petrified. They absolutely wind up dating was petrifying you. The only guys that go up to her are she gets a lot of, you know, they don't give a [\h__\h] She gets a lot of makeup. The only other girl you got to have to like her. They have nothing to lose. Okay. But I'll tell you right now, girls like her unfortunately get stuck with See, there's a bit of sweet in the middle. It's the good guy, uh, the jerk and the ass kisser. Mostly most nice guys are ass kissers. They're on their So, she winds up with the jerk. But you want to wind up with the guy in the middle, the good guy. That's me, right? And you know, most of the guys that are pickup artists are not good guys necessarily because that's not a good person for her to hook up with. That's why I'm not a pickup artist. I'm a guy with social skills. Is this your girlfriend over here? Yeah, but you you teach other guys how to do this pickup. I teach men how to have the confidence, right? And social skills, right? To be able to meet anybody. I talk to men. I talk to women. I talk to children. I talk to everybody. It's about social flexibility. It's about being a socialite. Do you understand? It's about being able to talk to anybody anytime, anywhere. If I could take I'll tell you right now right here. Want to cure everybody's problem? Everybody's problem is approach anxiety. Boom boom boom boom boom. What is everyone gonna think of me if she rejects me at Starbucks? What are the people behind me? If I could install a microchip in everybody's brain or every male's brain, you would pay me a million dollars. That said, you're no longer afraid of what people think of you. It's because we care about what other people think because we lived in tribes. When we lived in tribes or a small town, guess what? How fast do you gain a reputation? That's the guy that goes around picking up. You can't gain a reputation on Long Island. There's 7 million people. I've I've gone out and done such stupid stuff with so many girls. I would have a horrible reputation. I would not I'd be shocked in a town that's of you know 10,000 or less. So you got to get pickup artists in a big town basically. Of course I that pickup artist thing. I mean it's fine if you want to use it for the show or whatever. But that's not what I associate with. You're teaching people social skills. That is and I teach them how to convey and not to be afraid to convey their sexuality. Don't be afraid that you want to have sex with this girl. This girl wants to have sex as much with me as I do with her. Women just have to like pretend that they don't because otherwise they're labeled [\h__\h] Hello, my name is Jack Olock, CEO and chief scientific officer of VPX Redline. I designed Redline Ultra Hardcore with a dualaction microtab and liquid delivery system. This makes Redline Ultra Hardcore the fastest acting, longest lasting, and strongest stacking battle history sports nutrition. First, micronized particles within the liquid phase of the delivery system enter the body within seconds. Then, the black and blue microtabs bypass the destructive acidic environment of the stomach. They then enter the alkaline environment of the intestines where they burst open the most potent active ingredients into the system. Amazingly, the Black and Blue MicroTabs moves steadily into the body for up to 3 hours. Redline Ultra Hardcore's proven steadystate release of vacuums starts to work in 45 seconds and last up to several hours. This is hardcore scientific cuttingedge technology. This is the most advanced triaction dual microtap and liquid delivery system in the history of sports nutrition. Cuz you want to burn fat fast. I made Redline Ultra Hardcore. You are hardcore. That's why you need VPX Redline Ultra Hardcore. The most technologically advanced fat burning delivery system ever created. Get yours today nationwide at GNC's bodybuilding.com and bxports.com. Heat. Heat. Heat. Species evolutionary nutrition. The species line of products champion original thinking and carry the thought process to its logical conclusion in the form of supplements that strictly honor to the core nutritional principles of Dave Palumbo, founder of species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com to purchase the next generation of highquality supplements available today that fully adhere to the theory of natural selection insists that only the fit survive. species nutrition.com. This is the Hemp Muscle Show with your host Dave Palo. What if people our audience out there want to hire you? Uh I know you give workshops. How do they get in touch with you? Well, I do one-on- ones where I take them out oneonone or two at a time to mall, club, bar, wherever they want to go. Um, I do phone consultations and I run uh seminars and workshops on different areas on how to get in touch with you. Uh, well, you can go to uh www.learndatingmagic.com. That's www.learndatingmagic.com and uh my phone number is on there. It's 631-2588595. Feel free to give me a call. And you just do local people or do you travel too? Well, out of state, if they if they have cash, then they they they pay for me to go to, you know, their house. A movie I've seen with Tom Cruz. Which one was that? Which one? He was he was he he was born on the 4th of July. No, he was in he told people he told guys how to pick. That was Robert Downey Jr. Sorry. It was called the pickup artist. Mr. G. All right. So, give me the website one more time, Jeff. Sure. It's learn learndating magagic.com. Now I want you to take on a special pro bono project. Would you do that for us? I guess I want you to take Magnus the magnificent over there and I want you to transform him and I want you to bring him back in in 6 months and I want to see the the change in him. You want to do that? I can only do that if he's committed. Are you committed Magnus? I'm gay. He's gay. He's got to be He's got to be committed. He's got a good personality. He's not afraid to talk to anyone. He's just He's got to be completely committed. And there's going to be a subset there's only going to be a subset of women that that will go for him. The subset of women we have to find. Okay. Might be a rare a rare subset. Find it. There you are. Are you going to teach him how to dress and how to do other things? You know, special things like that. And I have to talk. I mean, you're really putting me on the spot. All right. Well, I'm just saying we're going to we're going to track this. You made the you made a pledge on the air. You could take any guy any guy for the most part that's that's not completely, you know, physically, you know, handicapped. smart guy. You could take any guy and turn him into a cooler version of himself. Somebody for everybody anyway. And I'll tell you right now, clothes do make the man. Women judge you on your clothes, your house. They think about the condition of your house, how your car might be. It's like a flash in their head. They do. Your shoes, that stuff. They really do. It's important that your belt matches your shoes, etc. Do you agree or disagree with what I just said? Absolutely. 100%. For the most part, would you say that you agreed with 70 80 90% of what I've said? Definitely. No. How much out of that? Probably 80%. The only thing I didn't like was if you're walking away from me, I'm finding another dude. I'm not winning. That's good. Be different. Magic. Jeff. Jeff Magic. What do you go by? Jeff Magic. Jeff Magic. Jeff Magic is available if you guys want to hire him for to learn some social skills. He's going to be working on Magnus the Magnific. specifically generally work with uh men to teach them how to get exceptionally beautiful women. That's my specialty because their psychology is completely different than average women. Completely different what you say to the girls that are attractive. Like if I said, "Oh god, you look just like a an orangutang." You know, she might laugh. If I said that to a girl that has like average looks, she would be smack me in the face. So in warning, if if you're looking for average women, then we have to work a different style. If you're looking for beautiful women, I can teach you how to get that consistently. like you know you hit on 20 girls and you know out of the 20 you're getting four or five phone numbers ex over and over again wherever you go. So that's my deal. Well, we had quite a show here today. We had uh Jeff the magician pickup artist. We had the beautiful Nicole in the studio. Uh Jimmy the Bull was always a pleasure to be around. We had Magnus the Magnificent who's going to become a pickup artist of himself. Mr. G. And of course my dad here on a very special day, February 23rd. Until next week, guys, take it easy. Thanks for watching the Heavy Muscle Showmuscle.com.