I'm standing here with Jesse Marine, our men's overall champion here tonight, the NPC branch Warren. You're moved up a weight class. Not only did you move up a weight class, you moved up a complete weight class cuz you're 225. You're a light heavyweight last year. This has got to be a huge, huge victory for you. It's a massive victory for me. It's a big confidence booster. Also going into my next show, I've been planning to do the USA since last May when I placed third at the Europa. Um, and I, you know, I registered for it early this year and the branch was going to be a practice for the for that show and um, I can't I can't even put it into words how much confidence I have going into this and now I'm more motivated to train for the USA. So, yeah. Now, I saw Branch Warren talking to you after the win. What What was he saying to you? Well, actually, it's it's a funny story. I have a client that uh, he works for WWE. His name is Michael Cole. He's the Yeah. Yeah. He's a He's a fan of Branch and that's what we were talking about. He was going to be here, but Vince McMahon changed his schedule just prior to that suck. Yeah, man. He had the hotel reservations and everything. So, um that's what we were talking about right now. Now, how how does a guy make a 25 lb weight gain in one year of contest weight? Last year, I struggled to make that light heavy class. I took some um some bad advice and um I he kind of made sense at the time and I really struggled to make that weight class and I didn't fill out enough. I didn't have enough time to fill back out. So this year I said I I threw that out the window and I said I'm just going heavyweight. Whatever weight I come in at, that's my peak. I want to bring that to the stage. Whatever weight. You almost didn't make light. You almost didn't make heavy weight. I was a little worried. I got to admit you almost super heavyweight. Yeah. I cut my water a little bit on Friday. I didn't drink any till after the win. Um but it worked out and I'm excited and I'm I'm I'm just thrilled right now. Thrilled. You got the USA in three weeks coming up. That's got to be uh your biggest show of your career, I would think. Yes, absolutely. And obviously what what are your goals? I mean, obviously, we all want to win, but what would you be happy with leaving the USA? I want to turn pro. Okay. I want to turn pro. So, you want the win? Yeah. I want the win, but more importantly, I want to bring my peak to the stage. If that's not good enough to turn pro, that's okay. I'm going to live with that. As long as I bring my peak to the stage, I can focus on the drawing board, go back, come back next year, bigger, stronger, better, whatever I got to do. I want to turn pro. I want to climb the ranks. I want to compete on that Olympia stage. So, I know I got some work cut out for me, and I'm willing to put that work in. What's the strategy the next 3 weeks as far as taking this physique and making it even better? I got to cut the calories down again. I I spiked them for the to to uh carb up for this show. So, now I'm just going to cut the carbs back down to about maybe a cup of oatmeal a day. Increase the cardio a little bit, but keep it u at a controlled pace. Um about 90 minutes cardio a day, about 2200 calories. And there's the way to burn fat. Oh, yeah. and then carb up big for the USA's uh from what I learned at this show, you know, and just kind of adjusted a little bit for the USA's. What's your uh what's your family think of this? I know you said your mom's like 7 hours away from here, but were they happy? No, they're here. They came She took the 7hour drive. Yeah, I made it here an hour and a half earlier than her. No, people don't realize in Texas you could drive for days and you're still in Texas. You were all the way south, right? Someone came from Louisiana, only had to drive 3 hours. They couldn't believe I drove 5 and a half from Macallen. I'm like, "Yeah, Texas is a big state." I believe. Congratulations on your win and uh enjoy tonight, but then it's back to the drawing board tomorrow. Absolutely. Yes. Thank you, Dave Balumbo with a very happy guy here. Our men's overall champion, Dave Balumbo, rxmuscle.com.