The Mastak NT from BSN available now. Ladies and gentlemen, we're here at the 2010 Auto Classic Ohio rxmuscle.com with Mr. Lou Farigno. Louie, how the hell are you? How's it going? Very good, man. I want to talk about the last time I was with you. It was in Palm Springs. It must have been about 12 or 13 years ago. You were b how much you were benching down? Uh it was probably close to 800 that time. Okay. Cat 800 lb on the ball. And there were two guys on each end and Jimmy asked me to spot him. Okay. And I remember we lifted the ball. I said to myself, "What if he gets stuck?" Anyway, he was halfway. We jumped in to help Jimmy. I thought going to have a hernia because I'm more concerned about him not dying on the bench. But I'll tell you, it was heavy. And I couldn't believe how a man this size could lift so much weight. I mean, pretty impressive. And it was during the summer. It was in the Palm Springs. It was a lot of fun. And everybody was like clapping and roaring and everything. But it's one of those few events I I can't I never forget. There you go. I'm not going to spot you anymore. No, no, no. The last one you I don't know if you remember the last one I did, you spotted me like on 700 and then we I went a little higher and you you were like I couldn't lift the two guys on the end. I think we needed five guys to let the ball get shot. I cuz it's on YouTube, me and you. I have it on YouTube. So, yeah. Great. But we did it. It was a grand opening for the Gold Gym down there, right? That big back in 1998 97. Yeah. It was early 90s it was or no because I finished competing back then or maybe before I came back to competition. Yeah, I can't remember what year it was. Probably I think year early 90s. It was early 90s, right? Yeah, man. That bar was heavy. We had a lot of fun me at that event. You know, that's the first time me and Louis actually met and we became very good friends uh from there after. Right Lou, you too. All the best to you and uh keep working hard and be safe and uh and give all the Italian my love. You got it, Louis. Oh, smash.