This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 NPC Pittsburgh Championships here with our men's overall winner, John Foster. Congratulations. You beat a big lineup. Thank you. Uh, is this your first overall win? Yeah. Yep. First overall. Wor my class a couple times. But you looked pretty excited up there when they called your name out. Oh, that was my goal. I didn't really come to win my class. I came to win the whole thing. You You in your mind said, "I want to win this whole thing." Yeah. Yeah. That's what I came here for. How old are you? 26. You're a young guy. How long you been competing now? Uh, that's my fourth fourth year. Are you a Pittsburgh native? No, I'm from Canton, Ohio. So, you came in here for this just for this show then? Yeah. Yep. What does this title mean to you? Is this is this a title you've been you've been shooting for for quite a while? No, it's just a a stepping stone to where I want to be in the future. So, you want to be a pro bodybuilder? Yeah. Yes. What's now that you've won the Pittsburgh in Jim Manion's backyard? He's the president of the NPC. What do you do next? Um, I'm looking at either North Americans or nationals this year. Yeah. Depend. You're ready. Yeah. Depend on what needs to be done. Want to follow in Seth Ferrosce's footsteps? I would love to. He won the overall, you know, last year and he turned pro. Yeah, he if I get my quads like his, maybe. Yeah. What do you think you need to work on to to bring your body up to a level where you you think you could win that pro card? Um, mainly just uh more quad depth and sweep. Um, and just a little bit overall thickness overall. My position, you know, always comes in. That part's easy for me. Is there anyone you'd like to thank? I mean, are there people out there who helped you get ready for this competition? Oh, everybody everybody came up to see it. Uh I heard you had a lot of fans out there, that's for sure. Yeah, they all they all came to support, which made it really exciting. And uh Did you have a coach who helped you with your prep? Um I mostly do it on my own. I had a guy start off uh started it off, but I kind of just took it over and uh did it on my own. So, congratulations, man. Thank you. Our overall champion here at the 2010 NPC Pittsburgh Championships, Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.