Yamamoto Nutrition, proud sponsor of RX Muscle. Visit yamamoto nutrition.com. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and tonight's guest is the 2017 Arnold Classic South Africa men's bodybuilding champion, Johnny Jackson. Congratulations. Thank you. Big win for you. I might be the biggest win of your career, I think. Well, absolutely it is. It's 16 years in the making. Incredible. 16 years. You know, I think you're 46 years of age now. Is that right? Correct. Yeah. 46 years it took you to win an Arnold Classic. I I guarantee you the odds makers never would have predicted that. Yeah, for sure. I mean, I didn't expect it at all. I was just going into doing my thing, doing what I can do, and the results was more than I ever thought it would be. You know, you're you're the kind of bodybuilder that's always right there. People don't realize it, but you've been to 12 Olympias in the last 14 years. I mean, and one of them you did the world's strongest bodybuilder last year. You got sick. I mean, you're a very consistent guy. You you win almost a show. You usually every year you win something. And uh you know this is a big huge win for you because the Arnold Classics obviously are invites only. You did Brazil, you were fourth there. I don't think anyone had you on their radar. Although I will say one thing. When we saw the uh guest posing video that Johnny Styles posted of you in Puerto Rico a week out from this show, Chris Aceto and I both said to ourselves, "Wow, this this this is one of the best Johnny Jacksons we've ever seen." What did you do differently this year and specifically between Brazil and South Africa to bring this look to the stage? I mean, because this might be your best look we've seen in a long, long time. Yeah. Well, you know, the thing was I had I had done my own prep in uh in 10 years or so. Um and uh you know, this is you know, I sooner or later everybody's going to know this is my last year competing on stage. Um, so I wanted to do it myself actually. Um, I talked to Chris Aceto who I used the last few years um, which he really did amazing job and helped me really uh, build the confidence to help me do this this year actually. Um, and uh, we talked in Europe at the Mr. Olympia Europe earlier this year and he was ready willing to go to help me. Um, and uh, I made the decision. I thought about it some more and I made the decision that I actually wanted to try myself first and so I figured in Brazil if it came out a disaster I had Chris to fall back on and what better backup plan could you have than Chris Aceto I don't know if someone else can tell me I would like to know because I have no idea. Um so in saying that I went ahead and did my prep for Brazil. It was more trial never error and like you mentioned I was sick last year so I hadn't been on stage since last July. Um, so you know, like I said, it was trial and error and you know, I went for it and uh at Brazil, you know, being a little bit afraid to, you know, stick my head out there, you know, I was conservative and uh really didn't eat enough and um I under uh so being underfed um I didn't look as conditioned as I was. you know uh people have to know it's very important to when you carve the pleat to you know get all the lines all the striations all that in but more important you have to feed your body and fill yourself up so the muscle is pushing against the skin before you walk out on sta stage and I didn't take care of that I didn't finish that so in not finishing I play sport um and it pissed me off to where I wouldn't do it again and for South Africa I definitely felt like I couldn't make it up if I made the the right adjustments. And so I did. I made the right adjustments. I ate up and that was the results. I came out and won the show. Now Johnny, you uh you mentioned very brazingly that and in passing almost like it was not not a big deal. You this is your last year. Now I look at your face and you look like you're still 30 years old. Uh you don't have a wrinkle on your face. Why all of a sudden is this year the last? What what what made you decide that you had enough? Well, no, it it's not all of a sudden at all. I planned this uh you know, about probably three years ago. Myself and Branch was talking into in the gym in Metroflex in Arlington and um he just had signed a three-year contract, you know, and we were talking and he was like, "Hey, man. I just signed this contract. You're going to be around at least these next three years, right?" And I was like, "Oh, man." I said, "You know what? Absolutely. You're going to be here. you're going to be competing. So, you know, I got your back and I know you have mine. So, for sure, you know, I am. And then he retired last year. So, he left hanging. So, he left me hanging a year by myself. But that's okay cuz he's still training with me. Um, still supporting me, doing as much as he can to make sure I'm in the right shape and might and and in the right uh frame of mind also. Um, so, uh, you know, like I said, I planned this a few years ago that this will be my last year, and I I feel good. I still have my health, thank God. Um, nothing's broken down or hurting too bad. Um, just the daily stuff from going in the gym and working out. Um, and so, yeah, why not? I want to promote. I have the the show in Puerto Rico and I have the show in Fort Worth. I want to add some more shows to it. My goal is to have five shows a year to promote. And so it's time. I mean, um, I look around and most shows, the closest guy to my age is about 10 years younger than I. So, you know what I mean? It's just about time to, you know, you know, take a step into, you know, another level, another realm, and and uh move on with my life and and uh do some things that uh that I got in the back of my mind that I want to accomplish. And uh so I'm like I said I'm healthy and I feel good and so why not you know move on why I still why I still can. Well I always say there's nothing like ending on a on a on a high note. So I mean I don't know if you could end any higher than winning the Arnold. Obviously winning the Olympia would be that but we know that's not going to probably happen. So um this was a truly a good way I guess to to call it a career. Now you obviously by winning the show qualify for the Olympia. Will we see you back for your 13th Mr. Olympia? Well, hell yeah. Are you kidding me? Hell yeah. I've been itching for it. And, you know, since I, you know, got cleared Yeah. from the the position and stuff like this, you know, I've been itching to get back. And I was like, you know, at one point it's like, could you, you know, it was really, you know, a trying time, you know, and finding out your body's breaking down on you and whether you can recover or not. So, it really put in perspective. Not that I don't only already know what's important in life for me, but uh it really put things in perspective even more, you know. So, yeah, I I I need to need to move on with my life and accomplish things. And my kids are awesome. My son won the NCAA's in track and field uh the inside indoor hammer throw um this year. uh he goes to LSU um and uh he's now doing outdoor and we're hoping, you know, and it's looking like he can uh do it again when the NCAA is in outdoor. So to double down on that uh will be awesome. My daughter, she works for uh uh Janessa, a law firm, and going to school full-time. And my daughter, um Janessa or my daughter, uh Georgia, sorry. I get them. I always call one the other all the time. That's old age. Uh, but it really doesn't matter to me because I love them both, you know, the same, of course. Um, so and they both seem like even though Janessa is 23, she's eight to me, too. You know, I would carry her around if she would let me also. So, it's pretty bad. But, oh well, it is what it is. But, um, you know what I mean? I I like to sit back and watch them grow and help them and and be there to support them also, you know, in their careers and their life. Look, it it it's great. I mean, I'm I'm 49 and, you know, I have a a one and a half year old. I have another one on the way. So, I got started late. You got started early. You kind of have all the glory years left and you know, to to kind of clown around. Your kids are going to go on to bigger and better things, go to college and stuff like that. It's got to it's got to be like you're going into a next stage of your life really because it is a huge difference for you. I The question I want to ask you is um you know, we all see you and Branch training together. I mean your your training style I the only way I could put it is is explosive. Okay. And the truth is I mean Branch has had some muscle tears mo unfortur you know training like that because I I always tell people look don't watch these guys and try to emulate them because it's they have a style and rhythm of their own that they've developed over the years. But you guys do have this explosive training style that is just not for everyone else. How do you where did that come from and and how do you guys manage to stay injuryfree doing that? Well, uh I know I've worked out like that. I've told people many of times I started working out when I was about 8 years old uh with my older brother. Um not sure about Branch and why. Um he can tell you that. But uh I we had similar styles. We totally I'm from New Jersey. He's from here um Texas. um live different lifestyles and having to meet, you know, here in the middle. Yeah. And um with bodybuilding and then uh just hooked up and we trained and saw that each one of us was just crazier than the other in the gym and we fell in love with it and uh we just moved on with it and it's just so much fun. I mean, trust me, when we walk into the gym, we talk first and I'm like, "Man, my shoulder hurt." And he's like, "Yeah, man. My biceps, you know, doesn't feel that great." And I'm like, "Yeah, my chest." And he's like, "Yeah, this, that, and the other." And we're going to like kind of take these today. And then next thing I know, we're going 100 miles an hour. Uh oh, my phone is dying. I got to go plug it up. I got to go plug my phone up. Isn't that great? But um yeah, it just it it mostly just comes from we already had that similar of to uh continue on with that style of training once we started working out together. Now let's talk a little bit about the Metrolex training environment. Are you still over there with Branch? Oh, for sure. That's home. Yeah. I mean, obviously it's getting hot now there because uh it's things are warming up. We're getting closer to summer. Uh we know it's like an inferno in there. I mean, you've been there a long time. Is the training intensity level there still that same as it was when Ronnie was there and and you know, in the heyday, I call it. Well, there's no choice. It was myself and Branch is there. So, yeah, we we bring the heat regardless. you know, we don't worry about anyone else. And you said it the best that, you know, for people not to emulate what we're doing because we don't show it because of that. You know, we show our training. Uh, one reason because we have to because our sponsors, you know, um, another reason is just to show people this is what we do. You know what I mean? This is what we train. This is what we do. We're not telling anyone this is the way you should train or any of that at all. We just trying to show what we do and why we look the way we do and how we like to work out and that's it you know and you know some people go too far and you know want to you know judge and you know critique and all this kind of stuff but it's like hey man until you're standing on stage next to me and beating me then I really don't care about you know your critiques you know now moving forward into the future after you stop competing this year will your training still be as heavy as intense? Are you going to try to stay as big as you are? Will you downsize? What What's your What's your plan? That's a really good question. Um I'm I'm gonna be honest right here. I'm so scared I'm going to be so fat it's ridiculous that people like, "What the hell happened to Johnny?" You know, I'm so afraid of that because, you know, when I was younger and sitting around the family there in New Jersey, you know, uh quite a bit, you know, my brothers and uh some other family members be like, "Yeah, you look good now, but just wait. You're going to get that Jackson stomach like the rest of us. It's going to happen. It's destiny, buddy." You know, and I'm like, "Oh shit." you know, I'm getting close to like retiring and like is this the time when I'm not going to be able to hardly turn my steering wheel like my dad because my stomach's rubbing up against it? I don't know. Um, but I, you know, my my wife, her favorite thing is running and, uh, she's done several marathons and, uh, I actually would like to do a marathon one day and, uh, you know, train with her and, you know, maybe, you know, accomplish that would be pretty cool. Um, but uh we'll see. I uh that's pretty far farfetched, too. Um but uh you never know. Um but like I said, I gotta be honest. I'm really scared that I'm just going to get fat and out of shape. Well, but um we'll see. You're a good eater. I don't think I you know, but the good thing about bodybuilding, it really teaches I mean, aside from a few bodybuilders that are horrendous eaters, most bodybuilders are clean eaters. We like clean food. We like to eat a lot of it, but we we eat a lot of clean food. And and and you know what I find? Usually when you when you just kind of get off that competition mindset, you just get a little smaller. But you'll find that the general public will find you more appealing. They'll be like, you know, you actually look better. You look smaller, but you're leaner. And you know, believe me, all the things we don't want to hear, but at least it, you know, it is true. We we have a distorted viewpoint of what looks good. We think huge, massive is is what everyone wants to see us as. Only the true hardcore fans like that. Most people in society will give you more compliments as you downsize. Yeah, for sure. And I'm not worried. I mean, if you know me, yeah, I'm not worried about being the biggest I've never been the biggest guy on stage, you know, my whole career. You know, I got pretty good thickness and, you know, stuff like this, but I never been like a mass monster or one of the guys that everybody worry about because he's so big and all that kind of stuff. So, you know, getting a little smaller, it might bother me a little bit, but, you know, walking around with normal human beings and not, you know, bodybuilders, I'll be bigger than them anyway. And, uh, ultimately, I'm stronger than their ass anyway, so that count. That's That's for sure. That's for sure. Well, I want to just uh, you know, congratulate you on this huge win at in South Africa. It must have been a real It must have been a real treat to be able to be interviewed by Arnold Schwarzenegger up on that stage, huh? Oh. Oh my god, you had to mention that. Yeah, that was about the most foolish uh interview that I, you know, had in like and forever and my whole life. But it was so funny and I enjoyed it so much that um yeah, man, just unforgettable. For sure. Unforgettable. is is you know you watch Arnold do it with other guys and like most recently with uh Cedric which Cedric went a little bit far I think yeah in an interview but hey that's not for me to to judge but um you know what I mean you watch it and you're like ah yeah whatever whatever but you have no idea the feeling when this guy is actually giving you his attention you know is a whole another world a whole another feeling when you know he's looking at you and he's given you that attention. You know, it's it's incredible. It's a feeling that you can't describe unless you go through it. And myself and Branch talked about it today because we did leg today. Today is Tuesday leg day. And uh so and I can't believe I did legs today. But anyway, um we're just talking about it and we both, you know, looking in each other eyes. I was like, "Yeah, you know exactly what I'm talking about." You know what I mean? because uh you know and he couldn't really tell talk to anyone about it either because it's like I said a feeling that you have to actually go through to be able to describe it to people. Um were you surprised that you won the show when they called you name? Are you kidding me? You looked surprised. I'm Johnny just put the video up. We've been watching. You look shocked. If you would have saw me on stage, I actually turned around and looked like I need to exit right now because I can't believe this crap is going on. And uh so but I got the courage to still stand on stage and move up front. But yeah, I absolutely couldn't believe it. I absolutely Well, once again, congratulations on the huge win. We'll see you at the Olympia, obviously, and uh you'll make your grand exit from the bodybuilding world on the Olympia stage. That will be a true feather in your cap. Couldn't have happened to a nicer guy. Once again, enjoy the spoils of your victory, Johnny. Thank you, Dave. I really appreciate this and appreciate you, man, for all the things you do. I appreciate that. All right, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time.