Dave Palumbo standing here with a legend in baseball, Johnny Bench. Uh, this is a a man who I grew up watching on TV with my dad. You know, games, you beat the Mets a lot and I hated you for that. But you know what? I I love Yeah, I'm proud to say I'm glad of that. Yeah, I actually hit my 300th home run at Mets at Shay Stadium. So, have a few remembrances, although you had to face the, you know, that pitching staff, which wasn't any great deal. He was the best pitcher on the Mets staff in your estimation back then. Well, Sver obviously, you know, I mean, he stands out, but you had Koosman and Mattlac, you had Gentry, and of course Nolan was there for a while, and you had a guy named McAndrews. Uh, it was a tough weekend. I mean, people don't understand that if you got two hits in that series, you had a pretty good week, actually. So, you know, you think, well, he's in a slump. said, "No, I had to face the Mets." So, it was You hated your team. Well, I hated Shay. I hated Shay. And it doesn't bother me that you hated me. You'll get over that. That's why they have psychologists. People that need work. Why do you think people are so like get so imshed in baseball to the point where they it's like a part of their life and and they actually psychologically will suffer if their team doesn't do well? Well, they can all play it, you know? Doesn't matter what size you are. You don't have to be, you know, a 300lb lineman. You don't have to be a football player. You don't have to be 7 feet tall. And and we're watching these guys and everything else. It's kind of like weightlifting. So many different divisions that everybody can reach a certain degree and they can all play shortstop or they can play the outfield. And so it's really kind of something that they always are assembled with. You start playing softball for women and you get men that play kids that play in baseball. So all of a sudden they all think that they can be a major league baseball player at some point in their life. So they love the game. They love the technique. We just have to get them past, you know, some of the paints and the bat hops and everything else that that that they learn to do it. But they've always been great fans. I always said the catcher's position had to be the most difficult position. That's why you're here. That's why you are the announcer. You know your stuff. I'm telling you right now, this guy, I mean, because you're you're sitting in the most uncomfortable position of known to man for the longest period of time of any other player on the field. That's why I broke seven cups. Yeah. I was in the most vulnerable position of all at least one. Um it it you know, playing in other positions, which I did, you know, you'd had to play five five games at one position just to feel like you caught one game. And you know, I caught 54 days in a row without a day off. I got 154 out of 158. So it was pain. It was it was stressful, but you were a catcher. And you know, you find out people don't really care if you're hurt or not. You are the catcher and that's it. You know, an outfielder run into the wall. He'll and a trainer and a and a manager will run 400 ft to pick him up and an infielder will get a bad hop and they'll go pick him up and a catcher will take one dead in the cup. You can't find a trainer or a manager within a 100 miles. He'll get up. Don't worry about it. Let's go have a cup of coffee. What was the most the best piece of equipment during your time that they came out with that you felt like, man, this was smart? The glove. The glove. Oh, man. It's It's a hard to catch without that glove. I'm telling you, guys. You've been around that long, huh? I You know, they've they kne saver, which I never use, so I can't tell you. It was great. No, we didn't have it. And that little chin strap that came down to block the Adams apple, but you know, it was just the legs. It was invented the chin. Is that Carlton Fisk who did that? I think they started with Steve Joerger using it. I used a flap one time and it was tied together with two uh pieces of leather and the first game I got a foul ball, broke the straps and everything else. Hit me right in the throat the baseball. So, how long does that take to to heal? Oh, they don't care. It's an, you know, it's one inning, you know. It's like, you know, after after the game I wish somebody would just walk away, leave the game and say, "Wonder how Johnny's doing now?" They never do that. You take one inning off and every they forget about it. But, uh, the strength of the legs was the most powerful thing that I had and it protected me and why my knees are still good today. Did you train back then like weights? Oh, no, no, no, no, no. You never had a weight. Really? They wouldn't let you do that, right? Not even close. I mean, if you even act like you want to pick up a dumbbell, you were just like, "No, don't do that. It'll tighten you up across the chest. We didn't have the nautilus. We didn't have the things where you can learn to do it properly." Now, these guys train like fiends. I grew up without knowing getting strong. I worked in the peanut fields lifting 80 and 100 pound sacks. So, I would have to pick them up, put I was only like 5'2 when I started and I'd put them on my head and they're 80 and 100 lb sacks and I'd be throwing them up on the truck. You were clean and pressing. All of a sudden, I was cleaning and pressing and I didn't realize the strength, but I did work on my legs constantly. I ran in the sand. I tried to strengthen my legs as much as I could because that was the strength and motivation to keep me going. So, I always wanted beautiful calves, you know. So, I I probably won most of these competitions. That's why I don't take my pants off. You could have done wellness, Johnny. Um, let me ask you a question. Who was the most dangerous picture to catch for? Any knuckle baller. Really? And who was the worst that you caught? Well, I did in the minor leagues actually. I caught on my knuckle baller and I told myself never to do this again. It's embarrassing and everything else and you take the the blame for it if you don't catch the ball. Well, yeah. People don't know it. I mean, why can't he catch that? It just seems like that. And I said, "Well, try to catch a butterfly with your fingers, you know. It's kind of like that. They go everywhere and all that stuff. The guy who bounced the ball and a curveball, it bounced in front of the plate, bounced up, and hit you all over and I just pick up the ball and throw it back harder to him than he threw it to me." Would there be like some kind of better arm than they did? Yeah. I mean, so I just threw it back to them harder and they said, "Get the damn get it over of the plate." Sorry. Who who was the best pitcher that you caught, do you think, in the history of uh of your career? Well, a receiver came over in the trade. So, he was Yeah. And so, but there was a kid named Wayne Simpson. He was 12-1 at the All-Star break and wound up losing one game, one to nothing. Uh, hurt his arm and wish he'd had Tommy Don John surgery. He was the most phenomenal pitcher, you know, you can ever imagine. Jim Maloney who uh threw a couple no hitters threw 10 one one in 10 inning no hitter 187 pitches walked 10 and hit one but he had the most most unbelievable stuff. So I was very fortunate in my career but Siver coming over and just his legend was enough for all you Met fans. Yeah that's true. We we hated that too. Let me ask you this question. Who was the fastest base runner? The one that you hated to to get on first base, you know, because you knew you were going to have trouble throwing this guy out if he stole. Well, you know, you had Brock and then Lopes came along. Los Loe's combined he combined skill technique and speed and everything else and you know they tried it a few times. Yeah. Yeah. What was your what was your percentage of the picking guys off there? Well, it was high. It was very high. I don't know. We didn't keep stats and that day I ran into a guy who has all those stats and he said you rate it the highest of all all. Yeah. Well, see it's some teams had five base runners but only two would run. So you could say okay you got three of them that didn't run. And then I Brock told me one day I said, "I didn't realize I Yeah, Lou. Yeah, I threw him out three times in one game and he came to the plate and he said, "You know what?" I said, and I said, "Knowing you, Lou." You said, "If I get on, I'm going again." So, it was that's just the challenge. Did you like that when he would be on cuz you knew that if you threw him out, you were going to get a lot of accolades for that. I live for it. Well, it wasn't so much accolades. It was just that's such, you know, they wanted to watch the one-on-one, the mono ammono and it was just I I was up for it and I had the, you know, I had the skills and he had the skills and, you know, you're going to win. Remember, I stole 25 bases in a row. You were one of the faster patches. No, I never was. I was just the smartest. But you stole 25 bases and you always steal on the pitcher. You don't steal on the catcher. That's why I'll always say, what does that mean? Explain that. Well, you get a jump. It doesn't really matter what the catcher does. You only you you know in a a normal base runner the good base runners takes 3.1 seconds to get from first to second. So the pitcher releases at 1.4 or 1.45. So you've got 1.45 or 1.5 to throw at 127 ft 3 in one foot above the bag and get him out. Very scientific. Yeah, I never thought about that. This is the challenge. You know who was who's the fastest guy you think in in Major League Baseball? Was it you know Willie Davis probably played with the Dodgers? Good. Good pick. Yeah. you know, I mean, he was just unbelievable. He wasn't a great base steeler, but boy, when he took off and then of course, uh, Deion Sanders came into the game and then well, Joe, he thundered. You didn't know what, you know, he was running so fast the ground shook, you know, it was like he and Kirk Gibson and all those guys. So, I don't know if you ever classified them as being uh, you know, the how fast they were, but they were phenomenal. Of course, man was my idol and he was he was lightning quick. So, thank you very much. Pleasure for being with you. Thank you, Johnny. All right, Dave Palumba with alleged Johnny Bench.