Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and tonight's guest is the new 2017 Canadian National Overall Champion and new IFBB Pro, Johnny Shreve. Welcome, man. How you guys doing? Good to be here. It's good. You know, a lot of people know nothing about you. I didn't know that much about you until we actually talked before the show. And uh I but I I'll tell you one thing. You got a great name. Johnny Shre sounds like, you know, you should be playing quarterback for the uh Dallas Cowboys or something like that. You know, that name that's a football name. And you come from a football background. Yeah. a little bit because the people, our fans and all the viewers out there probably don't know much about you unless they're from Canada obviously because you've been on the Canadian national scene for 5 years now. Um, talk to us a little bit about the beginnings of your career and in the in the sense of uh in high school obviously you you were a football you know prodigy. Talk a little bit about that and how you got into that. Um well basically yeah I uh I my dreams of being a pro alete start when I was basically in uh I started I started at the gym when I was in the sixth grade and um I started playing um you know minor league football in the seventh grade and then went up to high school. By the time I finished uh time I was in my you know senior year, I was um the top 10 uh running back recruit forum a lot of the US schools um division one schools division one division one doublea and um I was kind of being a kid and and screwing around. So uh I lost about five division one scholarship. I lost a lot of scholarship so I couldn't get I couldn't pass the clearing house. I don't know if you guys know what the clearing you guys know what clearing house is but to our listeners. So, a clearing house is basically like um if your core grades in Canada um your core grades and your SAT score have to be have to somewhat equal out. So, if you have bad uh grades in high school, then your SAT score has to be really good. And if you have really good grades in high school, your SAT can be not really subpar, but has to be, you know, pretty good. My high school grades weren't high enough for my subpar SAT um uh score, which is pretty sad. And uh that happened twice and I couldn't pass the clearing house twice. So basically it was uh that option was over. So you so you lost your scholarship options because of the fact that you couldn't achieve the grade point average or SAT levels that the US schools required. Now was that because you were a dummy or is it because you didn't study? That's because I didn't study. I I I play seven instruments. I'm I'm very I would say intellectual but you know at that time in uh you know being 18 17 18 I my my goals weren't studying it was more partying and you know just being reckless in a sense. So did you did you ever regret like right after the fact where you lost all those scholarships? I mean were you were you in a depression after that? I mean what was your mindset? Um, I actually to depression. I actually went through um I was I went through depression for sure. Um, the worst part about it was when my mom would be uh at the um at the at the visits and then they would say, "Your son's got great talent, but we just can't get him in." And the look on her face would just be like, you know, cuz she's like, my mom's a mom's a reverend. She's very uh stern and she's always harping into, you know, education, this and that. And I just wouldn't listen. So that part was kind of uh it was heartbreaking every single time that it happened and you know it kind of came to the point where she basically just said you know he's going to do what he has to do and I'm going to make him grow up. So she let me grow up. So So what did you do after you you didn't get into these schools? Where did you go? Um basically I spent like two years after. So basically in Canada you can like go to um you can spend a couple times like you know in summer school whatever trying to upgrade your core classes. Um so you can kind of bring your grade level up a bit. And uh I spent two years doing that in u my hometown of Windsor Ontario which is like right across from Detroit, Michigan. I know all that been there. Yeah. So I I you know I did get it up um and uh I end up moving from my hometown to London, Ontario uh to play and I was basically playing Jo like JO football the uh it's called the Canadian Junior Football League in Canada. So, it's basically like a um it's it's older than high school, lower than college, but you basically like a lot of the CFL um scouts get a lot of the good athletes from that from that pool. So, it kind of gives you a second chance to uh keep showcasing your talent. But the only thing is I I basically made it to the end of my elig eligibility year. So he can only play four years of junior football. And by the time that was done, I just basically like every opportunity that I had in the States is gone because anyone knows that the older you get, like your timeline starts ticking pretty quick. So um I ended up moving out to Wester, BC, which is I'm basically like an hour and a half from there right now. Um and I was instructing, I was working at the bars, I was partying and all that stuff. And um there was a uh football camp that was quit BC which is like maybe 34 minutes from here. And uh I remember that being the camp. I was like well let's go to the camp see what I can do at least maybe get another shot at this. And um went to the camp and one of the coaches that recognized me from recruiting me back maybe like seven years ago was like you know you're Johnny Shre. I'm like yeah like I'm from St. Mary's. Um I'm like yeah I know you guys recruited me but I couldn't get in. So, uh, with my upgraded classes, uh, he's like, "Let's go for dinner." We went for dinner and everything else. And, uh, I basically told him like, "If I can get into school, if you get me into school, I'll go to your school. I don't care. Like, just get me in at least." And I sent him my transcripts and I got an acceptance letter maybe like a week after. And um, I literally went from this from one side of Canada to the next and started my football uh, my football career and continued it um, at St. Mary's University. How old How old were you at the time? I went to school at 24. Wow. So, you're probably one of the oldest kids in school. Yeah. Well, I mean, like are the school we're at like we we just implied a uh an age limit in university now where you have I think seven years to play your full five after you finish high school. So, when I first went to St. Mary's, our team was one of the best teams in the country. Probably because like I wasn't the youngest. I was like there's guys on a team that are like almost close to 30. So, wow. Um, until that rule was applied, then we kind of saw the change in, you know, maturity of like, you know, students and athletes. But I, yeah, I was I was still pretty old being 24, especially in like the class. I'm like, I'm a 24 year old, you know, adult and there's like 18-year-old kids in class. So, it's kind of Yeah, but you were probably more It probably worked better for you because you were more mature at this point in time, right? That's Oh my god. Yeah. I was said the whole time I was in class, I'm like, "School is actually freaking easy." So like that kind of like set things up for me like put things perspective. I'm like if I could have just like handed my work in at least on time I would have probably got a scholarship. But you know um you kind of force you to be more mature. You know when you're 24 you're kind of getting a little more mature and understand you don't got time left to keep [\h__\h] around. So right now um at that point while you're at St. Mary's on the team there playing I'm assuming you did well. Uh were you have did you have any aspirations of trying to go to the NFL or the CFL, you know, after that and play professional football? Yeah. Yeah. I was I was um I was I was known for being a workhorse on the team. So um I was one of the better uh special team players in the country and uh that's basically where if anyone knows king of football, that's where it doesn't matter how good you are at what position you're going to be running down punts and kickoffs and you know recovering balls. So, um, that was definitely a goal for me. And, uh, you know, I was on the draft list. Um, I went to the combine and, um, I basically had like one of the better agents and stuff there and I got called around like fourth round and said, you know, around fifth or sixth round looking at maybe Calgary or Winnipeg and I never got the call. So, yeah. So, at this point, what do you say to yourself? Hey, I got to do something else with myself, right? I cry like a [\h__\h] I did. Okay. I sat in my room and sat there and cried. Like it was like honestly this it was almost like the same like I didn't realize that that feeling I had would be very similar to getting a name called second on a bodybuilding show. So it kind of set me up for uh being able to recover quick um when I started bodybuilding. But yeah, literally after that I was like you know that's it. So I'm like let's just finish our let's finish our years and get this degree and then see we go from there. Now, do you think do you think that was because of your age that they no one wanted to take you? Oh, for sure. Like, it's you know, I was I was in my draft year at 25. So, and I was I I did good. Just like, you know, if you can find a kid that's half my age that can do the same thing, you know, you you get more years out of them. So yeah, your time and let like if you're 25, you better be like running like a 42 and you know just absolutely amazing or you know be be a lineman at least you know you're not going to get that uh you're not going to get a look being a running back from Canada because running backs don't exist in the Canadian Football League. So did did you ever think of like maybe I'll do try a walk-on you know try out with maybe one of the the NFL teams or something like that in the United States? I you know what it was at that point I was just like I just had it. It was like if I can't get on a CFL team like a CFL like I couldn't even get like when you're in your draft year as a Canadian it's free for them to kind of take you know for them to uh bring you to their camp whatever else. And the fact that I couldn't get on to like I couldn't even get like one look. It wasn't even like I could get into camp like so I was just like if I can't get into CFL there's no way I'm getting the NFL. So Gotcha. So you say I'm going to concentrate on bodybuilding at this point. Um, at that point I had no clue I was going to bodybuild to be honest. There was um I've always been like I've always had this stature. I'm 5 foot seven. I've you know my biggest I was as running back was 217 and uh I' there's some local bodybuilders here that'd always be in my ear and be like yeah well Santana Anderson's one of the guys um Mike Johnson and uh you know they'd be like yeah you should bodybuild. I'm like I'm not freaking wearing a bikini going on stage and that stuff. Bro, so uh you know last um my last se my last game literally my last game of football um we're our first time losing the championship and in 20 years and I'm sitting there down I'm sitting down and all I can just remember is why don't you bodybuild? Why don't you bodybuild? So soon as I was finished I called a couple buddies up. I'm like when's this bodybuilding show? And he's like it's in April. And I'm like I'm going to do it. And then so I so literally just the uh like soon as I got off the field, soon as the game was done, the next day I was I was prepping for what I didn't know would be the hardest damn sport I ever played in my life. So So how how old are you? You were like 29 around then? Uh 28. Yeah. Okay. So you had you been training at the gym up to this point or you just started? Really? I've always, like I said, I've been training since uh my uncle brought me to the gym when I was in sixth grade. So, I was always, you know, I've been around good um I've been AI've had a really good background of training and, you know, I've always loved, you know, um you know, working out. Like when I get suspended in school, whatever, I would literally go down to the gym and start working out, whatever. So, um I've always been training. I've never really like I you know, the training I was doing before was obviously functional training for, you know, for football, like lower reps and whatnot and um you know, Olympic lifts and stuff. So as soon as bodybuilding came was more like you know you're training it's like football without having to get smashed on the field. So it was kind of cool. So would would you say if being a harsh critic of yourself when do you think that you really start your physique started to come into its own? H how many years after really putting 100% effort into bodybuilding? Um honestly though I put 100% the second I just because I was like I'm not getting on stage with a freaking bikini. I look like an idiot. So I was just I was just, you know, I was training hard from the start. But like the actual, you know, just training properly, you know, with the better mind, muscle connection and really trying to change my physique probably happened. Um, there was a cool change between my first show and nationals. But my but from after nationals to my third show and then moving forward, I could see my body changing. Then when I started training with Neil, my body really started taking off, which is pretty cool. So that happened like I would say like after my third year of bodybuilding it really started to take off. I've only done 10. That last weekend was my 10th show I've ever done. So um when did you start working with Neil Hill who works with obviously we all know he works with Flex Lewis too. You Yeah, two years ago. we um he took me on at the 2015 um nationals right before that and uh my body changed a lot from there and I came second place and that was actually my second year coming second place in a row and um you know after that prep it's just been like my body's been making great changes. It's made the biggest change it's ever been this year because I haven't been trying to squeeze down into heavyweight because my body just doesn't want to be a damn heavyweight anymore. So, right. Yeah. So, you decided you're going to do super heavyweight. Um, what did you weigh on stage at this past Canadian Nationals? Um, I was I weighed in at 234, but I was still like we're still um water loading a bit. So, when I woke up in the morning when we really cut our water, I was 230 2 something. So, I was 232 I would say um would be my actual weight on stage, which is pretty damn big for a guy 5 foot seven. Yeah, let's not let's face it. Um, so you make the weight, you know, you weigh in at super heavyweight. Now you're you're you're obviously competing at at a heavier weight class. Do you feel a little intimidated at this point? No, never. I honestly like my my first show, my first nationals, I I end up being a super heavy on like I weighed a half a pound over cuz I my first two shows I literally had no clue what I was doing. And you know, and I got like when I got the weigh-ins, I weighed over too much and then they they gave me like 30 minutes to try and cut and I couldn't get any of the weight off. So I remember my buddy being like, "Go up there and pose like a giant." And I just went in there and just like there's no point of me being nervous at all. So, but I've always known I can, you know, I would be probably I would it would suit me to be better being a heavyweight because my I mean super heavyweight because my at certain parts of my prep, my body would never go below a certain amount of weight and then I literally have to fight my body get lower and lower. So, I was more excited to uh to be on stage with like a bigger class of guys that I felt that I belong um in the group of even though I'm shorter. I'm not not 260 250 but you know I got a very deceiving physique. Oh, so let me ask you this question. When you go back and look because whenever I would look at my pictures after a show, no matter how well I did, I always was ready to throw up. I always s I only saw the flaws, I didn't see any of the of of the good things I had going on. When you look at your physique after you got off stage for the win, now you go back and you look at the pictures. Were you happy with what you saw? And what do you think was good and what do you think needs to work on? Um, my goal is always be to bring better than um the last showing, but um, you know, I want to be I think I could have been drier for sure. Um, conditioning isn't like me getting conditioned isn't a problem. I don't mind suffering whatsoever, but there's always a level of conditioning that I have in my head that even Neil Neil's like a freaking that guy will that guy has to like excuse himself for being a [\h__\h] most of the time. I'm like, you know, I I need you to to be that kind of coach to me. So, um you know, our expectations to bring to bringing a drier, more um you know, harder look is the goal. So, the second I I didn't get my stage shots until like two days ago and then I got them, I was just like, [\h__\h] I could be way better than this. Right. So, yeah, I'm definitely I definitely think that, you know, hopefully the goal is to uh between now and getting on stage on Sunday is to bring a at least a drier look. I know I'm not going to put on 10 pounds in a couple days and if I do, I'm not human. So, um you know, that's the goal. You know, I'm always critical of myself for sure. So, yeah, that answer question. What is the next step for Johnny Shreve? Are you going to jump right in and do a pro show or you Okay. Uh I'm in Vancouver right now. I'm going to do the Oh, you are doing Vancouver. I was going to ask you that. I didn't know. Okay, that's good. Yeah, that's great. Yeah, Vancouver Pro show on Sunday. Excellent. Now, uh this is now your your hometown, right? Pretty much. This is one of the places I've lived in Canada. So, you're not there now. Where are you living now? I'm in nolva Scotia. Um Canada. So, I'm in Dartmouth, nolva Scotia. It's It's completely on the opposite side of uh Vancouver. Now, how do you as a Canadian I like see in the United States, it's simple. Us New Yorkers when we get old like I am, we move to Florida. Okay. The Californians when they get sick in California, they go to Vegas. Uh you know, a lot of guys, you know, will in the Midwest will go to Texas. How do you decide where to live in Canada? Why where do you base your uh your decisions off of? Because it's cold all over. I don't know. I'm somewhat of a gypsy if you think about it. I've been I've been over everywhere. And there are some people that I live that are in my town where I'm at now that have never been um to, you know, somewhere like Montreal or Toronto. And I've been I literally lived all over. Okay. I lived in Windsor, London, Toronto, um Vancouver, Whistler, now nolva Scotia. Um I lived in Atlanta with my uncle um Abdul the Butcher. Um I lived with, you know, I lived everywhere. So, some some people have it in them to just move everywhere in Canada and some people just stay in their spot and not go anywhere ever. So, yeah. I mean, sometimes it's you're young still, so it's good to, you know, experience different places. You know, I'm a creature of habit. Most bodybuilders don't like to move around because it rests up their their protocol because, you know, you get all your connections, your your chiropractor, your massage therapists, your food people where you get all your food, all the restaurants, you go to the gyms. So, a lot of bodybuilders like to stay grounded in in the place that they're the most comfortable with, but I guess you know, you were an athlete in college. You you were you were used to moving around a little bit. Now, going into this pro show this weekend uh in Vancouver, what are your what are your expectations? In other words, where would you be unhappy placing and where are you happy placing? Because I'm looking at the list right now and it's pretty stacked. I see Kevin Jordan, Michael Lockett, who just won the show last week. I see Brandon Ray, Fred Biggie Smalls in that lineup. Uh we got we got a lot of guy Eddie Burkamontes, we got you know Paulo in the lineup and Henry Pierre who you know you've done battle with before. What's the uh what's your expectation of this uh this competition? Um honestly I'm I'm an athlete and I'm competitive and I'd be lying if I wasn't saying I'm going to I'd like to go and win but I know realistically that's not going to happen. Um the so the the goal l like the goal for me was to literally just you know bring a better package than last week. Get in there get myself um assessed and critiqued by you know the judges who are going to be judging me from here on out and just to get my see myself next to honestly the best the best in the world. That's the that's my goal is you know does if I come last place I mean I'm going to be unhappy. No. If I come first place will be happy probably 100%. But, you know, just having a realistic, you know, goal and uh and that's just to really just get get myself out there right away and just see where I stand. And that's how I that's how I started my career when I first started nationals. It was let's get to nationals and see where I stand, see if I belong here. and uh you know and it's it's fortunate that there's a show right after uh nationals so I can get that done right away and then take the time in the offseason to just build on what needs to be built on instead of doing something next year and then having to like you know fix what I probably could have fixed in a year. So that's that's the goal um to go for this weekend. But I mean I I know a lot of the guys that I'm competing against and I got nothing but admiration for all of them and just being up there with those guys will just be you know that's It's literally a dream right now because I just got the pro card and Sure. that's been a five battle. So, you know, I'm grateful to be here right now. How important uh I know you got married recently. Um how important is, you know, your your I guess support system at home, wife, family. I mean, is everyone pretty much behind this effort now with you? Because, you know, a lot of sometimes the family doesn't understand. They're like, "Oh, what the hell are you wasting time doing this bodybuilding crap for?" What what's your family situation like with regard to your career? Um, I got, you know, I'm blessed to have a very very supportive uh like I got good support from my mom and my dad, uh, my brother, my my wife, the uh, community really at home. It's uh, I I strong believe that you want someone to take you serious. If you're working your ass off, they only see your action. And if you're not working your ass off, that's when people going to start saying, "Is this healthy for you?" All that stuff, right? So, um, you know, my support system is like it's it's rock solid and, uh, it's important because like anybody knows bodybuilding, like you got to have some kind of good support system otherwise it's you're on your own and and it's almost like you don't want to be on your own with your own thoughts during prep because it's kind of gets a little dirty here and there. Yeah, I hear you. No, I believe me. I know. But look, bodybuilding is a selfish sport and uh sometimes there's people just don't understand the sacrifices necessary to try to be the best in the world. Now, do you have any sponsors right now? Are you looking for sponsors? What's what's the situation like on that front? Um I'm actually at my uh Neutriolics head head office right now. Um I've been with Neutriolics for they um they actually the um one of the CEOs, Rodney Deont, my first uh preventive show, he saw me at at the intermission, he's like, "You look marketable." like, "Was you got a sponsorship?" And I'm like, "Sponsor?" I'm like, "I don't even know if sponsors even exist in this sport." So, I was like, "No." He's like, "Well, let's talk talk manager. We'll go from there." So, I literally been with Neutra Bullets for um five years, and I just signed a two-year contract on top of that. So, I'm going to be with him for f for seven years. So, I kind of helped get new get Henry Pier in here, too. So, we won't say anything about that. Well, look, you know, it's good to have someone who believes in you. So, uh, you got a good Canadian company behind you. And, uh, look, it makes it that much easier when you have to go to these shows and and put out a lot of money. Um, now, what do you do? Do you have a regular job that you go to, uh, during the day or are you doing bodybuilding full-time at this point? Um, I have a uh I started a uh a training business, the hard team training when I was playing football and I was training athletes and that turned into um just training, you know, I was doing contest prep and then, you know, general fitness and I have my own like one-on-one training and I do group X classes. So, everything I do is very synergistic with uh with the sport. So, like you know, getting the pro card um for me was like, you know, getting my PhD in fitness. So, um, you know, that was like the biggest thing I got from that. So, you know, that's what I do. I have my own business. Uh, my wife's a registered dietitian, so it almost works out perfectly. Um, I'm very lucky to do what I love to do. Um, and, uh, I made myself I made a decision a long time ago that I'm not going to work for anybody. I just couldn't do it. I took the shot. A lot of guys are scared to do it. You know, might as well take a risk. Might as well see if I can do it. And it's been uh, it's been very good. It's been very successful. I my uh training my my competition my competitive business um for uh competitions uh we've I think we took like almost every top spot eventually for overall. So things have been doing really well. So yeah, that's what I do. That's awesome. Well, it looks like you uh you got all your ducks in order and I want to just wish you the best of luck this weekend in Vancouver and of course congratulations on the big win at the Canadian Nationals. No one could ever take that title away from you. you'll be etched in the history books uh for that one. So, uh it was it was great meeting you actually and talking to you and hopefully you'll be able to keep us updated as your career evolves over the next couple of seasons. Yes, for sure. Thank you so much for having me on here. I I honestly watch this show. This is my uh this is my cardio. So, just watching this for cardio and it keeps me going. So, yeah, appreciate you know finally being on the show. So, it's a it's an honor. Thank you. My pleasure to have you. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time.