This is IFBB Pro Sarah of Law and living a healthy lifestyle is super important to me. Are you getting all your vitamins and minerals? If not, you better get them mineralized. joh.com, Carlos Cholo, part two, here with the champion. How do you feel? I feel very happy to have achieved this victory since I've been preparing for a long time. Thank God, I've had good starts and I've continued with the career. So I'm super happy and grateful for everyone's support, especially Cristian, who is supporting me now, and all my family and my boyfriend. You just won a show in the United States and you've been dieting for a long time. Explain to people what the difference is between last year and this year in terms of your training and your diet. What did you do differently? What do you think you did differently? Okay, first of all, well, obviously, I controlled my carbohydrate intake a bit. Last year, I went almost four weeks without eating carbs, and that's what was keeping me quite thin. Right now, we were able to gain weight. Muscle mass, and in terms of training, well, targeting the weak areas and the areas we need, the figure, to have it more pronounced and obviously look feminine, like the back, shoulders, and glutes. What are your plans now that you've won this competition? Well, my plans now are to rest for at least four weeks and then I'm going to train again to see if God wills it for me. We're competing out there in July, we don't know the date yet, but that's the plan. What else do you want to thank before you go? Well, besides Cristian, Sonia, who has always been by my side, my boyfriend, who even though he's not here with me, thank goodness he's here today because of work, but my phone has been blowing up. I love him a lot, thank you for his constant support, and obviously my family who are waiting for me to tell them what happened. Let me ask you, what's the first thing you're going to eat? I want to eat sushi. I have n't been able to eat sushi for about six months, that's kind of my craving right now. Here with Joseline Texidor, overall champion of the Carlos Halala Choro Classic  Johnny Styles muscle.com