Something's coming. Welcome back to RX Muscles Iron Road to the Olympia 2019 brought to you by Chemical Warfare. I'm Dave Palumbo and today's guest is our good friend Juan Morell. Welcome back to the show. Juan Diesel Morel. Sorry, I left out the diesel. I know you as Juan Morell, but you're really Juan Diesel Morel. And from the minute I actually met you, you told me that was your your nickname, right? Yeah. You had that nickname before you were a good bodybuilder. You had that nickname. Yeah, I had that nickname for a bit. For a bit, for a little while. Look, you got to be thrilled. You're going into the Mr. Olympia competition this year as a legitimate threat to make that top five for the first time in your career. Um, you got to be ecstatic about that. Yeah, I feel so good. Especially seeing the changes my body has been making the last few weeks. I mean, I've brought my level condition beyond I've ever seen my body. And I guess it's because I've never even though I always prepped and pushed. I never pushed this hard with when it came to my diet. Like I'm actually just like normally I get somewhere. I'm like, "All right, I see the glutes now." I'm just pushing to like I want to be able to see serrations on top of serrations and my skin looks like nothing right now. So, just trying to push that extra conditioning and I got my size still. So, that's good. What do you attribute that to? The fact that you actually not only are you big, but you're also conditioned like you're able to keep both. In the past, you've struggled with trying to get that perfect blend between fullness and conditioning. And now you seem to nailed it this season that we've seen you on stage. What's the magic formula? Um, besides training, I think training has something to do with it, but I think also is the muscle maturity. As you getting older, I think that it's just when that muscle matures, it's a lot harder for you to actually lose it, you know? And every obviously I train hard. I mean, everybody who knows me knows that I'm one of the like I'm probably the only bodybuilder that's a week out and still lifting 100 pound 80 pound dumbbells and still squatting 600 lb and um bending rows with 500 lb. So with good form so and for reps, you know, nobody else is 100 pound on rows, you know. So now I'm one of the you had squatting for a while, right? But you now you're back to doing it again. I think that's why your legs look great. Hack squats. I don't squat anymore cuz that my back my biomechanics because of my my lower back and stuff like that doesn't squats for me work more of my glutes and hamstrings. Sure. Because my form so I actually hacks are what I'm what I do now which is still squats. It's just you know um I can't do regular squats. And that's what made my legs better was realizing that I had to stop squatting because I was always strong at the squat but I felt like I needed to squat in order to make my legs bigger. and they just they they it did the total opposite. So now when I do leg press and do a lot of leg press and a lot of um volume work on my legs and squats towards the end really really heavy hack squats that has made my legs you know even the last picture I posted a week ago everybody went nuts um for me guest was like oh my god look at his legs you know that's um all attribute to the way I've been training them. Well, you become you've been training smarter rather than, you know, just more. And I think that that's important and that's something you learn as you get older. You know, you figure out what works for your body, what doesn't work for your body, you get rid of the stuff that doesn't work, and you stick to the stuff that works. And you made a good point earlier. As you get older, your metabolism slows down a little bit. So, for guys like you, and even for me later in my career, um, it's a benefit. you could actually put muscle on more easily when that metabolism, you know, slows down from the hyperdrive it was in to being a normal metabolism again, you know. Yeah. I I have to say to, you know, to especially all my followers and everybody, it's such a blessing that it has slowed down because as you remember the amount of food I had to eat and it like it was hard. I did it because I'm AI love bodybuilding and I you know I do anything to achieve the goal. So you remember me eating 12 meals a day. Yeah. And you know, now I'm like happy that I could eat six. I don't have an appetite. I'm I'm a you know, I don't I can I'm happy with six meals. I'm happy with less. You But you know, you notoriously might have the craziest cheat meals, way more than mine ever were of all time. I mean, some of your cheat meals that you've posted on Instagram and stuff like that are, you know, worldrenown almost, you Yeah, I could still get away with that stuff. I mean, that's, you know, stuff that even you, you know, I mean, you it might slow down, but you can still get away with doing more um stuff that the average person can't do. It's just that you don't, as you get older, you don't get more conscious about a lot of things, but you also don't like the feeling of like, I don't want to feel like crap the next day, you know, like. So, it's like before you're like, you're eating, you're like, I can deal with that. Like, I you know, I feel like crap. It's okay, you know? Yeah. What's the craziest cheat meal you ever ate, you think? Whoa. I mean, so many I mean, cheap meals or cheap days. I mean, let's see. Uh, I don't know. I mean, it's I've done so many crazy things, Dave. I mean, even with you, we did that five pound burger, which I wonder I don't know if you remember that challenge. Yeah. Yeah. One one ate a five pound cheeseburger and fries and everything. So, you know, I mean, I've done stuff like that. And um I remember even doing a bet one time and um when I some somebody says, "Oh, you can't have I don't believe that that you can eat um um it was um 10 10 um whoppers in less than 10 minutes." And I was able and I did that and I end up taking his money like you know I done that. So it's like you know and on top of that when I was done I ate my my rice and chicken you know showing like I got to keep my gains. Yeah. What was what what was one of the the craziest junk food uh meals you ever ate? Cuz you you could eat ice cream and donuts and stuff like that too with the best of them as well. I would have to say it has to be with ice cream. I remember one time I don't know if you remember Jillian Revel. Yes. We went to Friendly's at one time and we just kept ordering ice cream and we just kept ordering ordering and I was like I forgot I think it was for the for North Americans when I turned pro. How much? Yeah. What' you say? I must have spent like $100 on ice cream. That's funny. And um by when I was done eating, I just passed out and just like I put myself in a sugar coma. You went through a coma. Yeah. Yeah. That's funny. Yeah. I've se I've seen one you eat some pretty impressive meals. Now in the same light of of all the food that you eat, uh your wife now has a cookie business. Tell us about that. I found that interesting when we were talking about it before the show because I didn't realize you guys sold that many cookies. It's insane. I mean, the cookies, she actually just started making them for me for my cheat this winter, you know, for Sundays and I'm not a cookie person. She made me these cookies and I'm like, "Oh my god, these things are awesome." I started posting them cuz I was like I was like I wasn't even trying to was like, "Oh my god, these cookies are the best cookies." And then people at the gym were asking me, "Hey, can you bring some of those cookies?" Everybody said, "Wan, your wife has to sell these. These things are the best cookies I ever had." And then we started bringing them to shows. So, first we try to like me between me and my friend Augie and a few people trying to convince her like, "Hey, you got to sell these cookies." I mean, like everybody's is is is DMing me. My like a hundred DMs and and you know, asking me about these cookies. Is she going to sell them? So, we obviously we convinced her. So, we like, "All right, let's start off at the shows and then we we we'll expand." She'll bring them to shows and sell 100 cookies in no time, just by walking. like the next thing you know like all right um let's try this let's she you know once we figured out the delivery system and everything she um started you know put in a post and when she makes a post within 10 minutes she sells like 5 600 cookies 500 cookies in one post yes in 10 minutes wow so she like you'll watch like 10 minutes later it's sold out and she put like sold out you know and it's like insane what's what's in the cookie one what what is the cookie makeup Um, so the cookies first are 8 oz each cookie. Okay. They're about, you know, roughly between eight and nine ounces. And some of them are just chocolate chip, chocolate chunk. That's the basic. My favorite one is the walnuts. Like chocolate chip, chocolate chunk of walnuts. Then they have ones with um Snickers in it. It has um Reese's Pieces in it. Oh wow. So then she she makes different flavors and every week she'll come up with something different and you know so it's like everybody has to like you get a certain amount of time to order and if you missed out that's it. What whatever candy your daughter leaves over she just kind of throws into the into the batch and mixing it in there. I wish it was that simple. Everything she's buying is in bulk. I mean she um she's put in so much work and I got to give her so much um props. I mean she's you know I guess cuz of our our friend who owns a bakery. She has like access to all that all the um high quality like she's getting sugar by pounds and boxes. Wow. So, are there any are any of these cookies protein cookies at all? None at all. We send real cookies. So, they're all just delicious cookies. Hey there. I can't believe how big your daughter got. This is cold. The last time I saw you were a little peanut. Now you're not a peanut anymore. What is she almost four now? Right. Yeah. She's so smart, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Her and she's about what a month older than my son. Something like that. Yeah. They're about the same age. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you got the Olympia coming up. I look, no one wants to see Shawn Rhoden not in the Olympia or Phil Heath or Big Ramy, but that's got to be a benefit for you because those are guys that you don't have to beat now. And that gives you the opportunity to move into the rarified air of top five, you know, material. Top five in the world, Juan is a very huge accolade that I'm sure you dreamed of earlier in life, but probably, you know, until you get there, it's there's no reality to it. Is that a great goal that you have sitting right in front of you that you can almost feel right now? Um, you know, I definitely feel I'm gonna break that top five. Um, but I'm confident enough. I mean like I'm I I it's a fortune that Phil and Sean is are not going to be there, you know. Um I always like to compete against the best. Um and the best are going to be there. I believe so. I mean like all these guys, Brandon, um William, Broly, Dexter. I mean, these guys are amazing athlete. I just think that I've made so much improvements that, you know, I'm going to catch people slipping. Whoever is leaves that door open, I'm going to do I'm going pull it off for Dexter. you know, whoever's put whoever whoever's leaving that door open, I'm going to be sliding right in because I have AI don't think nobody in that stage is going to bring my condition and my aesthetics I think right now are one of the best. I have the smallest waist now. My legs are balanced, you know, um I don't have any missing body parts right now. So, I feel that I'm going to be aesthetically pleasing with, you know, uh insane condition. So, I feel like I'm going to break that top five, you know. So, that's just what I feel. And I never been anybody who's ever asked me in the past like, "Oh, I'm just trying to, you know, I'm trying to place well. I'm trying to bring my best." I was never a confident person. And um this year I feel confident, you know, cuz I know what I'm bringing. I'm a realistic person as well. And now I see when I see in the mirror, I was like, "Oh, wow." Like I can't believe this is me. So um well, you know, I'm very proud of you. I have seen you grow from, you know, the beginning to where you are now. poised on the precipice of of possibly being top five in the world. I want to wish you the best of luck, of course. And you know, knock him dead over there in the Olympia. Thank you. And um congrats on the baby, even though it's not it's not here yet, but I know this week it will be. Yeah. And um wish you guys the best. Thank you so much. And good luck with the cookies. And of course, are you bringing uh you bringing your daughter with you to the Olympia? Oh, yes. Yes, we are. wouldn't, you know, wouldn't leave her anywhere else. I I don't know how you do it to be honest with you. Do you get your own room or something like that? Because you really you balance family well with with your competition. She's part of me. I mean, she just makes she makes me happy. So, I mean, she doesn't bother me. It's She's in the same She sleeps with us. It's in the same room, so it's good. Oh, she sleeps in the bed with you guys. Yeah. Wow. Wow. Oh my god. My son's a lunatic. Thank God that he doesn't sleep in the bed. Oh, she she she now her whole her whole thing is she like she sees me falling asleep. As I fall asleep, we watch TV, right? And she wakes she smacks me, wakes me up. Dad, until she falls asleep, I can't fall asleep. Ah, I got you. I got you. You got to watch your shows today. That's why. You know, that's how it goes. All right. Well, best of luck and we'll see you out in Vegas. And uh guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of RX Muscles Iron Road to the Olympia 2019 brought to you by Chemical Warfare. I'm Dave Palumbo. See you next time.