This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 NPC Nationals here with our women's middleweight overall champion here and new IFBB Pro Card holder, Julia Corage. Congratulations. Thank you. Oh, you look a little shocked up there. Well, I was because I I wasn't expecting it. Last year I tanked and this year I nailed it. What did you do differently from last year to this? You know, I just uh I did everything by intuition. You did it all yourself? I I do all my prep myself. Okay. And what did you change that you did last year that you didn't do this year? Uh I just was a little bit I didn't gain a lot of weight offseason. You stay tighter. I stayed tighter. Uh I was more diligent in my um diet. You're a cheater usually. No, I'm not the cheater. I'm not a cheater, but I was just a lot more strict. No extra peanut butter. Yes. Yes. Talk to me a little bit about that that head that light excuse me, that middleweight battle between you and Janet Kaufman because it was it was close and you know Janet was second here last year. Uh she they moved her to the middle. I actually thought the judges might have gone with her because of that. Were you worried? Uh I was s I thought she was going to win actually. That's why I was surprised. It's a nice surprise though. Yeah, it's a very good surprise. Now you're a new IFBB pro. Uh, has it sunk in yet? No, not yet. Not yet. All right. Now, I'm going to put you on the spot. You're a pro. You can compete in pro shows. Will we see you on stage in 2011? I'm not sure yet. I'll have to think about it right now. I haven't even thought, you know, it's not sinking in yet. So, how long have you been bodybuilding for now? I've been competing seven years. Okay. And how did you originally get into the sport? Um, just I saw a picture and I wanted to look like that and there it was. And you did it. And she did it tonight. new IFBB Pro and our middleweight class champion, Julia Corage. Congratulations. Thank you, Dave. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.