 Justin, I guess, I guess, was being interviewed on the Overcome podcast and he had mentioned something about the fact that he felt that Kai Green didn't win in Olympia because of political reasons. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your advocate, I put my absolute best. Join the absolute best. Join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with another RX Muscle Rant. Today's topic, Kai Green. Love to talk about Kai Green. Kai Green and I go way back. Love the guy. Competed with him back in the early 90s. He was 19. I was in my early 20s. The guy's just, he's a legend in our sport. Never won an Olympics. But, you know, probably one of the greatest bodybuilders of all time. We've never won the Olympia. You know, won the Arnold Classic two times. The guy is still a legend. He's got to be 50 years old by now. And he still looks incredible. So I'm at the Olympia. He's great. There was a little bit of a, I guess, scuttle on social media between Kai and Justin Compton. Justin Compton, another truly gifted bodybuilder. Love the guy. I wish he would have competed longer. I know I think he had some health issues and that's why he backed out. And I'm glad that he's, he's doing really well in his, all his businesses. Justin, I guess, was being interviewed on the Overcome podcast and he had mentioned something about the fact that he felt that Kai Green didn't win an Olympia because of political reasons. I don't think Kai was ever going to win the Olympia under any circumstances. Like, let's just say Phil broke a leg and he, like, he fell down backstage and broke his leg and he didn't make it to the stage. Whoever got third was probably going to go into first. And the reason I say that from a political standpoint is his past. Kai Green responded pretty aggressively at that interview. And basically said that, listen, Justin, you never won an Olympia. You know, you know, you're talking out of your ass. Essentially, this is, you know, not cool. It's disrespectful to me. You know what I mean? Because then that way you don't have to backpedal later on and apologize with empty nonsense for stupid shit that you could have just kept in your own mouth, kept it to yourself. You know, I mean, you didn't win an Olympia. Last time I checked. Last time I checked, there's, there's not as many accomplishments to your credit yet. And you know what? I understand where Kai's coming from. You know, people love to take the one weakness that you have. You know, one thing that Kai did that was embarrassing one time in his life. And they've been throwing this thing in Kai's face for his whole entire career. Who gives a crap? Everyone has skeletons in their closet. Everyone's done things that they're embarrassed of. And you know what the truth is? I don't believe that it had anything to do with him not winning the Olympia. I think that the Olympias, that he was very close. Phil just was a little better. Kai tended to peak earlier in the year at shows like New York Pro, Arnold Classic. He always had a little bit of problem at the Olympia. He was never quite where he needed to be to be his best. Because at his best, I don't think Phil could have beat Kai, to be honest with you. That's just my personal opinion. But Kai was one of the best in the world. He might be one of the best bodybuilders of all time. I would put him on my top 10 list of all time. And so I think what happened was Kai felt disrespected by Justin. Like, who's this guy to talk about me? Now, I know there was also a discrepancy where Kai said he didn't know who Justin was. And, you know, Justin's like, come on, man. You know, you knew who I was. I was competing when you were competing. I was very popular. And in defense of Justin, I think Kai knows who he is. You know, Kai follows the sport. He's a student of the sport. Justin wasn't around for a very long time because he kind of competed. He did really well, and then he kind of disappeared. But certainly Kai knows who he is. But I don't really believe that that's not why Kai was upset. I think Kai might have said that almost like, yeah, who the heck is he? And I don't even know who he is. You know, he didn't really make it. What mark did he leave on bodybuilding? I think it was more of a put down for Justin because he was mad at what Justin said. And you know what? I understand where Kai is coming from. And you know what? I wish people would just leave this guy alone. Why is his legacy going to be tarnished by this one thing that he did one time that's embarrassing? Look at all the positive stuff he's accomplished. Look what he still contributes to the sport. He goes to the events, and he's still like one of the most popular people there. You know, him and Jay Cutler have probably the two most, I would say they're the two most popular guys who don't compete. You know, if Kai does a seminar, that thing's going to be packed to the hilt. So Kai's like pretty much, I think, delivering a message to Justin like, listen, this is my legacy. This is who I am. I accomplished everything I can do in the sport. And you know what? I don't know why I didn't win the Olympia. Maybe it was political. Maybe it was just because I wasn't my best. But, you know, who are you to put me down and pigeonhole me in a peg saying that this is why I ruined my career? So I can understand. Kai's upset about that. And you know what? I completely can relate to what he's saying. I completely understand where he's coming from. And, you know, Justin kind of flipped him off on the whole thing. But you know what, Justin, if you were that close, and I think this is what Kai's point was, if you were that close, you know, to winning an Olympia, which you weren't, and maybe something in your past did prevent you from winning that Olympia, it would be a sore spot. And I guess it's a sore spot. You push the button on Kai and it hurt his feelings. It doesn't mean you have to give him an apology, but at least have the compassion to understand where he was coming from. So I thought the response video from you after that was a little disrespectful to Kai. So, one, you want to sit here and play that card. Fuck you. You're never going to get an apology out of me because I know he'll watch this video. And I hope someone clips both fingers to this as well. I personally would have just probably not said anything about it or just maybe explained yourself. So, listen, there was nothing. I didn't say anything negative about this guy. I was just basically, you know, being honest about what I thought my opinion was. And Justin is absolutely entitled to his opinion. Free speech is all about speech that you don't want to hear, right? That's the right to say whatever you want and whatever your opinion is. And that was Justin's opinion. And I respect that that was his opinion. Did Kai maybe overreact to it? Might have. But I can understand. That is a sore spot for Kai Greene. But I don't think that will tarnish Kai Greene's reputation long term. I think Kai's going to be remembered for the great bodybuilder that he was. Unfortunately, the Internet is not forgiving. And I guess the take-home message here is don't do things that you're embarrassed about. Don't do things that might haunt you 20 years from now. You know, you see all these girls bragging about OnlyFans and they're making all this money. And you know what? This stuff will never disappear from the Internet. And you go for a big-time job someplace where they're really snooty and they're going to be paying a lot of money. They're going to do a Google search and they're going to find that you did OnlyFans, you know, 10 years earlier. It probably cost you a job. So you've got to be very cautious about what you do in today's world because everything is documented. And the Internet is forever. So things don't disappear. You might think you got rid of them, but they're still there. And someone will find them, I can promise you. If they're a good enough investigator, they can find everything. So you have to be really, really careful about what you do and the shortcuts that you take. You know, yeah, making money is great and everything like that. But you know what? Most people, if they do a little porn early in their life, they're not going to continue that as their full-time profession for the next 25 years. So the short-term money might not be worth the long-term, you know, stuff that's going to hurt your image. Especially consider, you know, I know a lot of young people out there don't consider, hey, one day I'm going to have kids. And they're going to be able to go online and Google me and look at the stuff that's there about me. So if you're embarrassed by the fact that you do porn and you don't want your kids to know that, don't do porn because it's going to come up. And you're not going to be able to hide this stuff. I have people who contact me because they want their pictures removed from the RX Muscle Contest Gallery because they did a bikini show 20 years ago. And they're going for a teaching job now and they're worried about that. Imagine if you have naked pictures out there and God knows what else is out there, what you're doing on camera. That's there forever. So this is a good take-home message, you know, for all you guys who are young and up and coming and want to make money the easy way. And he's like, this is, I'm just going to get an OnlyFans page or I'm going to do porn or I'm going to sell drugs or whatever. Look, we all make, I made mistakes. I went up, you know, going to federal prison for five months because of growth hormone. So believe me, if I can advise you here, don't take the shortcut because the shortcut always winds up being the long cut because you know what? You always pay for it in the end. You might make money up front, but then you got lawyer bills and you kind of worry about legal stuff. Or you have something that's hanging over your head like a skeleton in your closet that's going to hurt you long term, possibly for great job opportunities and stuff that you have in the future. So think twice. Kai, I love you, man. I wish this didn't happen. It's unfortunate. Justin, maybe you and Kai could just, you know, shake hands and say, you know what? Maybe we both overreacted a little bit. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle rant.