EVP elite non-stimulant preworkout solution for maximum size, comfort, and intensity only nutrition. Glyco elite pre and postworkout carbohydrate loading solution for maximum endurance pump and leg transport only nutrition. Welcome back to another installment of the Chronicles of Compton. Uh I'm your host Dave Palumbo and this is brought to you by Evagen Nutrition. Visit evogennutrition.com and we are here with the Compton of Comptons himself, Justin Compton. Less than a week out from the Olympia. Man, you uh you look pretty good. I'm feeling good. I'm looking good. I'm uh I feel like I'm in a good spot right now. You look you're very energetic. I noticed much way more than a lot of these other guys I've been talking to. Yeah, I I I feel great. I mean, you know, my confidence levels up. Uh I feel like I'm in shape. I feel like I'm right where I need to be. So because I'm not struggling to, you know, I'm not struggling with my conditioning or anything. So therefore, you know, it makes me feel good all around. I'm not doing a lot of cardio. So I was able to kind of cruise on into this prep. We before before the show, we were talking about Jay Cutler. Johnny Styles had told Justin, "Hey, Jay Compton, Jay Cutler gave you a compliment." And Justin's like, "I didn't hear it." And and I said, "That's because he doesn't do 75 minutes of cardio. The show's pretty pretty long." But uh Jay Cutler thinks that you have the potential to make the top six uh at this year's Olympia. Uh obviously with a stack lineup, um let's let's talk about the Olympia for a minute because you know a lot of people want to know your opinion on it. So let's take yourself out of the equation first. What do you think about the who do you think is going to make that that top group and who do you think and where do you think they're going to place and why better? Uh, I like to consider myself in that top group of the top six. Uh, go ahead and stating that I feel like I can be comparable to them. Um, I feel like the top three is going to be Phil, Dexter, and Shawn. And not necessarily in any particular order. It's going to ma it's going to be a matter of um who fine-tunes it. Personally, my money would be on Phil because I think where Phil, you know, slipped once or twice, I think he's probably hungrier than ever and he's going to come back to show the world that, you know, he's the champ. And, you know, I've seen his videos, he looks very determined, very focused. Um, you know, I've seen his offseason footage and this is probably the best I've seen Phil in the offseason. So, I think we're going to see a new Phil Heath this year. I know Dexter probably thinks that, you know, this would be his chance to rise. So, I know Dexter's been putting in the work as well. So, it's going to be a matter of uh who brings their best package, you know, next week. You know, my my feeling about the whole Phil Heath thing is that in in the history of of the Olympia, at least in the last 10 years or so, when guys have come in off one year and then done it another year, it seems to happen over and over. I mean, Jay lost the Olympia because of that. And it seems like guys don't wake up, so to speak, until they lose. So, I hope that's not the case with um I hope that's not the case with Phil, but uh as John Romano points out, trends tend to continue, you know. So, uh assuming Phil comes in off, who do you think would be there to replace him? I mean, who who's that second guy, do you think in the Olympia lineup given, you know, all the new blood that's coming in too with the big Ramies and the uh and the Kevin Levrone as the as the wild card factor? You know, I haven't seen any any real pictures of Ramy as far as being in shape. I haven't seen any updates of him. So, I'm going to go on a limb and since you mentioned history repeating itself, I'm going to go on a limb and assume, you know, he's, you know, probably going to be big and probably not going to be 100%. I mean, he could shock the world with it, but, you know, like you said, history repeats itself and with Kevin, uh, you know, if history repeats itself with Kevin and he can actually pull that off, that would be amazing. at 52 years old. But I'm going to be a little bit of a doubter because he's shown us some sneak peeks. But the thing is that the pictures that he's shown us has been only what he wants us to see. You know, you don't see a full pose. You're not seeing a full body. You're not seeing the legs. You're not seeing everything. like if he wants to really grab my attention and say, you know, wants me to think, oh you know, Kevin Levrone is coming and, you know, I've got, you know, I've got to beat Kevin, he's going to have to, you know, show me more than just a tank top shot because Kevin's got great arms, great shoulders, clearly. I mean, that's always been a strong point. So, until we see what his legs and his conditioning looks like, which I'm sure is going to be very, very spectacular for 52 years old, I'm just not sure that it's going to be Olympian material. Do you think that Kevin Levrone is is delusional enough to come into the Olympia and and say that he's, you know, looking for the title when he when he knows? I mean, because you got to look at people look at themselves in the mirror. I don't see Kevin as delusional. That's why I'm really backing this guy and I and I've seen his body transform. I I I can't imagine that he would come into this show not looking good enough to at least make that top six. I know that's that's the scary part is, you know, Kevin's been around a long time and, you know, he's not a dumbass. You know, he's not I don't feel like he's going to I don't feel like he would walk on stage at, you know, something that would disgrace the image that he's built, you know, over the years. So, if he actually sets foot on the stage, then if if he's backstage laying around with us and he's going to go through with it, then that might be something for us to consider whether or not he's actually going to be ready or not. Well, like I said, he's the feel-good candidate for certain. I think I think probably even you guys competing with him want to see him do well just because you're probably fans. I'm sure you grew up, you know, looking at this guy. Yeah, Kevin, uh Kevin and Sean and Dorian was, you know, three of the guys that I watched, you know, as I was growing up into the sport, right? Let's talk a little bit about contest prep and food because people are obsessed with what bodybuilders eat, what it takes to be at the elite level. uh you know for the Olympia what spe people think that that the body is in the top six eat special foods but it's really not. Now before we started the interview I heard you talking to your wife or whatever uh and you were you know trying to say I want the protein pancakes and then I want steak and so what what are you eating? Give us an idea of what you eat on a daily basis. Honestly, man, I've I've prepped myself, you know, this whole year, well, after Columbus, and I've broken pretty much every rule in the book in terms of, you know, what you should and should not do. Um, I've kind of did everything by feel, you know. So, if my body's flat and I feel like I need the food, then I put it to it. And I feel like if I don't need the food, then I take it away. So, I've been doing, you know, I've been doing that for the previous two shows as well. So, clearly what I was doing was working. It's not something new that I've added in, you know, trying to pull some voodoo for the Olympia, trying to make magic happen. You know, I'm just kind of sticking to the protocols that I've been doing. You know, people think that you have to do uh chicken and rice or you have to do whatever the case might be, you know, fish and fish and potatoes. Fish don't thin your skin. That's But, however, I will tell people, I eat fish every single day. I've eaten fish in my offseason. It doesn't thin my skin. It doesn't make me leaner. I just like to eat fish. Personally, I I like fish. I don't eat chicken. Like, I absolutely cannot stand the thought of chicken. If it's not Kentucky Fried Chicken, I don't want it. If it's not deep fried, I don't like chicken. So, uh grilled chicken, baked chicken, boiled chicken, you can keep it all. So, basically, you know, I adapted the concept of, you know, a lot of people think that, well, this is prep food and this is offseason food. I don't really look at it like that. I say if it worked for you in your offseason, why would you take it out and prep? And that's actually kind of a statement that I've learned. about following you for the years. You know, you always said whether it be supplement, whether it be training, whether it be, you know, nutrition, food, whatever. If it's working, then why do you need to fix it? Why do you need to change it? So, you know, I noticed like chicken's really slow digesting for me. I don't know if my body has an allergen to it or what? So, I don't eat chicken and fishes the process much better. So, I'm like, well, if I'm doing that in prep, why not just do it in the offseason? So, I carried it through my offseason. You know, I was able to put all my food down. my stomach looked a lot better, which, you know, as you can tell from my previous shows, everything um seemed to click, you know, and I got rid of uh I don't do quite as much red meat, you know, I don't do as much beef as I used to. I do more egg whites instead. So, I mean, I've just kind of kind of broken the rules, like especially in terms of carbs, you know, everybody thinks it's got to be uh gluten-free. I probably have gluten every single day almost, you know, in some shape or form, whether it's bread or whatever. Um, you know, I'm obsessed with Ezekiel bread, but I'll eat, you know, muffins or bagels or whatever. And the way I look at it is if you're not gluten intolerant, then you don't have to follow a gluten-free diet. It's as simple as that. You Everybody seemed to think because so and so does this, this is what I got to do. But, you know, I've I've kind of just bent the rules and so this is working for my body, so I'm going to keep doing it. You're right. I and I've said the same thing. I don't believe in the whole gluten thing either. I mean, you can go for a simple blood test and it'll tell you if you're allergic to gluten. If and that's, you know, if you are, then you have what's called ciliac disease. If you don't have it, then you're not allergic to gluten. And so, there's no reason to restricted. Matter of fact, Ced Cedric McMillan has the country, I call it the country wisdom, but like there's no reason to say, "Oh, I'm not going to eat this because it's got gluten in it." It doesn't if it doesn't hurt you, it doesn't hurt you. About 40 pretzels every night before bed. I I'm obsessed with these big hard Pennsylvania Dutch pretzels and they probably they're pure they're pure wheat and I have no problems digesting them whatsoever. However, like you, for some reason, I find that when I eat a lot of chicken, I feel my stomach gets bloated and I don't know if once again if I have an allergy. Yeah. I don't know if this if I don't know if it's the hormones they put in the chicken that I'm allergic to or whatever, but I've tried both. You know, I've tried to go to Whole Foods and I've tried to get, you know, the organic hormone free chicken. Now, whether it's truly organic, whether I'm getting what I'm paying for, you know, we'll never know. But, you know, I I've tried everything on that and I'm just I'm I'm not going to fool with eating chicken again. I'm pretty much done with it. What What kind of fish do you eat? Um, orange ruffy, cod, tilapia. Uh, what other kind of fish do I eat? Um, I'll eat su from time to time. red snapper, uh, tuna steaks. So, basically, I just like fish in general. Do you try to go for the wild caught fish versus the farm race? Oh, yeah, definitely. Uh, the tilapia is the only thing that I eat that's not wild caught. You know, if I do salmon, I'll make sure that it's wild caught salmon. I don't really like the pink salmon or the Alaskan salmon. I think it's called the the king salmon. Yes. Is the one that I like. Sakai. You know, it's funny because Yeah. Sakai. The the um what were we just what we just saying? Uh, oh, the tilap. It's funny. Tilapia tastes like chicken to a lot of people and it doesn't have a fishy taste and that's because they don't feed it fish. It it eats corn. They feed it like fish food and that's why it's not healthy for you. Yeah, it's farmers. Uh, but you know, like I said, I guess everything in moderation is all right. I mean, I always ate McDonald's, believe it or not, once a day during my contest prep because I had very fast metabolism and people thought I was nuts, but I said, "Look, I look good when I eat it. I'm not eating it every meal. I'm eating it one meal a day." And uh I think if your metabolism is good and you're losing weight, why restrict? Yeah. What What would you eat normally with your egg whites in the morning? Would you make oatmeal? Uh oat Well, oatmeal is actually what I ate this morning. I ate four packs of the uh was it the the no or the low sugar uh maple maple brown sugar? Oh, so you're eating actually the bad stuff with the sugar in it and everything. Wow. Yeah, I I ate the low sugar. Yeah, but that's still sugar though. Most people wouldn't have that. Put a little bit in. Yeah. But, you know, I like oatmeal. I like cream and rice. And I like Ezekiel bread. The Rudy's bread. Rudy's bread is actually my favorite brand. It's just um a lot of the stores around here in Florida doesn't carry the particular kind that I like. They carry like the the cheap I don't know why, but you know, if I can't find it, I'll go with Ezekiel bread. It's just as good. What is Rudy's bread? I never heard of that. Uh give me just a second. There we Hey, this is this is live TV. We got to go right to the refrigerator and pull it out. Yeah, the refrigerator's right behind me. So, I like the one that says Hold it up higher. Hold it higher. Ah, and you can get that in any supermarket about gone. What's the uh ingredient list on that, Justin? Uh, is it healthy or is it just like regular bread? Yeah. Here, here you go. Here's here's to all you uh gluten people. You know, the first ingredient is organic whole wheat flour, water, whole wheat flour, organic cane sugar, rolled rolled oats, um, organic sunflower oil, organic distilled vinegar, oat fiber, sea salt, uh, cornmeal, oat flour, yeast, wheat brand, organic wheat gluten. There's a lot of lot of gluten in there. Yeah. Cultured organic wheat starch and natural enzymes. All right. So there's sugar in that. You're not eating health food here. You're you're eating the sugar content is very low. It's actually one gram per slice. Okay. So you don't get too upset. Like some guys are completely neurotic. They would never eat that in a million years. Yeah. Honestly, uh I'm I'm not I think the glycemic index makes a difference on certain people who, you know, really struggle with their metabolism. But what a lot of people don't realize is when you mix foods like if you were to get a glucometer out and you know start checking your blood sugar. If you were to have like uh I'm trying trying to like you know a candy bar and then check your blood sugar 30 minutes later and then do the repeat the same test except have a candy bar and like some other type of uh like you know a piece of chicken or whatever the other the other food that you're eating will affect the glycemic index and you're not going to see quite as drastic of a jump. So, like, well, if I'm having egg whites and Ezekiel or Ezekiel bread or Rudy's bread and it's got a gram or two of sugar, it's like one or two grams is not going to like make or break, you know, where I'm going with this prep, right? Well, you also have a very gifted metabolism as well. We have to make that clear, you know, because if we people I've helped out and all the people that I hopefully I get a chance to help out, the opportunity to help in the future, my motto is do as I say and not as I do because probably what I do is not going to work for you. And I'm telling you to do a certain thing for a certain reason, right? Yeah. Like I said, everyone's body is different. What I gave Juan Morurell to eat, I don't give a Williams to eat because he has a slow metabolism. So you you got to kind of figure out what you your body handles and doesn't handle. And you know what? I think a lot of guys and I I think this is Phil Heat's problem. I think he has a very fast metabolism, too. And he he's afraid to eat at the end of the contest and he flattens out cuz I saw Phil in the at Pittsburgh, I think two years ago, and the dude was eating out like three times a day and I was thinking, man, he's going to be fat when he comes on stage tonight. But he was like probably in the best shape of all the guest posers there. Right. Right. Well, I think he he overdes for the Olympia and then what happens is uh after prejudging and he realizes how flat he is, he goes and he eats everything in sight. He eats and he fills up and he just magically transforms to a nutshell. Exactly. So, uh I think sometimes guys want to be too restrictive and sometimes that hurts them. Have you ever done a contest prep where you came in too flat because you were too restrictive? Yeah, definitely. Uh just about every contest prep I've ever done, that's what happens. And I feel like if you saw if you saw where I'm at in my offseason at X amount of weight, you would say there is no way in hell that you need to be dropping, you know, 30 or 35 lbs. Like, you're in good shape now. Where's that 35 lbs go? And I think I overanalyze things and I I've even done it this prep. And the only reason I did it this prep is because I had to step on the gas and like, you know, I got ready for the previous shows in six weeks, right? Next year, that's not going to happen. and it's going to be planned out a little bit more strategically and we're going to pull this off in 14 16 week prep, you know, much slower. So, I feel like uh next year you're going to see a lot bigger and better version of me. So, hopefully I won't overd it next year as well. Justin, what what guys you think you're going to knock off this year? I mean, to to make that top six. Who's who are you knocking out of that top six this year that that's going to put you in there? Because I agree. I think you will make the top six this year. Well, without saying who who I think I'm going to knock off, I'm just gonna I'd rather just say who I think is probably going to beat me and then we'll just leave the rest. All right? You know, leave it out like that. I mean, I'm not going to I'm not going to beat Phil. I'm not on that level. I'm not delusional. I'm not going to beat Dexter. I'm not going to beat Rhoden. Uh, outside of those, I've beaten I've I've beaten Roelly before and Roy's beaten me before, but the thing is neither we've never been on stage together when we were both at our best. And Roelly has made a hell of a lot of improvements and pound-for-pound my opinion probably the most muscular man on the stage because he's like 57, 56, maybe like 270, right? So, I mean, he's a really big dude. So, it's going to be interesting to see what he brings. Um, and then Cedric's the same way. Like I've beaten Cedric and Cedric's beaten me. So, it's a matter of I'm not saying I can beat him. I'm not saying he can beat me. Uh, Big Ramy I've never stood beside. So, Ramy's the Ramy Ramy is actually the guy that I'm probably going to say I'm gunning for. Like, I'm I want to if I can stand beside Ramy and get up there, say in the fourth through sixth place spot, that's what I want. You know, everybody else I'm going to try to just pretend it's not even there. Look, there's a lot of guys that's going to be coming into that though that like I'm not I'm not going to underestimate anyone because there's several guys like uh like Josh Sonardoitz from Australia. People are really he doesn't really have a lot of buzz going behind him. I know he's got a video series going right now. It's very interesting for anybody that's following that. Josh has made some substantial improvements in the last two years. Like literally just came out of nowhere in 2015. Um, I beat him at at the Arnold Australia. Honestly, I thought he looked really really good there, but he just needed a little bit more maturity. And then I'd be damned. He showed up in 2016 and he beats me, right? So, you know, Josh is definitely someone that uh you should not count out. And then, of course, there's Dallas. Everybody knows about Dallas right now. So, he's got a lot of hype behind him. He's got a lot of publicity. He's uh probably outside of Romney probably going to be the heaviest guy on the stage. And he's built well and he's put together. He's smart. He knows what he's doing. So, Dallas is definitely going to be a threat and a contender as well. Can Dallas McCarthy stand next to you from behind though? That's the question. That's that's where I'm pulling from. Like Dallas is most muscular. His front delts and his arms are very very good. So, that's a pose that I think he's going to take me on. I think like from a structure standpoint, my hips are smaller. My bone joint, my bone density is smaller than his. So, it's going to be like, you know, uh, you know how like Dexter probably doesn't Dexter's not the heaviest guy on the stage, but he looks bigger just simply because his structure is small and the muscles. I'm going to kind of pull that same card with Dallas on this. Like Dallas is clearly bigger than me by a long shot. But I think where I have, you know, smaller muscle or smaller muscle or smaller bone structure, it's going to give me an advantage to give me kind of a more of an illusion. Now, when we turn around behind of I mean, Dallas was a little bit off in Chicago, but the thing is Dallas is also not delusional and he's not stupid. He he realized that he's off. He was off his mark a little bit. So, I know he's going to be coming for blood at the Olympia. He's not going to just say, "Oh, cool. I got to win. Let's just ride it on out and see what happens at the O." You know, he's going to sharpen up. How much? I don't know. He may end up doing what you were talking about, people over dieting. you know, we don't know what's going to happen till next week. But, uh, as far as the density goes, I do think he needs a little bit more in his upper back, you know, to be able to match what I have. But, you know, like his hamstrings is pretty unbelievable. So, I mean, it's like he's got certain body parts that flow better for him and I've got certain body parts that flow better for me. Yeah, you're right. I I I think that uh Dallas's uh issue might be that he's too heavy right now because I know he's walking around in the 290 still. I mean, I can't imagine that uh he's in contest shape at 290. So, you know, he might pull the opposite card. He might try to come in too big. You know, also that's always a possibility. Uh because, you know, guys around you tell you, "Oh, man, you should compete." They used to tell me this, "You should compete at 300. You got strided glutes at 300." But my shape is not that good at 300. I'm still holding in my back a little bit, you know, and I wasn't dry, you know, at that at that weight. So, yeah, Dallas from the front at 290 is probably behind, you know, he probably needs to be 275 to 280. So, I mean, he's got time. Well, from the most recent pictures I've seen, he's had time. I don't know if he has time now. At this point, it's 7 days out, but I'm assuming, I said, being he's a smart guy. you know, him and Matt are probably taking care of business. I have no doubt that he's going to show up uh as a contender and he's he's coming to play. Well, Justin, we appreciate opening your life up to us. People love seem to love the Chronicles of Compton. We'll have to continue this after the Olympia and uh do some more on contest prep and we'll talk about some training techniques and and all the other stuff that you have in that head of yours that you have really been keeping to yourself up until now. Best of luck on the stage. Obviously, we're going to be there rooting you on and uh you know, I think this is going to be a great Olympia for you and uh you have a a truly uh golden opportunity here to really shine in Las Vegas. I think it's wide open and uh we wish you the best of luck. Yeah, we're shooting for the first call out. We're going to try to make it happen. They may not want to give it to me, but I'm going to make them look at me. There you go. Make him look It was always Tony Freeman used to always say, "Just put me next to him." That's all he wanted to do. Put me next to him. And uh That's right. you just give me my shot, just give me a chance and I'm going to prove myself. Do you think that, you know, back in the day they used to do call outs of three people at a time and like almost everyone would get compared with everyone else? Do you think that's that's a good method so that you know we could see everyone against the top guys out there? Well, there's 20 guys on the on the roster. So, I personally it should be four call outs of five guys. So, rather than having a top six, I think it should be a top five. Mhm. So basically call out five guys and then like if somebody starts to fade through that first call out, you know, maybe keep them up there and then bring up the next top five. It just kind of depends. But that's how I would start it if I if I were judging it, right? But if you're if you're in this if you're the sixth guy, say, don't you want to still be compared against the top guys? What if you what if you look better, you know, against some of the top guys than the than the top five do? So, I think it's important that the judges put everyone at least in the top 10 against each other at some point so that we can see if if the call outs are indeed valid. Move this around. You know, I hope that uh it's not just a couple of guys that stand up there and then they have them exit the stage. I mean, I don't mind. I mean, it would be cool if the first place guy stood beside the 10th place guy at one point, you know, just to give him a shot and see how he compares and how he stacks up. So, I mean, I've done my homework with posing. I did 45 minutes this morning. So, you know, I think Steve's the one judging the show. And if Steve wants to throw us uh if he wants to beat us up for 30 minutes on the call outs, that's perfectly fine. You know, I'm ready for it. I'm ready for whatever he's going to throw out there. I'm ready to be compared, you know, to show the world that, you know, I'm ready to bring it. All right. Well, it sounds like you're you're in a good mental state, Justin. Best of luck up on stage and uh we'll see you in Las Vegas. All right. See you guys later. All right. That'll take us to the end of another episode of The Chronicles of Compton. If you like what you're seeing, click like below, subscribe to the channel, and uh tell us you want to see more of Justin Compton. Uh we'll be out at the Mr. Olympia contest, obviously, next week starting Wednesday on. And uh hopefully we'll get a chance to pre-in before the competition. For now though, that's it for today. Uh I'm Dave Palumbo. Uh this is the Chronicles of Compton sponsored by Even Nutrition. Visit evigenutrition.com. We'll see you next time.