It's the Jerry Curl challenge. It is Kai L Green here for another installment of the Jury Curl Challenge. That's right, Dave Palumbo here for an RX Muscle Rant and a lot of people have been asking me what's going on with Kai Green lately. Has he lost his freaking mind? I say he's a bloody genius. That's my opinion. Uh he did this really, I guess, viral video on Instagram and he challenged everyone out there to do the Jerry Curl challenge. I was going to do it. I I had my wig and everything and I was going to do it and I I I didn't think I could do justice to uh to it. I I I'll have to work on it. Johnny's been running these all for the last two weeks and it's pretty funny. And I gotta tell you, Kai is he he's so creative and he's so comical that I I I I don't I I think that people don't give him enough credit for being brilliant. I mean, you think that Kai Green is is popular because he's a great bodybuilder. He's popular because he's got a a crazy, creative, kooky, whatever you want to call it, personality. And and it's it it just detract you want to just watch him do things. He he has a viral sense about him. You just want to see what he's going to do next. And he's so unpredictable. And that's really what people get frustrated about bodybuilding, but it's great in regular life because it's so interesting. What is he going to do next? What photo shoot is he doing next? What creative little outlet has he come up with? What little, you know, like stupid, it's the stupidest thing, but yet I can't stop watching him do that stupid Jerry Curl dance, you know? And you know, Kai Green is going more mainstream. He's he's he's appearing on TV shows. He's all going pretty much all over the world doing appearances, you know, and they love him and and they can't get enough of Kai Green. Let's face it, Kai's not a young guy. He's in his 40s at this point and he's more popular than he's ever been. And there's a reason. It's because he's interesting. you know, all right, he could be a little long- winded and when he answers questions, you know, pertaining to his bodybuilding career, but when you when you talk to him about regular life, he's he's very interesting. He's got good answers. He's he's creative. He always has some kind of an interesting outfit on or style to him. He does his uh one-man show, I believe. I mean, he's he's he's diversified. I guess that's the best thing you can say. If you want to make money in this business, you got to be diversified. And you you have to not be afraid to say what's on your mind. And he does that even maybe to the fact that it might have hurt his bodybuilding career, but it certainly hasn't helped hurt his popularity. I mean, one of the reasons I think we're so a lot of you guys out there watch RX Muscle is because we say it what's on our mind. We say what we feel. We we give the facts. We report the news. And then we give our opinions. And a lot of people are afraid to do that. And Kai has uh gone mainstream. He's appearing on mainstream podcasts as you can see uh in what Johnny's playing right now on the Ask GaryVee show. And I think we're going to see him on on bigger shows. I don't I don't doubt that we're going to see him one day on maybe the Tonight Show or something like that because he is not only interesting, you know, from an artistic standpoint, but he looks look at the way he looks and he looks like a comic book character and he's able to move like a ballerina. So when you combine those two aspects, you know, it makes for an interesting human being. So the question remains, is Kai Green insane or a bloody genius? I say a bloody genius. And that's all that matters, right? That's my opinion. That's my RX Muscle rant. I'll see you next time.