It's the weekend here at Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Lab. abs make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Friday, March 17th, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. A few weeks ago, Danielle Castillo lit the conversation in the women's physique division on fire with her win at the Arnold Classic. But let's not forget who still has this strangle hold on the throne at the top of the division, the one and only Juliana Malik Carney. Late Monday night, the champ was spotted hammering out a good old-fashioned heavy deadlift session as she starts to transition into the next phase of her offseason. A 100% Juliana Malik Carney is still completely untouchable. And there isn't a single doubt in anyone's mind that when it's time to throw down, Juliana Malikarnney is going to come out swinging. With all the mass monsters floating around the 212 division these days, there's something to be said for an athlete who can bring in the old school aesthetics combined with the new school muscle. And that's exactly what Ahmad Amad brings to the table. This week, the multi-time Olympian released a handful of new offseason update photos showcasing some of the A1 aesthetics that make his physique so special. Despite taking most of the 2016 campaign off, Ahmad is still as dangerous as anyone in the division. And if he picks his spots correctly, I think he has the talent to bring some serious hardware home. If you spend enough time in the kitchen, you'll learn that where some recipes call for a flash fry, others call for, well, a more slow simmer. And I guess you could say that Cody Montgomery is more of a slow simmer kind of guy. Nearly one whole year removed from his pro debut, the 22-year-old phenom is back in the kitchen, slowly cooking up another fresh batch of ass whooping. Reports from inside MGomery camp are saying that he's on track to smash last year's look out of the park when he makes his debut later this season. Every move Cody Montgomery has made thus far seems to have lined up just right. So, you know that when this kid is finally ready to bring it, we're all going to see something very special. For a guy who hasn't made a peep about stepping on stage in a very long time, Kai Green looks an awful lot like someone ready to go to war on an IFBB stage. This week, some behindthe-scenes footage from a recent photo shoot was released from someone in the Kai Green camp, showing the Predator looking as dangerous as he's ever been. Since capping off last year's Arnold trifecta, Kai hasn't shown any indication that he's ready or willing to strap up and give it another run. But after everything that Kai Green has been through, the last thing you ever want to do is cross him off the list. Less than a week after getting his 2017 campaign started off right, rising classic physique star Tino Harris hasn't wasted any time getting back on track. Early Monday morning, Harris dropped a little snippet of some recent training footage just over 48 hours after his top 10 finish at the Fit World Pro. Harris is one of a handful of young athletes who have a real shot at making some inroads in this veteran laden division. And I'll be curious to see who else starts to emerge from the woodwork as we move into the heart of the season.