Welcome inside the RX Muscle Studios in New York for a special episode of Iron Debate brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. I'm your host Sep Farooqi. Glad you can join us on this Wednesday afternoon as we sit about 2 and 1/2 weeks out of the Arnold Classic. Hard to believe, but in 2 and 1/2 weeks we will be in Columbus, Ohio breaking down the 2016 Arnold Classic. Our coverage brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecnutrition.com. We appreciate all their support in the iron road to the Arnold and of course all the support they're going to be providing us at the Arnold Classic. Four topics, all debate, no agreements on this show as we now introduce our competitors. We first go to Portland, Maine, and introduce the man they call the technician who I believe is actually in Boston this afternoon, Chris Aceto. Chris, how you doing today? Good. Good. I'm actually uh at my sister's house, but I if I look out the bedroom window, I can see bos the Boston Mass's Christmas tree from here. Now, is that actually the Boston Mass or his Christmas tree? And is he in your sister's backyard? Is that where he is? No, he he he doesn't even have a Christmas tree. He just he just he don't put up one of those artificial ones. He just delivers it from behind. So, he's saying he is the Christmas tree. Well, we're moving ahead. He's part of one of the questions and I think I gave away the answer but go ahead keep going. We now go to Guadalajara, Mexico and bring in the man they call boss number two. Of course we're talking about John Romano. John, how you doing tonight? What's up? How is everybody? Johnny, can we see John? Uh John Romano. There he is. Because I wanted to point out to the audience right now that is an image of the most dangerous men in North America right now with that beard. John, you you are bringing it with the beard and the beanie. Well done. It's one one of life's little gests that I would have more hair on my body than on my head. So, uh I decided to capitalize on it. He looks like El Chapo. Whatever the remember Brutus from Popeye. Yes. And I have to say Dave, you know, just from a production standpoint. You look at John right now. Looks like he's in a proper studio with the with a white background and everything like that. So well done John. As we now head out to Florida, newly transplanted New Yorker in Florida. There are zillions of them, but this man stands out to us. He was on our Olympia preview iron debate. And of course, we're talking about the man with a thousand job titles, Factory Mubick. Factory, how you doing tonight? Good man. How's everybody out there? How do you like it down to Florida? It's uh it was pretty cool until we had a tornado pass by my house yesterday and it missed it by like 5 ft. It took out three of my trees. But thank God, you know, they hit the property. So, you were telling us before the broadcast that your particular area had been torn for quite some time. And the moment you moved down is when the tornado decided to hit. Yeah. And there hadn't been a hurricane here in a while. There'll probably be one here this year, too. B business-wise, how's it going down in Florida? I know that was a huge endeavor for you. Yeah, we're doing good. We had to move down here for, you know, just for a bunch of reasons. It's it's bigger warehouse, less money, you know, exportations, importations are coming from Florida, you know. So, it was overall, you know, uh better business opportunity for us to move to fractition company down here. I kept the scores in New York and of course, I'm keeping my clients. I'm still prepping the same amount of clients. So, you know, I'm I'm working, man. You guys know I'm working. And of course, joining us in studio, the man with the final word, Dave Palumbo. Now, Dave, when you look at this cast that we have uh with Chris, with John, and of course, with Factory, this is what you like, especially as we head in to one of the two biggest shows of the year. What I don't understand, Johnny Styles, is how come Faulry looks so good? How come his camera look angle looks better than mine does? He I'll tell you why. They're like HD set it up. Cuz why? Why is it? My girlfriend set up my camera. She did a great job. I'm telling you, you look like you're uh you're on ESPN over there. Oh, that that's awesome, man. Thank you, Dave. She did a good job. Anyway, I I I am looking forward to uh obviously this this debate because the Arnold and the Olympia are the two biggest shows of the year and uh there's always controversy. the the Olympia is kind of always the same group. The Arnold is always like you never know who's going to be there. So, I think this is a good cast and I and I'm interested to see what these guys have to say about it. As we go to our first topic of debate and of course when you talk about a big show, you start with Kai Green. Kai Green who's going to be entering the 2016 Arnold Classic as right now and I use this word of quotes prohibitive favorite going into the show. Here's the question and it's going to be a two-part question. The first we're going to start with the the physical aspect of Kai Green. Physically, is he ready to win this show? When you look at the competition nipping at his heels, namely Justin Compton, who right now it is many trend is many analysts trendy pick to win the show. Cedric McMillan, who really was the darling of last year's show when he finished fourth to a cascade of booze. So, Factory Mubric, we're going to start with you on this one. Physically speaking, do you see Kai primed to win the Arnold? Well, I mean, you can't ever count him out. He He is one of the top two bodybuilders in the world the last few years. Um, you know, he he decided not to compete last year in Olympia. We had the debate about that. Uh, then, you know, the whole Prague thing, pulling out and not doing the finals. I don't I don't think it's it's it's a it's a physical or mental issue with him. I just think, you know, it's he had a lot of stuff going on um from what I heard afterwards, but I mean, you you can't ever count him out. That's Kai Green. Chris Aceto, let's go to you on this one. From a physical standpoint, do you see Kai uh as your odds on favorite to win the Arnold? I mean, he's more of the odds on favorite than certainly the more than Justin Compton, you know? I mean, let's be real. you know, Justin Compton was third last year. I mean, at at you know, and he does not have the amount of uh truly dense truly dense muscularity that Kai has. So, um I think if you put them side by side, I don't think that it's it's uh I think we'll be talking Kai all day long. So Kai, you know, Kai is Kai, which means he's he's crazy, and we mean that in a good sense. So he's he's either going to nail it or he's going to be off. There's absolutely going to be no in between. John Romano, what do you say about Kai Green from a physical perspective heading into the 2016 Arnold? Do you see him as prime to win? I think it depends on what you like. I mean, Kai has a Kai has definitely a unique physique, and I think pound-for-pound, you're not going to find a guy with more muscle than him. And it's and it's interestingly put together, too. So, if you like that sort of alien freak that he is, um, yeah, you know, absolutely physically he's can do it. Um, conditionwise, like Chris said, he's either going to be absolutely 100% on or or went, you know, grazing at the Chinese buffet. It could go either way. So, we, you know, we don't know about that. And, you know, that's that's probably going to lead into part B of this question. I'm sure you're going to ask us about his mental capacity. Absolutely. So, I'll I'll reserve my answer for that. But, um, physically, yes. Yes. I mean, if you are a Kai Green, if you are a Kai Green fan, if you like the Kai Green physique, if you like that kind of freakazoid monster that he is, abs if and he comes in at 100%. There's there's no keeping it from him. I mean, it's his. Let's go to Dave Palumbo for the final word. Physically speaking, Dave, where do you see Kai Green as as as an odds on favorite to coming into this 2016 Arnold? Well, to quote Chris Aceto, uh, we haven't heard very much from Kai. Usually, when you don't hear things from people, it's usually not good news. So, while I I never think I don't think I've ever seen Kai look bad on stage, but I don't think we're going to see a peaked Kai Green. I don't think we're going to see the best version we've seen of Kai Green. I think that that's behind him. Um, I don't think that uh we're going to see an 09 Kai. I think we'll we're going to be let down by whatever version of Kai Green we we we do see on stage because it's not going to be the one we want to see. Uh whether that version will be good enough to win the show, that remains to be seen, of course, because we don't we don't know what everyone else will look like. But I don't think we're going to see the best Kai Green. So before we get to the I guess the the mental perspective of Kai Green and whether or not he has it mentally to go in there and win this big show, uh the factor, let's go back to you on this one. make a case for why Justin Compton will win the 2016 Arnold. Well, last year I sat with Dave in the audience and um we I I think you know I I think we pretty much agreed that if it wasn't for the blur the the blurry water film that that Justin had in his stomach, he would have pushed, you know, he put pushed Dexter for the title. Um even pushed Dexter for for second branch one for second place. Um I think I think Justin is a marvel. I think uh he's always been a marvel. I think his his his his progression has been more than than you know it's been an incredible progression and I've I've been saying he's the air appearance to Mr. Olympia you know for some time already. So if Kai does come off you know which is a possibility like you guys said because he's either going to be on or he's going to be off Justin could win this and he could win you know 2016 classic. So, let's go back to the original question and I guess the part B of that question and that is what Kai Green mentally. And now again to preface what we're talking about mentally, you have to look back to 2014 where he had that press conference meltdown at the uh at the Olympia and then of course the near onstage confrontation with Phil Heath. And then fast forward 3 weeks after that, pulling out of the Prague Pro, which ushered in all sorts of questions as far as where Kai Green was uh mentally as far as his stage in his career. And then of course last year, the last Olympia pulling out uh and of course the drama that ensued not signing the contract, why he didn't sign the contract, and really still an unanswered question. So mentally speaking, Factory, do you see Kai going into this show, the Arnold Classic, and winning it? Okay, here's the thing about Kai. Kai is not a mentally stable person. We all know that, you know, and and I'm not saying that in a bad way. I'm saying that in in a way that he he's he's he believes in himself and and he believes in a lot of things. You know, you talk to him, he talks about the moon, the sun, the clouds, and everything else. So, it's I don't as far as mentally speaking, you know, we we're not we're not, you know, we're not psychiatrists. We're not psychologists. We can't we can't say what me what Kai's mental as me mental mindset is right now. But I mean I don't think it has anything to do with with his mentality. I think it has to do with him getting into the gym training and and the point his body could still hold up. I mean he's still younger than I am. I believe he's 40 years old. Dex is, you know, in his late 40s. So I don't I don't know. I don't I don't think the mentality is a big deal, man. It just, you know, it got to him about, you know, you know, people people not giving him enough prank credit, you know, and and that's what, you know, that's what caused the conference um between the conference, you know, build up between him and Phil and then, you know, Phil always winning and Kai not winning, you know, that caused some friction on stage, you know. So, I it's just a matter of of I think it's just a matter of him being physically ready for the show. Chris Aceto, let's go to you next. Before we get to this part of the question, we had Factory give a case for why Justin Compton can win. And Justin Compton again is is the trendy favorite to beat Kai Green. And again, we mentioned Cedric McMillan and finishing fourth last year. Many consider him to be a dark horse coming into this 2016 Arnold. Make a case for why Cedric McMillan might slide into that winner circle. Well, cuz he beat Justin Compton last year. Justin's gut was hanging out and he had no separation. And it took Arnold Schwarzenegger, the the greatest bodybuilder of all time to for the first time since they've been having the show for 22 years to stand up and say or mention a bodybuilder by name. I mean, you know, you know, and we all like pretend it didn't happen in retrospect. I mean, the guy went to the the next day and took out, you know, took the judges to the woodshed on on the call, right? Yeah. Yeah, you know, so I mean that's that's you know based on showdown number one, Justin versus uh you know Cedric. I would say physically Cedric came out on top. Um and god forbid if some if Cedric had the gut that you know that Compton had last year, right? People would be like screaming over it. His his gut was ridiculous last year. The the the X factor is how big was is his gut going to be this year? You don't know. That said, you know, I will defend Justin and say, you know, in Australia, he fixed that problem. You know, he looked really good a week later, really good, like a lot better. So, um, but the point is that happened, you know. So, uh, that's comparing and contrasting those two, you know, frankly, Kai is like I I said he would never compete again. I said that at the Prague and wow, that was pretty so far I'm 100% right. Right, Dave? Yes. I mean, he he he pulled out of the Arnold and, you know, he's probably nuttier than Cedric is, you know. So, so maybe maybe having said all that dissed Justin, all Justin has to do is show up. A Branch has to show up because you're dealing with two other people who are, you know, have mental stress running into shows. John Roman, let's go to you on this one. Um, again, we gave both Vaky and Chris an opportunity to make a case for Justin Compton and Cedric McMill. want to give you the same opportunity. Pick one of the two, Justin or Cedric. Make a case for why you think they're going to go in there and and best Kai Green at the show. That's a tall order. I don't know if either of them are going to do that, but um if I were to have to pick between the two, I'm going to go with I'm going to I'm going to side with Arnold and pick Cedric, you know. Um and and the reason I'm going to do that is because I I I just think that I just I just like that physique better, you know, and um I I I think that I think that if we're looking for if we're looking for a means to bring some, you know, some artistic value back to bodybuilding and look at what you know, clean physiques look like and great lines and and you know that X-frame, tiny waist and all of that, then I think Cedric is is is the model citizen for that. So, um I mean if that's the ideal they want to put up there. Unfortunately, it kind of clashes with Kai Green. You can't put the two of those next to each other. But, um uh what can I tell you? They're two different they're they're one's an apple, one's an orange, but still, you know, you got you got to choose what you like best per, you know, you you got to you got to put the the um you know, the the character the the man away and you got to look at the physique and whether it's whatever name attached to it is irrelevant. It's it's the body from the neck down. And you know, you got to you got to see who's who's the top the top dog from that department. And I for me, I think Cedric McMillan is the guy that's going to that should be knocking on the door. So, you don't really put much credence into the angle of Kai Green not being quote unquote mentally prepared. You think his physique, assuming he brings his best, is going to be good enough to stand on its own? Yeah. You know, it's every time we talk about Kyle, we have to talk about his mental state. You know, he is running. We're dealing with an outpatient here. You know, and I I want to advocate for Kai. I don't think that's fair. I mean, you know, some people some people diet like, you know, like really well, and some people get freaking brain dead. And you know, and and I think Kai full of all the carbs in the world is a is is a is a trip to talk to. So I mean, when he's depleted and out there in fairyland, I mean, it's never neverland, it's really difficult to to ascertain whether, you know, what he's doing, what he's whether is he contemplating, you know, running away, is he contemplating coming to the show like in incredible shape? Is he is he contemplating, you know, not showing up? Who he's he's done everything. So, we don't know. It's always an interesting It's always interesting to try to see what he's going to do mentally. Absolutely. He can do it. I mean, he's proven that he's he's Kai has zero to prove in the mental department. He's he's done it all. He's he's the most popular bodybuilder on the face of the earth. More people follow him than anybody else. He He's obviously doing something right. So whether whether we are attracted to his mental state or or it's it's a it's a factor that we you know can consider as a as part of his character. Yeah. You know maybe but I I think Kai both his physique and his persona with his mental problems issues whatever you want to call him me mental conditions he's he's amazing and that's why we come to see these shows. It's it's an attraction. We want to see Kai. We want to see what his mental state is, what his body looks like, what his, you know, combination of all of that together, if he's going to melt down. He's he's entertaining. So, you know, of course, I'm going to I'm always going to defer to him because he makes bodybuilding interesting. Let me give you one more here. And again, we talked about uh pulling out of the Prague Pro, not attending last year's Olympia. This is a question that fans in the back of their minds might be wondering, so I'm gonna give you the crack at this. Do you see any foreseeable way that between now and the next two and a half weeks Kai Green pulls out of this show? I mean, anything can happen. Sure. There's a foreseeable way. Uh, is is it is it probable? No. I think he's doing the show. I don't think there's anything going on that's going to, you know, that that Well, certainly we don't heard anything. And I talked to people, you know, inside the industry. I was talking to, you know, a pretty popular manager today. We were talking about Kai and it all seems like all the lights are green, all systems are go. So, you know, we'll have to wait out two and a half weeks, but I don't think you're going to see any problem. I think you're going to My prediction is Kai's going to show up on stage better than you've ever seen him before and he's going to rock the house because that's what he needs to do. And and Kai's one of those kind of people that ultimately does what he needs to do. Dave, let's get a final word on you this for this one. First, we're talking about Kai Green mentally and whether or not he's mentally ready to go in and win the 2016 Arnold. And of course, I gave all three uh panelists an opportunity to make a case for Justin Compton or Cedric McMillan. So, if you want to have at that as well. All right. I think the the key point, and I think John mentioned it, but didn't really follow up on it. When was Kai his best? Kai was at his best when he was with Oscar. And I think that he's lacking Oscar now. And I think Oscar was the key to Kai's mental stability or at least stability enough to attain his best on stage. I don't think you'll ever keep him completely stable. And I think that some of his kookiness is part of his creativity and what makes him, you know, appealing to us as fans. However, I think Oscar keeps him grounded enough or kept him grounded enough to be his best on stage on the day of the contest. And that's what it's all about. I don't think with Oscar in his corner that that Kai can do it. I know Chris Ace would probably concur with that uh that statement. Uh having said that, Romano also made an interesting comment about bringing balance and I thought you were going to say bringing balance to the force. Who brings balance to the to the bodybuilding industry? And I believe it's Justin Compton. I think he's the man that will bring balance and I think that uh pretty much everyone up on that stage who's who's a who's a contender is is getting old now. And I think we really at this point uh we need a new fresh face to step up, take the spotlight, bring the industry to the next level. And I think Compton is the guy to do it. I think sitting out the Olympia was a smart move on his part this year. I think he's going to come into this show very fresh. He's going to look his best. And I I think he's going to beat Kai Green and I think we're going to see a new Arnold champion. He's going to have tremendous me tremendous momentum going into the Olympia later this year. I think you're out of your mind. It is my birthday. I'm entitled. That's true. That's it. You're not going to go on with that point. Yeah. Why am I out of my mind? I mean, you know, I You said keep your answer succinct. I thought that was succinct. But you just said he's out of his mind, so please carry on. I think I No. When was Kai Green ever in shape without Oscar? Yeah. All right. That was his point. Chris, what do you think about that? I think that's But that's neither here nor there. I'm I'm talking about Justin Compton. We're talking about Kai Green. I thought we were talking about Justin Compton. I think you got it. [\h__\h] You You might get a call from George Fren a little bit. He's been He's been missing an action more than Kai has. Have you heard a piece from him? But you know, to let me finish my point. Chris buried him, I think, in Maine somewhere. Look, you got to have a Justin Compton come along. And the reason is is because just like you said Dave, we've been looking at the same [\h__\h] for years year after year after year. So it it's time the floodgates open and we get some like you know some some fantastic you know marvelous examples of bodybuilders come out of the woodwork like we need like happens every uh few decades. We need we need a we need a uh a floodgate like the '9s to come along and usher in at least a few three four guys that are you know contenders that can give you know Kai Branch Phil everybody a run for their money and m mix up that top row you know Jesus pull pull branch retract that branch [\h__\h] statement can't do this we're going to move on to our next topic of debate again you're watching Iron Debate eight on rxmxmuscle.com brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecnutrition.com. We now go and discuss the 212 division and of course the title on the bottom is going to say Jose Raymond. Will he repeat? And we'll get to that at the end of this conversation. But the marvelous thing about Joseé Raymond is that we're talking about a bodybuilder who now at over the age of 40 really is in his best condition in his peak condition. of course coming off that 2015 uh Arnold Classic Championship. So Christo, we're going to start with you on this one. What is it about Jose that at this age makes him more dominant than he's ever been in his career? He's he's the the simple answer. He's come into his own uh mentally. You know, there's you know uh there's there's the intangible in bodybuilding called confidence. It's funny, we're coming off this, you know, Kai question, which, you know, supposedly he's confident, but I can tell you he's not confident. So, uh, you know, the thing with Jose is, you know, you could post a picture up of co Jose 11 weeks out and he'd look like he's going to get dead last in the Long Island Amateur Show cuz he's so fat. And you could pick set up, you know, show a picture of, you know, Flex Lewis 11 weeks out peeled out of his mind and Jose will say, "Yeah, I got 11 weeks. I'll take them." And that's not be that's not arrogant. It's just, you know, he knows he's got a lot of experience at this point. And he's had a lot of success in the last two or three years. And it's just building it's building his level of confidence, but also his level of maturity in the gym. He knows exactly. I went down to see his workout the other day and uh and you know what I can tell you is he's training to win the show. Um anyone who's a bodybuilder factory can tell you when you hit the groove and you know like I'm going to win this show. You can just feel it. I'm not saying he's going to win the show, but I'm answering the question what's changed for him and it's just his level of maturity knowing his body. uh having the maturity to say, you know what, I can't do I can't train hard today. I'm cutting the workout down to 20 minutes or having the maturity to say, I'm on like extremely low carbs, but I feel killer and I'm going to, you know, do an hour and a half of back. And I think that's what's made the difference for him in the last two years. Th those intangibles. Facto, go to you on this one. What do you see out of Jos Raymond at this stage of his career? He's gotten better and better. Um, you have to remember that Jose Raymond started as a middleweight, you know, and from a middleweight he had a grow into a 212, 202 and then actually as a lightweight I think he was when he first started. Um, so he was a lightweight and then all the way up to, you know, middleweight and then 202 and then 212. So, it's a matter of of of muscle maturity settling into the body, you know, those those muscle fibers getting mature and, you know, just the overall training of years. I mean, he's he must have been he must be training for at least 20 years, you know, and I, you know, he's 40 years old. He's not old. I mean, he's, you know, he he he's he could still get better and he has gotten better. Um, but it's a lot what Chris said. you know, it's, you know, he seems to have matured over the years and and have a better understanding of the sport and what it needs, you know, what he needs to do to stay on top instead of, you know, winning a show and then finishing seventh, you know, and doing a show and, you know, not even finishing in the top five. The next show he wins, you know, I mean, now he has a better understanding of what he needs to do as far as training, nutrition, and, you know, he just he's just mature overall. His body's mature and his and his mind is mature, which is more important than anything else. John Romano, what do you see out of Jose Raymond, the Boston Mass right now at this stage of his career, more dominant than he's ever been in his professional career? I I I think it I don't know if it was Chris or or Fries who said it, but he's definitely he's coming into his own. I mean, he's he's he's at that perfect age. He's got the muscle maturity. He's been training for long enough. He's and he's he's a freak. I mean, he's got one of those incredible physiques, you know? He's you put him by himself and he looks six feet tall. He's got everything and it's all in proportion. It's He's got an amazing physique and now he's really learning how to, you know, dial it in perfectly and and, you know, get all the get all everything right. So, I mean, I'm looking for big things from him. I think technically he could be he he could be the winner as long as he wants to be. Dave, let's go to you on the final word on this one. Again, we're talking about Joseé Raymond and and right now, uh, beyond the age of 40, right now showing his best work in his professional career. What do you see out of him and what makes him so dominant at this stage of his career? Well, you know, I got to remember Jos Raymond was a natural bodybuilder for many, many years. I I remember him winning Team Universe at lightweight, welterweight, middleweight, then he moved up to nationals and he finally took the pro. Matter of fact, people were getting pissed that he wouldn't take the pro card because he was winning every year. Uh, and he finally, you know, took the pro card and he he just has made steady gains consistently. And I think that, you know, that's the best way to grow because his his shape and proportion are good, his skin tone is good, and I think like Chris said, you know, mentally now, he believes he can win. He he knocked off Eduardo Korea last year and proved that, you know what, he consistently can beat him. So really, Jose and Flex Lewis are the two top dogs in in the 212 division. And I think when you you know you're at that top position, it does it does give you a certain level of confidence. It also makes the judges know, hey, that's the guy that that that we're looking for. Now, when the judges are looking for you to be the champion, it's a lot easier to win. When they're not looking for you, you can get mis, you know, you can get looked over. You can get missed in the lineup. They might, you know, not they might pick another guy over you for whatever reason or another. He's the guy they're looking for now. So, Jose has every right to be confident going into that Arnold that he's going to win that show because he's he's the defending champion and he's the the number two bodybuilder at the 212 division in the world. Let's get to the second. Extremely good point. Yeah. Go ahead, John. That's an extremely good point. That's it's it's the judges are looking for him. That's that's an incredibly important aspect of of the whole thing and and and you know something that he's got to contend with that maybe a lot of the other guys competing next to him don't. So you know he's got that extra layer of of u you know complication over what he's doing. And that's an extremely good point. The judges are looking for him. They're looking for him to be the best Jose Raymond and that and and their eyes are on him. So yeah, that that's an incredibly important aspect of his whole thing. Well, of course he is going in as a champ. And again, there is that saying, some agree, some disagree. You have to knock the champ out. But he's going to have some stiff competition. Earlier today, we had David Henry on live with. If you're watching us live on YouTube, you can find that interview on rxmuscle.com and of course on our YouTube channel. So, he's going to have to go up against David Henry, Hide Yamagishi, Charles Dixon, Guy, Cesternino, a very uh tough squad in the 212 division. So, John, we're going to go to you on this one. Do you see Jose repeating first of all, and if not, who out of that crop, David Henry, Heday, Charles Dixon, Guy, Sister Nino, do you see dethroning him for the 2016 title? you know, this this this two uh 212 class is is getting better and better and better every year. I I think um to personally I think you see better physiques in the 212 than you see in the open because these guys are always work for some reason they're working harder. Uh you know, David Henry is is definitely a a factor if he can put it back together the way he did in the in the old 202 days. Um, I haven't seen a really good David Henry since for a while now. Um, Heday is another, you know, he Heday looked amazing at the Olympia. I thought that was his best the best physique he's ever presented. So maybe he's found the secret and he's getting better and better and better. So yeah, the competition in the 212 is definitely fierce and there's amazing bodybuilders in there that the the competition is really deep and Jose's got his hands full. Can he repeat? Absolutely. Will he repeat? Got to wait the show. Dave Factory, what do you think as far as Jose Raymond's prospect for repeating? And if not, who out of that core of David Henry, Hidi Yamagishi, Charles Dixon, and Guysino do you see coming out on top? Well, I mean, the odds on favorite for the show is is Jose Raymond. He's a, you know, he's a champion. He finished second to Flex Twilla, Flex Lewis at the Olympia. Um like you know like like we was mentioning earlier you know the judges are looking for him to win. The judges see the new him. They like the new him you know and him you know him coming in you know even better each show. It puts him as a favor. Um that being said you know I would have him in first place. Um I think David has made you know some great um changes over over the last year. You know he was away from bodybuilding for a while. Um, so I think from last year this year, you know, you're going to see something different. Um, David is, you know, he's he's I think he's a eight ninetime IB champion. So, you know, he's won a lot of shows, you know, so he he could he could put it together. Um, of course, Sav, you know, his disadvantage is his legs, but they have come up a lot. Uh, and then and then, you know, then you have like then you have guys, you know, who's won shows, but he lost to Charles Dixon, but he's also beaten Jose in the past, you know. Then you have Charles Dixon, you know, who's beating Guy, you know. So, it's it's a lot of, you know, going back and forth. But, I mean, if if you had if you if I had to pick three people, um, the top three, I would go with with uh Jose Raymond. I would go with uh David Henry and, uh, in Hei. Um, Hei at 212 in shape. He 212 out of shape does not look right. You know, even and even in the open, he just did not look right. But if he comes in that Chris could get good conditioning like he did at the Olympia, you know, he has the portions with with his posing, with his presentation, you know, and he does very well. So I would pick him third in that lineup. So Factory has Jose won, David Henry 2, and Hide Yamagishi who finished second last year coming in third. Chris Aceto, what say you? Um, I I think it's going to come down to uh Jose and Heday. That's how I think the judges are going to call it. And I say that because Heday um lost to Jose by a point last year, which was stunning because I didn't have him first or second last year, even though he looked really good. Um, I had him third distantly. So, you know, the the real mix I would expect is to be Jose um Heday and um and David Henry and uh you know and and I'm sure everyone will agree it it's going to come down to conditioning because you know we don't even these guys condition will destroy you know the the the open guys condition, you know, I mean, the the level of condition that Heday is capable of, that David Henry's capable of, that Guy Cino's capable of, that Jose Raymond's capable of, even Charles Dixon is capable of. It's it's, you know, it's almost laughable, you know, because they're they're just going to, you know, and they're they're I you know, for some reason they're they're all nuts and warriors, you know, everyone else is going to be worried about their weight and they're going to be worried about if they're full enough and if, you know, if they're you know, these guys are just going for all out war peeled and that's what makes it so exciting. So it's it's it's still hard to call and you know I would say Jose is the favorite but I would never say that he's a shoe in by any means because anything can happen and he's been just two years ago what he was fifth in the show. Right. So Dave we have factory picking Jose David Henry and Hide Yamakishi. Chris going Jose Heday and David Henry. How do you see the 212 division shaking out? You know, I've been waiting probably for what when did we have Christian Duke on Iron Debate? About two or three months ago. I've been waiting two, three months for this moment. I am texting Jim Manion at this moment. And I and Jim Manion texted me happy birthday because we share the same birthday. And I texted him back on the show. Happy birthday, Jim Manion. Hey Dave, put the phone away. All right, phone's down. Show us. How's that for a for a comeback? Wow. And and that was a real call. That was a real That was a real text, right? Yeah. Real text. Exactly. Uh my top three, uh I go with Jose because he's the defending champion and I I like Jose, so I always have to favor my friends and uh I you know, I would normally go Heday Yamagishi second, but I got to tell you, after having uh David Henry on live with today and talking to him and seeing the level of confidence that he's exuding and putting out, I think he's going to be his best. I think he's going to give Jose a run for his money and he's gonna he's going to finish a very close second and heed is going to wind up in the third position. So I go along with Fauler's prediction. So there we have it. John, you want to chime in with your top three as well? I'm I'm going to agree with I'm going to agree with Dave. Although actually, you know what? No, I'm not. I'm going to say I'm going to I'm going to put Heday in second. That's what I'm going to do. Heday second, David Henry third, and and Jose first. All right. So we all have David Henry finishing in the top three along with Heday and of course the defending champion Jose. I think I think I think Guy Serino is definitely a dark horse. I mean, if if Guy comes in peeled, which he always is in condition, you know, I mean, he's gotten better, you know, the last I was going to ask I was going to ask Bakri Guy. Chris, go on. I was going to ask Bakri's opinion of Guy. What's my what? I'm just going to ask you what's your opinion of guy because And you said the dark horse cuz I agree but I didn't want to say it, you know. I didn't have to relax. I didn't believe. you know, you're his coach, but I'm I'm a very good friend of his. Um, I think I think guy has been overlooked for a long time. I mean, you look at his conditioning, he's shredded glutes, shredded hamstrings, you know, he's just he's just always in condition. So, he's won shows that he's looked fantastic. And then there's other shows that he hasn't placed well like for example in the Olympia that he's looked like he has when he's won show. So it's just a matter of where the judges want to place him. I mean I think Guy is the most one of the most hardest working bodybuilders in the world. His mentality is that of a warrior. He has a great coach and I you know and saying he's a dark horse means that you know if anybody's out of shape he could come in in third or or in second place you know because he deserves it. I mean, he's always in condition. He's never like he's never fat, watery, or not in condition. Yeah. Again, you're watching Iron Debate on RX Muscle.com. Brought to you by Scitec Nutrition, sponsoring RX Muscles Iron Road to the Arnold Classic 2016. Visit scitecnutrition.com. I'm your host Farooqi. Glad you can join us on this Arnold preview edition of Iron Debate. Earlier on in the day, we had David Henry on live with to check out the entire catalog of live with iron debates, Ask Dave, the 30inut question and answer show with Dave Palumbo, Muscle in the Morning, and all the programming that we do. Check out rxmuscle.com and our YouTube channel. We now move on to our third topic as we now talk figure division. Last year, Camela Rodriguez Mccclure coming in first place at the Arnold and then few months later at the Olympia, it was Latoria Watts dethroning Nicole Wilkins. How do you guys see this division shaking out now? because now you have Camela looking to assert her dominance in the figure division as far as this upcoming Arsenal and then you have the newly minted Olympia champion in Latoia Watts looking to really stake her claim in this division. You have some other quality competition as well with Candace Lewis. How do you So factory will go to you on this one first. Pamela, what do you rate her prospects as as she goes up now against the defending Olympia champion Latoya Watts? I think Loria is a genetical beast that has non-existent waist, uh quads that flare, and uh if she comes in condition, I don't think anybody could beat in the world right now. I mean, that includes Nicole Wilkins, you know. I mean, Latoya is just getting better, better, and better. And I think this is her time. And you know, we might see, you know, a good run of, you know, of of Olympia titles for her. Um, as far as as Camela, um, I mean, she won last year. You know, she she looked fantastic what she won last year. Um, Candace was doing the show also. Candace, you know, Candace has done very well. Um, it's going to be pretty competitive, but I mean, Latoya is a freak and and if she comes in shape, nobody's beating her lineup. It's just it's just not happening. John Romano, what do you make of the figure division as Camela Rodriguez Mccclure? Of course, we also had on live with yesterday the interview is available on YouTube channel. The defending Arnold champion now going in looking to defend her crown against Lator Watson as Factory said really who is set primed for a potential dynastic run. How do you see Figure shaking out? I I completely agree with Factory. Her physique, Latoya Watt's physique is just [\h__\h] There's It just Where did it come from? What planet? It's not from Earth. Okay. His waist is like this. And then, you know, she's got the quads and her back is like you can sell ad space on it. So, forget it. She's that she needed to come along. Now that she's here, she's not going anywhere until she wants to. That's it. everybody else second place on down you are not beating her unless you're related to her and even then it's probably gonna be difficult. Chris, now of course you had a front row seat in Vegas. Is your opinion that strong uh in favor of Lator Watts or or do you give Camela based off what you saw last year uh in her win at the Arnold um a shot to repeat her own title? No, I turned to Dave last year and of course I'm pulless. I said uh which is a good thing. You know when you your like mother goes to a show and she picks the winner and she says I know nothing about bodybuilding and and let's say the judges get it wrong at some amateur show and and the mother you say like the mother says well this guy had you know been a vaper and this and that. I just turned to Dave, that's the analogy, and I said I I was blown away with Latoya Watts and said, "Who's this?" And he told me who it was. And I said, "That's the best body I've seen since Linda Murray at the 1989 uh North America in Vegas." Because when when Linda Murray came out that year, she won the North America, Johnny Morant won the North America, and when Linda came out, I said, "There's your Miss Olympia for the next 10 years." M and I mean it's it's it's the kind of uh excitement you get when you see a tremendous tremendous physique and I think she can absolutely dominate. I think she's uh beautiful. I think she's I hate the word marketable. She's ridiculously marketable as far as I'm concerned. Meaning what better she's just like a specimen. What better body can you have to say this is the IFBB's representation of uh of this division? It'd almost be like saying, you know, take a Bob Paris structure and and and put 60 lbs of ripped muscle on, you know, he'd win for 40 years, you know. So, I can't see it being beat, you know, at this point in time. Dave, we're going to go to you for the final word on this one. Now you uh it's well documented. You've been a longtime believer in Ltoria Watson in many senses. It's it's it's as if your opinion was really validated this past Olympia. But again, she is going up against the defending Arnold champion in in Camela Rodriguez Mccclure. Uh how do you see the shaking up at the top of the figure division? Now, you know, I've been the biggest Latoya Watts advocator probably of anyone out there. Soon as she won the USA, I said she's going to win the Olympia. Uh, and you know, I'm glad that that she proved that I was right. Now, having said that, I did see an ultimatum. I did see an ultimatum. I did see a letter put on the NPC website which said that they're they want the figure girls a little softer and a little smaller. Um, last year at the Arnold Classic, Latoya was fourth. I don't know how. And Camela won. Six months later at the Olympia, Latoya wins and Camela is fourth. Okay. So, I I don't know what happened, but I do know one thing. After the Olympia, they made all these referendums about what they want in in the divisions. So, while I love Latoya's physique, she is extreme. Okay. So, is Candace Lewis extreme. Who knows what's going to happen in 2016? What if the judges say, "Hey, we don't want someone this extreme. We want a a more toned down version of of a figure representative because I could see Latoya Watts putting on five to seven pounds of muscle and winning women's physique." I got news for you. She's got enough muscle and she's got the shape. She would dominate that division for for 20 years if she wanted to probably. So, um I'm not so sure she's going to win this show. Um I'm nervous for her because I don't know what what the powers that be even though I just texted Jim Manion. Um really think about again really think about you know what the division I just did myself. I text if I I wouldn't bet on this. I wouldn't bet on her, you know, assuming they accept that that she's acceptable uh representation and her physique fits what they want. I agree with those guys. No one no one beats her. But always expect the unexpected in bodybuilding. Hey Dave, can I ask you a question? I mean, when when when the NBC and IBB comes out, they come out, well, especially the IB, when they come out with these new standards, do you think they apply to the Arnold and to the Olympia? Because the freaks are the ones that win the shows all the time. I mean, I can see the smaller shows that they apply the standards to, but as far as like bodybuilding and figure and stuff like that. Do you think they they really looking for these standards at the two biggest shows of the world? Good question. I'll hit you with I'll hit you with one name. Do you remember Ana Shriner? Yeah. Anya Shriner won the Arnold Classic the year after they said they were downsizing the women. She was beautiful girl, small waist, but thin. She probably couldn't win women's physique right now. and she won the Arnold. Everyone was up in arms. They they made a huge statement at that Arnold Classic and it kind of followed suit the rest of the year, but then they then they went back to the old way. But the point is sometimes to make a bold statement, they can do it at the first show of the year, which is the Arnold Classic. So that's why I'm saying who knows what could happen at the Arnold. They might say, you know what, we're let's make a statement about what we want women's phys what we want figure to look like. And that's why I would be nervous if I was Latoya because who the hell knows what they're going to do. That is going to bring us to our last topic on this show. Again, you're watching Iron Debate brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecutrition.com sponsoring our coverage, our Iron Road to the Arnold and then of course all our wallto-wall coverage of the 2016 Arnold Classic. So, keep it a lot to rxmuscle.com. Our fourth and final topic is well, the first three topics were about specifically about the Arnold competition and the competitors. The fourth is going to be a little bit more general. So the question is how IFBB and NPC judges should be selected. Now currently if somebody's an aspiring judge, they have to test judge at a certain number of shows until their chairman thinks that they're ready to be a judge, officially certified judge. So here's the question. Should there be a course, a standardized course that an aspiring IFBB NPC judge should be required to take? And then who should teach it? Should there be a certification for as far as who's qualified to teach that kind of a course? So, John Romano, we're going to go to you on this one. What do you think should be a criteria as far as instructing and vetting and then eventually selecting IFBB and NPC judges? It's a good question and and a tough one, too. Um, cuz who knows? I I think I I think in all reality, if you're going to teach a course on how to judge, then you need a judge, a head judge, the judge that determines the judging. And it's this one person that needs to explain the criteria of the judging to the other people that he wants to judge because the idea is you got to look at it one of two ways. The jud you, the judge, the judge either wants all the other judges to agree with him or he wants all the other judges to have to have their own assessment of the physique and hopefully more than more of them than not will favor one competitor or the other. So, how do you get to that point? Well, obviously there's a criteria that you need to, you know, address that you're going to be looking for in the course of, you know, teaching people how to how to how to judge. But I I think, you know, this test judging is kind of strange because it puts people in a in an odd position at at shows because it's when it counts. But I think if the IFBB or the NPC had an actual camp or a course or something that judges needed to take and become certified in, I think that would be a great idea. And I think that they would be able to centralize the concept of what the criteria is and continually maintain that criteria because you have one central agency, you know, depicting what that criteria is and teaching what to look for to the the potential judges. If it's structured like that, then yes, if you just got, you know, random scattering of people all across the country test judging, I I don't agree with that. No. Valkyrie Mberg, we go to you next. Where do you stand on this as far as uh how IFBB and NPC judges, aspiring judges, uh should be taught, certified, and eventually selected for real IFBBNC shows. Okay, this is a very controversial topic. Um, we're talking about a subjective sport. So, if you're talking about teaching a course, the person who's teaching a course is going to teach a course according to what they think is a winning physique. Um, that would be the problem with teaching a course. Now, I judge many shows Steve Weinberger from 2005 to 2014. Almost all his New York shows, some shows in in Jersey were mad, a few team universe. Um, I was fortunate enough to have, you know, Jim Manion as the head judge at most of these shows. So, you know, I also had Maz, I also had Steve there, Bev. So, we had I had I had a good amount of people that to learn from. That being said, I also have been following bodybuilding since like the late 80s, you know. Um, my criteria to a winning physique, let's take bodybuilding for example, um, is a physique that's pleasing at the eye, good conditioning, you know, enough muscularity, but a lot of people don't know how to judge. I mean, you get some of these pros that are test judges and you sit them as a judge eventually and you're like, what the [\h__\h] is going on? I mean, what what what like what are they looking at? You know, and then you get other judges that, you know, they don't know what they're doing. So, it's and that's the honest fact. That's why I That's why I would I say it's very controversial. In my case, you know, um I'm a controversial person myself. So, I rank people and I put people in the way I want to. I was never that that judge that well, you know what, when the head judge changed somebody, I erased my sheet, you know? I didn't do that. I kept I kept to to whoever who I picked on my sheet. So, I mean, I don't honestly like when Dave gave me the question, I knew it was going to be a controversial question. Um, and I don't really have an answer to it, but you know, you have to pick people that have experience in bodybuilding. You know, you cannot get somebody from the street or or even like a bodybuilder. I mean, maybe you should do like an IQ test. You know, if you don't have a certain IQ, you can't judge. I mean, honestly, it's like if somebody shows you sit at, you're like, "What the [\h__\h] is going on? How does that person not beat that person when that person looks six six weeks out, you know? So, it's it it's a tough it's a tough um question. It's a it's a controversial question. Um and I just think, you know, there's a lot of ways of doing it, but you you need to educate the person to understand what a winning physique is. And not one person could do that because it's it's a subjective sport, you know, and it's tough, man. It's just I wish I could really answer it, but it's tough. Chris, where do you stand on this as far as how IFBB and NPC judges should be educated, certified, and selected? Holy [\h__\h] Great answer. It's It's like taking a You know what? You can you can send me into an art museum with the greatest art curator and we can spend hours and hours and hours of you know teaching me how to appreciate abstract art or whatever classical art or whatever you know subject matter you you want to discuss and I can put a lot of effort into learning how to digest that and I can still be [\h__\h] in knowing what I'm talking about. So the problem we face, of course, is is how do you teach someone to be a good judge? You know, I I agree with Fauler. You know what? I mean, I'm putting a little bit of words into his mouth. You you can't teach anyone, but I would feel very comfortable. You know what in this show, you know, I I was muted. I didn't know I when we were talking about the 212 I wanted Fakri's opinion on Guy and I wanted his op opinion because I know he knows what he's talking about. That's what makes a good judge and I was waiting for him to give me some insight like you know just make sure he's full enough or make sure he's absolutely peeled you know to you know maximize what he brings to maximize his placing. And I and I and I I'd do the same with Dave, you know? I mean, how many times have I said to Dave, "Dave, what do you think?" I send pictures to Dave. Dave, what do you think? He's four weeks out. What do you think? You think you should come down further? You think he's full enough? What I'm asking him really is judge the way he looks now and tell me what, you know, not necessarily tell me what to do, but judge the physique now, you know, with two weeks left, 10 days left, a week left, four weeks left, and tell me what you think. It's people who who have been around the sport long enough to just it comes naturally. Um, and you know, because of that, I I I don't think it's something that you can teach. And I think you can be the the fattest, slobbiest looking person and have the greatest eye going. I know people I run into at shows now. I've known them for 25 years and I love seeing them because over the years I've got to know them some somehow and I value their opinion and they can digest a bodybuilding contest and dissect it or a physique like like you know Arnold better than Arnold Lee Haney and Joita put together and you know they're not judges but you know they're not taking courses either. So it's AI agree with Farry. It's a very difficult question. Um, you know, we're in an opinion-based sport. And that's why when it comes to things like when people say, uh, you know, how do you think so and so, do you think he should have won? I usually say, damn it, yes, I should have. This these are the reasons why. And usually I follow that up with, of course, they're just my opinions. And they could be bias. I don't even know where my bias lies sometimes. So, it's it's uh I'll defer it to Dave. Al Capitan to see what he has to say. Davis, get your final word on this one. What do you make uh as far as aspiring IFBB NPC judges being trained, certified, and eventually selected for shows? Um, I think it would be nice to have a course that they have to take, you know, whether it be at like Nationals weekend, you know, they they do some judging courses. They might even do that. I don't know. But I'd like to have there should be some people teaching how to judge properly. But I think the bottom line is look, the the two best judges out there right now are Jim Manion and Steve Weinberg. And I'm not saying that to kiss ass. I've been wa I've watched them judge. They very very rarely ever get it wrong. There's never controversy when they're the head judge. Okay, that tells me they know what they're talking about and I can talk shop with them afterwards and I could tell that they they can justify their decisions and they make logical sense. All right, having said that, there are a lot of judges that don't know what the [\h__\h] they're talking about and I and I'll talk to after and it's like talking like to the wall basically because there's the illogicality is is unbelievable. They don't really have a good grasp of what they're doing. You know what? And and Jim Mannion and Steve Weinberger know who those people are. They should get tossed off the panel. Not everyone's a great judge. You can have a great bodybuilder who's not a good judge. Just like you have a great football player who might not be a good football coach, and then you might get a a football player who wasn't such a great player, but he's an awesome coach. Same thing with judges. They know who the good judges are. They know who the bad ones are. Get rid of the bad ones. Throw them off. Just say, "Look, you know what? We can't use you anymore." and the the people who get the the decisions right and who knew what they're talking about. Those are the people you keep on the panel. And don't feel bad if people are getting old and they maybe they can't sit there all day anymore because they're 70 years old. These judges, sorry, you're retired. Uh we'll retire you with honors. Next person on that panel, I want people that are going to be able to stay alert, judge each class, and have a reason, and be able to justify their decisions. And there are people out there who can do that. Um, and I think those are the people who should be judging because you know what? These athletes put so much time and effort into preparing for these shows. They they spend a ton of money. These, you know, these the outcome of these shows can dictate whether they make a living or not after the show is over. It's important that we give them the best judges. And I say take the top echelon of judges that we know are good. Let them be the selection process. Weed out the crap and keep the good people. Finally, on a wrap-up note of this topic, and again, we've talked about bodybuilding being a a subjective art form. So, factory, we're going to start with you on this one. Is there any way to standardize judging of bodybuilding or or is this always going to be a subjective art form in the end? It can't be because there there's no objective way of winning. Like, I can't pin John Romano. John Romano can't knock me out. I can't hit a home run for Johnny Styles, you know. I I can't throw a football to Dave Palumbo. I can't, you know, I can't I can't wrestle with with Christo. So, there's no objective way of winning it. It's just like it's it's spotty eyes and and whoever the, you know, like I said, like like Dave mentioned, you know, the two best coaches, I mean, the two best judges out there are Jim Manion and Steve Weinberger. And and like I said earlier, I was blessed to have them when I started judging to learn from them. But, you know, I don't I don't see a way I don't see a way of having an objective way of of judging any of these divisions because there's no objective way of winning. We're not lifting weights. We're not squatting. We're not bench pressing. We're not we're not curling, you know. There's there's no strength contest. It's it's a it's it depends what, you know, what I like and what John likes, what Chris likes, what Dave likes, you know, and and hopefully, you know, we we know what we're doing and we place a person high enough because these athletes are busting the ass. I know when I competed, I killed myself. I I never I I never I was always in condition, you know, and I would I would [\h__\h] die. I would literally [\h__\h] die if I had to to get on stage. And to for me to be judged in front of six, seven, eight people and not get judged correctly, you know, nowadays, I mean, I I wouldn't even know how to how to react or or would I even come back to bodybuilding. So, we can't we can't discourage these athletes by by not having the right judges. And you know, and to answer the question, no, I don't think there's a way of objectively, you know, judging each division. But we need we need the right judges. We have to keep the right judges. We have to we have to, you know, we have to give them a reason to to keep judging and and and just keep the best ones on boards and and the ones that don't are not good judges, which which a lot of us know are not good judges, kick them out, say goodbye. I'm sorry. Do something else. You know, John, what do you think? Is there a way to bring any sort of uh I guess to standardize the judging procedure or like factory said it's always going to be a subjective art? Yeah, I I don't know. I think so. There was this guy he was from Poland I think or Czechoslovakia many years ago back in the 90s and what he had done he he created he was a scientist and he created this process to electronically digitally judge a bodybuilding show and basically what he did was he had an image of the perfect physique in hitting each of the mandatory poses and this was a computerenerated perfect physique now and then what would happen is he take the competitors and he would lay their images on top of the of the, you know, the engineered perfect physique and the computer program that he wrote would crunch every single, you know, number pertaining to how each line up from the bodybuilder to the to the anatomical perfection. And within a certain percentage, each person hit that ideal, you know, within a percent. So yeah, I mean it was pretty interesting, but you know what what it did was it focused the attention to who decides what that what that image looks like? Who decides what that, you know, anatomically perfect, you know, physique is. Dave, you have a you have a trophy in your in your office in the house with that you that's got this physique from this guy. He's in I think he's in like a one arm on one bicep up and one hand on his hip or no both hands up over his head doing like a myth pose. And that to me that is like the ultimate. His lats come all the way down to his waist. He's got, you know, sick quads. He's got an amazing arms. So is is is that image that you're going to compare everybody else to that way blown out you know freakazoid or are they going to determine you know what ex how much perfection you can have in a human being then you could have a standardized judging once you agreed on that and had to agree that everybody had to sort of electronically not subjectively but actually physically measure up to that ideal then you could have a standardized method of of voting and you wouldn't need judges. It's kind of like ordering at McDonald's now that they want $15 minimum wage. You order from a machine. Chris, where do you stand on this one? On the uh on the judging, right? Yes. No. McDonald's. Yeah. Or McDonald's. Whichever direction you want to go in this one. I heard the word McDonald's. Uh, what is the topic? I couldn't topic. Aspiring IFBB. Aspiring IFBB and NPC judges. Should there be a you drinking schlitz over there with Jose? Should there be a course? Should be there be a course? Should Should there be exactly a curriculum to to get them up to speed, I guess? And there should be a certification process. But that wasn't the question. Make a question. Is there a way to standardize judging? Oh yeah. Well, we're at part B now. So, there's no You know what the problem is? I I don't think you can give a course and the problem is if you try to standardize judging then you you know you you you what what happens is you know what I I don't want is is people I listen I agree with Dave's statement that we man are the best judges and uh I I I can say that you know on a disagreement I had with Weineberg when I listened to his opinion I'm like well [\h__\h] it you're right you know what I mean and so you know and then I I think once once I heard his opinion I realized you know what I think the other judges had it wrong so I told him we just need a dictatorship we don't need the other judges but the pro the point is is you know I I just don't want to get to the point where you have other judges wanting to agree with quote the two best judges, right? You know, it it's it's really hard to say because it's just such an opinionated sport. Um, and you know, it it it if if you give a course, what's the expectation that everyone agrees with the two people we just said who are the best judges, right? Pretty much. And then I mean, by definition, if you give a course and it's given by it's an eight-week course and every single day they meet with Manion and Weineberg. I'm just make you know illustrating the absurdity of it and you have you know all 400 people learning how to judge then then there's no variance in opinions and I I think variance in opinions are good and that that's why you know when I say damn it this guy's number one if Faulry says Chris you're out of your mind you know take another look at it or if David says Chris you're wrong I'll take another look at it and say well you guys are right or you know what I still stick by my opinion but I see your And and that's the that's the problem that we've always had in bodybuilding is people view physiques in a different way. I mean it's easy for us to pick you know you know uh you know first second third when it's clear but you know when it gets bunched up you know what are you going to do? go buy a computer model or whatever or go buy uh you know uh I I just I don't know if there's any big upside on a course. I just hate courses because they sound like credibility but they're not cred credible. That's why I mean you can have a guy who never took no courses ever and he's a great judge and he's a fat pig. And then you could have former competitors who are in tremendous condition, right? Shape all their entire 10 years after competing. They won pro shows. They take the courses and they still suck as judges. Davis, get your final word on this one. Is there any way to standardize judging and bodybuilding? Or is it always going to be a subjective art form? Branch Warren vers Cedric McMillan, which you like better? I bet if I interview a 100 people, you'll get 50/50. That's actually Actually, I disagree with you. If you went to the Atlantic City, you get like 99% won. Well, then there is a way to standardize it. Then there is a way and maybe the best judges need to educate the other judges on what the right way. I disagree with you. Let me let me disagree on one point. One point and and and this is this is the oddity of judging. I I will to this day say and and you can disagree with me or faculty can disagree uh or John can disagree at the Atlantic City for example. You had Cedric standing next to uh Branch Branch and that's it. It was a twoperson call out. And interestingly, the overwhelming consensus everywhere on the planet Earth was that Cedric was beating him easily. Not easily, but one. Okay. Phil gets a call out with four different people. When Phil is in a call out with four people in prejudging, it becomes this like, "Wow, was Phil that good?" But if you put Phil side by side with those same four, he probably can beat him handily. You You know what I mean? It's It's No, what I what I mean is some people like more muscle and more conditioning like Branch and some people like, you know, beauty. Okay. My point was this. I didn't make my point then. My point is when you compare two people alone, they look different compared to those same two people with five. True. And that changes the dynamic a lot of times in the judging. And what I mean by that is in Atlantic City, Cedric looked vastly different next to Branch than when you put him next to Compton, next to Branch, next to uh uh Dexter from the Arnold. And the same thing, you know, everyone was [\h__\h] on Phil after this year's prejudge in of the of the Olympia. One of the reasons is because you had a four-person call and not only did you have a fourth person call, you had them all mixed up over and over versus years before you just have Phil and Kai. And then you know you ask me after the prejudge and say I wanted to give it to Kai and I was rooting for Kai and Phil's most muscular knocked him out at the end and you know I think his side chest and and possibly you know so the dynamic is different. So I think in the what it it's getting away from standardized judging but sometimes it's easier to judge when you're only judging two people versus four. It's much easier for me to judge to jar the distinctions on who is different and you're not talking as much as apples and oranges. Branch does good in a lineup of six people. When he's right next to only one person, he falls apart because you get to the back and you say, "Wow, his back is weak." You get, you know, the condition in the back shots is weak. His body structure is odd. But if he's in there of with six people, you say, "Well, he's gnarly. He's got thin skin. He's got a crazy mouse muscle. These guys had weak that." and and he starts to, you know, move up. That is going to do it for this episode of Iron Debate, brought to you by Scitec. He's at the top of his head on the camera. Once again, all this coverage of the iron road to the Arnold sponsored by Scitec Nutrition for all the athlete interviews, all the personality interviews that we're doing on live with this show, iron debate, muscle in the morning, ask Dave, all the programming that we have featured for you. It is available on our YouTube channel and of course on rxmuscle.com. Sign up for the muscle central forum. That is where you're going to get all the analysis, Dave's live playbyplay during the Arnold, that and a whole lot more for faco, Chris Aceto, of course, Johnny Styles, our producer, and Dave Palumbo. I'm Sad Farooqi. We'll see you next time.