a thousand. Congratulations to Dave Palumbo and Johnny Styles and everybody at Muscle in the Morning um on your thousandth episode. Um I'm really happy and honored that you asked me to be a part of this and I just want to say from a competitor's point of view, thank you guys for lifting our spirits throughout the season and giving us little positive vibes and words of encouragement. I know I really appreciate it and I'm sure I speak for everybody else, too. Um, so I just want to say thank you and congratulations. Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Tuesday, January 10th, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. In case you haven't noticed, USRussian foreign relations are pretty rocky these days. But maybe a fourth straight Fitness International title is just what the doctor ordered to patch up things. Late this weekend, new training footage surfaced of a thoroughly impressive looking Axana Graina getting in some late night ab action as she prepares to add yet another chapter to her championship legacy. Over the past three seasons, Gisha's run has been so completely dominant that quite frankly, she's been in a class all by herself. And if she keeps up this pace, she's going to cruise to another easy win at this year's Arnold Classic. Speaking of returning Arnold Classic champs, no one in the entire men's physique division has more on the line right now than Brandon Hendrickson. Nearly one year to the day that he marched into Columbus and walked out with a career-defining victory, Hendrickson is scheduled to make his highly anticipated return to the international stage to defend his title. Since the announcement of Hendrickson as the champ last year at the Arnold, talk has not stopped about who the next champ may be. But if Brandon can come in even remotely close to replicating that jaw-dropping look he brought in last season, he has a very good chance to make it all happen again for a second time in a row. Brandon Hendrickson's run for a repeat certainly isn't going to be an easy task, especially when you have a buzzsaw like Ryan Terry standing in your way. The third-year pro has emerged into an all-out superstar in his own right and is heading into the season with a whole lot of momentum at his back following last year's second place Olympia finish. From a conditioning standpoint, I'm not sure if there's anyone in men's physique who comes in as consistently conditioned as Terry has over the past few seasons. And if he's added a few quality pounds of muscle to help him battle it out against the bigger boys, this guy might be almost impossible to beat. Heading into last year's British Nationals, Muscle in the Morning was the first to let you know that Luke Sando was going to be the man to beat. And now that he's got an overall title and an IFBB Pro card in his pocket, the UK Muscle Machine has his sights on making a splash in his rookie debut at the Arnold Classic. Over the weekend, some new candid posing footage surfaced out of the Sando camp, and I think we can safely say that he's going to be up for the challenge. Sandow looks to have packed on a ton of quality muscle over the offseason and seems like he's just starting to hit his stride from a conditioning standpoint. If he can stay true to his game plan and not just try to come in and outsize the competition, he'll be a legitimate threat to crack the top 10 in Columbus. Has there been anyone in bodybuilding who's been the source of more question marks over the past two and a half seasons than Kai Green? Despite choosing to forego coming back and defending his Arnold Classic title, the Predator doesn't seem to be any worse for the wear these days. Training footage released late last week shows a completely monstrous looking version of Kai manhandling four plates with ease on the shoulder press. Whether or not Kai Green is going to compete at any point in 2017 is still anyone's guess right now, but I'll tell you what, a 100% Kai Green is still pretty damn dangerous. And if this guy decides to go into allout mode again, there aren't too many guys out there who are good enough to stop him. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo! Move.