on rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, better known as askdave, brought to you by species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host Adep Farooqi. This is your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. All your questions on diet, training, supplementation. IMFB pros, competitions, life in general, whatever it is on your mind, it is all on the table. You can join us on the rxmuscle.com muscle central forum, our official Instagram page. If you're watching us live on YouTube, you can ask your question on the chat box on the right hand side of the video player. If this is your first time watching us, hit the like button, subscribe below. You're not going to miss any of our shows, segments, or updates as we bring in Dave Palumbo. Dave, a lot of updates right now with species nutrition. We get questions all the time. Why don't you fill the audience in? Well, a lot of people have been asking me about when we're getting these ISO bags in. Uh my good friend Dave Volner over at ISOBag makes a species nutrition ISO bag, six-pack bag where you can put six meals in it. And they're amazing. They're super crazy colored with black striping and everything like that. And it says species nutrition on. A lot of people, they love them. We sell a lot of these things and we were out of them for a while and Dave just sent us a new one. Johnny's bringing it over here. It's a little It's a little different. I think we went This is the smaller one. We have a bigger one. I think it just says Species Nutrition with the thing, but this is pretty much it. And it comes with all the the meal packs in there and the ice packs and you know, it's all good. So, it's in back in stock at species nutrition.com. You can check it out there. Also, we have a very very very limited special on Aqualyze. $9.99. Uh, if you guys are looking for an great herbal diuretic for photo shoots or for a competition, um, I highly advise you use it. You take two pills with each meal the day before the competition or photo shoot. And I'm telling you, you you'll be very, very, very happy with that. Also, I wanted to mention on my Day Palmo website, a lot of people been asking, "When are you guys getting cacao bars back in?" I have my all carb free, sugar-free, 100% uh cacao bars back in stock. They're they've been selling like rapid fire, but we have a pretty good supply this time. I bought a lot of them. So, you can check that at davepalo.com. Also, a lot of people have asked about the next guru course, and that's going to be September 2nd. Hopefully, my shoulder will will be intact by then with the new shoulder replacement I'm getting July 10th. But on September 2nd, uh the guru course will be it should be up on my website within the next day or two if you want to start signing up because we have limited space obviously here. Um so, don't wait too long. Uh, I know a lot of people have been waiting for this next course. So, that's all I got to say and let's get to the questions. S. Well, let's do just that. Let's go to Brooks Clark. Dave, I heard you say that a majority of olive oil in the US is fake. How do you know if your olive oil is real or fake? Unfortunately, there's no roy test to test your olive oil. I wish there was, but there isn't. And uh you really can't tell, unfortunately. uh the article that I read on it and I always I always knew something just tasted a little weird and Johnny and I were in Italy a couple weeks ago and we had real homegrown olive oil and I will tell you this and Johnny can confirm it don't taste like anything they got here in this country that's for sure. Um so they're saying that they're putting like up to 80 90% of soybean oil and only 10% olive oil. So to me given the reports I read I would avoid olive oil completely and I'm an olive oil guy. I sell macadamia oil, but I really like olive oil. I, you know, for its health benefits. But you know what the truth is? Macadamia nut oil has all the same benefits monounsaturated fatwise. And you can cook with it because it's got a high smoke point and you can expose it to light. It doesn't oxidize. So to me, macadamia nut oil is the new olive oil, especially given the fact that most of the olive oil on the market is is big. Unfortunately, at Species Nutrition, we're actually out of stock at Mac O. I have a brand new shipment coming in from South Africa. Probably in the next month or anywhere from four to six weeks, we should have it. So, I got told you guys I warned you guys about three weeks ago when I was doing a superale to get rid of all the leftover inventory. Um, act quickly. But, um, I'm sure there's other places you can buy MAC oil. To me, that's the oil you want to be using. John Efer, side effects of too much cabber. Well, I think he means cabbergamine. Kirk cabbergalene which is a prolactin inhibitor. A lot of guys when they take decadorablin and trenolone these are 19-nor testosterone derived drugs. Um it tends to raise prolactin levels and prolactin can inhibit your body's ability to have erections can kill your sex drive a little bit. Uh that's where that term decadic comes from. A lot of guys never really knew. They thought the deca caused it. was actually the cause in pro it was the raisin or the rise in prolactin that did it. Uh so a lot of times you can take a half a milligram two to three times a week of kbergolene also the the name brand of that is dstinex and it sometimes will alleviate those high prolactin level side effects which in which case you can then continue to take the decor and the tremolone. You don't have to stop them but if that doesn't work obviously you're better off just stopping the drugs if it if it's bothering you. I know guys that don't care. They'd rather have no sex drive but grow muscle, you know, from the from the deck or the trampolone than have to worry about that. But obviously now that we have the tools, DustinX Kberaline is is a good um adjunct to a program. Now a lot of people say, "Should I take it anyway even if I don't have a side effects?" I'm like, "No, because if if the Decka or the Trembolone doesn't have any negative side effects to you, why add another drug in there?" No reason to. Let's go to Jose. Victoriao. Dave, did you ever have uh did you ever have Okay. Did you ever have anyone drinking water until the show but keeping the same water as the week before? And why I guess the second part of it is why does everyone cut water because everyone does it or do they really need it? Um I always cut water, but I only I only cut it for like 12 to 18 hours. Um, so if if the person's competing on a Saturday morning or Saturday, early afternoon, I usually have them cut their water at about 8 9:00 the day before. Um, and and you really don't over dehydrate in that short period of time. I mean, every time I get on an airplane, I don't drink for 12 hours because I don't want to get I have to get up and pee 50 times. So, and I have no negative side effects. I don't get too flat. I don't get headaches or anything like that. So, I think your body can handle dehydration for probably up to, you know, maybe even as much as 24 hours. I would not stop drinking for like three days or anything like that. That's ridiculous. People do this and and they completely destroy their physique. So, um, limited drinking the day before is good. Um, not so good if you're going to do it more than one day. Chris K, is it possible to take my carbs just from oatmeal? Greetings from Austria, Vienna. Yeah, I mean I don't think there's any a carb as a carb in a sense, you know, at least a high molecular weight or, you know, complex carbohydrate would all be kind of equal in a sense. Um, you know, if you're eating five, if you're eating like a high-fiber food like oatmeal five or six times a day, however, it might be too much. It might give you a little it might give you the runs, you know. So, if you could tolerate it and that's what you love to eat, fine. I like varying, you know, sources. But since carbs are not essential nutrients anyway, you're not getting anything from oatmeal that you wouldn't be getting from cream or rice or rice or or potatoes. So the carb con the carb uh source is really not as important as say protein, which in which case I like to vary the protein sources. I like to vary the fat sources because we need different types of fats. But for carbs, it's more of a boring thing just to eat it every day, every meal. Let's go to Bobby 82392. ECA stack as effective as Clen. Now, you know, I've said this before and and and I don't like to go on the record as saying this is the best of something, but I got to tell you, nothing burns fat better than clenuterol. Nothing. GH is a good fat burner. It's not a great fat burner. It's a good fat mobilizer. Uh, cytol is a good fat burner, but you have to be careful because if you take too much, if you up the dose too fast, you could metabolize protein as well, which we don't want. Clenbuterol is a pure fat burner. And it makes you strong, too. It's a great drug. It does it continue to work continuously like, you know, no, but downgrades a little bit, but for me, if I had to pick one drug to use for fat loss that to maximize fat loss, it would be clutter. Hands down. PTB. How many calories per day does one pound of muscle require? I've heard 50 calories, but this is often debated. Who the hell? How could you quantify that? Who knows? I'm guarantee my one pound of muscle burns a lot more calories than Johnny Styles one pound of muscle or your one pound of muscle, Sid, because my metabolism is faster. My mitochondria inside my muscle cells burn and oxidize fat quicker, whether it be from years of running or good genetics. Who knows? So, everyone's different. I know guys that that you could like I Akeem Williams, you can give him 500 calories a day and he won't lose any muscle. That means his muscles are more efficient. It doesn't and and their meta the metabolism is not as fast in them. So, everyone's body is different genetically, so you can't really make a blanket statement like that. Here's what we've been waiting for. Now, earlier in this week, or was it last week? I'm kind of time is flying by. you did a video uh essentially demanding that Kai Green does the Olympia, of course, receiving a special invitation from the Olympia, Edy or Eddie S17. Dave, do you think there's a possibility that Kai can defeat Phil this year if he does end up competing? Absolutely. Because you don't know who how Phil's going to look on stage. Phil comes in as good as last year. I don't think anyone's going to beat him to be honest with you, but he's been off before, you I I said it on Heavy Muscle Radio. I don't know if anyone was listening to it or or whoever didn't listen to it. What my suggestion was for Kai was do the Olympia, but don't tell anyone you're doing it. Don't make He's got the special invite. He doesn't have to qualify. He should just keep putting it off the and saying, "I'm not sure. I haven't decided yet." At least telling the AMI that. Don't say anything to the fans. Let them wonder. a week before the Olympia, call up the Olympia promoters and say, "Hey, look, I want to do the show, but I don't want to announce it till I get to the press conference at the Olympia that Wednesday before 12:00 noon or whatever. I think it's Thursday, 12:00 noon, Kai Green will be in the audience at the press conference and then uh Bob Chikarilla, the voice of bodybuilding as he likes to refer to himself, will say, "Oh, look who we have in the front row there. Kai Green, who received the special invite. It's a shame Kai won't be competing at this year's event. And Kai will be like, I'd like to come up and say a word. And give him the microphone. And Kai's like, I would like to uh I'd like to do the show tomorrow. What do you guys think? And then of course the audience and everyone is going to go crazy. And uh and he'll be, you know, he'll announce it at the press conference and then he can jump in. Less stress for Kai because no one's even knowing he's doing the show. And uh it would be the greatest surprise of the weekend. that that that to me is how I would play it out. And Kai is such a dramatic guy, that would be the way to do it. I think and I think that uh I think that anything's possible. I think that, you know, I don't know how many more years Kai has to be at his best, but if he really does want to win the Olympia and put that in his resume, I think this would be the year to do it. Booby Bobby Trap Lord, love the name. Should you use HGH when you first start to cycle to get the benefits or cycle for a while then add it in later using it as a trick in your back pocket. I always like to hold a few aces in the hole. In other words, if you could grow taking Anavar and nothing else, then use that. If you need to take anavar and deca to make things work better, then do that. If you need to uh take testosterone and echopoise, do that. If then you have to, you know, in other words, keep upping the ante little by little. There's no sense right out of the gate starting with everything. I mean, it's it's how fast could you add muscle? You, if you could put on 15 pounds of muscle, okay, in in 20 weeks, okay, for your after your first cycle, how much more muscle will you add if you put growth hormone in there? 21 pounds. Meanwhile, you just spent $1,000 or whatever it's going to cost you for for one pound more pound of muscle. I wouldn't do it. I would start with the stuff that's a little lighter, the anabolics. Once those don't work quite as effectively, it might take a year or two, then you could put growth hormone in there and try that at a small dose. Slowly increase the supplements. Don't depend on them. The training, the eating, and the resting is what should be the most important. Okay? The drugs are only a small sprinkling, a small catalyzer of muscle growth. They shouldn't be the things that you depend on for muscle growth. Mary Portwood has my name in like all caps six different times. Will you ask Dave a question for the female competitors that listen? Can you ask Dave if T4 is needed during prep with T3 and clean? Why or why not? Um T4 is inactive thyroid hormone. Doesn't do anything. It only does something if it's converted to T3. So if T4 is is is ingested and your body has normal thyroid function, why would it convert any of that T4 to T3? It already has enough, right? All that will do is taking all that T4 is just it'll just float around and do nothing. If you take T3, however, also known as cytol in in the United States, um it will act it's it's the active thyroid hormone. So the more T3 you put into the body, the faster your metabolism is going to go. That does something and it's predictable. If you take this much, you're going to get this much results. If you take T4, nothing's going to happen. So, you could take, you know, T4 and T3 together, you could take T4 alone, the T4 component will not do anything unless you're low thyroid. So, if you're hypothyroid or you have a low thyroid output, even if it's only 20% low, and you put T4 in, your body will convert the extra 20% to T3 that it needs that it's missing in the body. And and that's that's how it works. It's a very very very simple loop like that. So if I'm a, you know, coach and I'm helping I want some my competitor or my athlete to lose weight faster and I want to use cyto if I want to use a thyroid hormone, I'm going to use T3 because I know if I put this much in, he's going to lose this much weight or it's going to speed up his metabolism this much. That's a definitive when you're using T3. It's not when you're using T4. Bro, you even towel road. Dave, is the water weight gain from DECA all from high estrogen or prolactin? It could be a little of both. Uh, theoretically, DECA doesn't convert to estrogen, but I don't believe that. I I think it does. It definitely aromatizes somewhat. Um, I think that uh first of all, I I never really noticed a lot of water weight from Deca. Although guys today take so much that they're probably getting way more aromatization than you would if you took, you know, only 600 milligrams a day. I know these guys that have taken,00200,400 milligrams of Decker. I don't know why, but um literally you could take a 100 milligrams of Decker a week and you can get a tremendous effect from that and and a great anti-inflammation effect. I know a lot of guys on hormone replacement that take 100 milligrams of Decker and 100 tests a week. Um and they love it. They love it. They they feel great. They get no negative side effects from the DECA and they get joint relief and their testosterone level is still in the normal normal high physiologic range and that's what we want. So, um, once again, I think a lot of people overdo the dec. Let's go to Hook to Liver. Dave, love your show. What diet do you recommend to a powerlifter wanting to avoid being a fat ass? I'm about 260 lbs and want to maintain an appreciable physique, but not at the cost of strength. Also, I'm natural, so I imagine I have less leeway. You know, I I have people from CrossFit come to me. I have people from powerlifting come to me. I have people from boxing come to me and the question's always the same. I I want to get in shape. How do I do it for my sport? And the answer is always the same. Diet, you know, the bodybuilding diet is a is a great athletic diet, too. Um, you know, obviously if you're doing if you're boxing, you probably definitely need to eat some carbohydrates, okay? Whereas powerliffters really don't need to eat a lot of carbohydrates because they're not really training that long. They do one, two, you know, rep sets. They just have exp all they need is explosion. So, um, if I'm a if I'm a powerlifter and I want to get down to a certain weight class, or I just don't want to get too much fatter, you eat a high protein, moderate fat, low to moderate carb diet. Um, depending on what your metabolic needs are. Guys with faster metabolisms can eat more carbs. Guys who have slower metabolisms eat less carbs. And that it's that simple, you know. And I and I don't, you know, I think people try to make things so complicated. It's really not. Look, I know guys that work as laborers all day long, okay? And they eat no carbs. They're on a ketogenic diet and they're fine. They feel great. They don't need it even though they're burning a lot of calories all day because they're not doing super highintensity activity. Think about what what super highintensity activities do you really do during the day? Maybe weight training. Maybe it's high intensity. It is, but it's not like prolonged sets. Um, no one in their right mind is doing highintensity cardio. So, what do you really need carbohydrates for really? I mean, you know, if you're in a ketogenic state, you could use ketones for for fuel. So, I think once again, people get caught up in this. Well, I I want to try to bench press 1,000 pounds, so I need to eat 1,000 grams of carbs a day. Just not the case. Let's go to Benedu 14. Good one here. I'm not sure we've gotten a question on this topic before, but Dave, what do you think of Sweet Sweat and other quote unquote fat loss creams? Most fat loss creams dehydrate the fat cell. That's all they do. It goes back to the old thou mucase that we used to use back in the day in the 90s. We got it from France. you'd rub it on prior to doing cardio or going in the tanning bed and it would just it would make that area of your body you rubbed it on lose water basically dehydrate the fat cells a little bit. Now as soon as you drink a couple glasses of water it comes back but if you do it every single day and you know ostensibly you know it looks bet that area if it's a little watery looks better. You know I used to do it because you know I did anything in my power to try to get as lean as possible. Um did it work? Who knows? Um, but most of these fat burning creams are just dehydrators. The newer ones now, they're using ammonophil, which is like an asthma medication that also once again has a a a dehydrating effect on the fat cells. Let's go to Gardo. What do you think about front-loading slow ERS? Does it actually work? Um, frontloading slowers or fast esters? He's asking particularly slow. Well, I mean, I don't know what that would really mean then. Front frontloading usually means in the beginning of your cycle, you can put some Dianibol the first four to six weeks to get this because the Diana will act really quickly. So, it's like you'll start feeling some effects of the cycle rather than having to wait two or three weeks until the long acting esters kick in. Um, having said that, I have no problem just taking long acting esters in the beginning and waiting the two three weeks because once they do kick in, you're fine and then you're going to have very high blood levels of whatever you're taking. So, I don't think it's necessary necessarily to shotgun everything in there to try to get things working faster. I don't have a problem waiting two to three weeks. Remember, bodybuilding is a long journey. It's not this like sprint to the finish line. Let's go to G Tres 5. As a natural, what tips do you have to maintain muscle mass during a cut on keto diet? Don't overtrain. Meaning, don't stay in the gym for 2, three hours doing weight training sessions. It's too much. shouldn't do that even if you're on gear. Um, make sure you get enough sleep. Uh, make sure you you get you're taking enough sodium because when you're on a very low carb diet, your body eliminates water and when the water leaves your body, it pulls sodium out, too. So, you want to make sure you're eating enough salt in your diet and that's it. The difference between natural and and and um steroid using uh bodybuilders, there's only one difference. The steroid using bodybuilders recover better and build muscle more easily, but the process is the same. the same weights training in the gym, the same diet techniques work, the same supplements are necessary. Steroids make things work better. That's all. That's the only difference. Let's go to Jason Montero. How should I recover from a patella tendon snap if it's been a year now? And what type of leg training should I do now? You know, after a year, you're pretty much healed. Um the patella tendon is the bottom part where the where the kneecap or the patella attaches to your uh tibia whereas the quad tendon attaches the t the patella or the kneecap to the you know to the upper leg the the femur. So they both kind of you know bridge that that kneecap. However, when you tear the patella tendon it's a much easier heel so they say um because you're not really tearing muscle. you're just tearing a ligament essentially or or you're tearing a tendon, but it's not it's not quite as bad. Uh after a year, I would assume you could start regaining normal activities, meaning you can start doing leg extensions and squats and leg presses. Obviously, you want to start very light and build up so your strength comes back. Uh you want to do a lot of unilateral one leg at a time so that you make sure you train the good leg and the bad leg with equal resistance. If you try to do a lot of bilateral stuff, the good leg invariably will do more work and then the the the injured leg will not get as much training. So try to do a lot more unilateral leg presses and stuff like that. Uh maybe uh squat onelegged squats on on the Smith machine. Once again, once the strength comes back, then you can go back to to to unilateral or I should say then you can go back to bilateral movements. Martin one Vzag, uh, what would you recommend to your clients that have a lot more size from muscle to incorporate a small amount of carbs, 20 to 30 grams, post-workout on a keto diet? If you incorporate carbs on a keto diet, you won't be in ketosis. Okay? I've said this before. I've given the analogy. If you're a heroin addict and you go off heroin and you just take a little bit in the morning when you wake up to just to feel good, you're still addicted to heroin. Okay? So, um, your body will not stay in ketosis if you're putting, you know, starchy or sugary carbs into your program, even a small amount of them. Um, it's just going to screw up your system. At that point, you're better off not even having them. There's no benefit. Remember, carbs don't build muscle. Okay? Protein and fats build muscle. So, there's no benefit other than it make it'll make you feel good for about 20 to 30 minutes after you take in those carbs post-workout. U, but you don't really need them. your look if your body wants to restore lost glycogen in the muscle it can take amino acids and convert them directly to glycogen it doesn't it doesn't even have to convert them to glucose first it can convert amino acids to glycogen it's Scott Connley has uh you know illustrated and demonstrated it experimentally a lot of scientists out there now also have done that so don't worry about reglycogenating the muscle earlier we got a question about oatmeal and if you could have all your carbs from oatmeal uh train insane wants to know the best food for a carb up if you're looking flat. I do this with a lot of my athletes. I like if I think they're too flat, I'll have them go home and maybe the last three meals of the day, I'll have them do 35 grams of of carbs from white rice or jasmine rice. It's just such a clean burning carb. It gets absorbed really quickly. It just completely reglyates the muscle very fast with very little stomach distress. And I see a difference the next day. Usually I say, you know what, the last three meals have 35 grams of carbs with your protein and fat that you're eating and then send me pictures the next morning. Invariably, when I do that with someone the next day, they look way better because, you know, the muscles stretch out, the skin stretches out, and they and they look better. Now, I'm only doing this with guys that are super or girls that are super lean. Um, because I don't want them to get too small, too flat or too small, you know, at that point because I I know they're already in shape. And sometimes I do that just because it shocks the body and will stimulate the metabolism to lose weight. You know, people who are stubborn in their bodies and they're not losing, you know, sometimes I do the opposite of what logic would tell you to do. I tell them to eat more rather than less. Couple of interesting questions here. I'm going to go to Matias Viegas first. Five years from now, who do you think will be Mr. Olympia? Good question. It's a good question. We don't I'd like to believe that Big Romney would be Mr. Olympia. Um I think if he goes back to working with Chris, he will. I think he might be Mr. Olympia before 5 years is up. Um more than likely, if Romney doesn't put it all together, we will it'll be someone we never even expected. Someone will come out of the woodwork in the next year or two and we'll like, where did this guy come from? 22 years old and looks like this. That's going to be the next Mr. and and he will. That's usually how it happens. If you think about the Mr. Olympias that have come up the last couple years, starting with Haney, you know, he does the nationals, wins, turns pro, and then, you know, in two years he's Mr. Olympia. Dorian Yates out of nowhere, Mr. Olympia after two years. Um, Ronnie Coleman, he's probably the only guy who really worked his way up the ranks, but he turned pro really quickly. You know, I think he was training for one year. So the people that the least you least suspect, Phil Heath also turns pro in one year and and and is Mr. Olympia in three. So these are the guys that you can almost predict will be Mr. Olympia because they're the genetically blessed bodybuilders. And I don't think we've seen the guy who's going to be Mr. Olympian in five years from now. I don't think we've seen him yet. I don't think he's he's come onto the scene yet, but I could be wrong. We'll see. Uh this question from Lee Axen, an interesting one. Dave, money, no object for development and resale. What supplement product would you like to engineer and bring to the market and why? Um, I I don't know. It's hard to say. I'd like to uh probably what I'd like to put out the technology isn't there. I mean, I've seen a lot of pizza. Everyone wants to come out with like a like a pita a pizza. There's keto pizzas. There's pizzas with low carbs and high fiber in the bread. And I mean, if you can make if you can really make a pizza that has super low like a ketogenic pizza that that's that actually has bread that tastes like bread um and cheese that tastes like cheese but it's not cheese. That might be something interesting. But I don't know. I I kind of the the supplements that I have out right now I'm pretty proud of the the species nutrition line. It's kind of exactly what I think people need right now. Um, there was one product I I had mentioned probably several times in the past that I was going to put out. It was going to be called Ketoy. This is before the ketogenic craze was even around. It was just something that I was knocking around with. It was a It was a whey isolate where they sprayed macadamia nut oil onto the actual whey isolate. Um, it was I actually had samples of it. It was delicious. It was just protein and fat. I think you got you got 50 grams of protein. uh you got uh 25 grams of fat per serving and no like almost like one or two grams of carbs or something like that. It was great and delicious, but it was very expensive. It cost me a lot. It cost me so much money that I I would never be able to sell it and make any money. No one People would buy it who have a lot of money, but no one else would. I would never sell enough of it, but it was a great product. Um that's probably something I'd like to bring to market because I think that there's a there's a need for a good protein fat supplement. But then again, I I say to myself every time I try to convince myself that that's something I should come out with, I'm like, well, why wouldn't people just take isolize and add a tablespoon of mac or two of macadamia oil to it? It's the same exact thing and it's cheaper and it's way easier. So, that's why I don't sometimes I think too much complexity in products is not good because it raises the price too much and it confuses people. Uh, see what we could wrap this show up with. Probiotics. All right. Dream K13 probiotics are they necessary for health worth the investment and so many supplements claiming 15 billion probiotics up to 80 billion. What is with all the claims? I think probiotics are one of these things that doesn't necessarily need to be consumed every single day. Um because our our let's fe let's face it our colon has the bacteria in it and as long as we're taking a fiber supplement like a good soluble fiber supplement like fiberiz I'm going to put a shameless plug in uh because soluble fiber is the food that the probiotic organisms in your colon eat essentially that you're feeding them when you're taking fiber in and as long as they're being fed they will divide. Think about it. Bacteria divide very rapidly. The only time you really need a a probiotic supplement is when your the bacterial colonies in your colon have been destroyed for some reason. Why would that happen? Colitis, irritable bowel, um antibiotic usage, because remember when you take antibiotics for an infection in your body, it kills all the it kills a lot of the uh the bacteria in your body, including some of the the good probiotic organisms that grow in your colon. So, in situations where you're traumatizing your colonic uh, you know, flora, that's when you want to consume probiotics. And I like food versions of probiotics. I've said this before, Bubby's uh fermented sauerkraut is tremendous. I I love it. I can't even recommend anything higher than that because there's no there's no dairy in it. Um, kefir, which is a fermented um, milk, okay, that's that has basically uh bacterial cultures added to it, is a great supplement, but I'm not a milk I don't like to I don't like dairy products necessarily, especially while people are dieting. So, there's something called coconut kefir where they take coconut milk or coconut water and they ferment it. They add bacterial cultures and they could and it becomes fermented and you can get your probiotics from there as well. Those are two great products. I mean, it it's it's almost like a no-brainer. I mean, then if you want to spend a lot of money, you can try to buy the probiotics that that exist in pill form. Are they potent? Are they alive? Do they actually get into your colon and repopulate it? Who the hell knows? Uh, and they're very expensive. So, I always tell people stick with the food, the food versions of probiotics. That's going to do it for this episode of As Day. Special thanks to Johnny Styles. As a reminder, if you're watching us on YouTube, hit the subscribe button below. You're not going to miss any of our shows, segments, or updates, especially with the Olympia fast approaching. Our road to the Olympia begins soon here on rxmuscle.com. For Dave Palumbo and Johnny Styles, I'm Sadique Barooi. We'll see you next time.