Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here with Kelly Shrader, our women's physique overall champion here tonight and new IFBB Pro from the state of Portland, Oregon. Congratulations. Thank you. Now, uh I remember seeing you at the Emerald Cup a little early this year where you won your class and qualified for national competition. Uh but what I want to know is, you know, every women's physique athletes got their own story. Some started in bodybuilding, some started in figure, some just went right to women's physique. Where did you come from? I was actually a figure competitor and it wasn't until about two weeks before the Emerald Cup that I was decided to try physique. I was kind of persuaded to try physique. So, you were going to do figure? I was. I Well, yeah, I was. And so, I um two weeks before I decided I'm going to go ahead and try it. Who persuaded you? Um some of my friends from Dream Quest. Mhm. And uh it's a good decision, huh? Yeah. Yeah. After the Emerald Cup, what were you thinking? Were you thinking uh I want to do a national level show? try to, you know, get my pro card. Yeah, I um I went and I competed again in uh the Idaho Cup and I won the overall in physique there. It was two weeks ago and so I wanted to decide to try nationals. What made you wait? How come you didn't do like the USA Championships after the Emerald Cup? Um I wanted to well I I competed in Figure in May in u you didn't you didn't give it up. I wasn't ready. I wasn't I didn't think I was ready then. I needed to build up my legs somewhere. How'd you figure? Um, I placed fourth and figure. Yeah. So, but I knew I needed to work on my legs a little bit before I jumped into a national level physique show. So, that's what I did and brought it here. You looked so polished on stage. Your conditioning was so good. I mean, have you been really dieting real hard or is are you one of these people that it comes easy to? No, it's it's a lot of hard work. I definitely It's So, you've been dieting for the better part of a year? Pretty much. Yeah. You don't mind? You look happy. I've had I've had some breaks here and there in between, but you know, I I enjoy this lifestyle. You're driving everyone at home crazy. Yeah. I Yeah. Was this the Was this the final straw? Like you're done after this. Yeah, for a little while. Yeah. So, now you're a pro, though. Now you can do pro shows. There's a lot of pro shows coming up in 2014. Yeah. Um gosh, you know, I I haven't thought anything past this point, but Emerald Cup is actually having a prom. They are. They are. So, there's a possibility. Maybe I You'll be the hometown favorite. We'll see. So, I don't know if there's any there any women's physique pros from your area. Oh, yeah. There's there's quite a few from the Oregon area. Yeah. There's um Ricky Sme. Okay. Um she knows more than I know. Yeah. And uh Erica Bachmann and Oh, Erica Bachman. That's right. You're right. There's quite a few. I stand corrected, Erica. Sorry. She'll yell at me. talk to me a little bit about um where you see the the future of women's physique going because you saw the Olympia Dana Lyn Bailey one. Were you happy with that decision? Yeah, absolutely. I love the look that they're going for physique. It's it's you know it's a little bit bigger than figure but not you know too big. I I like the way that it's going. All right. Well, you looked great tonight. Congratulations on your win and enjoy the spells of your victory. Thank you, Kelly Schrader, our women's physique overall champion here tonight. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.