I'm standing here with Kevin Rainey, our men's overall champion here at the NPC Junior National Championships here in Charleston, South Carolina. Um, I don't think the overall was your hardest uh win of the day. I think your weight class win against Mitchell Stats was an amazing uh one-on-one and the crowd was going crazy. You must have 100 people here. Uh absolutely. Like that was very competitive between uh me and Mitch. It was really close. I mean it could have gone either way. I'm you know really pleased with the outcome but yeah had a good bit of people show up to support me. Screaming during your routine. I don't think for one second they stopped. I don't think so. Where you from? Uh I'm from one Robins Georgia. Okay. cuz you're you're a southern guy. This is you you brought the troops with you. Obviously, I did. I mean, we didn't have to travel very far. About 4 hours. So, not too bad. You know, I had a good bit of friends from Georgia come this way and some from Florida. Talk to me a little bit about your history prior to the show. Um, I mean, I started lifting when I was 13. I'm 24 now. And, uh, I just lifted a little bit. Decided to do a teen show at the Team Georgia and won it um when I was 18. And then when I was 21, I uh, you know, did a little bit and tried the Georgia again. didn't take it very seriously, you know, I didn't know what I was doing. And then uh last year was the first time I really dieted and I uh what what got you to really motivated this time around? Um I graduated college and you know could finally have the time and you know drive to do it. So are you doing this full-time now? Um well I mean I'm working but you know I can dedicate a lot more time to this now. What made you pick Junior USA? Uh it was closer you I mean, I won the Georgia last year and then I was like, you know, I need to do one of the junior shows and this was a lot better drive than, you know, going up to uh Chicago this year. So, a lot of people usually that family me doesn't understand bodybuilding. They're not that supportive. You got the opposite thing going on. Um really, my uh my dad used to bodybuild a little bit and he uh we actually had a gym closed down um in town when I was 12 and he bought a bunch of equipment and put it in the garage and I just, you know, started messing around on it and fell in love with it and I just that's what I love to do. Wait here on stage today. On stage today I was about 218 but I weighed in about 222 yesterday uh yesterday. What's next? Are you going to do USA's or you going to compete this year or you going to wait? Um I'm not sure yet. I'm not sure. I need to think about it. Uh I think I probably need to stay in the heavies, come in, you know, a little bit heavier, a little more crisp, and uh you know, try one of the bigger shows. Definitely. Great win here today. Tremendous competition. You not only won your weight class, you win the overall here today. You're up in the annals of junior uh USA history up there with the likes of John Keer all the way to Audreas Yale Levus and uh and many other great champions and hopefully we'll see you on a stage a little later this year. I hope so. But I mean we'll see next year for sure. Kevin Rainey, our men's overall champion here tonight, Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.