Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Wednesday, May 24th, 2017. and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. We still have plenty of action to recap from another wild weekend on the IFBB and NPC circuit, including another barn burner down at this year's rendition of the Orlando Europa Pro. In the figure division, former North American champ Martina Yabakova pulled off what might have been the biggest upset of the entire weekend as she edged out pre-show favorite Natalyia Abraham to score a win in what was just her third professional contest. In the men's physique division, thirdyear studo Montenegro brought in his best look ever to score top honors in his season debut. And over on the women's side of things, once again, Rosella Joseph continued her reign of terror with another brilliant performance as she picked up her first win of the season. Now we jump a few hundred miles west over to Shariefport, Louisiana for what turned out to be another spectacular edition out at the Optimum Classic. In the bikini division, we saw 2015 NPC national champ Kesha McKenzie put together what was easily the best performance of her young career as she racked up her first pro win. In second place, rookie Sandra Rearen showed plenty of room for improvement off her debut at the Pittsburgh Pro a few weeks back. And in third, we saw a spectacular effort from 20-year-old sensation Casey Clark. Over on the women's physique side of things, veteran Francis Menddees put together her best look ever to score her third career victory. Finishing second with another standout performance was Shelley White, who just continues to get better each time out. And rounding out the top three was rookie pro Jill Deloreio, who came in with the best conditioning that we've seen from her this season. Last weekend, the stars were definitely out and in attendance for the New York Pro, where we were actually able to catch a rare glimpse at former 212 Olympia champ Kevin English. Despite doing his best to keep a low profile, English was spotted cranking out a quick arm training session at B. Franc's powerhouse gym, where he's made that his home for the better part of the last two decades. Nowadays, when we talk about the great ones in the 212 division, we do it with a whole lot of bias because Kevin English doesn't get anywhere near enough love for just how great he was back when he was at the peak of his powers. But with the Kevin Levon and Flex wheels of the world dusting off the posing trunks and hopping back into action, maybe we can get out a whole little bit of hope for Kevin English getting bitten by that bug again and making one more run at the Olympia stage. If you're a fan of the BBC show Top Gear, you probably already know that German engineering is about as good as it gets. And there aren't too many guys engineering success over in Germany quite like our old friend Roman Fritz. Late last week, some new chess training footage surfaced of a monstrous looking version of Fritz in action as he continues to blaze his way back to the stage for year three of his pro experience. Last season, a much improved Fritz came into the Tampa Pro and really opened up some eyes with a brilliant fourth place effort. And as long as he can keep his game plan centered around what's gotten him here, I have no doubt in my mind that the 2017 version of Rex 3.0 will turn out to be the best one yet. I have absolutely no clue what it's like to spend a summer in Ireland, but I do know that in just over a weekend from now, our old friend Paul Cullen is going to be bringing the heat. The photog extraordinaire is about to step out from behind the lens and back out onto the bodybuilding stage at the upcoming Natural Bodybuilding Championships in Belfast, where he'll be looking to crack the top six in the lightweight class. Cullen is one of those guys who just eats, sleeps, and breathes all things bodybuilding 24/7. And from all of us here at our show, let me be the first to officially wish him the best of luck. I'm sure it's going to be one hell of a ride.