Hello everyone in RX Muscle Land. Dave Palumbo here for a Kevin Levrone update. That's right, the Olympia weekend is now in the history books. And yes, I may have made the worst prediction of all time predicting Kevin Leavone to win the show. And I'm ashamed to say it was probably one of my few decisions I've ever made based on no scientific evidence. Uh that's right. You know, when I give advice on diet and supplementation and anything in life pretty much, it's usually based on some serious data that I've either read or seen or observed or experienced. Uh I never saw Kevin Leon's legs before I made that prediction that he'd win. I based it on my gut fanlike desire to see Kevin as Mr. Olympia. And you know what? It was a bold prediction, you know, if Kevin had been his best. And it was a foolish, you know, prediction, not seeing that I don't never even saw what he looked like. So, I went on Kevin's word and Kevin kind of bamboozled us all in a sense because he wanted to create the hype train. Now, at some point in the in this preparation, he must have realized he wasn't going to make it, so to speak. He did do a video following the Olympia saying that he had had a leg injury, a knee injury. I mean, he wasn't able to train legs until like 8 weeks out and who knows how, you know, hard was even training at that point. I think he was just trying to get through the prep. Obviously, his upper body looked pretty good, but he looked like, you know, he looked like a really good 52 year old guy and that's not going to win the Olymp last place. Uh, and people were saying, "How could Kevin Levrone be last?" You know what? Who who was better? Who was he better than? That's the question. I don't think he was better than anyone. Uh having said that, Kevin Levrone brought an enormous amount of attention to the Olympia 2016 weekend. In fact, this weekend would have been a disaster or not a disaster, it would not have been as popular, I guess, without him. He created excitement. He created people talking again. What if, what if, what would he look like against Phil Heath, against Big Ramy, you know, we got to go there. People showed up. The place was packed. It was exciting. People were crowded around, you know, watching the live stream all because of Kevin Levrone. Now, let's not take away from the other athletes. This might have been one of the most competitive Olympias in recent memory. The top 10 were all great and there were guys left out of the top 10 like Victor Martinez, okay, who normally would never ever be out of the top 10. So, that tells you how deep the lineup was. But the bottom line was that, you know, my prediction stirred controversy. It it was controversial in the sense that how could Dave Palumbo, you know, the guy who really tells it like it is, the truth in bodybuilding, say that Kevin Leon was gonna win. But you know what the truth of the matter is? I stuck by my decision even when I started started doubting it a little bit toward the end when I wasn't seeing pictures of his legs because I knew that the the uh energy that the emotion it was stirring in people was was good for the sport. And look, when I'm wrong, I'm wrong. I admitted to Shawn Ray, I was wrong. You know, Sean was gloating and and gleaming when he saw me at the show and I said, "You were right. What am I going to say?" But in the end, did Kevin really lose? I don't think so. I think Kevin won because he came back. He showed people that he could look good. He could stand on that stage and not embarrass himself because I don't think he embarrassed himself even though his legs were not good. He brought people into the seats. He made people want to watch the show. He made people talk about it. his videos that we put up and that everyone else put up over the course of this eight weeks prior to the Olympia got more hits probably combined than any of the others you know you know out there because Levrone was the story of the Olympia even though Phil Heath won number six and you know set uh put himself into an elite crowd a group of people with Dorian Yates and Lee Haney and Arnold Schwarzenegger uh so Levrron won the sport of bodybuilding won and that's what's important in the end that We won. So, I like to always be right. Maybe I was right a little bit. Don't beat me up too much. The outcome turned out to be great. The question is, will Levrone be back? I think he might. I would have said if I didn't see Phil Heath mock Kevin Leon's legs on stage, which I thought was was was not necessarily um the coolest thing to do, especially not to a legend and a guy who's in 52 years old, but he did it anyway. I saw a look in Levon's face like, "Hey," he didn't say it, but it was saying, it said it all. I saw that look. It was basically saying, "Hey, my and back in the day, my legs would have blown all your legs away. How dare you talk to me that way? I'll show you." That that's what I got out of it. Will Levrone try to come back and build those legs back and and and show up that whole lineup next year? Who knows? Only, you know, maybe maybe the speculation will keep the energy going. I don't think he can get those legs back at this point, especially if he does have some injuries there. Um, it might be dangerous to even try. We don't need to see a quad tear or something like that. Your body's just not as resilient when you get older. Um, obviously if he was injuryfree, this, you know, then maybe he would be able to get them back. But I don't think so. Uh, the question is, does Kevin believe he can? And you know what? I'm always one to tell people, don't doubt what you you can envision in here and you feel in here. Does he have the heart to continue going? We won't know. Let's see what Kevin brings back to us. I know he's been doing a lot of follow-up videos. Maybe we'll get him back on uh live with to do another follow-up interview post Olympia and get his impressions because I'd like to see what he's feeling inside. Not just superficially, but deep down. Was he hurt by what what uh Phil Heath did? Uh was his ego bruised by this weekend? Because let's face it, you got to have a huge ego to be a superstar in bodybuilding. And that's sometimes what fuels guys. You know, this was a big reality check for Kevin. Has it changed him? I'd like to know. Tell me what your opinions are down below. If you like the video, like it. If you love the channel and you like all the content we bring him, subscribe to the channel. I was wrong. You heard it here. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.