Dave Palumbo here and I want to talk a little bit about the latest Kevin Levrron photos uh that I put up yesterday that was I guess September 1st. Uh I put up a back double bicep pose that Kevin sent me that morning. Matter of fact, I was in the hospital still. I was about to go into the hyperbaric chamber for my toe that I almost cut off uh for healing purposes. And I know Tony Freeman, if you're watching this, I know you're jealous that I got to use the hyperbaric chamber. Yes, it was a real hyperbaric chamber. Uh, high oxygen, you know, high pressure and lots of healing and regeneration. I think I've gotten back 10 years of my life, actually. But getting back to the picture, right before I went in, Kevin Leavone sent me this picture. He goes, "Bro, how does this look?" And I'm like, "Pretty shredded." He's like, "It's all yours, baby. Put it up." And you know, that's how Kevin talks. And I said, "Okay, you sure?" He's like, "Yes." I put it up. And when I got out of the uh hyperbaric chamber two hours later already, you know, Kevin called me up again. He's like, "Oh, people are bashing me. That they're saying that I look too flavor." He's like, "They think that they're old pictures." And I said, "Kevin, who cares what people think? Who gives a crap? You're you're depleted two weeks out from the Olympia. You're supposed to be flat." I said, "Matter of fact, you do look very depleted." And I and I advised him to go eat a cheat meal. I said, "Go to McDonald's, have a couple burgers and fries." I said, 'I know you probably haven't done it in weeks. He says, 'I haven't cheated in eight weeks.' Because Kevin is militant when he's dieting for a show. So I said, Kevin, you got to have a couple cheat meals here and there because otherwise what happens is your body's going to eat itself up. Your metabolism is too fast. Uh later that day, he sent put up another picture. It was a front double bicep pose in a tank top. You can see it up on screen. And I and I I shot him a text message. I said, "Kev, when's that picture from?" He goes, "After the cheat mail, baby." So it worked. Obviously, he was very depleted. And uh the I what I find it interesting is that all these people who think that they're freaking bodybuilding [\h__\h] wizards out there are putting together all these theories like this. The the pictures were old. Shawn Ray is saying that I'm I'm butt hurt because uh Blackman threw money at Levrone and I and I and his interview we was supposed to have a couple weeks ago were cancelled so that I I put up old pictures of Kevin to sabotage him, which is the stupidest thing because Kevin and I talk every freaking day. Sean. And Sean, the the truth of the matter is that you're no one's friend. I know you admit that you're no one's friend, but Kevin thought he was your friend. And after you sent him those text messages with pictures of Heath and Dexter and said, "Game over, baby. You might as well not compete." I think Kevin realized that you're really not his friend. Um, you know, Kevin was upset about that, that you did that to him and that you you're so negative about the whole situation. And I told Kevin, I said, "Kevin, don't let people get into your head. You know, you're good. you know what you're bringing to the stage. You know, we got to keep your balance. I said, you got to throw a cheat meal in it every couple of days now because your metabolism is cranking. You got to stay full because you don't really have any body fat to lose anymore. And I know Kevin, two weeks is like six months for a normal bodybuilder. He will put size on over the next two weeks going into that Olympia. I promise you that. He just needs to keep his head out of the social media at this point. He should stay focused. only let people who who have his best interest at heart, like myself and some of the guys that surround him and his training partners, only let those people see and give advice to him because there's a lot of jealous people who don't want to see a 52-year-old Kevin Levrone come back to the Olympia and make a huge impact because it basically what it does is it basically says that the careers of the guys who were contemporaries of his are not as good or were not genetically as good or were not don't have as much muscle or capability to put muscle on as quickly as Kevin. Kevin's physique looks like that of a 28-year-old. No one's going to deny that he doesn't have a wrinkle of skin anywhere on him. Uh he looks great. He's going to make a huge impact. I'm sticking with my decision and my prediction that he's going to win. I don't care if no one believes me. I don't care if anyone thinks I'm crazy. That's my decision. I already put it in. I think Kevin has the capability. Uh Jerry Ward, who we had on the show uh uh we had the iron on debate. I think it was maybe a month ago. He said he talked to Kevin Levrone on the phone. You he claims to be a friend of Kevin Levrone and he might be and Kevin told him that the pictures were old. Well, Kevin probably told you that, Jerry, because he because people were bashing him so much he knew you'd put it out there. The truth is that Kevin and I speak regularly. Uh we I'm not putting the text messages up on screen. I could very well and it would verify everything that I'm saying, but out of respect for Kevin and privacy, I I won't do that. But I could promise you I'm telling you the truth. You know, as we say here at RX Muscle, the truth hurts. And uh that's the truth. And I don't think that those pictures depict anything anything like we're going to see up on stage for Kevin Levrone. I've seen guys depleted at a week out, two weeks out from shows that look like they couldn't win the Mr. Long Island and then they get up on stage all carved up and tanned up and they freaking dominate. Leavone will look unreal at that Olympia. I promise you. Uh he is at his best. Uh I have not seen the legs yet. I will tell you that much. But he assures me that they're there. And you know what? At 249 pounds, they're absolutely there because that's Kevin's contest weight back in the day. Kevin didn't compete at 260. He competed in two in the 240s. and he's got all his size back and more. His waist is 2 in smaller and you're going to see a tremendous Kevin Levrone up on stage. Ignore the Shawn Rays. Ignore the people who are the internet, you know, uh, I call them YouTubers because no one really knows what's going on except Kevin Leavone himself. I can only give you the information that's being passed on to me. Kevin and I have a a respectful relationship. I call it a friendship. I think Kevin would call it a friendship, too. He's not going to give me phony fake pictures. Uh, it is what it is out there. Guys will believe what they want to believe. But Kevin Levrone will impress. You saw that picture Johnny just had up on the screen after his cheat meal. He's going to look like that plus more. You got my word for it. And remember, if you want to know what the truth is, contact me directly, okay? Because I'll tell you what the truth is, and I'm sure Kevin will. But you know what, Kevin, if you're listening to this, stay out of social media the next two weeks. Let people worry about what you look like. Don't even give them a hint anymore. While I'd love to have exclusive pictures of you to put up there, I say let's go to Blackout right now. Wait till the Olympia. Let them ask you questions at the press conference and then at pre-judging they'll see what you're bringing, baby. Dave Palumbo with my rant.