It's a [\h__\h] nightmare. You I'm here with my old friend Kevin Levi. And uh I I have to ask, are you mad at me? I'm not pissed off. Uh, I don't hold grudges, Dave, to be honest with you. Uh, you know, everything I say is nothing personal, even though it might seem personal. Well, I mean, my fans are really pissed off. They're very pissed at me. I know. Probably hate you right now. They do. A lot of them do. So, but you know, everybody's entitled to their opinion. You know what I mean, right? But I But you know what? I I feel that I've inspired you because it seems like you've been on a rampage in the gym lately, packing on size, not up not only upper body, but lower body as well. you you look like uh you know you're you got to be in the 260 270 area. Um actually my weight before I left uh Maryland was probably about 258. Okay. So I was pretty close to you. So yeah. Um things are coming along. You know you and I we go way back. Um there were some things that honestly because I know you Yeah. I wish you had came to me first. Yeah, I probably should have. I I admit that. instead of just like blasting it out, you know, like cuz you can you can communicate with me. All you do is say, "Kev, you know, you should have been straight with me about your legs or about your injury, but you know, just to keep things straight, I mean, it's like, you know, obviously I was going through a lot, you know, and I didn't want to disclose uh or come up with any excuses, you know what I mean? And believe me, I mean, when I when I woke up, when I woke up and when I was training 2 or 3 months out, you know, um, of course I knew that I wasn't going to be nowhere near uh who I who I who I used to be on stage, but in my mind, I knew that there was a reason why. And there was like a serious legitimate reason and also knew that, you know, moving forward that I knew that I would get get past the 10 and 90. you knew you idiot. So for me going into the Olympia, I was thinking, okay, not going to be my best. There's nothing to pull out of the show about. Everybody's going to say what they got to say. But part of being a champion is continuing to go on no matter what adversities you go through. And I'm glad I did do it. Believe me, when I woke up in the morning going on prejudging and backstage looking at the guys, I was like, you know what? This it's not even about me anymore. It's about me finishing. And I'm glad I did. You know, I got beat up from people like you. Sean was on my ass. You know, a lot of people was, but I inspired a lot of people through whatever it was that I was going through. You made the Olympia the most exciting Olympia in a long time. You guys were able to say, "You know what, dude? It wasn't about finishing first, second, or even last. It was the fact that I just finished." But I know you're a competitor, and I know you want to win. And I'm assuming that's why you didn't stop. I didn't stop because I knew I know deep down that when I'm healthy, I know what I can do, you know? So, I mean, here I am. I'm back squatting again, which which is awesome. And that's what I needed, Dave. You know what I mean? That's what I needed. Have the legs responded? Yeah. I mean, I just want to tell you guys, there's no way in the world at at my age, I mean, I'm 52 years old. There's no way in the world I don't think anybody can build legs without squatting. I agree. And if they do build legs without squatting, it's not going to be that thick mass that you need. You know what I mean? And I see a difference in my body already. I mean, I couldn't squat, so my upper body couldn't get thick, you know? There's that there's that movement, you know, squats, deadlift, and benches. But you definitely need squats. And certainly when you take 14 years off, you need that power movement. You need to feel that weight. And so many people were saying, you know, high volume, high volume. You don't need to go heavy, you know. You can do leg press, you know, light leg, you can. Unbelievable. You cannot. So, I've learned a lot. I learned a lot, you know. Um, and basically, it is, you know what? There's you got to squat. You got to you got to train heavy, you know. And you're able to do that. No problems. I'm able to do that. No problems. So, what I want to say to you and everybody else out there is if I don't show this time, then you guys can go ahead and and say what you want. All right. But when are we going to see you in the Vancouver? Um, right now, uh, that's that's on the radar for me to do the Vancouver show. The New York Pro. Uh, I talked to Steve about it, but the New York Pro is too close. Oh, you need more time? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's it's closing in and and this time, you know, to be honest with you, I don't have room for mistakes. Tampa or excuses. When is that? When's Tampa? I think July, August. No, no, no. Um, it'll be the the show in Canada or I don't know what's after that. If you win it, you go to the Olympia, you know. Um, to be honest with you, Dave, I think if I if I go out and win a pro show at my age, that'll be like a miracle. It'll be something that has never happened. No. And I think it will be like for me almost winning the Mr. Olympia. Yeah, I think so. And I'll just put the brakes on and probably really stop there. Really? I don't I don't think it'll be a purpose or a cause for me to go to the Mr. Olympia. You know what I mean? Because I've already placed second. I've already placed six. I already placed dead last. So, what's really the point of going to the Olympia besides being on stage with Dexter and Phil and everything? I mean, and we know what those guys look like, you know? Um, they're phenomenal athletes, you know, and right now I'm battling against uh, you know, there's those guys are young, man. Father time, you know. Hey, Father Time is there, but I I can beat Father Time, you know. So, uh, for me right now, let's just get to the next show that I'm going to do. And I'm looking forward to going to Canada. Hopefully things to iron out and I'll be on stage and I I'll be able to show the fans uh, you know, a little bit of what Levrone used to look like, you know. You good? Yeah. Yeah, we're good, man. No worries. All right. Kevin Leon on the comeback trail again. Let's get you together. Start a virtual riot. I'm talking Fergus burning buildings like [\h__\h] peace and quiet [\h__\h] the minds of the generations and our ladies and quiet. It's a [\h__\h] nightmare. You