Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Tuesday, May 24th, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. The Toronto Pro is right around the corner and it looks like that's where we're going to get our first look at fitness sensation Ariel Khadar. After making history back at the 2009 NPC Team Universe by becoming the youngest person ever to earn IFBB Pro status just 10 days after her 17th birthday last year, the young prodigy finally made her pro debut at the Phoenix Europa Pro where she finished with a very impressive third place. After another strong off seasonason, Khadar is back in full-blown contest mode and heading into Toronto, looking to snag her first career Olympia qualification. The fitness division has been pretty steady at the top over the last few seasons. But Khadar might be launching what could be the beginning of the next generation of fitness stars. Ariel Khadar isn't the only one heading into Toronto planning to make headlines. It looks like the pride of Ontario, Zayn Watson, is also coming in with bad intentions. Late last weekend, new photos leaked of a completely nutty looking Watson, just under two weeks out from making his season debut. After a relatively obscure rookie campaign back in 2014, Watson was one of the real surprises in the 212 division last season, finishing the year with a win and debut Olympia appearance. Now that he's had some time to sit back, reflect, and reformulate a new game plan, it shouldn't surprise anyone to see him come in and make a successful title defense in Toronto. Right now, we're less than a week out from the second annual Puerto Rico Pro. And if you're looking for an early pre-show favorite, look no further than friend of RX Muscle and Muscle in the Morning, Cassandra Carpenter. The secondyear pro has been on fire in the early part of the season and is heading into Puerto Rico with a ton of momentum at her back following a huge win a few weeks ago at the Orlando Pro. Carpenter is quickly becoming one of the real upcoming new bright spots in this figure division. And if she can manage to pull out her second win of the season, she's going to enter into the next half of the season as someone you're going to want to keep your eye glued to come Olympia time. Even with all that momentum heading into the show, Cassandra Carpenter is still going to have her work cut out for her, dealing with some of the talented figure athletes making their way down to Puerto Rico, including standout secondyear pro Nadia Wyatt. During last year's rookie campaign, Wyatt very quietly put together one heck of a season that included three very impressive top five finishes. And less than a week out from making her 2016 season debut, Wyatt looks like she's ready to step in and pick right back up where she left off. What she might lack in overall size, Wyatt more than makes up for with her spot-on conditioning and relentless work ethic. And if the cards fall in her favor, it shouldn't surprise anyone too much to see her show up and make a serious impact on this figure lineup. Believe it or not, we're actually just under 17 weeks out from this year's Mr. Olympia contest. And that means that the countdown has officially begun for reigning 212 Arnold Classic champion Hide Yamagishi. Yamagishi is heading into the Olympia like a man possessed after notching the biggest win of his career earlier in the year by beating back a surging Joseé Raymond. If there was ever a time for Heday to Carpey that DM, this would be it. He's coming in with more momentum than he's ever had at any point in his career and is a few months removed from putting together the best look of his entire career. And if all goes according to plan for Yamagichi, the epic battle between the Welsh Dragon and Heday the Dragon could end up being one for the ages. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out iron magaglabs.com. Today I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!