I'm standing here with Kurt Angle after he just got inducted into the International Bodybuilding Hall of Fame. Kurt, you know, a great thing about you is that you have bodybuilding roots and you always trained. Uh, it was important. I wasn't a bodybuilder. I never wanted to be. My brothers were. They inspired me to train in the weight room, but it really benefited me from for real sport. Uh whether it be wrestling or football. Uh my roots came from from powerlifting and I I did quite a bit of it. So, um I was more of a power clean squat bench type of guy, but um whatever would benefit my sport, I did that. You know, when you first started in wrestling, I mean, obviously at a very young age, was was working out and weight training something that people recommended? Yes, my brothers were on me about it. I had four older brothers and an older sister. They were all active. They were all into weight training. Um, but they they were very imperative about me doing it by age 12. Uh, they they did have me doing push-ups, sit-ups, uh, basically isometric training up until the age of 12. But then I got right down nitty-gritty with the weight training at 12 years old. And I never stopped. I do it till today. I I continue to do it. And I believe what Arnold says about, you know, what goes in motion stays in motion. You you you have to keep your body moving. And if you don't, you're going to lose it. And uh I even run every day. I run about 3 miles a day because your joints are good, huh? Still I you know what? He's right. If I if I stop running, I'm not going to be able to. So you have to continue. You have to move on. You have to motivate yourself to do it right now. You know, when you won the Olympic uh gold medal, obviously at a very young age, you know, that's like that's like something that people want to achieve like in their lifetime. I mean, what is it a very big letdown after winning something so grand like that? Like like what do I do from here? Yeah, you know, I I've searched my whole life since the Olympics, the last 20 years, on how to get that feeling back and I haven't gotten it. Um it's been very frustrating. It's also been very depressing. I mean it I think uh emotionally it's got me in a lot of trouble as far as what I've gone through in the past. Uh but but you have to deal with it. You have to accept what it is and you have to deal with okay uh I can have a a wonderful marriage. I can have wonderful kids and I'm grateful for that. But as far as career, nothing's going to top that Olympic gold medal and I made myself understand that. And I have to imagine it's tough because no one not many people are in your shoes can actually experience that. I'm sure like some of the the gymnasts, you know, Bruce Jenner maybe. Um, what what do you find passionate now uh in your life that you really just love and can't get enough of? Uh, honestly, it's my wife and my kids. I I love my family. I I spent the last the last 40 years basically uh traveling the world training or competing or performing in WB and TNA. Uh but but spending time with my family. I just retired from pro wrestling in January and this is the first time that I get to sit back, relax, and and and obviously that along goes with that is the is the training. I continue to train every day. I had to get up at 6:00 a.m. this morning to train because I had to do the Arnold. You you have to wake up early. If you can't get it during the day, then wake your butt up earlier and do it. Make sure you do it. How old are your kids now? I have uh four kids, 13, nine, five, and three. So, I'm pretty active with them. I was going to say, are they in the sports and everything like that? Yeah. Yeah. They they love sports. My beautiful daughter Kira is a tennis player. My son Cody's a little wrestler. Um uh but the the little two right now they they like dancing and they're going to do that. They're my little two daughters, my babies. But uh I I believe the three-year-old's going to be an amateur wrestler. That's awesome. You got to be living vicariously through him now, right? Her she's a wrestler. Yeah. Yeah. She she Ronda very very aggressive and active just like Rhonda. So, uh, my wife will will will contest against me that they're she's not doing it, but she's going to do it. Great talking to you. Congratulations on the induction. Thank you very much.