We are here for xmuscle.com with Larissa Hayes at the 2016 Aram Classic in Brazil. We are here. The line is crazy. Everybody wants to see Larissa. And let's go, Lissa. Yes. Hey you guys. How are you? I'm so excited. This is my Arnold number four. Yeah. This is the fourth time. Yeah. So, I'm I'm I'm the fourth time is amazing, you know, to see the the expo growing every year. You know, I'm been part of the first one, you know, when I start to compete here in Brazil. We didn't have big expo. We didn't have big shows. And it's it's a dream for me as a Brazilian see this happening here now in my city. Nobody maybe in the US. know somebody doesn't know but Larissa here it's a icon everybody like her and she is a ambassador from Brazil for us all the men's and the girls the girls want to see like want to be like her and everybody let me tell you before before I was a playmate so and then I start bodybuilding and then everybody like you're crazy are you crazy and I was like no I know what I is the future, right? Yeah. I was looking like the girls from America, you know, the figure girls was like my dream and we didn't have this here in Brazil this time. We didn't have it all. wasn't humbler at all you know and imagine for me being a model playmate and then become a bodybuilder was a big you know everybody like saying bad things to me but I was the one believe it and bring that and now look how many beautiful girls now in the fish industry in Brazil and I I feel amazing because I I'm I'm proud to be part of this history here you know but doesn't mean here in Brazil we always have amazing girls Beautiful girls workout but not athletes. We never had like so many beautiful athletes but we always had beautiful woman for sure working out. You know my whole life was about especially here in Rio. Rio real is crazy. Everybody work out here in Rio. Let's talk about the future a little bit and you pretend to compete again and next competition or something like this will compete again. Yeah. Well, I'm I'm competing for 11 years already. IFBB and my last show was Arnold Class of Australia last year and right now I'm so busy with like so many travelings like every weekend every weekend I'm in different country if you see like a crazy schedule and you know I I really like that contact with my fans all over the world. I think now is the time for that because when you compete you restrict yourself. You can't do much you know. I'm always like at home training eating you know. So I I really like well of course I always have to be in shape but don't need to be like precon the shape you know all the time and I enjoy more this time now for me and my sponsor they they don't care if I compete or not so I'm happy with that whatever they want I can do it you know but to be honest with you I want to compete MMA so really serious no yeah I'm you're here first I want to compete as an amateur of course you know I just want to get the profile right starts and that's it. I'm not thinking about the career. I just really like so much all kinds of sports that I really enjoy the MMA world a lot and always was a dream of mine. I did jiu-jitsu for 8 years in Brazil and I stopped and now I come back. I'm training kickboxing but let's see. I don't know. I I like I said I don't have time. You know when you want to be good something you have to have time. But I'm training when I have time and who knows maybe next year I do one amateur fight. That's my goals. Okay. Thank you, Lisa, very much. See you guys next interview.