standing here with Latoya Watts, our Figure Pro champion here tonight. You came, you dominated, you went home with the win and a nice big check. I did. I did. I'm very happy. Now, you you did very well at the Arnold this year, and you know, uh I thought you should have won, of course. I thought you should have won the Olympia, too. But, um you know, you've been moving up the ranks, which is what what you're trying to do. Obviously, that's what you want to accomplish. Were you happy with your placing at the Arnold and now obviously the win here? I was I was I was very happy. I mean, I felt I was um I deserve the spots that I got. You know, me just getting the invite, just being able to be invited to Ohio and Australia was, you know, satisfaction for me, but to place in the top traveling the world now. Traveling I am, but to place within the top five of the top athletes that have been doing this for years, that was an honor for me. you know, your physique is so different than everyone else's that the judges, I think, have a hard time, you know, figuring out what to do with you. So, I think they know now. So, I've heard. Yeah. Now, they know where to put you. It seems like I I think so. I think I'm getting the recognition, you know. I definitely put in hard work. I know everybody wants to say genetics this and but I put in the work to to bring the symmetry that they want, to bring the body that they want. I put in a lot of hard work. Show in, show out. Every show I'm making I'm making improvements. People could look at you in this interview and they could say, "Well, she's not really that big." And then when you they see you on stage, you look very big, muscular speaking. It's an illusion, though, because your weight, what is your waist? How what's the measure? I don't measure. I never have. Look at that waist. I I don't even know where her organs are in here. Her waist is so small. Now, moving on for the rest of the year. Now, I know you had a couple of plans to do a few other shows. Are you going to shut it down till the Olympia? I am. I'm going to rest for Olympia. I am. I definitely wanted to go into this show and take home a win. I wanted to win win a pro show going into Olympia like I did last year. What's the plan now? What would you like to improve over the next couple of months before September's Olympia? Well, I know my coach wants to um we want to build up my shoulders, you know, a bit more and tighten up and bring out that muscle maturity that I'm finally starting to get, but I know he has plans and I know there's things that he wants to improve on that we'll definitely talk about when I get home. What has changed in your life since all this these placings and the accolades? Has anything changed? Are you still the same person? My confidence. My confidence is definitely changed. Uh I didn't know just like you said, I'm so different. They didn't know where to put me a lot of times. I didn't know where I should be. I didn't know where to, you know, where I was going to end up when I did shows. But now it's like, wow, you know, I really am putting in the hard work. They really are recognizing this. So confidence, my confidence has changed. when you step on stage, you you kind of know now what's going to happen as opposed to like before you were like, I wonder if they're going to risk see me. Yeah. Yeah. Well, and it's not like um it's not like I step on stage like I know I'm a win or I deserve it. It's just like all right, I put in the hard work. Are they going to see that and are they going to, you know, I guess award that? So, but now it's like, all right, I'm going to work hard. I know if I work hard, bring that look, I know good things will happen. I know I'll be in the top five. Would you like to see yourself in that first call out against Nicole Wilkins at the Olympia? Yes. Yes. She's my idol, so I love standing next to her. I'd like to see that call out, too. Yeah, absolutely. All right. Latoya Watts here, our figure pro champion here in New York City. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.