What happened was Kai was felt disrespected by Justin. Like, who's this guy to talk about me? Now, I know there was also a discrepancy where Kai said he didn't know who Justin was. And you know, Justin's like, "Come on, man. You know, you knew who I was. I was competing when you were competing. I was very popular." And Justin wasn't around for a very long time because he kind of competed. He did really well and then he kind of disappeared. But certainly Kai knows who he is. But that's not why Kai was upset. I think Kai might have said that like almost like, "Yeah, who the heck is he?" And I don't even know who he is. You know, he didn't really make what what mark did he leave on bodybuilding. I think it was more of a a put down for to at Justin because he was mad at what Justin said. And you know what? I understand where Kai's coming from. And you know what? I I wish people would just leave this guy alone. Why is his legacy going to be tarnished by this one thing that he did one time that that's embarrassing? Look at all the positive stuff he's accomplished. Look what he still contributes to the sport. He goes to the the events and he's still like one of the most popular people there. Justin, if you were that close, and I think this is what Kai's point was, if you were that close, you know, to winning an Olympia, which you weren't, and maybe something in your past did prevent you from winning that Olympia, it would be a sore spot. And I guess it's it's a sore spot. You push the button on Kai and it hurt his feelings. Doesn't mean you have to give him an apology, but at least have the compassion to understand where he was coming from. So, I thought the the response video from you after that was it was a little disrespectful to Kai. >> No, no, no, no, no. You insulted him a little bit. You got a little out of order yourself. No, >> I didn't insult him. I didn't insult him. >> Insulted him a little bit. No, >> I didn't insult nobody. Give us a drink. Give us a drink. Okay.