Visit yamamotoutrition.com. Yeah. Heat. Heat up here. Welcome back to Live with I'm your host Dave Palumbo and tonight we have one of the most requested interviews of all time in the history of RX Muscle. Well, we have it here for you tonight. It's the one and only Lee Priest. You're back. Welcome. Good day. How are you? Funny talking. When was the last time we we talked to each other on an interview? 10 years. Have to be have to be at least 10 years ago. I did see you I think when you came to Australia and you were doing some seminars down here. I saw you and Aaron training at a gym and you gave me a smile. That was about it. Yeah. That's cuz Aaron Singerman wanted to beat you up. Uh well, I was there. He had the opportunity. He was waiting for you to make his to make your move. That's why I always let them make the first move. Then I can't get sued. Let me let me get right to it first of all because you've been in and out of the IFBB over the last 10 years more than I think any other human being that I know. Lately, you've been on the outs more so than on the ins. you want back in. Let me ask you this question. If I'm the powers that be, why should I let Lee Priest back into the IFBB after he's gone back and forth at least three or four times over the last 10 years? Well, that's a hard question. you know the the fans would like it and stuff like that but to me it's like you know when I guess they can say you know Leah said this and Leah said that yeah I have said a lot of controversial things you know whether it was that you know I wasn't meant to be taken personally if I mentioned someone's name or attack someone but to me when in this sport as long as I have and you know it was always about the competitors was never about me because I never like competing but you know when I'd see stuff and this and that and you hear things you know a lot of my interviews were done at contest time so I'm depleted and stuff and someone asked me a question. Of course, I'm going to be passionate about it. So, you know, people say, "Oh, you don't like Jim or you don't like Steve?" And that's not the case at all. You know, Jim was the one that, you know, when I first came to America, you know, he's like sort of a Yeah. Jim Onion. He's like a father the figure to me, you know, back then I come into the gym and he sees me and sees what I'd done. And, you know, if it wasn't for Jim, I wouldn't have got my pro card and been able to compete in the IFBB. So, you know, all the things I've done over the years, I was never a beef against anyone personally. Steve Weinberger, you know, he runs a great gym and does a lot for the competitors and stuff like that. So, when things come up and the names mentioned, it's just on the spirit of the moment, there's no hatred or malice towards these people whatsoever because they're great for the sport, but you know, just in that heat of the moment when I'm asked the question and I get passionate about something, I might say stuff that could be off the cuff. And, you know, a lot of it has to do with my Australian sense of humor, too, where I could write stuff and people see, oh, look what Lee said and this and that, but I could be smiling on the other end. It's like if you text message someone, they don't know you know how you really are. So, but yet like I said, it's just a dry sense of humor. It can come across wrong. So, if I have offended anybody, Jim Manion or Steve Weinberger, I apologize for that because that was never my intent. I was just when I loved the sport so much and was into it so much. I just wanted to see the sport grow and get better and better. And there was some things that I saw that, you know, could have been done, could have been changed. And you know, people you might have someone like Shawn Ray back in the day who was really diplomatic and he toe, you know, sidestep things and tiptoe around it. Whereas I'm like a bull at the gate. I just go straight for the subject and get straight into it. And that could come across as rude or brash and stuff like that. But, you know, that was never my intent. My intent was just for the sport to progress and get better and better. And it's good to see, you know, there are things changing now. I know with in Australia, you know, people who are in the IFBB can compete in different organizations and can go to different expos and stuff like that if they're not IFBB. You know, that's all I ever wanted was, you know, just the athletes to be given a fair thing like that. And it's good to see that things are changing for the better because like I said, I love the sport. I love to see it grow. And, you know, I said, it's just one of those things when I do get asked a question. If it's something that's sensitive to me and stuff like that, I sometimes might go off in a harsh brush way and people think, well, he's being rude. He's putting us down. And I'm really not. It's just sort of my opinion coming across that way. Well, I I think that people tolerated your your very uh I guess you could say polarizing opinions when you were in the in the IFBB, but at some point you said, you know, screw it. I want to leave the IFBB. Why did you leave? Look, Lee, you won the I remember when you won the Iron Man Pro. I I I forgot what year it was, but when you won that show, I mean, you were on top of your game. I mean, I thought you were going to go to the Olympia and be top, you know, three or four at that point. Why did you leave at that point? What I mean, was that something that just was like a self-destruct type of thing in your head? Because everyone loved you. You were just like the most beloved. I think you were probably the most popular bodybuilder at that moment in in time. Yeah. There was never, like I said, people think all the time they'd be saying, "Look what Lee's doing to the IFBB. Lee, we're against the IFBB." But no, it's like I've been with the IFBB so long and then you know when I was when Wayne used to run the show Wayne I would always clash but you know I still respected Wayne. So when Wayne 06 I won the Iron Man, did the Arnold stuff like that, did the Australian Pro show and then Wayne was starting up this new organization. I just figured, you know, I'd give it a go. And people like, "Oh, look at Lee. He's throwing this in the IFBB's face. He's trying a new thing." Because to me, it was like it was just a different organization competing with different people. It's just something new to try. Because I've been with the IFBB for 14 years. It was never, let me shove this in your face. I'm going to do this to you. It was just, you know, you've been in the job for so long. You just want to try something different. And that's all it was. So, but you were at the pinnacle of your career. This you were at the peak of your powers. You were you had everyone behind you. Yeah. To me that to me, like I said, I love training. To me, I'll always train the competing and where I was the fame and that or money that doesn't matter to me. As long as I can train, that's all that matters. I was never driven by money or fame and this sort of thing. So, to me, it was just like another contest. I'll go do it. And then when law happened and I did get suspended, I got a year suspension. And then Bob was like, "Well, Eve, if you don't do the other show, it'll just be one year. If you do, do it be two years." I said, "Look, I signed on to do the show. I'm happy to take the two-year suspension. If those are the rules, they're the rules. I'll take the two-year suspension." Which I did. And in 2008, I got my pro card back and at the same time my grandfather passed away. So, I moved back home to Australia. And from like 090, I was guest posing for the IFBB in Australia, New Zealand, and stuff like that. and just because my grandfather passed away and when I moved back home I was going to get ready for a contest that he was going to help me but because he wasn't there I just lost that passion and fire so around 2010 I was just like you know what I just don't have that passion anymore to compete so I just let my pro card lapse and renew it and that's the main reason I got out of the you know competing in the IFBB it wasn't because I'm like [\h__\h] you IB had a gutful just because with my grandfather passing away like I said he when I was moving home he was going to he was always there when I was younger to help me get ready for shows and prepare for shows and when he passed away I sort of started preparing for a contest in um 0809 I was talking to Tony about doing a show but yet I just didn't need that fire and drive because he wasn't there so I just thought for forget it I'll just train I won't compete ever again and then like I said I just let the pro card go and that was it so that was the main reason I sort of stopped competing and wasn't no longer a member of the IFBB because I figured well why keep my pro card because I'm not going to compete anymore. Yeah, but you you weren't speaking you weren't speaking well of the IFBB at that point either. It was kind Do you feel that I think that's when John and I had a radio show and yeah, it's like I said, I never came out attacking the IFB. It was always if somebody asked the question, it was like if someone said leave what I think it is and then I give my opinion, but then if you go through a lot of those shows, I did speak well of the IFBB, but for some reason people always like to dwell on the negative and anything. So there was a lot of contests I said that was a great contest, it was wellrun, it was this, it's that. And then if there was another show that wasn't well run, I'd say I was just relaying what the fans were telling me, what the fans would post. So I'm just going by that because like I said, when I was out over here, I don't follow the bodybuilding. I just do my own thing and stuff like that. It's like when I used to write for MD, people were like, "Oh, Lee, you're so controversial." And you'd know me Dave, you wouldn't see me at any parties. You wouldn't see me anywhere. I just go to the gym and go home, go to a movie. But yet when I was working at MD, it was Steve Blackman that was coming to me giving me all this inside go information saying, "Here, Lee, put this in the article. Put that. That'll stir him up." So then I'd put in the article. Everyone would get mad at me. And Steve would be like, "Oh, Lee, you shouldn't have said." I'm like, "Well, [\h__\h] Steve. You're the one that [\h__\h] gave it to me to say, "So why you why are you throwing me under the bus now?" It's like, how would I know what's going on in the IFBB or what was said at these meetings? You're the one telling me to put in my articles to be controversial. And now I'm getting thrown under the bus for saying it. So, you know, I was like, "Whatever." Well, yeah, we know Blackman is is a snake in the grass like that for sure. Do Do you think looking And I don't want to dwell on this too much. I I I I realize that you're remorseful and you have regret and that that you said those things. It's pretty apparent. Uh, do you look at yourself sometimes and say, "I know you don't give a crap you say about competing, but do you say to yourself, man, you know, maybe I was a little self-destructive in certain things I did?" Because it seems like every time you were about to do something great, something controversial comes out or you do something like completely out of character that no one expected and and you go in a completely different direction. Um, was do you think you do that on purpose or subconsciously? No, it's never on purpose or subconsciously. I think it's just who I am that you know that would come up and that would happen and people would be like oh leave Lee had just kept his mouth shut. He could have done this could have done that but you know still it's like it's been what now oh 10 it's almost you know 10 years 11 years since I've been in the IFBB and you know still train. I still have fans all around the world. I'm still inundated with questions. I'm still traveling the world doing appearances. So yeah okay maybe people say Lee you could have done this. You could have done that. Then people always come back to you know you could have had big contracts. You could have done this. You know, I'm still with Black Skull. I've been with them since I started. I'm pretty much with Black Skull for life. So, it's one of those things where, okay, I could have made more money, but like I said, money's never been my motivator. As long as I've got a roof over my head, food on the table, I can train. I'm a very basic, happy person. Maybe maybe too basic sometimes mentally and in life. So, well, like I said, I just that's just the way I was and stuff like that. And like I said, a lot of those interviews were done when I was in contest mode. And it's like I said, I could have an interview done. It could be something like Lee, what he had was this show running. He was saying something like, well, they could treat the athletes better because backstage there was no water and stuff like this. And there's been a few pro shows back then. I know that's when Wayne was running stuff, so it's got nothing to do with whatever. But it's like I said, I attack the organization because it was like, you know, a bottle of water, people go, big [\h__\h] deal. So what? But, you know, when you're in that contest mode, you're depleted, you're dieting, you think, okay, how I place in this show is going to determine whether I get signed to another contract. You know, this sort of stuff. You know, sometimes a bottle of water, something so small can be a major thing. So, it's just little things like that that would come up. And it's like I said, I understand, you know, people like, "Well, you're attacking the promoters." Like, no, I understand promoters have to make money. That's, you know, fine. I got nothing wrong with that. But, you know, just that the athletes were professional athletes just treat us as professionals. That's all I used to want. So, do you think if you weren't so talented, you might not have had such a sharp mouth? Because, you know, it almost bodybuilding came very easy to you. You know, I know you're a hard worker and you live the lifestyle, but you have you have genetic gifts that other people just don't have, let's face it, and it does come easier to you and you do have, you know, the ability to do well, you know, even in the face of controversy. Do you think that maybe that made you a little more like open about your thoughts and and what your opinions were? Yeah, I think it's just because I've always been open that way. My mom can tell you from a young age I've always asked why. You know, nothing was ever, you know, ladies and ladies, I always have to question why. When I was young, my dad used to play the organ at the cathedral on the church and we were really a church family. But yet my mom could tell you every Sunday I was kicked out of Sunday school because I'd be questioning how could Mary be a virgin? How could a guy live in the belly of a whale? So I said from a young age that's always been my personality that I'd want to know why. If you tell me something, I want to know why it's that way. and why does it have to be that way or if someone says I can't change I want to know why can't it change why can't we make change it is so I think it's just been my personality if I wasn't in the bodybuilding I probably would have been through probably 20 odd jobs by now questioning the boss why why is that got to be done a certain way like that you know why can't we do it this way so I think it's just my personality the way I am and I've always had that intrigue to want to know things it's like you know just give me you know someone can say this is the way it is and I say okay I'll take it that if that's the way it is but can you explain to me why it's got to be that way so whereas Some people just go, "Okay, I'll do it." And it's like I said, you'll see if you see my post now, sort of I'll do the same thing with governments and stuff like that. The way the governments treat their people and all that sort of thing. And I'll be questioning why why don't people stand up to the governments? And you know, if all the people stood together, things could change in all walks of life if people just stood together. It's like this thing in me and Chester now where everyone, you know, bad things happened with the bombing. People are over there coming together having these vigils. Thousands of people getting together. I'm like, well, why can't these thousands of people get together before a tragedy and talk to each other, talk to their neighbors if more people come together, you know, and spoke to each other and had that compassion for each other before a tragedy, maybe tragedies could be avoided because, you know, when I was young, everybody knew everybody in the street. Everybody talked to everybody. You're lucky to find people these days that even talk to their neighbors and they've been living next door to people for over 10 years. Everyone's just in their own little bubble. To me, it's like, you know, everyone just needs to, you know, talk to each other, you know, love one another, get along and show compassion and stuff and just like I said, be friendly and, you know, just, you know, just weird. I don't know. But just the way society's going sometimes, everyone lives in their little Facebook online world that the real world out there is just strange to them. If if the IFBB were to let you back in, would you ever consider competing again? Are you done? Because I had read some place that you said you were retiring from competing. Uh, I don't know, choice. of my neck injury still when I had that car accident a woman hit me. I had one neck surgery and my C7 nerve is still crushed. I thought the first operation did well but after a year or more I wasn't getting better and when I was in Brazil Black Skull sent me to the top neurosurgeons down there and lucky he was a big fan of mine. So they're going to when I go back to Brazil, Black Skull is going to get my neck operated on again, but this time they're going through the front of my neck to relieve that because the right triceps atrophy a little bit, a little bit of the chest because the signal is not going to those muscles because the nerves crush, but you know, my left hand side and that's okay. So if I was to if that operation works well and it comes back and I was to diet down and think, okay, I look okay to compete again, I would, but I'm not going to, okay, think, okay, I got the muscle back. let me diet down and go, okay, I compete and I walk out on stage and people go, "Oh, [\h__\h] What the hell you doing up there?" No, I'd still probably I like to get in shape for appearances, photo shoots or guest posings, but you know, the competing side, you got to know when to call it quits. You know, you just can't go up there and say, "Oh, because I'm such and such, I'm coming back." So, you know, like I said, you know, getting out there and to me it was like when I used to compete. I never really like the competing side. To me, going to the expose, meeting the fans and doing that sort of thing. That's what I love. Never the competing side. But it was just going to meet the fans is what I love. So going to the expos and stuff like that is what I enjoy most. Um what do you think speaking of of comebacks at a later age? First of all, how old are you now? Uh 45. Okay. So you're you're you're still a young man by bodybuilding standards. Good. That Australian lifestyle doing me good. I've added a Botox. I can't tell. Has the Has the Has the tattoo extended anywhere where we don't know or are you uh have you still? Yeah, like when I was in England last year doing some seminars, I had it extended over my eyelid and stuff. And when I left the room, it's funny as I left the room, the tattooist was telling my friend Aaron, he goes, "Oh, Lee's brave putting that on his eye." And my friend Aaron's like, "Why is that?" He goes, "Oh, you can go blind doing that." I said I said, "What a [\h__\h] dick didn't tell me before I got it done." I said it wasn't a matter of being brave. It's just that I didn't know. Maybe if I had the option of knowing I could have gone blind. I might have done it. So yeah, exactly. But no, I got makeup at home. People always say, "Why'd you tattoo your face? I always get the T and this and that." But I wanted to get mine done before Tyson did. Then when Tyson got his done, I'm like, "Well, [\h__\h] I'm not going to do it now. People think I'm copying him." So it was years later I got it done. And what do people say? Oh, you're copying Tyson. So I was like, you know, I got makeup at home that I can cover it up if I want to cover it up. So to me it's like people don't even see it anymore. Sometimes I say I'm going to get removed. People, "Oh no, that's you. You got to leave it there." So I don't even notice it. I've had old women staring at me in grocery stores and like, "Oh, here we go. I'm going to get the tattoo lecture." And sure enough, they come over and they're like, "Why'd you tattoo your face?" I'm like, "I don't know. I guess I'm an idiot." They're like, "Oh, no. I think it's beautiful, sir." You get mixed reactions from it, so I guess you know what can you do? Yeah. Well, that Yeah, like I said, people people look at me people look at me now and think I'm a criminal. I did a movie in Australia called Dumb Criminals where I play a bikey. Then I did a TV thing where I played a drug dealer in a gym and I went to the gym the next day and this old like I saw you on TV last night. That's not a very good look for you. So I was like, it's funny. You can have you can have these muscles and portray his look, but I'm like 45 now, never been arrested, never been to jail, right? Never been pulled over for speeding even. So, you know, look doesn't really match what people might think of me and stuff like that. So I've never broken the law. So, what can I say? Exactly. The bad boy. The bad boy they call me and this sort of thing. I'm really not. So, yeah. Well, you just you have that image, but it's but you know, it's it's an act is really what it is what you're saying, you know, because you're I know you you're a homebody. You like to sit home, watch TV, go movies, you know, go to dinner. If I go if I go to the movies, I go at like the 10:30 session in the morning where it's just me and the pensioners. So, let let me ask you a question. We're talking about comebacks. Um Kevin Levrone made the comeback at the Mr. Olympia in 2016. Do you think it was a mistake and he and he says he's going to compete again this year? Is it a mistake for Levrone to come back or do you think it was you think it's a good move on his part? Uh I think it was a good move him coming back. I always thought that coming back at the Olympia that's a you know a big show to come back and maybe if he had picked a smaller show might have been better because you're getting judged against the best the top of the you know the cream of the crop there. So, and for his comeback, I thought his upper body didn't look too bad really. Okay, his legs slid him down, but you know, his upper body, I thought, you know, looked almost comparable to how it was back in the day. So, you know, some people were going on about it, but you know, that's Kevin. You know, if Kevin's got the passion and the heart for it, I say go for it. You know, who's to say that not to do it. Yeah, we're going to compare him back to how he used to look like, but then all these people are naysayers, what have they ever done? The people online, what have they done? you know, some of these bodybuilders who are current or past putting him down, you know, how do they look now? So, you know, if I'm Kevin's age, what Kevin's what, 50 odd and that some of these guys who are competing now like the Flex Lewis and that are they going to look that good when they're 50 odd. So, you know, I think more power to him and he's got a bit more time now to do his legs. So, I hope that, you know, he comes back well and now you got Flex Wheeler who's recently signed with the company with Black Skull and that he's going to do a comeback. So you know people are they saying about him too but you know Flex has got a great physique for that class. So you know maybe you know Flex has always had that passion for it too and he's always wanted to be a Mr. Olympia. He's always just missed out when he used to get second to Ronnie and stuff like that. So maybe this could be his comeback where he does come back and finally gets that Olympia title he's always been after. So you know I wish him luck. I don't put anybody down. You there's a lot of people I see on stage who I think hey maybe they shouldn't be up there sometimes. But I'm thinking hey if they got the passion and they got the drive to do it more power to them. whether it be a pro show or an amateur show, you know, it's like I said, I like I said, I love the training and even when I said the pro side, amateur side, anyone that gets up there and gives it a go, I said more power to them. And like I said, when I used to go to the gym and people say, I can't believe I meet you, Lee, you this. I said, look, I'm Lee Priest. You know, I've never once put myself on a pedestal and said that, you know, I'm a pro bodybuilder. Get out of my way. You know, if I'm in a gym training getting ready for the Mr. Olympia at the time. To me, if a woman's training for just to lose weight, I don't ask her how many sets she's got so I can take the machine, that's just as important to her as it is me getting ready for the Olympia. And I've always been that way. Just because I got a pro card doesn't make me any better than Joe Smith that goes to the gym. I love training. I'm there to train just like him. I'm there to better myself, look better, feel better. So, I've never had this whole thing of I'm a pro bodybuilder. You know, I got, you know, I run this gym stuff. To me, I just like I'm just like anybody else. I go to the gym, I love training, and have fun doing it. And that's the way it should be. You know, just because you're a pro bodybuilder doesn't make you any better than anybody else that goes to the gym. Sadly, some of it makes it worse for us because they do walk around like dicks and with egos shoved up their ass. Now, you look you still look very big. Uh you've never stopped training. Guys like Flex and and and Levrone kind of stopped training. So, I think that kind of makes the comeback much more difficult, wouldn't you say? I think so. Yeah. Yeah, cuz I said even when I'm injured, I try to do a little bit. Even when I had shoulder surgery years ago, they said take three months off. But I had my arm in a sling and I was back in the gym two days later. Arm in a sling like this training this side of my body. So I think because I've, you know, trained since I was 12 years old, 13 years old, it's just something I love doing. Sure, these days I hate it. Like even now with my neck, there's a lot of things I can't do. But, you know, I had a couple of days sitting at home going, "Ah [\h__\h] this." But then sitting at home, I felt [\h__\h] So I figured, well, I might as well go to the gym and train. If I train, I can't do stuff. I feel [\h__\h] But at least I went and trained. So I think it's just one of the things with me just becomes natural now like breathing eating it's just I go to the gym and you know some I just go there I might talk to people do a bit of cardio do some light stuff and bit this bit of that but hey I just I said it's just one of those things I love doing when you competed Lee there was no weight divisions it was just the open uh you you won open class pro shows you were sixth at the Olympia top six uh in the open class nowadays they got this 212 division obviously Flex Lewis is a multi-Olympia champ in that division. How do you think you would fare would have fared in the 212 class, you know, had it been around when you were competing? Oh, I would have won, of course. I don't know. Depends what I would have said at the time. But no, it's like I think if it was around in my heyday, I probably would have done okay. It's hard to say because you know who would have been in and stuff like that. And like I said, I just went into a contest looking the best I could be, doing the best I could look on that day. is once you get on stage, I always tell people, you know, you might get beat and don't worry as long as you know you've done the best you can do, just get on stage and have fun. It's out of your hands once you're up there. And you know, one day you might win a show, next day you're going to get beat at another show. So, it's like, it doesn't matter. Just enjoy it, you know? But some people take the winning and losing too personal and stuff like that. But to me, it's like I just went to a show and had fun as long as I know, like I said, I didn't cheat on my diet. I trained my ass off and this is the best I can look on this given day. Well, you got to, you know, deal the cards you dealt on that day and do the best you can. But I think it was around. I probably would have done okay. So, but it's hard to say cuz it wasn't around. And I enjoyed competing in the open. And you know, people always say now, how would Flex do in the open and stuff like that? It's hard to say because now they have these classes. Would they be like, if Flex was to do an open Olympia, would they be like, you know, you've got a class, you should be in that one, so we're going to judge you on that type of thing. So whereas it wasn't around before, they had to just judge everybody on stage in that one class, but now there's two classes. I'd still love to see them do like they did in the old days at the end, you know, get a Phil Heath and get a, you know, Flex Lewis and put them together like they used to do with Franco and Arnold when they had the different things and, you know, see who the thing is that way. So, you know, just make it fun, make it a bit more exciting and stuff like that. So, like I said, it's good. I'm glad they do have it though. But the only thing I didn't like about it was when it used to be the 212 or that sort of thing was when you'd have these guys come in and they would weigh in a day or two before and they'd be, you know, 210 or whatever. Then on the day of the show, they filled back out to 220. To me, that's not a real 212 guy. If you're filling out the 220, 220 odd and you're short of stature bodybuilder, you should be in the open 212, you should be 212 on contest day. So that's a fair playing field. Not a guy who's a legitimately 212 or 206 competing against a guy who's carved back up to 225. So yeah. Yeah, I understand. I agree. I agree with you. I think there should be maybe a a 12-h hour window or something like that that they should allow. You're you're stepping on the scale before you walk out for prejudge. Oh, you you want to do it that close, huh? Okay, that that's not bad. That's not bad. Let me ask you this question. Um, if you were competing today at your pr in your prime, how do you think you would do in that 212 class against the, you know, guys like uh Flex Lewis and Jose Raymond? Would you think you could beat them? Oh, of course. Okay. I It's hard It's hard to It' be a good show. I know the fans would love to see it even today how today. So, it's hard to say because I think we all have our strong points and we have our flaws. you know, flex has a good back and that, but I think after the universe in 2013, you know, I can bring my glutes and hammies up if I want to and get those cross directions. So, I think we all have our strong points and our weak points. So, until you actually had us there side by side, but I think me at my best and him at his best, it would be a great show and that sort of thing. I think with Jose, he's got a lot of mass and stuff, but I think my symmetry is a lot better than his. And I think too just the way yeah he looks good but I think sometimes I wouldn't say I have that 3D look but just some of the freakiness on me looks a bit more freakier than some of them but I said it just come down to preference on what the judges saw that day. So to me it wouldn't matter. I remember once when I think I was last at Fivo and Flex was there with Gaspari at the time and I was talking to Rich and he's like oh Lee come back come back and do the this was still in good with the IPV. I must have been like 2010 or 2009 at FIBO. I said yeah I should come back and do the 212. And Flex is like, "Yeah, do the 212. Do the 212." I said, "Fine." I said, then um Rich was like, "Hey, Flex, you might beat." He goes, "Yeah, don't do it." I said, "Look, either way I win." I said, "If I do the 212 and I win, I've beat Flex." I said, "If Flex beats me." I said, "Big deal. He beat an old man." So, I win either way. Who do you think would have been a better 212 guy back in your day, you or Shawn Ray? Would you have beat Shawn Ray? Uh Shawn, my good friend Shawn. I love Shawn. Uh it's hard to say because then again cuz at the 98 Olympia you see photos of a side by side where he placed ahead of me but yet you see comparisons cuz you know where I'm a sort of a freak you look he is a bit more different shape than me. So really when you're looking at two physiques there okay we're almost around the same weight same same height and stuff like that. I think he's only a little bit taller than me. He always calls me a short ass but you know he's not like he's no [\h__\h] Shaquille O'Neal himself. So, uh, you know, he flashes the money like you. Oh, he doesn't even flash his money, does he? To def Thi asks. No. Why'd you make me Shawn Ray for? You're throwing me off now. I wanted to get your response. You don't you don't like Shawn Ray. You You've been on record as saying you don't like Shawn Ray. I don't even I don't even know how that whole thing started between me and him. I think it started years ago where remember Lori Dolly when I was engaged with Lorie Dolly and I used to go to um back um North Carolina and guest pose with Quincy Taylor and stuff and my friend Eric Or used to work for Europa with Eric Hillman and I'd go there a few times and guest post and then one year I took Shawn out there and Sean said my friend Eric oh is Lee talking bad about me and my friend Eric's like Lee doesn't even mention you why would he goes oh because I've been banging his ex Lorie Donley and stuff like that and Eric's Like Lee doesn't even know. Lee doesn't care. It's his ex for a reason. So there's just little things like this where Shawn would always do stuff and trying, you know, Sean's like, he tries to dig that little nail in and give a twist here and there. And like I said, Sean as a bodybuilder was fantastic. Great bodybuilder. You got to give him credit for that. But as a person and a human being, you always said he was a piece of [\h__\h] Oh yeah. Uh let me ask you another question. Actually, Shawn Ray was at Shawn Ray. Here's the funny. He was at the booth with Black Skull in in Brazil last year and he didn't talk to me the whole time. And it was funny cuz behind Shawn Ray they is where they had this like 20 foot high poster of me like this with the arms folded. And it was funny because the guy from Black Skull was telling me that when fans wanted the photo with Shawn Ray could make him stand the other way so my picture wasn't behind him. What? Why? But why do you think Shawn Ray has a problem with you? I know you I know you don't like him. probably because of of of the stuff he does did to you behind your back and stuff like that. But why do you think Shawn Ray has a problem with you? You think he feels threatened by you? I have never really known because he was always the one to me it's like I don't have a problem with anyone. Like to me what people do and say and stuff like that in bodybuilding their personal life. I couldn't give two damn about because you know I'm not perfect. I do crazy [\h__\h] and stuff like that. But if I do interviews, hell, I'll talk about what I've done in my life sexually, anything. So doesn't bother me. But yeah, someone like Sean where they try and come across nice Christian and stuff like this and then they'll go online because he'll always be the one that has a go at me first. So it's like, okay, you're going to have a go at me, I'm going to respond and I'll say the truth. So I'm not going to sit here and do whatever. So nor I said if someone attacks me, it's like whether it be even these crazy fans. If I get bored on Facebook or Instagram, people like Lee, why do you give them the time a day? I'm like, hey, I'm bored. There's nothing on TV. If they're going to rubbish me and put me down, I'll go look at their profile pick and come back and say something about them. So, like I said, I never I've never once been the first to instigate anything or say anything. I just sit back and once, you know, once the stones are being thrown, I'll pick them up and throw them back. Right. Right. Now, I don't know if you've been following um some of the stories we've been covering at RX Muscle, but Lee Haney uh was quoted as saying in Muscular Development Magazine that he thought Cedric McMillan would never win the Mr. Olympia contest because he didn't have the eye of the tiger. Um what did you think? What do you think about that statement that Lee Haney made? It's hard to say because to say someone doesn't have the eye of a tiger unless you're living with them and know what they do and you know know how they train, know what's in their thoughts and their mind. That's hard to say just because I think Cedric was the best part of the Arnold Classic when he got the microphone and had a joke around with Arnold because for so long you see these bodybuilders who just seem like robots when they're doing interviews or you see their DVDs. It's just like same crap over and over. That's why when I do my stuff, I would just talk about anything, get asked any question. I just I [\h__\h] ramble on sometimes and if I ever watched it back, I'd be like, "What the [\h__\h] am I talking about?" So, but yet these bodybuilders today are just so I don't know, just this one type plain personality that when Cedric did that, you know, the show was a great show, but I think that was the highlight of the show because it showed, hey, look, you know, bodybuilders have a personality. They can be funny and this sort of thing. So, I think that was great for the sport him interviewing Arnold like that. I think Arnold enjoyed it too because every Arnold Classic, Arnold asked him, "So, what did you do to get ready for this show? What did you eat? How hard did you train?" So, I think when someone turned it around on Arnold, he actually had fun and enjoyed it. So, but they say he doesn't have that eye to tiger. Like I said, the only one who would know that would be someone close to him or his training partner. But, you know, to see what he's done and how he looks, he's got to have some sort of fire burning there to you don't get that far in the sport with no eye to tiger. So, you know, so it's going to be I said winning the Olympia is always going to be a hard thing because you got to come in looking that good to knock the champ off or a champ has to slip up a bit that you can get in there. But, you know, in this sport, you can't count anybody out. You know, somebody you can say, well, look how he looked last year or this sort of thing, but then he can come in that year and blow you away and somebody look fantastic last year could come in next year looking crap. So, in this sport, you never know that the data show who's going to do what and how they're going to look. Lee, why do you think that Dexter Jackson has been so dominant for so long? I mean, here's a guy who started out as bantamweight competitor and he just he never goes away and he just keeps getting better and better and at 40 years old he's still dominant. Yeah, I think because he's consistent, you know, like I'm enjoys training. He to me, you know, okay, we know there's, you know, supplements used in the sport, but yet to me it doesn't come across as someone that's does crazy [\h__\h] on them. He doesn't abuse them and stuff like that. So, you know, there is longevity in the sport if you're smart about it. You know, sadly, a lot of people getting into it now and they're too young and they're just abusing the supplements and stuff like that. They don't think about the future. You say to them, "Oh, you're going to kill yourself." And their their response is, "Well, I'll die big." And stuff like that. To me, that's just stupid. It's like, you know, my arm, you know, the good ar still like close to 22 inches and stuff like that. And, you know, like I said, I've always been smart when it came to supplement use and stuff like that. I I was offering them more than I was on them. So I said, but sadly now I go to the gym, there's young kids 15, 16, 17. First day in the gym, they're taking these stupid supplements cuz you know, the internet can be a great thing, but now everyone that goes online, they just want to know what drugs, what this, what that, what combinations. I'm just like, you guys are [\h__\h] crazy. It's like I tell people, you get these young kids now, I want to be a pro bodybuilder. And to me, it was like when I started, I tell them, if you train hard, if you eat correctly, you get the rest, and you're not going out partying. I said, if you got the genetics, your body will grow. You'll build a great physique before you even touch a drug, touch a supplement, you'll just know this is what you're built to do. And as simple as that. So when the time comes that when you got to do what you got to do, fine. But to me, unless you're going to make a living out of it, make a career out of it and it's your job. To me, touching those type of supplements to me is just stupid. I don't get it where people just say because I want to look good or I want to look good for a festival, you got guys taking them just to diet down to walk around expo. To me, that whole mentality is like so dumb. Like I tell people the strongest thing, okay, you got to be strong lifting weights and stuff, but in bodybuilding or pretty much anything in life, the strongest thing you're ever going to use is what's up here. Because if you haven't got up there, that mentality, that focus or anything, you're not going to make it in anything in life, especially bodybuilding where it is such a mind-driven sport. Even Arnold said that the focus and the dedication and what you got to put into it, he put that same aspects into his business life, his political life, and look where he went. So if you haven't got upstairs to begin with, you're not going to make it in anything. Yeah. when you see some of the dosages that these guys talk about online like the Boston Lloyds out there uh do you are you like horrified by it? I mean do you I mean because no one took that stuff back like I said to me it's just crazy because like I said I've always been honest and called the biggest liar ever. Boston calls me a liar saying I'm honestly he's not. But it's like I said if I had used 10,000 milligrams of this 5,000 of that I said you know me Dave [\h__\h] I've been in trouble for saying the truth. Do you think I'm going to lie about my drug use? God. It's like, you know, like people say, Lee ruined his career by saying this and saying that. So, why would I worry about what telling people what I use? And when I did those Tom Plat videos, I think someone posted it long ago, I spoke the truth. You know, when I use test, I wouldn't go over 400. There was um Trevor Smith from Nuclear Nutrition. You might remember him. Yeah. He had me do a course once and he's like, "Hey, Lee, here you should try more because you might think." So, he put me on 800 milligrams of test and some other stuff. And I tell you, after 3 weeks, I felt [\h__\h] My strength actually went down. I felt crap. So, I went back to what I was used to using and I felt great again. I've had, you know, before when I got ready for one show, Carne gave me a list of supplements once and he's like, "Take all these." I'm like, "How are you taking that many?" Because to me, it was like, I take maybe two or three different drugs for six weeks and then I'd swap over to another three. Whereas kids are taking six or eight at once. I'm like, how do you really know what's working? You know, you might be taking all this [\h__\h] And to me, I was never into every other day stuff. If I used windstrop, people say, "You got to take every second day." I take it every fourth day or every fifth day. Because like I said to me, I'd read the bottle and it would say 2 mil per 100 kilos for a horse every two weeks. I'm thinking, well, [\h__\h] I'm not over 100 kilos and I'm not a horse. So why do I need a meal every second day if a horse needs two meals every two weeks? So I just had that logic of when I started too when I first used them, I always started on a small amount and now to come off for three, four, five months and go back on a small amount. I still got good gains. So I never had this mentality where I needed more to get bigger and bigger. So like I tell people like I'm sure if Boston Lloyd came off everything clean just went clean for 6 months 12 months or anybody out there was just came off it and just started on a small amount they trained properly they eat correctly they make the same gains. I said people are using these large amounts the only one that's getting benefit from it is the guy you're buying it off because he's driving a new Mercedes around because you're buying so much [\h__\h] When I was in England I did seminars in England I'd tell people look I don't this is what I've used and they'll be like oh we've heard you take this. I'm like well this is what I take. Well, I read you like I'm the guy that's [\h__\h] injecting it into myself. I think I know what I'm using. Okay. And but these young kids, I spoke to a couple, the smallest amount in England some of these guys were taking was 2,000 milligrams. There's one guy taking five grams of tests a week. I'm like where the [\h__\h] do you put that much [\h__\h] It's like I just to me blows my mind that people think more is better. And now you got so many of these experts online where it's like I say when Paul Delet left his wife, he stayed with me for 8 months getting ready for the 98 Olympia. And I'd see where this taken every day. I'd see our team put a syringe on the table. It's like shop day and then it' sit there for a couple of days like hey Paul you haven't got to go. I'll take it later. And like I said I heard before cuz Paul's such a freak. He uses these large amounts. It wasn't even a quarter what people think. So but sadly people think the bigger you are the freak you are the more you take. But it's like these guys, you're talking about the 1% that have the best genetics in the world. It's like Australia, America. You're going to have a lot of bodybuilders that they might take a whole heap of gear, but they might just be good enough for regional shows. And then you'll have guys that take a lot of gear who are good at national level shows, but they just can't win them. Then you have a guy that can win a national show, might get his pro card, but he'll never be a good pro. But then you get the guys who are got the great genetics the gear and they're in that 1% where they're the top phenomenal pros. It's like in anything around the world. If we traveled, you probably have thousands and thousands of guys that are sprinters that can run as fast as [\h__\h] but they can take all the drugs in the world. They're not going to be a Hussein bolt or anything like that. So, in any given sport, there are just guys that are built for those sport. And like I said, all the drugs in the world, it ain't going to make you that good. But sadly, people think if I take what you're taking, I can look like you. You've heard law before. So, I was just like, I've never had that mentality. To me, it's like I train with guys, Lee, I can't go heavy today. Why not? I'm not taking nothing. I'm like, "Well, if you think that way, you're never going to go anywhere." I said, "If you think that you can't train without them, you won't." Whereas, I've never had that mentality. To me, it was like I use them yesterday to get ready for contest because I'm depleting a bit. My calories are down. I'm doing two to three hours of cardio a day. Like to me, I love the hard work. If you know, you can always tell a guy that's done the hard work. Even back in the day, you look at people like Bird Fox, Sergio, Olivia, these guys are on like the minimal deck at Diana Bowl and [\h__\h] and their muscle mass and thickness is better than the guys have got today because they did the [\h__\h] hard work. Whereas guys today it's like well any more than 45 minutes you're overtraining. I'm like come on. I was like I still train for an hour and a half two hours. I said you want to be the best. You want to be the best bodybuilder in the world but 45 minutes is all you're going to train. I said show me a boxer, a soccer player, a gymnast, a tennis player that's number one in the world and they only train for 45 minutes a [\h__\h] day. It's like guys want to be the best and get to be the biggest and that but yet they're getting [\h__\h] lazy. I remember guys when I say I do two to three hours of cardio or I don't do that. I say how much cardio you do? Oh, not much. I just take more clean or take more growth. It's like, okay, that might work to a degree, but nothing's ever going to beat busting your ass, doing the hard work. When you look at people like Dorian and those guys that had muscle mass and that granite hard look, you can tell he bust his ass in the gym. Some guys now have great physiques, don't get me wrong, but yet they still got that watery filmy look. They don't have that granite hard, dense muscle look. And like I said, plats, all those guys from the 80s era, that sort of thing. The muscle thickness on some of those guys was incredible. and they didn't have half the way drug combinations they have today. It was more about eating, resting, and just busting their ass. And sadly, a lot of people these days are trying to find the easy way. When it's bodybuilding, there is no easy way. It takes years and years and years of consistency, busting your ass day in day out, even when the days you don't feel like it. You got to go in there and bust your ass. And sadly, a lot of people just haven't got it. They haven't got upstairs to do that. They're looking for the easy way. They think drugs is the easy way. And sadly, it's not. Were you um did you ever use growth hormone? I know at one point you had said you never had used growth hormone. I don't know. I used it used it twice. That was in 94 and 96. And the first time I used two IU a day and then the next time I used um four IU a day and cuz I was probably young too. I was still in my like 22 and then 24. I noticed zero zip [\h__\h] from it. So then you people say you need at least eight I use. But you see I never never touched insulin my whole life. Never would. So that was the only two times I've ever used growth. And the money I paid for it I was like well I think we lost Lee there for a second. Let's see. Let's see if Johnny can get him back. Uh, this was the reason I asked this question is because you know Lee I know had gone on record and said that he had I don't think he had he never used growth when he was competing really. I mean I I heard I think he had tried it once or twice. Um when we get him back here I want to just ask him a little bit more because a lot of people probably will never believe that he didn't use it. Uh you know but uh you know everyone's got their own opinion. I I don't see Lee Priest as a liar. So, uh I think if he would have taken large amounts, he would just tell us. But, uh let's see if we can get him back here. The great thing about Lee Priest is that he's he's brutally honest, whether you want to hear what he's saying or not. And uh I'd love to see him. Oh, here he is. We got Lee back. Lee, um a lot of people would say to you, there's no freaking way that you didn't take growth hormone. Uh I'm sure mo most of the people watching this will not believe that you weren't a big growth hormone user. I'd be six foot if I took the amounts they said I take. Now you I mean how come you never and you're later you know as you got a little older said to yourself maybe I'll try it because maybe it'll it'll it'll help me but because like I said I've never had that mentality where someone says I'd give it a go just like I said I got friends that smoke pot. I never tried pot and stuff like that. I just I've never been one of those. I've never gone with the crowd because someone else did it. Sure. I used to think imagine if I did this could I be freaky? But now, like I said, I've had the injury of the neck and stuff and I'm in 45. Maybe now I would consider taking growth more if I got it at a decent price or got it on script from the doctor and could get it. But I never cuz like I said, I was doing good as it was. Like I said, I was placing well in order to pro shows. I was making a good living. So to me, it was like no trophies worth abusing my body for and stuff like that or, you know, doing repable damage. It's like when I sound I like Rich Piano. Then when I saw Rich Piano was a year or two ago saying he wanted to add all this weight 30 pounds in so long and stuff. I'm thinking rich you're already a big guy. To me I don't understand that mentality where someone wants to do that and just say in doing that you do some irreversible damage to your insides your liver your kidneys and then you're going to have problems later on in life. What did you achieve? So to me I've never had that mentality where I wanted to push it beyond that limits where it was going to you know screw me up later on down the track. So I said I was happy competing where I was and placing where I was that maybe if I was like one of those guys that never cracked the top 10 and this and figured oh maybe if I just give this a go that might get me in there but of course I was doing well and stuff like that. I was happy to place where I was and do that sort of thing. It's like you know people used to always say Lee upset about your placing. It's like no I said when I used to do the Olympia people say how do you think you're going to do? I said look back then if you got top 10 it qualified you for the following year. So I said look if I get top 10 I'm happy. Anything above top 10 is a bonus to me. So placings never bothered me. So yeah, people always think I was upset at the contest, but never once did I complain about a placing at a show. I'm like, okay, I'm happy. Fans would come up and say, "You should have placed higher." Well, that's good enough for me. So next day I'm back in the gym. I just I wasn't one of I'd train up and the contest was Saturday. I'll be still training doing cardio on Friday because I love training. I wasn't one of these guys that stops training days before a show and then Sunday I'd be back in the gym again the next day. So I just love training and I said, it's just something I do. So that whole mentality of if I taken this and did that would have made me better. I just like I said didn't bother me. So those two times I used it, I didn't notice anything from it. So I just never had the urge to use it again. Now Lee, you had such great development, you know, throughout your whole body. I mean, you really had no weak body parts. The only, you know, knock against you was you had a lot of trouble with the glute and hamstring area. Do you think that was a conditioning issue or was it a lack of muscle back there? What what do you think uh was was going on back there when you competed? Uh, it's probably a conditioning because like I said, I've dieted it down before. I have brought the hammies out and a couple of times and like the universe I really brought him out, but to me it was like to me when I got into bodybuilding, I've said it before, I was always about the legs like Tom Platts, the arms like Eddie Robinson back in the day and stuff like that. It's all these freaky body parts. To me, glutes weren't an issue. And back then people all of a sudden saying, "Look at this guy's glutes." They do articles on, you know, Steve loved the glutes. There articles on glutes, stuff like that. So to me, I said I said, "Listen, the day people start talking about my ass, saying my ass is my best body part, I'll [\h__\h] quit because I never I never I never once looked at a bodybuilder magazine saying, "Oh, Jesus, I want to have an ass like that." So, you know, I was about I was about the arms and the legs and stuff like that. So, to me, the backside plus my posing trunks all pretty much covered them anyway. So, to me, it was it wasn't a body part that I was ever interested in getting in shape. So, it was just one of those things where didn't bother me. And like I said too, you might have I could be in great shape and have the legs, the arms, the shoulders, the abs, and all this sort of thing. Somebody doesn't have them, they turn around, I look at his glutes. Oh, he's better cuz he's got rib glutes. Oh, one body part, he's got ripped glutes. The rest of him [\h__\h] so he's better than me. So just Yeah. Like I said, you know, remember Renell Genevie back in the day? Yeah. He had fantastic glutes. Remember one show he did? His glutes weren't as ripped, but the guy was still in condition all over. But because his glutes weren't as ripped, oh, he's not in shape. I'm like, he's in [\h__\h] shape and now you're judging him on his glutes because his glutes aren't in. So, Lee, who gave you the idea for the white hair that you used to the white hair? It's hard to like I like that when Platz had it, but it wasn't really Plats. I've always if you even when I was young, I've always changed my color of my hair. I think there's pictures of me and Lonnie Ter. My hair is blue, my hair is red, it's purple. And like I said, I used to always laugh because I remember back in the day magazines, the old get big forum and stuff like that. My hair was the [\h__\h] topic of conversation. I'm like, people, it's hair. I'll shave it off, it grows back, I color it, the color comes out. But I couldn't believe that my hair would had to have its own little forum sometimes. So, it was almost like it was good though because when I did color my hair or do different hairstyles, I could always remember what year the contest was. And I just said I just like and it's funny because I said I used to live right in the same building as Tom and we'd train together for a while and he lives in Scottsdale and hang out and stuff and we'd always laugh because even I'd go for an airport. I'd have old people come up, hey Tom, how you going? And Tom's like that's funny because he has people come up to him and say, "Hey Lee, how you how you going?" So we'd always get mistaken for each other. Yeah. Well, how would you actually make it that white? Would you bleach it with bleach? Yeah. I've always done it myself. I just did it myself the other day. Look. Look at that. Yeah, I just buy a bleach powder in the um 20 volume, mix it together and put it on. Can't leave it on too long because you could burn your scalp and your hair out. But I think I've done it long now. I don't even feel it burning my head anymore. I got no [\h__\h] brains. One of the two. But yeah, I just I just I said, but then I could have it white today and then I'll be in the store tomorrow if I take my mom to the shopping center and there's this bright blue dye there. I'm like, well, that might look good. So I just buy a blue dye, put it in, feed her there a few days and people just stare at it and think, "Oh, what's he doing now? He's [\h__\h] lost it." I remember few years ago I just out of the blue cuz I was with my daughter, she was getting the nails done. I did my nail nails black while I was waiting. Then people like, "Oh, [\h__\h] He's done his nail polish black. He's really losing it." But then you would be surprised how many people send me pictures of themselves with the nail polish done black. Cuz the me like [\h__\h] nails, who cares if they're, you know, your nails are this color anyway? who cares if I put color on them. So then my fingernails became a topic of conversation. So I figured, hey, I guess if I do my hair, I do my nails, I do this, you know. I said, at least I'm giving people something to talk about. I'm giving them a life because if my nails and hair is a topic conversation, they got no [\h__\h] life. Well, you certainly are. People are never you're never leaving people with the ability to not say something about you. So I have to believe you you you like the attention that you get from what you do and you like but the funny but the funny thing is though when I do it I never do it for the detention. People thought oh you got a tattoo on your face for the attention you said this for the attention. No it's like if I get asked I just say it. I don't think about the consequences down the road. Obviously not you know as something or like I said I was with my daughter. She was getting the nails done. I'm sitting I figured oh that black looks good. I'll get that black done while I'm sitting here. I'm not thinking oh [\h__\h] I'm going to get my nails done. That's going to piss them all off on the internet tomorrow. That doesn't even cross my mind. I just do stuff. I do I do stuff that I like to do. And for some reason when I do it, people will either judge me on he's a bit weird doing that. But that's just me. Like I said, I've always marched to the beat of my own drum. I've never followed the crowd. I wear what I want to wear. I do what I want to do type thing. It's just I'm not going to say, "Well, he's doing that. I'm going to do that. He's got these new shoes. Let me go by that." I've never done that type of thing to me. I'm just happy being me. It's just like I am who I am. So that's the It's like I'm not going to lie to you. I'm not going to talk [\h__\h] behind your back. If I don't like you and I do see you, I'll still be polite. I'll be like, "Hey, how you going?" But I'm not going to sit there and have coffee and chat to you. You'll know I don't like you, but I'll still be polite to your face if I see you and say hello. I'm not the type of person that's going to be look at you and say, "Oh, [\h__\h] off." And that type of thing. It's just that's not me. But I've always just been who I am. And the good thing is what you see is what you get. I'm not fake. I'm not going to be pretend. So I've always just been that way. It's the way I was brought up. I guess you know I've come from a background of, you know, people go, "Oh, you're racist. shitty [\h__\h] at my friend Kurt who I first met day one America he was black and I could never understand when people ask me what's Kurt I'm like Kurt's my friend he's like a brother he's come to Australia he's lived with me we've known each other over 25 years but what is he I'm like what do you mean what is he well is he black I said why you got to cate people like that and when it came to other things you know my father's a homosexual he's been the same guy now for over 30 years my cousin was a transsexual you know when I was married to my wife Rain she was a colored person from South Africa that was a Muslim So people can come out and say Lee hates these people. Lee hates these people. When I don't, you know, I was married to a Muslim. I got people of all walks of life that I love, gay, straight, transsexuals. So to me, I take people as I find them. If you're nice to me, I'm nice to you. I don't like to see people that hurt people. You know, when people come online and say, "Well, Lee's bagging the Muslims." No, I'm not. I'm bagging the extremists. There's extremists and Christians. There's extremists in all walks of life. There's extremists here in Australian white trash, bogans. So I like people being hurt. It's like I said, I like everybody. It's like I just take people if they treat me nice, I treat them the same way back. So simple as that. Yeah. Do you ever, you know, look, I look back at my life sometimes and I and I say to myself, you know what, I I shouldn't have said that about that person or I should have I I maybe I overstepped my bounds here and people took me the wrong way and I'm regretful and sometimes I apologize for that. Do do you ever say you look back? I mean, because it's great to be honest and brutally, I call it radical honesty to a certain degree, but when it hurts the the people, your family, because let's face it, the IFBB was your family. You grew up with them. They gave you an ability to compete, to make a living for yourself, to to express, you know, yourself artistically because you love training. I mean, do you ever say to yourself, you know what, maybe I I I I got a little too carried away? If it's somebody like I said because there's two different aspects there. If it's someone like say I was talking about the sport and this and that that I love and someone like Jim Manion was hurt or Weinberger took it the right way. Yes, I would regret that type of thing because that was never my intention for that. But now that someone like Shawn Ray and he says I have a go at him and he gets hurt, I don't give a [\h__\h] about that type of thing. So there's two types of, you know, if I'm expressing something about the sport and like I said, somebody like Jim, I'm sure if we sat down and spoke face to face, how I'm talking to him face to face, you'd probably understand it more than like I said, sometimes I can say something and someone might go to Jim when he's heard the whole thing. I'll say, well, Lee said this. When half the time it isn't what I said. It's like that whole thing that blew up that time with Aaron Singerman when he was like, Lee wished death on my unborn child. I said, "It's not what I said." said, "Lord, if you listen to the interview," I said, "When he was having a child, I said, man," I said, "I'd rather be dead than be his child." I'm talking about me. I said, "I'd rather be dead than be his son." And he's saying, "Le wish death for my unborn child." I'm like, I didn't say that at all. I've never said that about anyone's kids. So, like I said, things can get, you know, Chinese whispers by the time somebody else has heard it. They've changed it. They sensationalized it. So, I'm sure if Jim and I sat down or Steve and I sat down, like I said, I respect what they do in the sport. They do so much good for the sport but yet you know sometimes people hear things take things the wrong way and like I said it's not that way at all but so I said for those type of things if they're being offended or hurt yes I am sorry for that because that was never my intention but then you get the people like Shawn Ray and that they're hurt yes that was my intention well Lee we could talk for hours we're going to have to do a part two we're running out of time right now I want to thank you for coming on and really you know sharing your life with us and uh and I look I Hope I hope that you can get back into the IFBB. I know the fans would love to see you back on stage at some point. Hopefully, you can get those injuries taken care of because I know I know that maybe on maybe on stage handing out a trophy. How's that? Yeah. Well, or maybe even a get Look, I think people would even take a guest posing from you at this point, you know, in the United States somewhere. I just I just stick one arm out from behind the curtain. That's right. It's all an illusion, Lee. That's all. You have to just pose from the right angles. That's all. How about How about How about just the backlighting and lots of smoke be like a silhouette. That's right. That's right. Stand there like that. Yeah, there you go. Lee, it was a pleasure talking to you. Have a great one. Thank you for waking up early and and talking to us. I know the times are a little different in Australia. I was up at 4:00 a.m. I was at the gym doing cardio at 4:00 a.m. and came back home. Now I'm It's quart to 8. I'm going back to the gym now to do some hamstrings. How why do you get up so early to train still? Old people get up early, Dave. Oh, is that what it is? I noticed I've been getting up early. I've always been a morning I've always been a morning person. I just love getting up early in the morning. I don't stay up late at night. I might go to bed at 10:30, 11. But I always find the morning is the best part of the day. It's like if I sleep into 7, 8:00. I get up at 8:00. I'm like, [\h__\h] I've normally had breakfast. I've normally been to the gym. I always feel like I'm running late. So, I just find, you know, you never know when your last day on earth's going to be. So, you got to get up and enjoy it as much as you can. So I get up nice and early, feed the cat, do that sort of stuff. And you know who I like those old cat ladies. I got cats. What kind of cats you got? Regular ones. Yeah, just a regular one. You know, [\h__\h] is a [\h__\h] Lee, who was the best photographer who ever shot you? Best pictures ever? Uh, I'd say Per Bernal. He got a lot of good ones, but really cuz they're like bodybuilding ones, but to me, I think some of the best shots and iconic shots with David Paul. I agree. some of his black and whites and that. But then some of the best shots, the one that made the cover of um Muscle and Fitness and that was just Arty Zeller at World Gym when we'd be there in the morning training early. Arty and his little box camera would come around and take photos and we had many good times. Arty Zeller and I laughs and that but he had that one must fitness club where I was just leaning on the tricep bar like that and became the cover like as I said he was just going around there. Chris Lond, yes, he had a lot of good shots, but he'd always want you to go heavy all the time. And yeah, before a contest going until people started tearing muscles, then he started using a few fake plates. But a big toss up between Arty Zella, um, Peranal and David Paul. But then I have to also thank Gil because the first day in um, Gold's gym, Irvin Gil was the one that came up to me and did all the photos and that introduced me to Ed Connor. Ed Connor took some of those photos to weeder the next day and you know I was a 19-year-old boy from Australia coming over here for two weeks to do an amateur on Agra 4 show while I was in the gym. Jim Manion saw me knew I'd won the Australia got my pro card. So my two week holiday turned into 18 years of living in the United States. So wow that's a great story. Ed Connors has got a good eye for talent. That's for sure. He's found a lot of people, helped a lot of people. Yeah. Still I still speak to Ed a fair bit on online and on the Facebook and that speak to Ed Connors and still regularly sometimes talk to Eddie Giuliani down there training. Eddie Juliani still alive. Wow. I didn't even know that. Yeah, he's still going to Gold's gym early in the morning. So yeah, try and keep in contact with people like that. That's always the hardest bit when I moved back home was I miss America and what I can do over there. But it's more missing like the friends I made like that. That's why yeah Ed might have been a bit hurt when I left golds and went to world but to me it was like the egos and stuff I've never been into like I said I just want to go to gym and train I went down to worlds and met Joe gold Arnold ligno zavo and them there was no music I just love that friendship they had so that's why you know I used to have many dinners with Joe gold at night and take him shopping go shopping with him go to his warehouse and when he traveled to the expo type things I'd have to go on the plane with him and I tell you some of the stuff you'd say to a flight attendants would be arrested for sexual assault. Oh yeah, he he he was he was trying to hit on my wife when I went there to the gym. Uh he was Yeah, he was funny. Like I said, many good times there. And when Joe God passed away, he left me his two dogs and stuff like that. So I got on could have like I said the elderly people like that. So I've always, like I said, always respected the older people. Like I said, I just got on better with older people than I did. That's why now if I go to the movies and I'm waiting to see a movie at 10:30, there's tons of old people. They're having a coffee. They just start talking to me. And I think too sometimes when they look at me, they see the muscles and tattoos. They think I'm going to be this, you know, bikey type. But then we get talking and now I'm out in shopping centers and I'm always stopped by the old people I meet at the movie theaters. Well, you're you go at the same time they go. That's why they stopping you. Exactly. They probably think I'm there to rob them. Maybe. Who knows? Well, Lee, once again, thanks so much for coming on the show. Hopefully we can uh get you back on then for some Iron Debate and some other great shows because you have some some terrific opinions and I know the fans love it. So thank like I said too how we start this thing off like I said if I came across Brash and that I said there are some people where okay they deserved it but like I said if it was Jim Manion or Weinberg or anyone like that that was never my intention. Like I said, I was just passionate about the sport and things can get said. You know, I can't remember what I probably said, but that doesn't matter. But if I did say something that did offend him or hurt him, I do apologize for that. Well, I I hope the apology is well accepted and uh like I said, I think you still have a lot to contribute to the sport. A lot of wisdom. You know, it's nice if it is accepted, but you know, I don't expect people to accept. You know, that's going to be on them whether they accept it or not. But I'm just letting them know that it is sincere that I am sorry if it has hurt them in any way or some of the things I said came across wrong because that was never the intention. But you know I can't make people you know accept it or whatever. But you know I just want them to know that that was never the intent from the get-go whatsoever. And like I said it was nothing ever a malice towards them. Like it was just I was just so passionate about the sport that I wanted to see it go that like I said my approach is come straight at it. You know I don't tiptoe around or do it politically. And like I said, it was just that was just the way it was. Well, I appreciate that honesty, Lee. And uh hopefully I think the fans love that radical honesty that you bring to the sport. It's a breath of fresh air for certain. Yeah, you're going to have you're going to have fickle fans no matter what they do. It's like I said, I'm being honest. I've always been honest and me apologizing to Jim or Steve, I'm going to have fans going to say, "Look at Lee. He's a [\h__\h] sellout." It's not that at all. It's like if I'm wrong, I'm wrong. And I got no problem admitting when I'm wrong. So I'm not the type of person who's going to say, "Fuck that. No, that's what I said. Screw off." No, if I was wrong and that sort of thing and I said something that was wrong, I'll be the first to admit that I was wrong. I got no problem doing that whatsoever. Well, I got my son here, Lee, and uh he's the next Lee Priest. The next uh Say hi, Logan. Say hi to Lee Priest. All right. Well, make sure you give Make sure you give him a tennis racket or a golf club. That's right. My wife is is not my wife, a man is nodding. She agrees. Nice poor bat. He could be the best skilled golfer or something or tennis player. Yeah, he is. That's right. A lot more a lot. They make a lot more money. All right, on that note, we are at the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next