Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Tuesday, July 25th, 2017. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Trust me when I tell you that there's nothing quite like a summer day in Southern California. And this past weekend, the city of angels played the role of gracious host to the IFBB figure community once again as this year's edition of the LA Pro rolled into town. In the open division, Iron Mag Labs athlete Bojanna Vaselvik made her mark in a major way when she scored her first win of the season in impressive fashion. Taking home the runner-up spot was Carolyn Hudson Harris. And breaking into the top three in her pro debut was former junior national champ Deone Martin. In the Masters division, double duty paved its way in a major way for Carolyn Hudson Harris as she notched the win. Sunny Day finished in the number two slot with Callie's own Cynthia Aquire closing out the top three. In the new movie Kong Skull Island, they talk about there being a lost island in the South Pacific that's home to giants and monsters. And you know what? I'm starting to think that might be true. This weekend, some new clips emerged of the Southern Pacific monster himself, Josh Lonardoitz, who seems to be looking a whole lot like a bodybuilding version of King Kong more and more these days. Lonardoitz was spotted making a guest appearance down at the IFBB Bendingo County Classic, where he gave everyone in the building a sneak peek at what he's planning to bring to the Tampa Pro less than two weeks from now. A 100% Josh Lonardoitz is easily one of the scariest guys on the planet. And I think I can speak for bodybuilding fans all over the world when I say that I personally cannot wait to see this guy hit his stride on the Olympia stage. They say that once you go Hollywood, it's hard to go back, but that sure doesn't seem to be the case for two-time IFBB Women's Physique Champ Melissa Pierro. A few months removed from blazing the small screen with her appearance on TLC's Say Yes to the Dress, Pierro is still right on track to bring her talents to the Olympia stage again just under eight weeks from now. In some behind-the-scenes posing video released over the weekend, Pierro gave her fans a little bit of inside access to our contest prep as she prepares to kick things up into high gear heading down the backstretch. If you remember back to last year's Furno Legacy Classic, we saw just how dangerous a 100% Melissa Pierro can actually be. And with another two months to keep fine-tuning the machine, I think there's more than a good chance she comes in and really surprises a whole lot of people. I'm not going to lie, right about now, I'm starting to get excited about some of the action that's going down at this year's Men's Physique Olympia. And a big reason for some of that excitement centers around the reemergence of one Sergy Constance. After proving to the entire men's physique world that he was indeed a force to be reckoned with in his win back at the Chicago Pro, Constant has really taken things to an entirely new level. Video from his latest chess training session shows the international superstar looking like a guy who's going to present some major problems for everyone else in the field. Constant is probably the only athlete in any division that's coming into this year's show as a relatively unknown commodity with a legitimate chance to win. And if this guy ends up scoring the victory, it has to potentially really elevate the men's physique division to an entirely different platform on the international scene. You'd think that after winning your pro card, you might want to take a few days off in celebration, but apparently newly minted IFBB bikini pro Rachel Nason doesn't agree with my philosophy. Less than 48 hours after winning her pro card and the overall at last weekend's Masters Nationals, Nason was spotted knocking out a postshow leg session early Monday morning. After surviving breast cancer and battling her way back from undergoing a double mystctomy, Nason is one of those people who you just can't help but root for once you get to know her story. And that, ladies and gentlemen, more than all the stupid memes and self- congratulatory look at me videos, is what true inspiration in this business full of wannabes is really all about.