Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo. And today is Thursday, August 11th, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If there's one major wild card who has the potential to upset the entire deck heading into this year's Olympia, without a doubt, it has to be Aussie big man Josh Lonardoitz. So far this season, Lonardoitz has absolutely answered the bell following his emergence out of nowhere toward the end of last season, putting together three straight top four finishes at some of the biggest events on the schedule. In his latest progress photos, the 260 plus poundarditz looks as big and is shredded this far out as we've ever seen from him. and seeing him finish in his first Olympia with a top six finish is starting to seem like more of a possibility than ever before. We can't talk about Olympia debuts and not mentioned the runaway rookie of the year favorite Nathan Dasha. So far in his first three professional contests, the former British national champ has won the Toronto Pro, come within a hair's reach of winning the Cal and took home a top eight finish in his debut at the New York Pro. At the moment, the Asher is holed up in the Middle East Mecca, putting some final touches on a physique that many believe will be a top 10 finisher at the Olympia 6 weeks from today. And considering that we've already seen the prophecy hold his own against some of the very same athletes he'll be sharing the stage with at the Orleans Arena, there's probably a very good chance we'll see those predictions come true. Offseason training seems to be off to a running start for Ken Jackson. After hitting the stage twice this season at the Chicago and Vancouver Pro shows, Jackson decided it was finally time to shut it down for the rest of the year to focus on getting back to the business of making improvements and continuing to build the momentum he's picked up over the past two seasons. Despite maybe not finishing quite as high as some would have anticipated this year, Jackson's physique still has come a long way over the past two seasons, as evidenced by his five top 10 finishes. With a little bit more size and some slightly crisper conditioning, it isn't hard to imagine Jackson routinely being able to slip his way into the top five. And with another long and hopefully productive offseason ahead, hopefully we'll see those moments come a whole lot sooner than later. With all the talk we've heard about how things might shake out at the Olympia in the men's physique division, there hasn't been much noise made about former top five finisher Matt Actton. Despite being held out of the winner circle for the first time in his career this season, the ultra shredded Actton has still only placed outside of the top 10 twice in his four-year career and is still as dangerous as he's ever been. Despite not being one of the bigger competitors in the lineup, Actton more than makes up for it in the way of conditioning and never ever shows up out of shape. If he sticks to his game plan, plays to his strength, and comes in shredded beyond a reasonable doubt, look for Actton to challenge for a top six placing in Las Vegas. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. Brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. I'm Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!