I'm standing here with eight time Miss Olympia Lenda Murray. and new inductee into the International Sports Hall of Fame. Linda, you were up here with a panel of of superstars. How did you feel sitting next to all these people? Oh my god, looked overwhelmed. Like I was overwhelmed. I was like trying to be cold cool and calm, you know what I mean? But yeah, I was excited when Dr. Goldman told me that he was having like Evander Holyfield. I was like, really? You like him? Yeah. Oh, yeah. I love him. And I had not, you know, met him. never really thought that I would get the chance to meet him and I love boxing. My family like I'm from Detroit so yet like Detroit is a Yeah, we box you know so that was just really really cool. Yeah, it's funny cuz I had never met Evander Holyfield either and it's like you when you meet him in person it's like a different side of him that you never knew existed because we only know the boxer. Yes, absolutely. Right. So I know when you see him in on TV and like after a fight but his face he looks really good. He's looking good. Yeah, he really does. He looks good. So, yeah. Do you feel the good I felt the energy on stage. It was like a very positive vibe that I hadn't felt in a long time. Like it was a it was a good group of It's like you guys meshed well. Yeah, we did. It was It was a great group and and I've had the opportunity to meet several of them, you know, in from the past and uh Triple H and and Stephanie and just um I have so much respect for the WWE. I got a chance to see, you know, how they operate backstage and they really they get along, you know, like sometimes with bodybuilders, we like it's me me me. They have to like work as a team and they really have like some of the like best attitudes. We should learn from them how to run shows because we would probably be on TV. Absolutely. Yeah. They're the masters. They really are. Now, I know that you're getting involved in this women's bodybuilding revitalization movement. I know they want to launch a new Miss Olympiaike event uh in August. Tell me a little bit about that. Yeah. Well, you know, um the Miss Olympian women again what I said today, it's really about women. We have the it's up to us, you know. Um yeah, the judges make a decision on who they like, but the Miss Olympia has been around for a long time. And so there has to be a place for the women to go. And so you you look and I really do feel for them because I mean the women that Iris Cow retired, but then when you look at the women that placed like second and third and fourth and fifth and 10th and women all all over that in the NPC, you just know and you feel for them, right? They're real athletes. Do you think now that Iris Kyle has moved on, you know, she kind of was the last of the monsters, as we would like to say, which was, you know, it it served its point at at some point in time, but now there's like a different, you know, feel to women's bodybuilding. Do you think it could possibly evolve into something that maybe is more acceptable? Um, definitely pos for sure. Uh, if we guide it a little bit. Yes, if we guide it. And you know, uh, life is is just really interesting because back in the day, this the sport that I see today, it's different than then. Absolutely is. You know what I mean? The way and the way we cover it. The way we cover it. And that's what I mean. It's like completely different. Like social media didn't exist. I mean, it was like really, you know, the internet, people weren't doing interviews and checking them out. So, yeah, things have changed. So, you never really want to say that something's like dead, you know? So, when they said to me it's over, doesn't mean to me that it's really over. Well, I I think that the women have to take responsibility for it, too. I don't see the women bodybuilders getting out there and promoting the sport. I call them up. I I I text them and no one gets back to me and, you know, I'm giving them a vehicle to promote themselves and they're not doing it. So, how does the sport going to grow? Yeah, absolutely. And you know what though and to be honest I believe that that's a big part of why it went in the direction that it went in. Whether people want to know that they don't understand that see like everybody wants to be pro, right? And when you turn pro then it's really now it's a business. You and you have a responsibility and you have a responsibility and therefore like when you own a business you work with vendors and different people. You negotiate. You find your allies. You move. You shake. You You have power. And if you don't use your power and if you just say, "Oh, I'm just gonna still be an amateur bodybuilder. I'm going to show up and just win shows and just disappear." Well, incorrect. Guess what? Ambassador. You have to be an ambassador. And you always were. Yeah. You have to be an ambassador. Now, I'm looking at this physique. I'm seeing and I'm seeing that you could still compete. Would you ever would you ever sneak out of retirement to try to revitalize women bodybuilding once again? Oh, that's funny. You know what? No, no more sneaking up. I I did my last sneak when I in 2002 when I I think you could do it. I I see a lot of muscle on this body. Yeah, but I got some extra stuff tucked away. You could turn Get rid of that. No problem. Yeah. Look at Look at Give me an arm shot. Let's Let's see. Look at that arm. That's unbelievable that you Is this just you? Yeah, it's just me. I mean, you just not lose muscle because I mean, it's amazing. You look as good as you did, you know, 20 years ago. You know what? Me and my husband like we just were really into like weight training consistently. You still train heavy? Yeah. Still train heavy within reason because some of my joints don't want to do all of what they used to do. So I have to be careful. But um you know I think the key too is is that you know people always come up and they like when they see athletes that have like used to train and they go oh they their muscle was turning fat. I'm like no no no it doesn't work that way. Muscle is muscle and fat's fat. But at the same time, you know, I had all all this muscle. So if I stop training and you know, I'm extra skin, all these things. So I try to maintain. What about if like you just got in shape for the Olympia type event that you guys hold and you did like a guest posing h on camera for all your fans. That's interesting. That might be a challenge for you. This way you're not really competing against anyone but yourself. Right. Right. You know what? Yeah, cuz a lot of times I'm really inspired when I go to shows and you're sitting in the audience and you see on the stage and and like my mind like the person I am today, I'm like so much stronger and I'm like so much more creative. I'm like, "Oh, I would do that move and do that." I think we should see a guest posing from Lenda Murray and then maybe a couple photo shoots, you know? Yeah. Like, you know, to prove you still got it. Yeah. To prove I still got it, y'all. I still got it. Congratulations on the award. A thank you. Dave Palumbo with Lenda Murray, eight time Miss Olympia.