You know, I woke up this morning and my penis is burning. That means that one of you [\h__\h] were talking about me. Or could be my herpes is coming back. I'm mature. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Heat. Heat. I haven't seen the sun a week and a half. They just came out. Look at that. I love that. And we're back for another installment of After Hours with the Whack Pack. And we are live. And of course, we have a very we have very big uh contingency of people today here on the show. We have I think we have another guy. Hold on. Who's not here? Oh, Leo. So, we have two special guests. Wow. Ombberto is back. And uh Leo, that's our that's our California contingency. We needed a West Coast uh you know, representation. Yeah. So now we got east coast, west coast. Arman is like, you know, the Texas middle of the country. Uh we got a mean up in Colorado there. I don't even know what you would call that country. It's like uh weed smoking country. Liberal land up there. By the way, how are you how are you doing in the in the court case up there? We're not going to talk about that. Okay, we're not talking about that. That can't be good news, John. So I think it actually I think he doesn't want to jinx the good news is what All right. I hope so. what I feel. Yeah. So, what's going on, guys? We got We got Larry out in California, too. But I don't consider Larry like a typical like California guy. I don't know why. He's kind of Larry's anti-C California. Yeah. He doesn't belong there. You like belong in Texas or Florida. Larry belongs in New York. Larry's New York. Yeah. Larry belongs in New York. So, so let I want to talk about this this Milos thing. Oh. Oh, he so Milos got went off on Gile Guiles Thomas on Ron Harris show. Okay. Guiles Thomas made a comment about good veto uh pulling out of the uh Pittsburgh Pro and he said it's not a big deal that he pulled out, you know, because um he wouldn't have done that great anyways. So Milos like latched on to that like a pitbull and basically told was telling uh Guiles that he's an idiot and how can you say that it wouldn't benefit his career by not competing in the Pittsburgh Pro and he shouldn't be giving out advice because he's he's nobody. He's never competed and won anything. He's not a pro and he was going on and on and on. Larry, you called him a stupid [\h__\h] Yeah, he called he called him a lot of things. Um, Milos did. Milos has been on in a very aggressive uh Wait, is that a guy's name? A guy's name is Good Veto. That sounds like a mito. It's a short name. It's an Instagram. He looks He looks great. Man, it sounds I would I would still go on stage if I had that lab. Wouldn't Dave, wouldn't you still go if you were like Here's the issue. First of all, Chris trains him. I was seeing pictures of Veto up until the show and the guy I thought the guy was gonna win the show. That's how good he looked. He's like a mini Jay Cutler, this guy. And he pulled his lat. I thought originally it was a shot, but he definitely pulled his lap because the blood, you know how when you you tear a muscle sometimes it's deep and then over time, like over the next couple days, the blood starts coming to the surface and then you get that huge I thought he actually told people he he injected it and then he tore it working out. I thought he told people that. I don't I don't know what caused it, but he definitely tore a small piece of muscle that got progressively worse over the course of the week. He did it a week out from the show and it got so watery that, you know, could he have sucked the water out of himself and gotten on stage? Probably. But the guy already qualified for the Olympia. So, I think he wants to bring the bet. In other words, you didn't want to go on stage and then say, "Well, he could have won had he not had that lat." Because, you know, everyone on the internet would have been circling it and and the Lat and they would have been making up their own crazy theories about what happened. So, I think pulling out was the smartest thing for him in that sense. If he needed to qualify for the Olympia, different story, but he didn't. We'll see him at the Olympia. I think he's going to be a factor to be I think he's going to be a top five guy. He's got tremendous tools, this guy. And and he's, you know, he's a young guy and he's got uh a lot of momentum behind him now. So, I I think he did the right thing. And I like that name. Not only that, he couldn't flex right. He couldn't move his arm. He was in a lot of pain, too. Yeah. But his filter his his pictures were crazily filtered. You have to consider that. No, they're not filtered. I I I get the pictures from Lord. They were filter the ones the ones he was. Let's not let's not get off the Milos thing because I mean let's you know Yeah. I want to I want to finish the song. So Dave Dave is right. He he he is out of out of uncharacteristically aggressive lately and and that's been veto. It's insane. [\h__\h] How How tall is that guy? He looks like a big guy. Short. He's short. He's like your He's like your height. Wow. Yeah, those are tall. His legs are sick. You're saying, Leo, you're saying those are filtered? Yeah, he's he's got he's got he's got Cutler legs. I don't care if that's got a filter on or not. I've seen the real pictures, you know, via text message. He's a No, he's amazing. He's amazing. Freak show. He's good. I like his name. Can Can one of you guys, especially the California contingent, explain this thing, this obsession with filtering? To me, to me, it should be the opposite. I will post pictures of me that look shittier than I look in real life, so that when I show up on stage, everybody goes, "Wow." Instead, you get these picturesque weeks out on Instagram, you look at you, oh my god, this guy looks insane. Then the show comes along and he goes, "Is that his cousin, John?" Because you remember Polaroid days. You remember the Polaroid days? Well, you know what they've done is guys are putting up pictures because they're trying to get business on Instagram. So, they want to look good and I understand that. It's like a model. When you see these models in these magazines, look, you know, you worked for muscle development. You saw what they do with behind the scenes. Think all those pictures up because that's what sells products. That's what sells, you know, uh, mag. So, Instagram is no different than the magazine business. Yes, it is. Yes, it is. And the big different Yeah. And I'll tell you why. The difference is you get two versions of the person on in anywhere else you get one version. Bodybuilding you get two. You get the online version and then you get the one who shows up magazine version. Let me finish. Let me finish. You get the version on online and then you get the version that shows up at the show. And nine times out of 10, almost 10 times out of 10, the guy that shows up at the show looks nothing like the pictures he's been posting. Nothing. Zero. You look at the guy and you go, "Who the [\h__\h] is that?" Looks it kind resemblance. Maybe they're related, but it's not him. Okay. So, that's the difference on anywhere else. Your doctor in photos, you only see them where they're doctorred online and they're for selling something or emphasizing something. This is competition. So, why in the world would you post competition pictures before a competition and end up at the competition looking worse than your picture? Well, John, I think I think a lot of the guys don't even look at the competition pictures. That's the thing. A lot of the guys have their online fans and they don't even look at the competition pictures, but Nick Walker always posts his pictures without filters. So, Nick Walker's pictures are always like usually in the same lighting and it looks exactly like Nick. So, Nick's really Nick Walker's really good about that. That's at least one. That's good. Yeah. So, everyone uh tells me all the time when I'm on stage uh in real life, you look so much better than I thought. I would have never thought you look that good because when I post my pictures or my videos, it's not always the best lighting and I don't care and I don't want to post a better than I look before stage because I don't want to disappoint. I think it's it's worse when you get a hype and then you know nothing alike. I think that's just worse. And I I I don't feel like I look terrible so I can also post without the filter and then surprise everyone. And like uh I I said in uh with Ali Bilal and he was like, "Dude, you're just the only guy on YouTube that looks way better on stage than in the pictures leading up to the show." Can we can we do a can we do a small poll? Um I I agree with the guys. I don't very rarely agree with the trolls in the comments, but I have to say Leo, you're a good-looking guy. I hate the mustache. It it it it looks like you're in the third bike or something like that working for him. Doesn't help your market ability. It makes you look like you're 45 years old. Can we take Can we vote on Leo? should shave that mustache here. John, you got a thing. You got a thing about facial hair, bro. Yeah, he's Look at John right next to you, right? Who would like that? Bob, Dave can't grow any facial hair. Oh, I can grow facial hair better than all you. You don't remember the contest I had with Aaron? I don't know. I got beat all of us, but but I'm pretty good at growing. You're not beating me. Cheating. I don't know, John. Mine Mine's I I grew out mine for like a month and a half before. Either grow either grow a beard goatee. Don't do the little pencil mustache. It doesn't it doesn't look good. He's you're a marketable guy. Get rid of that mustache. Can we agree on this? Honestly, I gotta say something just because I'm a wise ass [\h__\h] I learned everything from Greg that it's Dude, they're right. you you you have a very angular handsome face and that every time I see a mustache I can't help but think of Debbie does Dallas or some 80s 80s porn movie you know it's just it's just I don't know bro it got popular with I think Dave's right I think Dave's right see I'm I myself I get mistaken for Brad Pitt a lot so all the time all I've been with him I've been with all the time all the I think Chris like you can't go anywhere with Greg and somebody come up. People think I'm Brad from Fight Club. I just like him. I swear to God, you know, you know, now I I even I even more have to keep it because Yeah. Right. The worst Look, I love I Chris Bumstead's got the great one of the greatest physiques of all time. The worst thing he ever did was grow that mustache. It looked so It looked so terrible. I know everyone's afraid to say anything against Chris Bumstead. I like now that he has a beard combined with the mustard. That looks good. It looks masculine. He looked like he was like in the Village People before that. I I He really did. Put the hat on. He looked just like the cop guy. You're right. I mean, no one everyone's afraid to say anything about Chris Bumstead because he's like royalty. But let's face it, the guy's a good-looking guy. He had that stash. He looked like he he was, you know, one of the Macho Man guys, you know. Bob hated. It's the 80s porn star. I also think Bubstead did it for the shows. So all his show pictures he kind of ruined because he had it for Chris Bubstead started once Chris started all the all the classic guys started doing a lot. They copied him. They all copied him because he's the number one guy. Wow. People are going to like the Dana Bailey hair. Yeah. Or once the girls start sh remember all the girls start shaving the sides of their head head. Yeah. Yeah. You know, John, that's gone. Now, I get mistaken for Dana and Bailey sometimes, too. The only person The only person you get mistaken for is Uncle Fesa. You know that. Steroids. Uncle Fester on steroids. They're like standing in a pothole. He's a white Shawn Ray. Bill. Bill Barley comedian. He's a Yeah. Oh, Greg looks like Bill Bur comedian, too. Oh, god. What? Bill Buro. I know. Terrible. Armen, I didn't even think of that. You're right. You could grow a sick beard. That That's like No, mine's a scary terrorist looking. Dude, look at him. He sand the floor with terrorist. That is do that pose. Do that pose, dude. That That is a good looking. That is Yeah. cried out for that man. You would have got that part. That is one. Oh, that is one way to die. But when I grow my hair out, I do look like Daniel Bailey, so I got to watch that [\h__\h] you know? I don't want to be I think I think I'll monetize it and make it mustache peels off. Hold on. Alberto, you live near Leo. Can you go out there and shave that mustache off and film it for us? Yeah, I'll help him out, man. Wait, wait. What What game was that where the mustache peeled off? What was that? Was a toy in the 70s. What was that? Oh, yeah. Yeah. What game was that? The potato head. No. No. It peeled off. Potato head stuck in the front. The problem is that it kind of looks fake, bro. Wait, can I ask Wait, can Alberto go over there, shave it, and then smoke it? Put it in a little pipe and go Oh [\h__\h] This is better than them mushrooms I was talking about. Okay. Can we get back to the topic? This is way more entertaining. We were talking about Milos and then everything went to go harder and harder now. Wait Dave, I got an idea. What if what if what if Leo got his mustache its own Instagram? Like great idea. You make a fortune on that. Yeah, it's all its own account. Maybe you know people do stupid [\h__\h] like that. It'll get like [\h__\h] a million views. Watch. Yeah. The Leo, you know, you know that shirt they have in Mexico with the t-shirt with the mustache, you know? Oh, yeah. But if it's curled up at the ends, right? But you should do your own like diet. That head that logo you got right behind you there. Just right there. Just put a mustache on that thing. Yeah. John, you should you should get the the give them the the the the recipe to get the Blackman wax mustache. Oh my. No, you need a frosting. I'll No, you got to find a barber that's got a frosting cap that'll go on your mustache. Who remembers the frosting cap? Who knows what that is? I remember all that [\h__\h] I remember mustache all curled up and [\h__\h] No, but the frosting cap when women used to get their hair Oh, I remember that. They pull that rubber thing on there with the holes in it and they put this hook and they pull the hairs out. John, when you and I were young, they used to have the women used to wear baiting caps in their 1960s and that's what it looked like. They pull out maybe I shave but they wear them at Walmart. Never shave. Just do a goatee. That'll look real tight. Do a goatee. Poor I put mush I put mustache frosting in and I got a freaking cookies with must with frosting on. By the way, George, thank you. George sent me a uh he made the cookies like mushroom extract cookie with decaf and regular coffee in it and everyone in my office is devouring them. They're like they can't stop eating them. That's That's because of the mushroom. It's got an addictive quality. I I I was hallucinating last night, John, but I I I wasn't putting two and two together. I I think George should make a cookie dedicated to Leo's muscle. I told you I told you use lion's mane, not hallucinogenic mushrooms. Jordan, you want You know what? You know what's funny about that is that the slang term for mustache back in the 40s, you know, in the detective days was called the cookie duster. Really? Was it really? Yep. Cookie duster. The must I remember I remember to call it the room broom because when you eat a room broom. Yep. The cookie duster. Cuz when you eat a girl's box, it's [\h__\h] It's like sweeping it out. Flavor flavor saver. Yeah. I put lion's bane in it. Uh lion's bane is not a psychedelic uh I'm kidding. I'm kidding. Here's the cookie. Look at that. Absolutely delicious. It even has the the coffee color to it. You see, it's got like a coffeeish color. And lion's mane mushroom extract has a very coffeeish taste to it. So, it really it compliments it itself really well. I'm telling you, I I when I was filming this little uh day in the life yesterday, I had my friend Jesse down here filming me. him. Aman who works in my office. We ate about 10 of these things. They were so good. Did you wind up blowing each other and they all have like Yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then and mushroom extract came out of You know, Dave, you showing all of us guys that [\h__\h] You're supposed to share with the class. You understand? Well, I look Mr. G and I we we first brainstormed the the prototype. I have to try it out to make sure the prototype is good. Now he can send it out to you guys because it's official. How many are they? So you got one with you got a decaf a decaf one and I made one with caffeine in it. The white chocolate macadamia nut. Well, well, here's the question. I banned everyone from eating the decaf. Those are mine. Everyone else can eat the other ones. So, but but here's the question. How much smarter are you today? Very smart. I feel very intelligent. Wait a minute though. What about like John and cognition is much better for your brain cognition. Anxiety, Alzheimer, dementia. Yeah. But how many meals? There's a whole list. There's a whole list. What about for Jimmy the Bull? We get a [\h__\h] sausage and pepper cookie. There's the sauce. No. Hot dog. Nathan's a Nathan's hot dog. It's Sure. Yeah. Nathan's hot dog cookie. And we can get you make a potato kish one. I have I have something else I got to bring up. I have I have another with Greg. Greg. John. Greg sends me This is how we know that Big Brother is watching us. Greg sends me Tell them what you what you texted me the other day. The picture of that of what? What did I text you? I don't remember. What is it? You texted me a picture? The [\h__\h] He's like, "She's [\h__\h] hot." Because he sent what Greg sent me. He sent me this like real hotter than anybody. Here's girl. I'm gonna tell you that now. Yeah. He he sent me this real and it make by Andrew Tate. Andrew Tate said, "Would you rather have sex with a a a trans, you know, woman?" No, Megan Fox with a dick or or He said, "Would you rather have sex with a 10 who's got a dick or or or a one who's got a vagina?" And then he used Megan Fox. He said, "Let's say Megan Fox with a with a dick or Hulk Hogan with a pussy." He goes, "Now all the internet keeps saying that you [\h__\h] Megan Fox, you're gay." He goes, "Well, if my opinion," he goes, "I'd [\h__\h] Megan Fox with a [\h__\h] over Hulk Hogan with a [\h__\h] is [\h__\h] gay. If you like that, you're [\h__\h] gay." So, it it was very funny, real. And and you know, there is some logic behind what he said, right? So, Greg sends me this picture of this [\h__\h] Send your video, I think. Greg, of the video. Yeah. Of this. You can't tell the difference. I mean, you would never know. She's [\h__\h] hot. Whatever. That's fine. So, Greg sends that kind of stuff to me now. Anytime I'm on Instagram, John, every other reel I get is is [\h__\h] stuff. Everything is is [\h__\h] And these Instagram messes up. What these Instagram [\h__\h] do is that they they dress as women really hot and then they have this like like on the bottom they have like like almost like a jock strap with their like schlong in there. That's not Michelle Obama. where you can see that they're actually men, but they're super hot on the outside and and and every reel I get is that now because as soon as you see look at one thing like that now it's they fasttrack you to that kind of content but I mean I can't get it I can't get it off my phone every Instagram. Yeah, but that's not about dudes. That's a dude though when they put a jock style. Greg, listen. These are the same thing you sent me. Super hot like [\h__\h] but they I guess it's some kind of fetish that if you can see that they have a penis down there through the through the wearing it seems to be more, you know, attractive. I don't know what you So, you do what Andrew Tate said. You bend them over. You ignore the [\h__\h] piece of the he got and you [\h__\h] just hammer him in the can, baby. Can spam hammer. Greg said that. Greg said Tate did not say that. There's no way too. What? What? What if she wants to turn that? He said she wants to turn around and switch places. Greg doesn't mind. I would I don't I don't think Greg ignores the sausage though. Do you Greg? No. That was really nice. An equal opportunity employer. Yeah. Well, it doesn't discriminate. No, that girl I said to you, Dave, was [\h__\h] You gota admit that you even said, "Holy [\h__\h] that was [\h__\h] a hot." No, you you would never be able to tell unless they're doing reels with their schlong hanging out like No, but she doesn't have a schlong. She got it cut off. Here's the problem with all of that. Okay. It takes her nine hours to get ready for that photo, right? Not this girl. Yeah. All right. You you I'll take AI'll take a a a five who can put a baseball hat on backwards and be ready to leave the house in five minutes. Wait, you know what I'm saying? You that you look at that picture that girl it is there is probably 800 processes that go to creating that image. You're wrong with this. John, your inbox is about to get blown up. Your text I'm gonna text you later. Your inbox is Don't you dare. My wife that [\h__\h] open. You got a lot of explaining to do. Oh, not Greg. John will be blown away. But that's what I'm saying. For them to look like that, it's work. They got to put that [\h__\h] Come on. They break. They don't wake up looking like that. They don't. This one does. No, they don't. They do not wake up looking like that. They got to get the the hair taken off, waxing done, and freaking Oh, she's going to wake up. Drop dead. The guys in the comment section would masturbate to that. Dave, am I right? No, they wouldn't. That says a lot about our comment section. They would not do that. Yeah. You would not know. Nobody would. Nobody on this panel would know. You would know in person. Put the video up. Dave, why don't you play Michelle Obama dancing for everyone? Play it. Michelle or Michael? No, I don't I'm not going to. They'll probably demonetize. I found the guy. Great. I'll see you on Spotify next time. I I found the Guiles Thomas video. Let's Let's not see the algorithm now. That's it. It's gonna be pictures of Uncle. We're gonna get Adam. There we go. Ready? Hold on. Let's play it. Couldn't do it. No, no, no, no, no, no. You started argument with him not being injured. No. I don't think I'll say it again. I don't think it'll be higher than fit. That's my own personal opinion. I might I might have been completely wrong. He might have made it to stage and got third. I didn't ask you anything else or because he didn't place higher than fifth or my question was you expert and a bodybuilder and passionate about this one. But once I encourage the guys, you told this guy stay home. Don't you have a hopes you you're not a discover. You can make it. No, I didn't. That's your interpretation and you know it. That's that's I'm because you don't want to say who else who else went on there and said yes my question to you was just okay shut up see no benefits of being entering the pis [\h__\h] would have benefit from [\h__\h] Oh my god. We got we got to get one of those recording memes that says with with the with Milo saying stupid [\h__\h] and just keep playing it, you know. My ringtone. Yeah, we got to loop that. Where do we go? I'm going to make that my ringtone. I want I want to have that. No, I want to be able to push a button on my computer and Milo says, "You stupid motherfucker." No, I want to have that. Did he say that to Bob Chicka? He just said that Bob Chick called him full of [\h__\h] for No, that was a different reel. Yeah, he that was like a couple days earlier. Now Milos. So So I I couldn't understand any of that. What was the point of that argument? Look, I got to get Milos not on this show, but I got to get I got to interview Milos. Milos on here. Both those guys are good guys though. I don't I like Milos. I like both. They're both good guys. Milos is on a rant lately. He's been on a on a war path. He's been very aggressive lately. Out of character, but if you listen to what he actually says, Milos is Belos is right. He makes sense. Now he does, but he just kept going too much with it. He He made his point and then he couldn't leave it alone. He's like a pitbull grabbing onto a a bone or something, you know? He said it and he said it and he said it and it's like the guy backed out and he just kept going. It's like he's pummeling. He's trying to beat him into the ground into Yeah. Very. What would Milo think about Leo's mustache? You think? I think he'd want an extra he'd want a new Instagram account just for that. If he didn't like it, that mustache is going to jump off his face. I'll tell you that. Hey, Leo, what what do you think about the whole Lenda Murray uh situation with her complaining about Arnold raising the prize money to 750,000 to first place and women not getting enough money? What's your take on that? Leo thinks she should that mustache. Look at Look at Greg. Come on, let me talk. So there was um in Pittsburgh it was a great exhibition of how women draw zero people. In Pittsburgh the women were on Sunday and Sunday was so godamn empty and Saturday was so crazy packed. That just tells you everything. It's like the W. It's like the WNBA asking for the same uh pay as the NBA while no one's watching. It's like me selling three t-shirts asking for uh people buying like paying me like I was Nike. I'm not Nike and they're not the NBA and they're not the open guys. And Linda Murray even pays the on her own competition pays the men more than the women. It's just like Yeah. You know, you know what? A lot of people are saying that that Lenda Murray has her own competition that the men get more, but there's there's a minimum prize money for 212. So, I think she's has to pay them that much. She can't give them. So, but she could give the women more. She could try to get the women more or not even not even have a 212, right? How about just have a women's show and I I just I just got to say this. This is a bad business model, okay? each division when you have you got to go back to when the Miss Olympia was a standalone event that sold out the felt form in Manhattan, the Cory era. Okay, that's what you need that's what you need to promote. If you can't stand on your own, why is it incumbent upon the other divisions that stand on their own to subsidize you? Why? That is bad business. That makes if you had if you had a business and you had a vertical in your company that was losing money no matter what you threw at it, you would only you would be an idiot if you didn't spin it off and get rid of it. So why do we negate the basic tenants of business in bodybuilding in order to maintain divisions that nobody gives a [\h__\h] about? Correct. Put it on its put it on its own show and see how that does. Nobody's going to go home. Exactly. But Leo said it perfectly. Pittsburgh did put it on its own day and no one I went home. I didn't even I didn't even go home. It's not And it doesn't It's not anything against them. They work their butt off. I think I think most women train harder than a lot of guys these days. That's why they should keep the division. Yeah. There's a problem with that. You're too big. Here. Here. Here's the problem. Just because you just because you train hard, work hard, diet, sacrifice, suffer, all of that. Just because you do that does not mean that someone has to provide you a venue to show it off. That's right. There's not there's no there's no requirement for that. So if you're going to go ahead and do this, you do it because you want to do it. You do it not because somebody's going to pay you to do it because you're not getting paid. Sorry, you're not. I knew Andrew Jack didn't like it at all. He, you know, he he really doesn't say much, but Andrew Jack spoke out. He didn't like it at all. Well, let because what Lenda Murray said, Arman, was that the combined prize money for all the women at the Arnold, the top six in all three divisions, was the same as what the third place guy at the Arnold, which was Andrew Jack, received, right? I know. And Andrew Jack is and he only has 800,000 followers on Instagram. And the women combined or something that had like three million. But the the the women who have the followers on Instagram are not buying tickets for the show, and they're not paying for the uh the live stream. Okay, that's unfortunately they're going on to these women's pages because they want to see what, you know, makeup they're wearing and what suits they're wearing and how they, you know, get their abs or glutes in shape. That that's what they're doing. That's [\h__\h] dude. Instagram means [\h__\h] I My daughter What do you think the solution should be followers? That means nothing. The the solution The solution is that the men draw the draw the crowds and the men should get paid more. Chris Cino gave a really I know I know that that's obvious Christo gave a really great explanation of heavy muscle radio. He said listen if you're talking about a female pilot versus a male pilot they both take the plane from New York to California they should receive the same pay but bodybuilding is not the same thing. Okay, the male bodybuilder makes more money and draws more money and draws the crowd. As Leo said, no one was there on on Sunday at the Pittsburgh show and and Saturday was packed to the hilt. So the women should be happy that there is a venue for them to compete and to make money. The money is not, you know, they're still making significant money. They're just not making the money the men make because the men are drawing the crowds and and bringing in the advertising. I agree. That's the bottom line. You you you you can't compare just because men and women should be paid the same thing because this is Kim Kardashian gets a lot more money, okay, to post on her Instagram than, you know, probably one of the top men would get because she's a draw on Instagram. But she's not going to draw people to, you know, a bodybuilding stage unless she got You just can't go by. There's another part of this. But let's be real about the the money they make for the women, too. Like, how how are they how are they making their money? We know how there's another part of this money. You're not mentioning how are they making them money on on Wait, what are you saying, Larry? There's another So, Linda is saying that, you know, there should be more prize money for the women. But if you look at the New York Pro, in women's bodybuilding, there were three competitors. So, whatever money is being given out, it's given to the three competitors. So if if everybody's getting paid in the men's bodybuilding lot, the top five get paid and everybody else gets paid nothing. Wow, that's a good point. And there's way more competitors. So it's not like they're not getting paid. Yeah. But Larry, that's the that that's the same scenario as if you know, you show up you show up at a at a contest and you're the only one in the class and you get first place, right? Like but if there were 10 other people in the class, you'd get 10th. So Exactly. So, you know, that's how bad you are. So, you got you got to fill up the class for it to be the b the bottom line is you gota you the analogy of the WNBA is correct. It's correct. You got to go by who watches it. That determines how much money comes in. That determines how much the players get. If if nobody is coming, nobody and all of these millions of views they have followers where they are not monetizable at all. They're they're for this. Okay. Yeah. No [\h__\h] I And and and so the idea that oh, she's got all these follow doesn't mean [\h__\h] Nobody Nobody is buying a ticket to your show because she's got 20 million followers or guys looking at her doing this. All right. That's not going to happen. So you you have to objectively look at this vertical and say, does this stand on its own? If the answer is no, then why? What is the explanation to require the verticals that do stand on their own to subsidize you? Why? It's true. I agree. Another factor we haven't considered, John, is that women's bodybuilding was gone a couple years ago. Yeah. Jake Wood brought it back because he loves the sport and he loves the women and he wants to support it. So those women should be thrilled that there's even as much money as there is because that's that's Jake Wood 100% right out of his pocket right there. It would be done. It would be done. Yeah. There might not even be figure and and and physique at this point. If it wasn't for Jake Wood, there might just be wellness and bikini and fit models. Bikini girls like the Hawaiian Tropic. That's what they should have. They should have with a big bush, right, George? Oh, look out either side of her bikini bottom. Dude, that's his 70s. Leo can give him part of his mustache. Leo's like, "Fuck this. I'm not coming here anymore." I think these a lot of them have more mustache than I do. That's where a peel off mustache could come in handy. You have these women who want to make believe like they're in the 70s still, so they can paste it on either side of their crotch on their um on their suit on their suit. So it appears they got they got this big. So George, you know, will look at that and say, "Oh my god, I got to have her because she loves the big push, right?" And then then you get him home. They grow full they grow full grown beards. Those women, we all know that. They grow Dude, if you ever see some of those bikini girls backstage up close, they got a pound of makeup on their face. They're not good-looking. Giants [\h__\h] eyelashes and [\h__\h] Yeah, they bodies, but that's all [\h__\h] drugged up. They got too big, Greg. They got way too big. What do you What do you guys think about those big eyelashes? I Ever and all those girls back then I I think the eyelashes are getting too extreme. What do you think about that? They cast a shadow. They cast a shadow on their on their eye right now. It looks like they're playing football. They look like they can't Yeah, their eyes are closed. You're right. Yeah. Yeah. It's that damage that must be doing the glue or whatever that's using it can't be like good for you. They proven it's bad for you for your That's the least of our problems right now. Yeah. Could I make a funny joke? I mean, if that's you're going to be wearing them if you go to jail. I mean, I'm too soon. Too soon. I'm sorry. I mean, that was bad taste. I'm sorry. Too soon. In the comment section. [\h__\h] Christ, man. Put Greg in the penalty box. You should have a penalty box. Get the penalty box. Time out for a second. Yeah. No prison prison is no prison. No. No cookies for Greg. No soup for you. No soup for you. No, but you know what the problem is? We all Look, John, you and I have, you know, dated women bodybuilders. We love the sport and we love respect what people do, but at the end of the day, it is a business. So, you have to it has to be it has to make sense dollars and cents wise. Look, we made fun of Blackman, but you know, the reason he didn't put women on the cover is because the women didn't sell magazines, right? He you know, you could say, "Oh, he didn't do it because he doesn't like women." The women if the women sold magazines, he would put them on the cover. Dave with Joe Weider. Men bodybuilders sell magazines. Dave Blackman pulled the magazine out of the hole by what was that dude's name? Scott somebody Thomas something that well he gave us all those models remember every month we had these we had these 20 page I think it was Michael Scott or something Michael Scott yep that was one and there was one other one too girl tens of pages of these bikini models and we became the number one selling magazine at a truck stop but wait but but the trucker's money's just as green so it didn't matter where the money came from what matter did was he pulled the magazine out of the hole with He didn't put them on the cover though, did he? Yes, he did. Every month there was his name on the cover, right? That's why and they were hot. Brandy, remember Brandy? What's her name? When Brandy Soy Brandy Doll. Yeah, dude. You can't go by social media. There's [\h__\h] guys who never stepped on stage that got way more followers than any [\h__\h] Mr. Olympia. There's kids that sit there do crazy [\h__\h] that got way more followers. There's gamers. You can't go by. That doesn't mean they're going to draw audience. Social media following and real life. It's two different animals, man. There's there's people I see my daughter's got a friend that's got like two million followers. And I told you she's a fat black chick that does eating that mukbang [\h__\h] You know what I'm saying? But it doesn't matter. You know, she's got more followers than somebody who dies in the Olympia, but that doesn't mean people going to come to see her. It's a different animal. Social media to me has destroyed [\h__\h] everything. Yeah. But but Greg, even with social media, even with social media, women's bodybuilding can't pull itself out. That's what I'm saying, though. But these people think, "Oh, she's got a big following on social media." And then you talk, doesn't mean [\h__\h] Do you think it has to do with a a following doesn't equal money, though? People see a following. It does not equal money at all. There's so many guys with a huge following, especially younger kids, and they're dead broke. I talk to them all all the time and they're wanting to get cancelled and they don't have money. They don't have money, but they have, you know, they might have like a close to a million followers, but they don't it doesn't translate to money at all. Yeah. But you got to look at how you gota look at how females think about social media. A lot of those kids that have that big following, they're not real. They pay for fake followers. That That's true. You have a million followers and you make a living out of that. So they're no real followers. Yeah. You know what happens? Monster followings. Then you go out and buy the Bugatti and do all this other [\h__\h] and then you get like those Deilio and you lose like all your millions of followers and then you put the [\h__\h] GoFundMe out crying. I like big followers. Yeah, but you're far off the point. You gota you we're going back to women's bodybuilding. There there's you got to have John. Do you think women's body would be would be more I miss you, man. Yes. Great guy. I miss I miss Derek. Like Cory Everson days. Do you think it would be more popular? Well, that I love that question because here's here here it is. Cory's era like I said before standalone event, nothing else, just women's bodybuilding sold out the felt forum in Manhattan. Madison Square Garden sold out. Okay. They were good-looking girls back then. Now, now all Now, now it's a sideeshow. What happened? What happened? Greeks. I know. I know. What? Now it's more analog. Novelty at first. That's why back then. No, because No, no, no, no, no, no. That audience that audience at Madison Square Garden was moms and daughters. That's what it was. Moms and daughters. That is That is what that was. It was the women's lib movement. That's why it was it was No, it was flex appeal. It was it was women were starting to work out and look good. That's what it was. We had feminine muscles. She didn't have We went from Rachel. We went from Rachel Nicholas to Cory Everson and that was a beautiful transition and people liked it. All those girls wanted to be built like that and they wanted to look like put in the face [\h__\h] nice [\h__\h] You ever seen Corey ever since sister? Cameo knew her, right? Remember Cameo? used to hang out in gold gym with the [\h__\h] thing up arrest, bro. She was the hottest girl in the [\h__\h] gym. She was a good-looking girl. Girls wanted to look like night just like today. You think you think guys look at these giant Mr. Olympias and they want they'd rather look like Arnold or Chris Bumpstead. They don't want to look like that. That's too much. It's also about marketing and personality. Look at Dana Lynn Bailey. If she would be if she would be in physique even they people would still love her if she had more muscle. She was in physique. No, if she would so if she would be even bigger, she would still have that following. So even if she would be like more disgusting for some people because it's about like her personality, her work ethic, her motivation. No, it's cuz she's hot. I think it's cute. She's hot, bro. We do. She's a good looking No, you you got I mean there's definitely some validity to that point, but there's a lot of there's a lot of male guys super successful on YouTube who are ugly as hell, too. And and it doesn't matter to the guys. So, it does not have to be a super pretty woman, but these women, all the bodybuilding women, they do nothing. They don't post any YouTube. And if they do, it's like a selfshot [\h__\h] camera, one angle, just like without any like effort, no consistency, no nothing. And then they're like, "Oh, but I work hard. I want to have money." Like, you got to look at you got to look at it like this. Let's say I was a painter, okay? And I'm painting these paintings and they're and they're huge and they take me months to to complete and no one wants to buy them. I can't sell them for 15 bucks. But I spent hours and hours and sacrificed and suffered and stayed up all night and painted and worked. Doesn't matter. Nobody wants it. We're versus the guy who draws cartoons with a pencil. He's got a 10 million bucks because a newspaper likes to run his comic strip. It just depends on what people are willing to pay to John. That's why there's a lot of schmos that they support these women bodybuilders because those guys do want that product, right? They do. But the problem is they they support them individually. They're not supporting the sport. No. Okay. They don't support the sport, right? And you know supporting they're supporting the only fans to the show. They're paying for their only fans and doing the after after I said there's social media and it is reality. That's what Linda Murray's um comparison between the social media following of the women who placed top six in all three divisions at the Arnold versus Andrew Dak social media is not an apt comparison because those women are not buying tickets for the show. They're not attending the show and they're not even buying the live stream. So it true. It's irrelevant. Hold on. Andrew Jack got very upset that his that he was mentioned in the comparison by Lenda Murray. But in defense of Linda Murray, she wasn't calling out Andrew Jack. She was just giving she was trying to make an analogy that the third place her guy who received over $100,000 has this many followers. She didn't really call Andrew jacked out. So Andrew kind of reacted as though I mean I mean she was talking wasn't really putting him down directly, you know. She knew who she was talking about though, Dave. You know, but it but it could have been anyone. It was just the third. It was the third place guy. That's all she was. I hope it gets more of a following. No, it was it was the plate. It It was the placing that you were referring, not the guy. It wasn't It wasn't This is Corey Ev. Look at that. Yeah. See, that's sexy. Was that at your brother's uh 25th birthday party? Yes, it was. I remember I went to I went to the fell forum when when they she competed and you did. Harry was there. All these celebrities were there. I mean, it was You exact George? Yeah. What does she look like? She took she if it was a PE. Almost nothing. My point. That's exactly my point. Annavar maybe at the at the most I I worked I worked with maybe I worked I worked with Tanya. She did almost no drugs. She did a little primo and a little Annavar and that was it. And she looked like she didn't do a lot of drugs. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. And she had her life and she was honestly for a woman she was pretty big. I mean she could get really shredded too. So yeah, that was Well, all all the John All the women's classes are way too extreme today. You got all the all the bikini girls taking Trin now like these coaches a lot of these bikini. Wait, whoa, whoa, back up. Bikini girls taking shin. Yeah. Oh, yeah. It's very common. Oh yeah. I talk to girls all the time. I I got cringe when I have these girls come to me and ask for help. Yeah, they get it, too. I get it, too. They're on trend. What does trend do to a woman? My god. [\h__\h] masculineizes the crap out of them. Yeah. Yeah. Overnight. But these girls don't want to spend, you know, five years building a physique. They want to do it in six months. So, they they cheat. I mean, it will literally get them a physique that in three years in like in less than six. But, I mean, they ruin their face. I personally think the most extreme girls are probably the wellness girls, right? The injections and the butts and everything like that. I mean, those those are more extreme than the female bodybuilders, I think. And they just do the plastic surgery when their face gets crazy enough. They just do plastic surgery on their face. There's John Effer. Yeah. 10 milligrams of Trent every other day. That's nuts, right? Are you kidding me? It's true. Yeah. A lot of them. That is [\h__\h] I tell all these women, they come to me, I'm like, I'm the wrong guy for you. I wouldn't I can't condone this. No, it happened, John. It happened. It happened with a lot of these it happened with with a lot of these young coaches that came in and they only coach women. A lot of them are big perverts. They have a all, you know, they only like coach women and they started doing giving it to them. It's not it's not older guys doing this to these girls. It's younger coaches in their early 20s that started giving the girls trend. I mean they started a while I mean girls were taking anrol and tren and bikini 10 years ago when I was at destination a lot of them why are you taking anrol Armen it's not just them we have some of these like coaches that have been around forever in a day that trained the top pros from the 90s and I know for a fact that they're training some female bodybuilders and they give them the same exact stack that they gave Ronnie Coleman. Holy [\h__\h] Same [\h__\h] Lesser dosage, but the same exact stacks. They're What happened to Greg? Put them in the penalty, Larry. Who are you talking about, Larry? Like older coaches. Who are you talking about? Yes. Like, like who? I'm not going to say name, but famous coach. Say their name. Well, I can't He already kind of gave it away. Milo Silari, come on. Let it out. He already He already gave I just I just said the same person who trained Ronnie Coleman put it together. It would have to be Chad. I'm just saying the same stack. Wow. Wow. Listen. Yeah, that that's well, you know, if we if we want to talk about where bodybuilding took the wrong turn, I mean, you you got to start you you got to pinpoint that area that that you It was funny because 91 when when Joe si when Joe took first place from uh Bev and gave it to Linda. That that wasn't that was him trying to save women's bodybuilding. Sure. Okay. But a little bit later on, Joe wasn't as involved. And who became Miss Olympia? Linda. Kim. Kim. So that's that's where we took the turn because Kim Chad got her an amazing physique. She was shredded. Yeah. She was dreaded. Big I mean dense. Next level for the time. Next level [\h__\h] that she was still feminine, John. She still look No, she she did. And she had that nice squeaky voice. She didn't have that Darth Vader on helium sound. Okay. But she but it was too much. So that's that's when it started. That is when it started happening. And you you can you can plot the demise of women's bodybuilding and look at where it progressed from that day forward and you will see that that was the wrong turn it took. So they got a she did have a toilet. You know what? You cannot blame you cannot blame the coaches or the athletes. You got to blame the judges in the federation. They are the ones who decide who the ideal is and what you're supposed to look like. Whoever they put in first place, that's what you want to look like. You know what, John? I think they realized at some point that they made a big mistake. And so they they they got rid of the division. They rebooted it with women's physique. And then Jake brought back women's bodybuilding because he liked it. He felt like it wasn't fair to the women bodybuilders, which I I I'm in I I don't like the fact that they dropped the the division. But then they let women's physique kind of get a little out of hand, too, you know. So, merge. They're almost they're almost they look the same to me when Dana Lyn Bailey was winning um the Miss Olympia, the Miss Physique Olympia, the first one. I thought that where it should have stayed. Yep. That look. Yep. And it was basically figure competitors posing a little more muscle, a little more conditioning. That That's what got my wife to go into it. Yeah. They repeated the same mistake as female bodybuilding. They repeated the same mistakes. Yeah, they let it they let it get real funny because that's why they brought female bodybuilding I think was to keep women's physique like you know less this might be a controversial statement but if you look at like Natalia Quo and you look at um Sarah Valleus who are the you know one and two in women's physique that to me should be one and two in female bodybuild the physique girl should be like more like the figure competitor figure. I agree. Hey, put those pictures 100%. I think that's where they went wrong. I think if they did it like that, I think they have more more money and more crowd. You did it with the men, too, though. They kept telling the men, "Get bigger, get bigger, get bigger." And then that's when the guys started, you know, they a lot of guys looked really good at a certain weight. And the Federation, you're right, Armen. And the Federation blew it because they were the ones that said, "Well, come in 20% less next time." 20% of what it it's it's you have to be you the federation the judging has to present reward or determine the ideal that should be miss that should be Miss Olympia yes that shouldn't be that shouldn't be physique Olympia that's too big for physique Olympia that'sique Olympia that's physique holy she's awesome she's I've known her since she's a 19 is a very sweet girl that should be Miss Physique Olympia or or you know Mr. Olympia bodybuilding. Yeah, excuse me. That should be M right bodybuild. Excuse me. No, that's Mr. Olympia. No, it's not. It is Mr. Olympia. I'm gonna tell you why. And nobody's going to like this, but it's the truth. And this is after hours. Those girls are on transgender therapy. Okay. The amount of hormones they're taking doesn't make them women anymore. They're men hormonally. Physically they might be women but in size that's not a woman. He's right than any men way more than me and anyone on this planet. That's the truth about that because sorry ain't a woman go to an a transgender clinic and see the dosages for transition from female to men. A little bit of testosterone. These girls are taking a 100 times more that amount. So that is transgender therapy. I'm sorry if like feeling get hurt right now, but it's the truth. That ain't a woman, man. I'm sorry. And that's, by the way, that's a big difference from what we're talking about Corey Eerson. No, he's right. Because in Rachel McC. It's not. It's not. Transgender therapy has an amount of stuff. He He brings up a valid point and and it's less than what these women are taking. way more category. When you're on that amount of drugs that they take, they don't think like women anymore. Their brains are changing it. People don't think about they don't anymore. They don't act like women anymore. They don't look like women anymore. So, it's not I think it affects them way more mentally than men. There's a lot the girls that you get. We all know girls that take that those amounts of stuff. It affects them mentally big big women. are whole. They're not the same person. They're running more testosterone than you, Arman. Sure. Their brains you. Well, now you're getting out of control. I don't But I'm just kidding. No, but listen. Back in the 80s, those girls didn't have man's voices. They didn't shave and they weren't nearly as jacked. If they took anything, it was the tiniest amount of like Wro. And the more it went that way, the less the less popular it became. The 80s did not Rachel Mccllich was natural. Girls like that. Not I mean I mean the more it went the way of the gear the less popular I work I worked with a lot of those girls in the 80s and the 90s a lot of them and the amount of drugs we used was very very very minimal sometimes not I got Shelley Bey third place in the miss Olympia with no drugs unless you want to call vanal sulfate and clen drugs that was it so um you ask any girl I worked with minimal to no drugs Yeah, because and I would even tell them like Dave, you said, I wouldn't work with a girl like that. You're not for me. It's much more impressive to see a girl who uses minimal drugs take a little longer and look her best on stage because she's going to look so feminine and everyone's going to be like like think of uh Sharon Bruno on stage or you know some of the really pretty girls, Laura Bass, you know, they weren't huge but they were but they were beautiful too. And I think that that's those the girls should try to be aiming towards that beauty with the muscle. The only way you can get that without having those masculineizing side effects is to stay away from drugs you shouldn't be taking. I mean anavar win should be the ma max maybe a little primo. You can't do trenolone. You can't do you know testosterone expect to to remain feminine like saying you're you're taking a transition protocol. You know, essentially when they get the side effects too though, nobody tells them. Nobody tells them like, "Hey, you're you know, you're changing either." No one wants to tell them that it's psychological changes. They get all [\h__\h] up. They these women on jacked levels of of of hor of male hormones, their brains are [\h__\h] I'm telling you, bro. The sad part is these women are such goodhearted, amazing people and they just get stuck in this whole like I have to take what the other person's taking and it messes them up. It's not like they're bad people. It's just they get sucked into the whole I want to be a champion thing and they'll do anything and risk anything and then afterwards they they regret it because obviously they they've permanently changed the world. Unfortunately, unfortunately, unlike with recreational drugs, when people try to mask their mental issues, when it comes to females and these hormones, the after effects don't seem to go away. They're they don't. Whereas, like somebody who, you know, unfortunately abused crack cocaine or something like that, you know, they can pretty much you wouldn't notice after maybe five years of rehab and health and nutrition and getting their body back to normal. they would look un indistinguishable from anybody else, which is sad because, you know, when these women come off of it, they're you definitely can just every everybody says, you know, it's the [\h__\h] it's the facial hair, it's the jawline, it's the voice, and they never say it's the brain. They don't ever mention what goes on in their heads. And you know, I've lived with this, okay? I'm telling you, women on drugs are their brains get twisted and they even even a little anavar could change a girl dramatically. Dramatically depending on how quickly you get to a certain point. You start them off at 10. That's not good. Nope. That's too quick of a change. You know, they make it into 2.5 for a reason. Exactly. Yeah. I don't know anything about that. Sorry. If I if I had this show on a cell phone, I could show you. My girlfriend's cutting the grass right now. It's the funniest [\h__\h] She's Mexican. She can't wait for me. She's like, you know, cuz they're going to rain in. But wait, does she wear the dead guy's shoes while she's mowing? She's got the dead woman shoes, John. She's out there mowing a lot. She got the [\h__\h] Mexican. She's got Let me just say something. She do like the kid rock before she mows the lawn. She goes behind the garage and fires it up. No, she's using a push mower. She used a push mower. Not No, we don't got no track. Push mower. Greg, there's a female bodybuilder who I've known for 15 years now and I know exactly what she does because believe me, I do. She's never taken any harsh things like trenalone. She runs primo anavar most of the time. Sometimes a little NPP that's it. And she is as big muscularly as any competitive female bodybuilder could. It just takes a little longer, Larry. That's all. No, but she's been training her ass off for like 20 years. Well, I'm saying it takes longer. People don't want to do Wait the time. That's not just the drugs. And then there's another girl that I know that's a pro that she takes everything under the [\h__\h] sun. And I don't I don't really think it does much more for her physique-wise. I don't see the change. Larry, what happens is these girls want instantaneous results. Especially with Instagram, they see these girls. I get p I get girls send me pictures. They're like, I want to look like this. I'm like, that girl has a lot of muscle. Just because she's only 120 pounds and you're 120 pounds, the quality of what you have versus her is way different. So, she's she has probably 10 12 pounds more muscle than you do and she's a lot leaner than you, even though her weight's the same. It's a quality difference. You can't get that in six months of training. It's going to take you a few years to get to that level of quality of muscle where you can get lean and be ripped at 220 at 120, excuse me. So, so what these girls do is they don't want to hear that. So, they go to the next coach, the next coach, and the guy says, "You got to take trend and you got to take Yeah, but guys are the same way. That's that's more all these girls on the Olympia stage are doing it. And then these girls think, "Oh, this guy must know the secrets. Maybe Dave is too conservative." And maybe that other coach, the 25 other coaches who told me not to take it are too conservative. So they listen to the one coach they want to. It's like John, you remember Dr. Blau was telling us these girls would come in and they want they want HH boobs. They want boobs because he's like, "You need to go to a psychiatrist. I'm not doing." He goes, "But I'm sure you'll find another surgeon who will put them in for you." You know what they do? They go to another But the guys are the same guys out there too that will tell these women, "Yeah, that's perfectly fine. They just want their money and everything and they don't care about their future, how they look three, you know, a year or two or three or four on the road. They could care less, but you know, the way they look physically, you know, I'll tell you something about trembolone. When I was young, I liked tremblone. It was my favorite drug. I liked it because I got real strong fast. I put on size. But you know what I really liked the most about it was it made me super aggressive and it gave me a bad temper. And when I was young, I I liked feeling that way. As I got older, I realized I could get the same thing with Nanderlone as far as the size and the strength without the temper. And at that point, I decided I didn't want the temper because the temper was getting me in trouble. But some of these people take it because they they actually like feeling like that. And I'm talking about females, too. They they want to feel aggressive and it makes them feel kind of a way. A lot of a lot of guys that are really insecure too, it helps them, especially the young guys, they get on trend and they feel like a god. They they're like, I feel like a god. I don't want to get off of it. And as soon as they get off of it, they go back to feeling how they you're supposed to feel and how they're supposed to feel and they don't like it. So that's why they take it year round, too. a lot of guys I I think trend has a has like we're talking about the most powerful strongest injectable steroids. So when you think about that you know it really has a small place in bodybuilding and in my opinion that place is at the very end when you're so depleted you're carb depleting and you're that's when something like that will keep you from going in the hole possibly. But but we're talking a couple weeks everybody seems to think it should be taken for a longer time and honestly I disagree. I think it works wonders in for two weeks, maybe three. I think one of I think there's one reality and and if there any women watching this who are who are debating what they should, you know, take or do, let me tell you something. If you're into if you're a woman, you're into men, no guy wants to kiss a woman, okay, that has a bigger jaw than him and who's who's cutting who's cutting into his face with her stubble on her face toward the end of the day. That is a turnoff that I don't care how hot you are. No real man will ever want to date you and and and kiss you because of that. That is just the the biggest turnoff of all time. And and believe me, John, you know, there's a lot of women out there with that five o'clock shadow come, you know, five o'clock. And and it's it's the biggest turnoff of all time. Hair on the face is is a deal breaker for me. Maybe not for Greg because he turns him around, but it's a big deal. Most men. So if you want if you want to remain a woman you're going to have to guys you're gonna have to use stuff that's applicable to women anavar maybe a little windshield little primo and and make do on that you could grow on that if you eat right you train right and and you dedicate your life to it don't ruin yourself I I implore you not to ruin yourself you'll never be able to reverse those side effects and Dave and Dave you got to add one more thing to this because it's very important for all of the women to hear this that's disgusting the minute the minute you start getting negative side effects Stop. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Just stop. You don't need to keep on with your cycle. That's just ludicrous. You're getting a side effect that you They don't see them though. Am I mean they don't The girls don't see them though. Getting worse. You got to stop. I knew a girl was taking Adavar and her throat was getting a little raspy and which is usually not a side effect of Adavar. She stopped it and she was fine. That's right. Because if you you have you have a small window and I mean this D, you know it, John. You know it. You have a small window that it's reversible. It's very small. We're talking days. If you go past that, it's not reversible. Vocal cords get fake. They don't go backward. You don't over once the girl starts saying your throat feels a little scratchy. Stop. I don't care if it's anavar, like you said, David. I don't care what it is. You stop. And th and then you wait. You wait a few weeks and then when you start back, you start back at half the dose that you did that made you get that itchy throat. Don't go that high again because that's the dose that's going to cause the problems. Right. It's different. It's different in every person too. Like you So you have to understand what one girl could take another girl might not be able to take. Absolutely. Now Dave threw a poison arrow at me. Girl cycling back at him. I didn't marry a female body. I did. Yeah. I didn't marry, but yeah, I did marry one year. That's external. External. I didn't say I I didn't say that. I know. I'm breaking your balls. I'm breaking your balls. No, you're right. You're right. Besides any train, those trainy girls don't have [\h__\h] beards and shits, which you were talking. They probably have smoother skin than the guys. They do. They get electrolysis. And then then the women do rather. Yeah. No, you got laser hair removal. I said a lot of girls laser hair removal. Yeah. They have no choice. The laser hair remover Arman doesn't work if you're continuing to take testosterone though. Well, they got to do it every like I do it on my face because my hair grows up high. So, I had to do laser hair removal all right there because my hair grew up so high. So, hey Armon looks good, dude. It's only growing baby hairs now because I'm on month four. It takes 12 months for it to pull. Can you take that off for a sec so I can see that real quick? That looks good, dude. Can you Can you like So I can see that. Yeah. Bend down. Damn. Yeah, I haven't been on I haven't been on for a couple weeks. That's That's really good for So I haven't seen it. It looks like you dyed your hair. Baby hairs. Did you dye your hair, too? It's baby hairs now. No, that's my hair. Yeah, I see that. I see the baby hairs. Yeah. Yeah, they're baby hairs now. They'll eventually thicken up and then they'll grow. Yeah, I'm on month four. So, they said around month 12, it's the hairs will thicken up a lot and get a lot more dense. But it just it's just starting right now. It's just starting. You can really see that it's it's all those baby hairs grow in. It's going to look pretty good. No, you can't dye your hair for the first uh I think 12 months they said hair because it could damage the the follicle to help it heal like BTC57. Yeah, I'm doing BT57. I can't hear you. You know what? You're a little low, Leo. Your your mic. I said I said they're claiming I have makeup on. Nothing. I was I had a contest this weekend. That's why I might be a little darker. Did you Did you dye your hair? You look at you dye your hair. Did you dye your hair? Eyebrows. No, the hair is the hair is so much brighter cuz I I go tanning. My hair gets gets Is that really your hairline? Is that really your hair? Is that really your hairline? The sun. Is that really your hairline? Yes. It's even broke. Look at this. No, he's got that that widow's peak. Hey, he's he's a he's a handsome guy, man. You know, quit busting. That that's that's Eddie Monster level. That's really just You know what? Get rid of the mustache. I'm telling you, you're gonna your market ability will go through the roof. You know what? Dave, if he was getting ready for a role in the Avengers, you wouldn't say that. I'm a good, you know, I'm a good adviser. I I can't take my own advice, but I'm very good at giving other people advice. I'm telling you, you shave that mustache. You're you're if you were a pretty guy, I might listen to you. Okay, grow a mustache like Leo's and let's see what either that or grow the beard. Grow the rest of do like you know like Mike the badass, you know. Do that kind of a beard if you're going to do that. Don't just do the mustache. It doesn't look good. Okay, I disagree. You know the great You know what the great thing is? You don't have to listen to anyone. You're your own person. But we we'll still bust your balls a little bit. Can we The truth is if you were an ugly [\h__\h] we wouldn't even say anything to you. I don't mind. Like people think like if a hot chick told him to shave it off, he would I really don't mind. You can you can bust my balls all day. I really don't mind. So I'm fine. Like I know you don't like crying. See, that's why we don't say anything about Greg's facial hair because he's, you know, he's an ugly mofo. So we don't [\h__\h] I admit it. I admit that's feminine. Yeah. Feminine. So, what's she saying on my What's she saying on my If you saw the before and after pictures of Lauren, you guys would be un It would be You'd be shocked. Let her talk so we can all hear her feminine voice, please. Hi. Okay, that's a very good point. Hold on. I'm gonna pull I'm gonna pull up your your Instagram. She She won that test. No, tell tell them your protocol. Uh five milligrams of Anavar. That's it. And that's all you need. Yeah. I'm an amateur. I'm a bikini. I don't want to look like that. Do you do mushrooms, too? Therefore, they get bigger or you get more lean. Do you do mushrooms and then you like hallucinate like No. No. Does Humbo look like like uh Ricky Martin or something like that when you're doing the mushrooms? Oh [\h__\h] Was that mushrooms for real? Yeah, guys. That is I made them. Oh [\h__\h] They're little capsules. Wow. Now, now George is thinking, "How do I get these into the cookies?" Yeah. You want to hear something crazy? You want to hear something really crazy? My wife is a bikini pro and she took zero anavar. Wow. It's freaking possible. Look at that, guys. Look at that transformation. I'm serious. Hold on. Wow. That's a great size. Dave, did you hear that? He said, "My wife." With that mustache, he's managed to keep the wedding intact. So, you can't you can't say anything. I You know what? I I figured it out. His wife makes keep the mustache so no girls will hit on him. That's what it is. There you go. And a wife wants to make you uglier. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She's Yeah. Next thing she's gonna make you shave your head probably. My girl can't make any You should shave that mustache or No, no. She She wants my my She likes my tongue. No. See, Lauren says, "Shave it. Shave." Yeah. Shave. Shave. Telling you, Leo, get rid of it. You I'm going to give you a little I'm going to give you a little story, and this is why you got to do it. All right, we'll end on this. All right. I'm down in partying down in South Beach with my crew one day and one night, weekend, whatever. And we cut we cut through this garage in a in a building in South Beach, and there's two DOS parked there. And just by chance, the owner of one of them came down with his girlfriend or or no, one one of the one of the guys came down that knew the guys that owned it. Two brothers that they were given these Ferrari Dinos in 1970 for when they graduated from college or something like that. And they've had them ever since. So my buddy looks at him, my my my salesman buddy looks at both of these cars and says, "Let me guess. the guy who owns this one is single and the guy who owns this one is married. The guy goes, "How do you know?" That's exactly right. Because that one's filthy and that one's clean. So the moral of the story is you can have a filthy Ferrari and still have a hot girl. But if you want a hot girl and you're not don't have one, you need a clean Ferrari. So there there you go, bro. Shave the mustache. clean up all that. But I'm married, bro. I say keep the mustache. Give it its own Instagram account and you you'll get girls all day all night. Or you could donate that mustache and I can implant it on my head. I'll get Armon to give it. I like that idea. They took some hair from under here from my hair. I took some from under my for real. I make I make a meme account with my like Leo Stash at Leo Stash or something. That's great. You should do that. A what? We should We should put a pole up. No, they should He should make like a little character. These little Make a logo. Yeah, but you got to make a You got to get the these little feet with the mustache on top and a little hat on top. John, you remember back in the day, Saturday Night Live, they had Should they kill Larry the Lobster or not? Remember that? That should we shave it off? Or like some some big jaw? We should do a tellathon for his mustache. You know, one big like curly hair doing the 80s porn star. What did I say? That's my line. He look He looks like a 70s state trooper. These guys all want to look like Bumstead. That's the problem. Come on, guys. Let's get a get a new Can't we like pick a new guy to like model yourselves after? Come on, dude. I get mistaken for the whole They should look like Dave. No, believe I'm an ugly mug. You don't want to look like me. But but there's there's some better looking guys out there. Look like uh like Ali Balal or something like that. You know, he's he's got a great hairdo and he's got the abs. You know, he's got the whole men's physique. Dave looks like Mr. Head. I tell you how I how I started having the mustache. I thought I could never have one. No mustache. And then and then there was Movember and my wife was like, "Oh, let's try that." So, I'm like, "Okay, let's see if I can actually grow some." And then I was like, "Damn, I can't shit." And then I liked it. And then I kept it. There you go. It just, you know, it makes you look older. That's all. Maybe you like that. You like the I don't think he looks good. Maybe it helps my credibility. I think I think that's why you do it. I do. I think it's a psychological thing for you. Don't listen to him, Leo. Don't listen. He looks like he should be teaching high school chemistry or something like that, you know, with that mustache. In Leo, In Leo's case, it doesn't matter because he's a good looking guy. He's a good looking guy. He can pull it off. Exactly. Pull it off. You put a mustache. You put a mustache on Greg. What would Blackman say, John? Yeah. Leo, you're a very good-look man. Very handsome man. Very handsome man. Yeah. No, that's kind of gay, man. That's kind of gay. That's what Blackman was the whole point. I'm going to be like Robert Dairo. Leo, don't listen to him. The mustache looks good. Hey, do you believe that [\h__\h] guy's got that mustache? That [\h__\h] Leo, don't listen to [\h__\h] what he say. Don't change that mustache. You look good. [\h__\h] what he thinks. Hey, holy [\h__\h] He's got to change that mustache. And on that note, we're going to wrap up another episode of After Hours with the Pack Whack Pack. I'm Dave Palumbo. Happy Memorial Day everybody to all Happy Memorial Day. Happy Memorial Day. Happy Memorial Day. Peace. See you guys later. Greatest country in the world.