I want to talk about fat burners. A lot of people are always asking me what the best fat burners are on the market are. And while there's a lot of effective formulas out there, my personal philosophy is one of non-stimulant. I believe that stimulants stress the body out. Uh I believe that stress leads to high cortisol levels. Cortisol is a catabolic hormone in the body that causes muscle breakdown, immune system suppression. It causes deposition of abdominal body fat. Uh I I don't think they're good for you. It raises anxiety level. It raises blood pressure, increases heart rate. These are things that most of us don't want. And most people who need to lose weight, body fat specifically, don't need these these elevations to occur. So in my mind, if you need a little pickme up before you work out, drink a cup of coffee. Uh have a diet soda. That that's enough. Uh so my philosophy when it comes to burning fat uh is derived at at supplements that will basically target certain areas of the muscle cell certain areas of the fat cell that will directly mobilize fat. Okay. And this is a different approach than most supplement companies out there take. Uh I pride myself in this approach. I believe it's a pure approach to burning uh stored body fat. Having said that, let's talk about uh my two formulas. I produce a formula known as lipoise which is my daytime fat burner and somalize which is my nighttime fat burner and sleep aid. These two formulas are unique. Once again there's no stimulants in them. Uh and number two they work by very unique mechanisms. Uh let's talk about lipolyze the daytime fat burner. Uh the recommended dosage of of lipolyze by the way is one pill anywhere from three to five times a day always taken with food. Uh the way these fat burners work essentially is by wasting calories. They waste energy in the body. they trick the body into burning calories. Uh, and how do they do that? Well, there's a there's a process known as uncoupling. Okay? And what uncoupling essentially is is it's it's basically causing the cell to waste energy. A good analogy I give people is if you poke a hole in the gas tank of your car and the car leaks gas, the car will still run, but it gets very bad gas mileage. Uh, because it gets bad gas mileage and and it can't go as far on a tank of gas, you have to fill the tank up very very often. uh that's analogous to what goes on in the muscle cell or the fat cell. When when when energy is leaking from the muscle cells, the cells have to oxidize or burn more fat to make up for this lost energy. It's a great way we're basically tricking the cells into burning more stored body fat or more fatty acids. And that's the key here. Fat burners want to trick the body into burning more stored fat. They don't want to overstimulate the body and and and amp up the metabolism that way because of all the negative ramifications that occur with that. Well, lipolyze is main two ingredients that are very very potent or actually has three probably very potent ingredients. Uh one being uh OEA okay olioethanolomide which is uh got a number of different functions in the body. It's actually derived from olive oil believe it or not and it causes the uh the PPR uh receptors or PP receptors to uh when you stimulate these things it causes them to liberate body fat. Okay. So what these OEA molecules do is stimulate these receptors and cause stored body fat to be liberated. Another great thing they do is they lower cholesterol levels and they lower triglyceride levels which is good from a health ramification. Uh probably the most important uh thing that this thing does and a lot of women are going to like this is it suppresses your appetite. Uh when you blunt your appetite a little bit while you're dieting it makes it that much easier, okay, to get through the diet. U let's face it, appetite is the main reason why most people fail in their diet. they they they can't stand the fact that they're hungry and they wind up eating too much. So, this is a great ingredient. This ingredient is not only in lip, it's also insom. So, it's great at night uh when you can't eat anything at bedtime and uh you know your appetite's a little blunted. It helps you sleep. Uh another probably the most important potent ingredient in lipolyze is known as T2 or 35 diiotoyrodine. This is a thyroid metabolite. Okay. Uh found in food supply. So, we can luckily sell it legally. Um, when we think of thyroid hormone, most of us think of T4 or thyroxine, which is actually an inactive thyroid hormone that's produced by the thyroid gland in your neck here. Um, the T4 ultimately gets converted into T3, uh, which is a hormone that most of us thought was the active thyroid hormone, but it turns out there's a metabolite of T3 known as T2, which is in which is in the lialized formula that has purely fat burning effects. A lot of people think of thyroid hormone. They're afraid because they say, "Well, if you take thyroid hormone, it could burn muscle, it can burn carbohydrates, it can burn fat." You really don't know where it's coming from, but the T2 metabolite works exclusively on fat mobilization. And the way it does it is through this uncoupling uh reaction that I just talked about a little earlier. So, it's it's it's essentially a very pure fat burner. It burns exclusively fat and it has very very few side effects, especially if you take it in the recommended dose of three to five pills per day. Um, and this is probably going to be the most exciting uh ingredient to hit the market as of late. It's this is a new formulation for me. Lipolyze evolved uh contains T2. The original formula didn't. Um, also Lipoise Evolved contains OEA and the original formula didn't. I think a lot of you going to see phenomenal results from this uh with with very few anxiety or any kind of side effects whatsoever. Another very important ingredient in lipolyze is is green tea extract. Now, a lot of people ask me, "Well, green tea has a lot of caffeine in it. I thought you said your formulas are are stimulant free." Well, we don't use the the green tea. We use the green tea extract. Uh the extract is devoid of caffeine and it has just direct fat mobiliz mobilizing effects. I know Oprah Winfrey is a big advocate of green tea extract and we put this in the formula to help the formula uh facilitate fat loss. Uh, another great uh, uh, I guess addition to the product is propion lcarnitine, which is a form of Lcarnitine that helps mobilize fat, okay, into the mitochondria of the muscle cells where it can be burned as energy. And this does it predominantly or ex or I should say not even exclusively, but it does it preferentially is the word I'm looking for in the skeletal muscle cells, which is the cells that we're using, okay, in the gym. Okay, a lot of the other forms of Lcarnitine don't do that. Propion alcarnitine is the most specific to skeletal muscle and that's why it's included in this formula. There's also some other uh ingredients. Google sterones are in here which is an iovertic Indian herb that helps keep your thyroid function uh functioning properly. Cyclic AMP which also helps raise energy levels while you're working out. So and in a non-stimulant fashion. Lipiliz is an ideal formula having T2 OEA green tea extract with the support for uh the support ingredients propanylc carnitine glucones and cyclic amp give it a shot three to five pills a day one pill with each meal I think you're going to see some phenomenal results now let's talk a little bit about somalize somalize is the nighttime version of this formula uh the reason I was able to create a nighttime fat burner is because my my fat burners have no stimulants in them. Uh, but what I always found that worked very well to help me sleep at night. And let's face it, if you don't sleep, you don't recover. If you don't recover, okay, you don't retain the muscle mass you want. You don't rebuild the muscle you want. And ultimately, you don't burn fat, okay? People who don't sleep don't burn fat that much. And people who don't sleep also are hungrier all the time because it raises the levels of hormones that stimulate appetite. So, sleep is vitally important to the recovery and fat burning process. Having said that, I've included two other ingredients in somalize that are not in uh lipolyze specifically melatonin which is a hormone produced by the pineal gland in your brain. As we get older and as we age, the production of melatonin decreases. Uh melatonin not only will help you sleep better at night, okay, giving you a much more restful night's sleep, keeping you in REM sleep and a deeper sleep much more uh for much longer periods of time. Uh, but it also happens to be a phenomenal antioxidant. So, it actually will help your body recover from the workouts you had during the day. Most people who take melatonin, who have trouble sleeping, I should say, at night, and take melatonin, it cures their their sleep problems. And it's it's a natural uh way to to do this. You're not taking any kind of knockout pills like Xanax or Valium or or Ambient. This is a very natural way to fall asleep at night. You're replacing a hormone that as we age decreases in the body. Uh another phenomenal ingredient is GABA. GABA is is an amino acid derivative that acts as a relaxation uh neurotransmitter in the brain. Got to remember in the brain there's excitatory transmitters that make you more awake and then there's relaxation neurotransmitters that that help you fall asleep or relax. When you take um I guess muscle relaxants like Vicodin or I should say muscle relaxants like Xanax or Valium, what they basically do is stimulate this receptor, this GABA receptor in your brain and they cause relaxation. Well, GABA does it in a very natural way. By taking the amino acid directly, it'll cross the bloodb brain barrier and will will stimulate these GABA receptors and you'll feel relaxed and you'll feel all the anxiety in your body will be gone and you'll be able to fall asleep in a much more uh comfortable way and natural way. Another great thing about GABA is that it raises growth hormone levels while you sleep. And all of us know that growth hormone is a phenomenal fat burning hormone and it's phenomenal for for muscle recovery. And that's the name of the game here. We're trying to recover muscle while burning body fat. Remember cortisol levels or catab the catabolic hormone cortisol is highest in the body when our bodies are anxious or we don't get enough sleep. So sleep is very important to the fat burning process. So the addition of melatonin and the addition of GABA to the somalized formula to the fat burning formula will enable you not only to burn fat at night but also sleep and have a very restful night's sleep. Um, in addition, the fat burning ingredients that we've included in the somalized formulation, OEA for appetite suppression and and additional fat burning and propanecarnitine for fat transport and a couple other interesting ingredients that also help facilitate the fat burning process. So, we have an ideal two ideal fat burning formula, somalize and lipolyze. Lipolyze being your daytime, Somalize being your nighttime uh to meet your fat burning needs 24 hours a day. I challenge you. I ask you to try them and give me your feedback.