Heat. Heat up here. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and tonight's guest of the evening will be the defending and reigning New York Pro men's physique champion. He's also the Pittsburgh Pro Champ and Orlando Europa Show Champion as well. He's been cleaning up on the pro physique circuit and it's my honor to welcome here tonight, George Brown. Here he is. Hey, how you doing, Dave? Good, good. You know what what's with this new generation of of people? No one has computers anymore. Everyone has cell phones for uh for everything now. Even even webcam now. Yeah, it's uh it's convenient. It certainly is. It fits in the palm of your hand or your pocket. Now, George, you've been on a rampage here in 2016. You were second at the Arnold Classic. Uh you were arguably some people felt you should have won that. You won the Orlando Europa Pro. You won the uh Pittsburgh Pro. You're going to be coming to New York this weekend. Uh what's going on with George Brown? Uh right now I'm uh I'm just uh you know working hard. Um trying to stay consistent and uh you know execute my goals. That's pretty much it. you've been executing real well. Last year you won the New York Pri. Remember that was the first time I interviewed you really. And uh you know, ever since you've been on a tear, you were I believe seventh at the Olympia, which also people felt you could have been a little higher. Maybe you weren't at your best. Uh but you seem to have found the formula that works for you and this year you're just tearing it up. Were you upset that you didn't win the Arnold? Uh I mean, you know, I definitely wanted to win. Uh I couldn't say I was upset uh because you know a lot of people would love to you know be second. Um for me it was another step forward in in in the right direction and uh you know it is what it is what it is. You know there's nothing I can do about it. So um I just kept moving forward and you know I've been experienc some success since then. You know like unlike a lot of the other physique competitors you never started in bodybuilding. you went right to physique. Uh 2012, I believe, was the Ohio State was your first show. You didn't even place top five. Uh you described that as a as a tremendous disappointment for yourself. Tell me how you felt, you know, leaving the auditorium after not placing top five at your first show. Uh well, number one, I didn't know what to expect. Um, I all I know is I I spent a whole lot of money on food and a whole lot of time working hard and I had I had so much invested and uh I I'm used to playing sports. So with me it's either you win or you lose and uh you know I didn't get anything that day and I was devastated. I went home and um of course, you know, cried or whatever and uh I didn't step into a gym for two months, you know, and uh after that um you know, the guy I was working with, he uh coasted me back into the gym and then I started back and you know, I've been going ever since. Now, you know what, first of all, what sport did you play in uh in uh school? I played uh football as an outside linebacker. Okay. and and uh how far did you go in the with the football? Uh I played for Tiffany University uh three years for Tiffany University and uh did you ever have aspirations to go to the NFL? Were you not good enough? Where did that, you know, lead to? I mean, yeah, I definitely, you know, definitely wanted to be in the NFL, but uh I kind of uh didn't I I don't think I uh my grades weren't weren't too good for school in the semester and I I I dropped out of school and um you know, just started to live life after that, you know. So, it kind of went out the window. Is that tough going from, you know, being a football star, so to speak, and and and now you're out of school and all of a sudden no one cares anymore and you got to kind of find something that you're passionate about to kind of channel your energy into. Yeah, it's definitely definitely an adjustment to make. Um, you start to think about life after that. Uh because, you know, coming from high school, um, you know, middle school when you play little league football, that's all you know, and then, you know, it's over with. So, it's like, yo, what am I going to do now? And uh you know, luckily enough, uh I found you know, Men's Physique came along and like I said, I I tried it out and you know, here we are. Who introduced you to Men's Physique? Uh you know, James, his name's James Coerson. And what what did he see in you that he felt was special enough to to encourage you to do the show? Uh well, he he always told me that I had symmetry. At the time, I didn't know what it was, you know, and uh he he loved bodybuilding. He's he's a he's a pro right now. Uh pro bodybuilder, but he loved it. And uh we worked a job and he used to show me like Phil Heath and those guys every single day. And I didn't know who they were. All I seen was guys in underwear. And you know, for me personally, just my you know, my own preference, I didn't want to look like that. And so, uh, we worked out together and one day he just showed me Matt Kushner and he was like, "Hey, you know, they're coming out with a new division. What do you think about it?" And, uh, you know, I looked at at Matt and screenshotted it, kept it in my phone and I said, "I want to look like that." So, he, uh, he took me to, um, a bodybuilding show, which I believe was the Mike Francois, which just passed. And uh Michael Anderson was on stage and um he uh I seen Michael Anderson and from that point on I was like, "Hey, I want to do this." Now they have a new division out obviously this year, classic physique, uh where you get to pose a little bit. It's kind of men's physique with with the posing in it and you got to show your legs obviously. Um is that something that interests you or do you just like this uh men's physique category that you've been competing in and doing so well? I mean, you know, I I love uh I love men's physique right now. Uh you know, if the day comes where, you know, the criteria for men's physique changes, then, you know, I'll think about it then. But right now, I just I love I love men's physique. Coming off these uh wins, these past three wins you've had in a row. Um obviously, you know, and then obviously the even the second place at the Arnold was terrific. So, I mean, ultimately, you almost have four wins this year. Uh, going into New York Pro, you got to be considered one of the favorites, I would think. Um, do you feel pressure this year? Um, I mean, I I'm to the point now where I uh I've done enough shows to to not really feel pressure. I as long as I do what I'm supposed to do, um, I I'm I'm never I'm at ease because that's all I can do. So, I wouldn't say it's pressure. I let guys talk, you know, I let them say what they're going to do. All I do is show up and you know the judges judge and I I said it before, the chips fall where they may and that's that. Uh is it nerve-wracking up on stage knowing that in men's physique it's not the biggest or hardest guy that wins. It's kind of like the guy that the judges just happen to like the way they look. I mean, and you know, you can't tell looking backstage at the other guys if you're going to win or not. It's it's a very uh it must be a very uneasy feeling, you know. Yeah. Uh but it's something that you get used to. It's like, you know, you never it's it's different sets of judges, different shows. Um you get a criteria. We know shoulder to waist ratio, but um you never know. And and uh that's the thing about, you know, men's physique. It's just you never know. All you can do is bring what you think is is the correct package and let the judges judge. Uh, have the judges given you any feedback as to what they like about your physique, what they you they think you might need to work on or improve? Well, I actually uh I was I was just at Bev's yesterday and got a chance to ask uh one of the judges um what what if there was anything I needed to improve on and uh he said uh basically just keep doing what I've been doing. Um, you know, maybe a pound here or there, up or down, but you know, right now, don't change anything. It's working for me, so why change it? Competing in this sport, you mentioned it earlier. Uh, it's expensive. Okay. There's not a lot of money and prize money. So, you're not you're not going to, you know, be buying any mansions from, you know, winning, you know, local competitions here or even bigger competitions. It's just not enough cash in it. How does a guy, a men's physique guy like you make a living and and be able to justify what they're doing? Well, uh I've learned um that you have to I I train people, but a lot there's a lot of money in like posing people and guys who are coming in who don't know um exactly what to do. Um you can kind of help them out and then I I build relationships with, you know, different different vendors or whatever and you got to kind of, you know, make it work for you. Um, you can't sit back and say, "Hey, you know, money here or there." I'm AI'm the type of guy that I just make it work. So, you know, whatever I have, that's what I work with and I'm satisfied with it and, you know, I get the job done. You know, George, you make it look easy and we know it's not easy even though you make it look easy. What I mean what what obstacles what like you know uh I guess you know life throws roadblocks in our way sometimes. What have you had to overcome to get where you are? Because no one goes smooth sailing all the way in. No. Okay. So, uh, speaking about like the the expenses of it, uh, you know, I I used to work oddend jobs and, uh, you know, they really weren't working out and I was, you know, I made the decision that I was going to make the men's physique work for me. And, uh, with that came some, you know, some consequences, which was, you know, I had a car, couldn't really had AI didn't really have the money to pay for it, so I lost it. The house I was living in, I lost it. um you know and you you you lose friends you you when you you start to lose things you start to find out who's really in your corner you know so I learned a lot of valuable lessons um in losing those things and I I also learned how to use what I had and you know if you do that for me I feel like every person has everything that they need at all times you know and all you have to do is believe and work hard and things work out. You know, the people who are in your corner, they invest in you. And for me, that's fuel to my fire that somebody believes in me before they see it. And, you know, I work harder to make sure I don't let them down, you know, and I I do that to this day. So, you know, opportunity, I mean, not opportunities, but, you know, um, you know, circumstances, they're going to, you know, pop up, but you just deal with them. Can't cry over spilled milk. Clean it up and keep moving forward. Uh, how's your support system? Do you have Does your family understand what you're doing? Because a lot of times families don't, you know, they understand football, but they don't understand physique or bodybuilding. It's kind of like a very weird type of sport. Yeah, they uh they understand now. Uh in the beginning it was tough because they didn't understand like timing of meals and the importance of you know um just some of the things that we take you know uh seriously as far as not missing training, getting rest, not stressing me out, um things like that. But they're very supportive definitely and you know they're very proud and uh you know I my my circle of friends you know they're all supportive. They helped me out and uh you know I love them. Well, you're from Columbus, Ohio, so I'm assuming probably your family and friends got to see you compete at the Arnold Classic. Yes, they were they were all there. That must have been fun, huh? Yeah. Yeah, it was fun. Uh I had one of my teammates, she was making a lot of noise. So guys on stage, they got to look at me like, "Hey, what's going on?" I'm like, "Hey, I'm at home. What do you expect?" So, it was that that was definitely a fun show. Well, you've made a certain impression on the men's physique world in 2016 here. Uh let's flash forward. We know you got the New York Pro this weekend. Uh the Olympiers in September, Jeremy Buendy, obviously the defending champion. Sadik Hodzik no longer competing in the in the regular men's physique category. Um is George Brown ready to win the Olympia? Yes, he is. Why? Uh because I feel like uh I've paid my dues. Um I put the work in. Um you know, I I feel like it's my time right now. I feel like it's the you know, it's the changing of the guard. No disrespect to Jeremy. Um I know he feels the same way I feel. I I know Jeremy well. He's very competitive. I know he's going to give it everything I got. I mean, everything he has, he knows me the same way. I'm going to give it everything I got and you know like no disrespect to nobody else either. It's not about me or him but I'm just saying I'm ready and you know I can't wait for it. But right now I'm focused on New York. Why do you think that uh you'll be able to beat Jeremy? You know it's hard to unseat the crown champion. Uh you obviously are a lot taller than him. Do you think tall looks better on stage? Uh I mean each each person's different. Uh, you know, this is just my opinion. Um, Jeremy has he has very nice symmetry. Uh, I feel like, uh, I have everything that he has. I feel like I'm 20 pounds bigger. Um, you know, I'm taller. I I I love my symmetry. Um, like no disrespect to Jeremy, but I'm into me. You know, this is a selfish sport and, you know, um, I believe in myself just like he believes in himself, you know. and I know he's a champ, but you know, you got to knock the champ out to win and and I'm definitely up for the challenge. If you were encouraging or giving advice to someone who is coming up in the sport, um what would be the what would be some things you would tell them to avoid or to help them to maybe not make the mistakes that you made coming up? Uh well, you're going to make some mistakes. That's a part of the process. uh in in learning yourself. But I would say uh be patient. You have to put your time in. A lot of guys get frustrated because they don't experience success immediately. Um but it's this is a sport where you learn to lose and in that loss you learn things. So, it's really not a loss. As long as you're getting better and you're dieting and you're with somebody, you know, with your best interest and you guys are working towards your goal, that's all you can control, you know. So, work hard, have supreme confidence in yourself, and, you know, go get what's yours. Go take what's yours. Very wise advice uh from a very successful man in the men's physique division. Hopefully everyone out there watching this will uh will take heed and uh heed some of your advice because uh it is well spoken. Best of luck this coming weekend in New York. Obviously we'll be there covering the show and uh let's see if you can repeat as New York Pro Champion. Yeah, hopefully. So um I'll see you guys uh I I'll probably be in town on Thursday and like I said hopefully you know we can get the win. Yeah, if you're if you're around, come by the studio. We'll have the Heavy Muscle TV show. We'd love to have you. Okay, thanks. All right, that was George Brown, our New York Pro defending champion. He'll be going for win number two there in New York. Obviously having having a stellar year. Uh we're going to certainly see him in that top three at the Olympia come September. For now that we are out of time, uh I'm Dave Palumbo with another episode of Live with