Welcome to the premier edition of Live with our 30 minute interview show. I am your host Dave Palumbo and we're here with our first guest of the contest season as you might call it here at Live with Janae Marie Croc. What a great story. How's it going Jana? I'm doing really well. Thank you. Now Jana, um we've talked before uh on Heavy Muscle Radio. Um the interview was with Matt Croc at the time. You're no longer Matt Croc. you have now uh I guess we can call you a transgender woman. Uh you're now Jana Marie Croc. Explain to me what has transpired since that last interview in your life. Okay. Um actually, you know, mostly what's changed is just the general public's knowledge of the situation. Um even when I did my first interview with you probably 5 years ago or so, um I was already living my life in both genders at that point. Um, I've been out to family and friends for about a decade and, um, I've been living, you know, in both genders for almost as long, but I've been out at work for a couple years now. Um, I've been very out in the powerlifting community for probably five or six years. You know, a lot a lot of the elite level lifters in known for a long time, so it wasn't really a big secret. But then last Monday, um, a YouTube video, um, outed me, you know, completely to the general public. And um to be honest, I mean, this was something I had planned on doing anyway, but I was trying to wait until my boys were out of high school because I didn't want to put them through that. So, mostly it's just the public awareness and um so now everything's out there and you know, obviously it's kind of a crazy story and for people that weren't aware, you know, for somebody like me who was considered this, you know, total alpha male um to come out as transgender, you know, it was kind of a shocking thing. a little bit about um how the powerlifting community already knew because like um what uh I guess you could say clues would you have told or revealed to them uh had you told them? Would you dress as a woman at meets? I mean, how how would they have known already? Um I I wouldn't show up at meets or anything like that, but yeah, I had I was very open with my friends and most of my close friends were other, you know, top level powerlifters and my training partners. Um I had been out to everybody at Elite FTS which you know I've been with for a long time and uh Dave and you know Dave Tate there and Jim Wendler um they had known for a long time and they were very supportive and um it was just like a you know general knowledge within the you know mostly the elite circles initially and um it was one of those things I mean I I wasn't out there spreading it but if I was asked or you know rumors went around and I was always honest about it and and all my friend you know all my close friends which was a big portion of the powering community all knew. Um, so it wasn't something that I tried to keep secret, but it wasn't something I was promoting either. But, you know, it was something that was kind of an inside joke. We used to have a lot of fun with it and um, you know, I've got a very good sense of humor and, you know, it's kind of a crazy story. So, it was kind of always an inside joke among, you know, the top guys and and we all had a lot of fun with it. Um, when you say a joke, I mean, uh, I'm sure they would, you know, you they tease you, oh, you're really a woman. And you'd be like, yeah, yeah, yeah. But um at some level, some deeper level, was that hurtful because maybe people weren't taking you seriously at that point? I mean, I I guess you know, joke was incorrect terminology. I mean, it was something we kitted around about, but obviously it was no joke. Um this was something I've dealt with all my life and was very very difficult for me. And at one point in my life, it even, you know, drove me to consider suicide. Um so it it was, you know, it's nothing to really laugh about, but I just, you know, we had a good sense of humor about it. But yeah, you know, the the we would joke around, you know, about, you know, being outlifted by a girl and, you know, stuff like that. And but, you know, honestly, for, you know, the type of community the powerlifting world is, um, everyone was really supportive and very accepting and, um, I never lost a single friend and, um, you know, it was actually, you know, very surprising and and I was very thankful for that point in your life. Uh when you say you know at some point you you you considered suicide. How old were you at that point? Um at that point that was when the marriage to my um to my boy's mother ended. Um I had known as long as I can remember. I mean I remember being 5 6 years old and already having those feelings but also already knowing that it wasn't really okay to talk about it. So, I just buried everything down as, you know, deep down as as far as I could and um, you know, tried as hard as I could to be the person that everyone expected me to be. And, um, I was athletic and I always liked girls. So, that was enough for me in my mind to put myself in that, you know, quote unquote normal category. Um, you know, it's not really the proper way to think about it, but that's what I did back then. And um I tried very hard, you know, to not think about things and not dwell on it, but but it was nearly impossible to be honest. It was never out of my minute for out of my mind for more than 5 minutes any day and you know, weighed on me really heavily. But I was so terrified of what the reaction might be that, you know, I never told anyone until I was 23 and um that first person was the boy's mother and when when we were dating and um she was supportive initially, but that didn't last very long. So then I just went back to suppressing it and then I really started dealing with things um about the time we were splitting up 10 years later when I was in my early 30s. And um at that point it was just you know it was kind of overwhelming after all that time of suppressing everything and trying to figure everything out and you know my whole life I I grew up feeling different and alone and um you know you feel you feel like a freak. You feel like something's wrong. Um, that was before the internet. So, I had no idea that there were other people out there like me that felt the same way I did. And, um, so it was really hard. I felt broken. I felt unlovable. Um, when I split from her, you know, when I was at at the the worst period, I remember thinking like, how was anyone ever going to love me? You know, I felt like I was too complicated and um just that uh, you know, no matter what I did that it wasn't going to work. And uh I mean I went through some rough times and and the thing was is I wasn't telling anyone at that point yet and so I was dealing with this all on my own which you know made it even tougher. What what um well let me ask you this first of all uh did this issue break up your marriage or was it something else? I mean we went through a lot of the same problems that most marriages did um at that point. We were together for 10 years. Yeah, I mean, I'm not going to say it wasn't a factor because it was something, you know, both of us knew and were aware of, but we really didn't deal with it. We didn't talk about it. Um, when we were trying to work things out at the end, um, you know, I we went, you know, we did counseling for the last year of our marriage, trying to make things work and and I was trying to work on some things with her and I asked her to work on this part with me and it it just, you know, it just wasn't going to happen. it wasn't something that um she was willing to work on and and I don't blame her but I mean you know she knew from the start and at that point I really hadn't you know figured everything out yet. So but it was just one factor among many that you know why our marriage didn't work. I I would have in a million years if someone would have told me that um there's a powerlifter out there bodybuilder who um you know is really a woman and feels like a woman I would probably never have guessed you. I mean, it went so far as I mean, we were in uh Germany, Cologne, Germany at the Fibo Expo this past year, and we shared a shuttle ride with you. I was with my wife and uh and my CEO, and both of them females, you know, were commenting how much they loved your sneakers. And you actually said, "Oh, they're girl sneakers." And it didn't even it didn't even register my brain that you were wearing girl sneakers because you felt like a girl. I just felt thought you liked the color of them and you were you were way cooler than I was. That that's that's how I interpreted it. Well, that may be true, too. But, um, but uh, no, I mean, I do I've been doing little things like that for years. Um, you know, my toenails are always painted. Um, I carry a bag that's, you know, pretty much a purse, but, you know, it's technically, you know, a men's satchel or whatever, but but little bitty things to just help me feel balanced on a daily basis, especially when, you know, I was, you know, still hiding a lot. And um but just you know little piece p pieces of uh you know of me you know showing out and and um yeah the funny thing is is because I you know was such an alpha male I I could do all those things and no one thought anything of it you know and and except for the people that were close to me. But um but yeah it was just a little way of trying to feel a little bit of balance in my life. when you decided you were going to announce to the world uh and and change your name and and all this stuff, um what changed for you? I mean, what do you do on a daily basis now that's different as a woman than you were doing like on your daily basis before you announced to the world, you know, what's going on here? Well, the thing is is that I hadn't planned to announce it. I mean, I got outed, so this wasn't all, you know, this wasn't really expected. Um, nothing much has changed because I was already living my life in both genders. But, um, but it definitely feels like a weight lifted. Even though this wasn't planned, it is nice to be 100% out now. Um, I mean, I'm still undecided about full transition or when that's going to happen. Um, like I said, I'm trying to hold off until my boys graduate high school. We we'll see. Like, you know, school's out right now. summertime and and their and some of their friends and stuff have already, you know, found out about everything and so far the the reactions have all been very positive. Um, but we'll see when school starts back up and how this might affect them. I mean, this is something, you know, we've known for years and we've talked about that it could happen because I have been very open about it and they've known all their lives. I mean, they've known since I told them when they were 2, four, and six. I'm a big believer in honesty and and I didn't want to hide anything from them. So, they've grown up with it and they're very, you know, they understand it very well. They get it. So, you know, and they're very supportive and all three of my boys have told me for years, you know, to do whatever I need to do and and it, you know, doesn't matter to them either way. I mean, we have an amazing bond. We're very very close. Um, but still just it's, you know, 100% my decision to hold off on things because I don't want to put them through that. I mean, you can imagine um you know, for the type of guy, you know, Matt Croc is um to come out as transgender, you know, for them, I mean, you know, they go from one extreme of their dad's the hero, like all the kids at school, you know, thought I was the coolest person ever, and oh my gosh, you've got the big strong dad that's the world champion, and um you know, then to come out as transgender. Um you know, the reactions aren't going to be quite the same. And and we'll see. I mean, like I said, school's out right now. This just happened nine days ago. So, you know, we'll see how all this unfolds and and I'm sure they'll be fine. They're strong young men and we've prepared for this for quite a while. You know, we've known for years that this could possibly happen. Um, but we were hoping to make it until they graduated high school. So, for now, it's kind of take things a day at a time. Um, see how things unfold and um, you know, see how things go for them. And and you know, I'm not going to deny this might change my feelings about transition since it's completely out there and if you know, if it's wellreceived and it doesn't seem to adversely affect them, this might be, you know, kind of a a green light for me to go ahead with everything sooner. Um, but you know, we'll we'll wait and see and and take it a day at a time. Now, now when you go to the gym, are you dressed like we see you now or are you dressed as, you know, Matt Croc used to be dressed? No, I I I typically um still, like I said, I'm living my life in both genders. So, at the gym, it's still um you know, guy mode and uh but I go everywhere else um you know, however I feel. So, you know, like I said, work and um you know, shopping and anywhere else I need to go, all my daily errands or whatever I'm doing. I mean, I go I go in either gender and I've been doing that for years. So, it's not um you know, it's something I'm very comfortable with. But but the gym is about the only place I don't um I just you know a combination of things but um it's just easier to still go in guy mode. But but once I you know if when I do make the decision to transition I mean of course that'll change too. Said that you were outed and that's why you came out to the world so to speak. How were you outed? Uh what was what was said or done and and in what capacity? There was a YouTube video posted um by some guy. I gather he runs some type of I think it looked like a gossip type um blog on YouTube and uh he just basically showed both of my Instagram pages as Matt and Jana and um it quickly went viral and um within a couple days he had over 100,000 views. Articles popped up everywhere and pretty much everything changed overnight. So, it it's it's been a crazy ride in the last, you know, nine days since all this happened because it went from just, you know, you know, life as usual to all of a sudden, you know, my phone's blowing up with requests for interviews, articles are popping up all over the internet, everyone's talking about it, and like I said, I mean, this is something I planned on doing anyway. It just I wasn't prepared to do it right now, but um but you know, all in all, it's a good thing. I think, you know, I have a really good chance to, you know, put a positive message out there and just me being visible, you know, can help people like me and I want to help educate people that don't understand and um, you know, be a point of support for the the people that are like me. Now, you mentioned before that you uh the gender reassignment surgery and that, you know, you weren't sure at first and then you said, well, you know, if after your kids graduated from high school that you'd go forward with it. Is this something that you want to do? And um when we say gender reassignment, we think you know what what does that entail because a lot of people don't know all the different nuances of it because there's different levels of gender reassignment procedures that um transgender women will undergo and it all kind of depends what you need. I mean there's facial feminization surgery for those that have very masculine um facial shapes and uh you know Adam's apple reduction um you know breast augmentation but I think you know the main surgery that everyone's referring to is you know the bottom surgery SRS or um you know so basically where you know your your genitalia are changed to that of a female. Um for me if you know if I'm going to go that route I'm going to do everything 100%. And um so if and when yeah I would you know go through everything and and it it's you know it's not easy. It's a very um involved procedure. The recovery is is pretty rough and um but it but it actually yields very very good results and most of the women are very very happy. Um I have no doubt that um that I would be you know very happy undergoing that and doing that. It's just a matter of more am I ready to give up everything else in my life. there there's nothing about transition that um that I'm you know worried about or I I'm afraid that oh my gosh I you know what if I regret this or regret that. There's nothing like that at all. It's all of that I'm sure I'll be 100% happy with. Um the only the only things that um that concern me at all is is all the things I'll have to give up, the things I'll have to sacrifice. Um, it's going to take, you know, it'll take time to get used to going from living as this, you know, masculine alpha male, um, you know, to to living as a woman full-time. And, uh, it's a it's a difficult process for me. It It's honestly, it's more about how my family and my boys are going to do with this um, than it is for me. I mean, I know that um, it's just, you know, it's who I am. It's who I who I've always been. Um, I mean, I'm also I have these aspects of my personality that are very competitive and very aggressive. Um, you know, and I refer to as my alpha male side, but but the reality is those things aren't, you know, gender specific. Um, I've met, you know, very very strong women and, you know, very weak men. You know, we in our society, we like to, you know, attribute all these strong qualities to men and not to women and and that's completely not accurate. So, even though I refer to myself as an alpha male, I'm just a, you know, a strong person and and um very disciplined and competitive and but those aren't exclusively male traits and um you know, I I'm sure I'll carry over those same aspects of my personality, you know, when I transition. Now, you know, when you undergo a surgery like that, obviously, um and they remove your genitalia obviously and they I'm assuming they would put you on estrogen, you know, therapy, um it might change, you know, your aggressive nature. You're a guy who's squatted over a,000 pounds. You've competed as a bodybuilder successfully. You've had the competitive urge as you mentioned before. Um I would assume, you know, you're still a young man that you you would want or young woman now that you would want to continue to compete. I mean, how would that affect that? You know, I know you've been asked this question before. Uh we we're going to be talking about it on Iron Debate uh tomorrow night uh as well. How do you feel about competing as a woman once you've been fully transitioned? Um, honestly, I, you know, I I will not compete as a woman, um, after I transition. And the reason being is because I think it would be very controversial and it's a no-win situation. Um, basically, you know, I I mean, I was the all-time world record holder as a male. So, if I come over and, you know, break all these women records, stuff like that, then it's, you know, it's going to be like, well, of course she did, and that's not fair. It's cheating. And I I think it'll really stir up a bunch of controversy. And, um, it could bring a lot of negative attention to transgender athletes. And, and that's the last thing I would ever want to do. And to be honest, I mean, whether I could break those records, I don't even know. Um, after being on estrogen for a couple years, any advantage you had as a male is gone. Um this has been studied extensively by both the Olympic Committee and the NCAA and they found that after two years on um estrogen replacement therapy that any physical advantage that a male has is is no longer um present. So I mean I you know I I you know even if I wanted to I may not be able to break any of those records. But to be honest I I just I'm really not interested in even competing as a woman. Um to be I mean I've been competing for 20 years. I've accomplished almost all the goals that I wanted to and I had a very fulfilling career and I'm ready to move on to other things. That's not saying that I won't be competitive, won't want to compete in other things. Um, I've recently got gotten into mountain biking. I mean, I could see totally see myself doing competitions there and racing. Um, maybe even, you know, something like triathlons or something of that nature, but but I but I have no desire to compete in, you know, powerlifting or strength sports. Well, um, I can understand that also. you have nothing to prove even in the men's division. So, what would you really have to prove in the women's division? Uh what do you think about Fallon Fox? I don't know if you've followed her. She's an MMA fighter. Uh they've been asking Ronda Rousey about her recently and if she felt that it was fair that, you know, she's a transgender uh and she's been knocking out a lot of the women uh in the division and uh a lot of people think it's not fair because she was originally a man. Um, what do you think about other athletes who compete, you know, in in the female, you know, going from male to female obviously into because, you know, I am a competitor myself and like I said, I've thought about competing possibly in other sports, but obviously it's just something I've always been interested in too. Um, but yeah, it it's like I just mentioned, it's been studied by the IOC and the NCAA and transgender athletes really do not have an advantage and um, if they did, you would see, you know, you would see transgender athletes winning Olympic gold medals and becoming world champions and dominating these sports. And that's never happened. Um, you know, there's been some transgender athletes um, transgender women that have, you know, qualified for the Olympic teams, but to my knowledge, none of them have even meddled. Um and uh there's been, you know, even in sports like distance running, um there's been some highle transgender athletes and they and the funny thing is is they fared no um better as women than they did as men. So what I'm saying is if they were say in the 80th percentile for men, by the time they finish transitioning and have been on hormones for a couple years, they find themselves in about the 80th percentile for women. Um so it's, you know, all this controversy. I mean, on the surface, I can see where people would jump to the conclusion, oh my gosh, they used to be male, you know, they had all that muscle mass and that testosterone. Um, some people like to say, you know, well, males have naturally bigger frames, so they've got this physical advantage, but the reality of it is it's just not true. Um, there the the the advantage that men have comes from male hormones. It comes from testosterone. And um you know when you take that away then any advantage they have you know given enough time which they found is about 2 years um any advantage they had is is no longer present. So so any transgender woman that's competing has no advantage over the other women. And if you look at Fallon Fox there are other women that in her weight class that she fights that are bigger, stronger and um have more muscle than she does. So you know these claims that she has all these you know prior advantages they just don't hold up if you really analyze it. I guess I guess what you say holds true unless we talk about performance-enhancing drugs and then you know that right then that changes the whole that changes the whole game and and of course anyone can be taking those. So Sure. Let me ask you about Caitlyn Jenner. She uh received the courage award at the ESPs uh about a week or so ago and a lot of people were outraged by it. they felt that she wasn't really a hero. Uh that it should have been given to someone who overcame more adversity, you know, from sickness or I think one of the women had died, you know, because she was trying to overcome cancer. Did you feel that it was a warranted award? I you know, just before you answer the question, I feel that, you know, if it wasn't for her, a lot of people like yourself wouldn't have had the courage necessarily to come out to the mainstream media, but uh that's my personal opinion. What did you what was your feeling on that? um you know whether or not um she deserves the award, you know, that's not really my place to say um I I think I will say that, you know, what she did is definitely does require a certain level of courage and um it's not an easy thing, especially for someone that's in the spotlight the way she is. And and regardless of all that, the the important thing here is that she's bringing a lot of awareness, a lot of education about transgender issues and making it easier for people like myself and um other transgender athletes to come forward and be open and out about everything. And I mean, visibility is really one of the, you know, the biggest things and the best things we can do is just being visible and letting people know that it's not um as unusual as people think. already I've received I couldn't tell you how many messages I've received in the last week just since I've come out from people you know thanking me and especially people like me you know people that are athletic and competitive and always considered themselves alpha males or jocks that are also transgender or gender fluid um it's just you know there's just so many more of us out there than anyone knows and it's because because of the you know current climate which is improving but still has a long ways to go most people are terrified to come out I There are very few things in the world about yourself that if you're honest about them will result in, you know, your family kicking you out of their home, being fired from your place of employment, people to attack you on the street and try and kill and murder you for no other reason other than you're simply existing. So, it's still something. We still have a long ways to go and we're definitely going in the right direction and and Caitlyn coming out is a is a huge step in that. Um, but it's still a very very tough world for transgender people. What what percentage of the population would you say is transgender? Because I was trying to come up with this. I was talking about with a few people the other day and I'm like, I wonder how many people out there really are transgendered. Would you what do you think? I've seen lots of different stats, but the thing is the honest thing is is no one knows because there are so many people that are afraid to be honest about it. And all I can say is that whatever statistics have been gathered, it's significantly more than whatever they've been able to obtain because so many people are closeted. I mean, look at me. No one in the world would have ever thought for a minute. Even my own family was shocked. I thought for sure when I came out to my family, um they would, you know, they were going to say that um you know, oh, we noticed things and we always kind of wondered or you know, there were little things here and there, but no, they were absolutely shocked. They had no idea. My closest friends, I got a quick funny little story. one of one of the first friends that um that I told one of my close friends, my powerlifting buddy and my training partner. It took me 3 months to tell him of having partial conversations and um you know I kept hinting at it and talking. It was just really really difficult. Well, at one point he said to me um well, as long as this doesn't involve you dressing up like a woman, then I'm fine. And uh and the re later we laughed about it so much and um the only reason he said that was he's like he's like that's the one thing I was sure that it wasn't. He's like I had no idea what you were going to tell me but he's like that in my mind that was the last thing it could possibly be. So you know like I said it's just it's impossible to know how many people are out there. Um it's definitely more than you know we think but you know what percentage of the population it's still difficult to say. you know, we'll probably know in another, you know, few decades or hopefully sooner than that. But when we when we reach the point where people are, you know, not afraid to be themselves anymore, then we'll really find out what the statistics are. Let me ask you this question because this the Republican debate is coming up, I believe, tomorrow night. And this topic will certainly be asked of the candidates uh who are debating each other. What do you think uh how do you think these candidates will chime in, especially from the Republican party? Um I mean it's definitely becoming u more accepted and more mainstream and um people are understand you know the understanding is growing and and it's improving but there's still a lot of people on the conservative side that don't understand and um there's still a lot of misinformation you know very little education I'm I'm sure there'll be some people that have a very negative view of it but overall it's definitely changing in a positive direction I mean if you look at the younger generation, they really really get it a lot more than you know our parents' generation did. I mean, they had no understanding of it. And and the thing is, it's been around all throughout history. I mean, that's one thing that's misinformed that this is something new and this is something happening. I mean, you'll hear silly stuff like, oh, it's due to the chemicals in the food and all this kind of stuff. Now, transgender people have existed throughout history. As far as, you know, we have recorded history, there's evidence of transgender people being around. Um it's just you know as far as um you know that party and their views you know it's still going to take a little while but it but it's definitely moving in the right direction. Now I have a question as far as you know sexual preference because right I mean you made it known obviously you you date women you were married. Um is is that the sex that you prefer to be with? Um to be honest it's very complicated. Um I've always been attracted to women. Um, and I I don't find men attractive at all. But that being said, um, the things I prefer and the things I enjoy and the things that feel natural to me, um, probably are not typical of heterosexual men. Um, that was it was always very difficult. I didn't date hardly at all in high school. I didn't date at all. Hardly when I was in the Marines. Um, my the boy's mother was my first long-term relationship. I just didn't um I I really didn't even though I was attracted to women, I really didn't know how to be the quote unquote man in the relationship. Um not in a intimate sense. I I mean I I you know I could do all the other things but when it came to intim intimacy I was always very uncomfortable. It was very awkward. Nothing felt natural. Um, as far as that goes, I mean, that's one thing I have no doubt of. Um, you know, if if and when I transition, having a female body, that will be finally the first time in my life that I'll be able to relax and enjoy intimacy without feeling awkward or like things are, you know, to me, right, you know, all my life, it's really felt like play acting. I'm playing a role that I don't belong in. I'm not, you know, I'm not able to be myself and and um I'm not in the body that um everything would feel natural. It's it's it's really honestly it's been very very difficult and that's been something one of my biggest struggles. Now um having said that I mean if you do decide to go forward with the surgery and and you know have the full surgery as you suggested would that make you a lesbian I don't even know how to even ask the question. I mean, since you would be preferring women, I think we put too much emphasis on labels, and there's definitely I think sexuality and gender are more of um a spectrum than it is like, you know, different categories or different boxes. I think that's one thing that society does that's very harmful to a lot of people. Everybody, we want to label things. We want to say, well, this person's this or this person's that. And um the reality of it is it's much more complicated. And I I like to say that in a world of black and white, I'm completely gray. And even though I'm attracted to women, I don't, you know, think I don't know that you could necessarily say that, you know, I was a straight male or that I'm a lesbian as a woman. And then there's always the possibility that that um after I transition, my preferences may change. I mean, I won't deny that that's a possibility. And that does happen um to some transgender women that were always attracted to women that find that their sexuality changes, you know, when they change. And sometimes that self-perception and you know difference in your body and um other factors um you know it does happen and and I won't deny that that's a possibility. And to be honest at this point in my life I've let go of any preconceived ideas of what should be or shouldn't be and I just focus on what is and if I do transition and I find out that I start becoming attracted to men I'll be totally okay with it. Um you know it might happen might not I don't know and and to be honest it doesn't really concern me. I'll just, you know, take everything a day at a time and and whatever happens, you know, I'll do the best I can. It's a terrific answer. Um, my final question of the interview, uh, is just because I'm wondering, where did you come up with the name Jana Marie? What how did you decide what your female name would be? That is the name. I get actually get asked this a lot. Um, that is the name that my mother would have named me had I been born female. So, that's where that came from. Is that she told you that? Um, yeah. You know, it's one of those things, you know, they, you know, they'll talk about, you know, parents will talk about sometimes, you know, you're sitting around at Easter or whatever and, oh, you would have been named this or you didn't have been named that. And I just remember when I was a child, I remember my mom saying it and, you know, it always stuck in my head. And, um, you know, like I said, this has been something that I've dealt with my entire life. And, you know, any anytime anything like that where there was something about, you know, being a girl or whatever. And, you know, when I was growing up, I was mistaken for a girl several times actually. and um you know back in the late 70s with a little bit longer hair and you're young and and you know people uh you know had a hard time telling sometimes. So all those all those experiences you know they stuck in my mind. So when she said that when I was a child it was something I always remembered and uh you know so yeah that's where that comes from and and uh yeah had I been born female that would have been my name. Well, Jana, I want to thank you for being so candid with us and and coming on and uh talking to the bodybuilding and fitness community and everyone else who's watching the show uh in such an open uh way. And I want to just wish you the best of luck over the next, you know, couple months and years as far as, you know, how you're going to transition and what's going to change in your life. And uh hopefully you'll continue to keep us updated and uh the croc story never seems to uh get uh stale or uh lose interest. Uh that's for sure. You're you're certainly an interesting person. Yes, my life is never boring. That's for sure. Well, thanks so much for having me on and giving me this opportunity and um you know, I'd love to come on again and update you when uh you know, people want to hear what's going on. Thanks a lot, Jana. Thank you. All right, that was Janae Marie Croc. uh transition uh athlete, I guess you could say, person and just a general terrific interview. I thought it was very honest and forthright. And I, you know, I'm sure a lot of people out there who are watching this probably wish they could be as open and honest about their lives because we all harbor something inside that we're just afraid to show the world. And uh she's basically opened up and shown us everything. And uh I got to respect that tremendously. Tomorrow night, iron debate with John Romano and Chris Aceto. We will be debating a topic that we just spoke about here today. Should male to female transition or gender a gender reassignment uh I guess you could say athletes be able to compete in the opposite sport? Obviously going from male sport to female sport being the pretty much what we're talking about because is it an advantage? That's the question. You know, some people say it's not. You know, Jana would say it's not after being on estrogen so long. I don't know if everyone's going to necessarily have that same opinion. Stay tuned tomorrow night, 700 p. p.m. Eastern Standard, live here on rxmuscle.com. For now, with our first and premier episode of Live with, I want to say good night. everything good. I think it's it was an interesting interview at least. Oh, Jana. Hey. Yes. Thank you so much. It was such an honest great interview. I think that the