Scitec Nutrition premium. Premium quality products, state-of-the-art look, uncompromised ingredient quality. Our products work and taste good. www.sitecnutrition.com. Heat up here. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecnutrition.com. I'm your host Dave Palumbo. And tonight we have a very special guest, a pioneer in bodybuilding radio. His uh pro bodybuilding weekly podcast kind of ushered in the uh era of uh bodybuilding podcasts for that matter. And it's still in continuation today. He's progressed and evolved and developed a new website known as Digital Muscle as well as he'll be live streaming the Arnold Classic coming up in less than four weeks. And it's uh my honor to bring to you tonight uh a rival of mine and now an ally, I guess you could say, of sorts, Dan Solomon. David, thank you for having me. You know, uh for starters, um congratulations. I was told that we are what at the rxmuscle.com 7-year anniversary. So, congrats to you and your team uh for that. And I'd be remiss if I didn't give a very heartfelt congrats to you and Amanda on the birth of your son, which is uh very exciting. Which begs the question, Dave, how are you looking so well rested at this point? I'm I'd have to almost talk to Amanda and wonder, are you pulling your weight at night? Because I'd hate to think that you're doing all the sleeping and she's up every hour uh taking care of the baby. I hope that's not happening. It It's just good Italian jeans. That's all it is. But I will say one thing, Amanda is doing a hell of a lot more at night than I am. I will take full responsibility for that. I'm more of a diaper changer. She likes to feed the baby. So, um, we've, uh, you know, we've divvied up our duties. I always think, you know, my dad said right from the beginning, the the woman always does more. And Amanda got mad when he said that originally. And I think now she's realizing it just happens. You know, the motherly instincts just take over and uh, especially with a boy. Boys love their mom. I always joke that, you know, when my son turned 2 years old, I walked down the hall and I introduced myself to him. Um, which which I think to some extent is true for all dads because let's face it, in those early stages, it's it's definitely the mom's time. We try to do what we can. We try to make ourselves useful, but uh it's definitely the sweet spot for the mom. There's no question. Well, I appreciate that. Thank you, Dan. Let's uh let's start right from the beginning because a lot of people in our industry you know I I know you and and people behind the scenes know you but you are a guy that likes to stay kind of behind the scenes in that sense that you know probably if a person ran into you maybe at a show they may not know who you are. How did you get involved in the bodybuilding industry to begin with? Was it a did you did you ever want to you know be an Olympia contender like all these other guys or because you kind of approached it from a a a different uh a different angle. Yeah that's a good question. So always was like so many others um a fan of the sport. In 1998 I was at um on a business trip in New York City and I was staying at a hotel uh right across the street from the Paramount Theater at the Madison Square Garden and which of course was the host venue for the 1998 Mr. Olympia. Um, so I decided to um make a few phone calls and get some tickets to the event and I went across the street and I attended the 98 Olympia. That of course was the night that Dorian announced his retirement before the show. Ronnie pulls off the upset um over Flex and uh and the late Nasser Elati wins the show. And I absolutely caught the bug. I was so enamored by the energy, the stage production, just the whole experience. I had been to many local level amateur NPC shows, but man, I'll tell you that experience in '98. That was of course the last time the event was not held in Las Vegas. Um, so the event ends and then shortly thereafter there was a little post um Olympia uh gayla. Back in those days, the gayla isn't like what it is today. Of course, Robin Chang and the AMI crew have turned it into something um extraordinary. Um back then it was a little smaller. There was a room with a hundred or so people in it and I I was in that room and and I met a guy who actually ironically was your guest on this show last week. Uh Darren Charles. We uh we're having a little difficulty here. Let's see if we can get Dan back. Uh you know, it's interesting because Dan I didn't even know that Dan uh was at the 98 Olympia in New York City. Uh I was working with Metrics at the time and we were promoting the uh I guess you could say the release of Peak Training Journal uh which I was actually on the cover of. Uh a lot of people don't know that there's it was the the last issue they ever printed I think and it wasn't really widely released and I have a have about 20 copies here my that's my claim to fame. That was the only cover I was ever on. But uh do we have Dan back? Uh Johnny? No, not yet. All right. Well, you know what? Why don't we uh cut to a quick break, Johnny? Why don't you run some commercials for our great sponsor, Scitec Nutrition, who's covering all our coverage of the Arnold Weekend, both in the USA, in uh Brazil, and in Australia, all the leadup interviews, including this interview, uh which by the way, I can't believe we lost Dan because I've been dying to interview Dan. I think this might be the first interview Dan's ever done with anyone else. So guys, stay tuned. We're going to hit a commercial break. When we come back, we should have Dan Solomon back. All right, guys. We're back. We fixed the little bit of uh technical difficult we had. And uh Dan, you were telling us about how you met Darren Charles at that 98 Olympia weekend. Continue, please. So Darren and I get to talking. Turns out we only live a few minutes from each other in South Florida. Um we swapped information. I go back home and as it turns out uh Darren became my trainer for a number of years. And um and then one night he and his wife at the time invited me to their home and talked to me about Darham's desires to um get some opportunities uh on the business side of bodybuilding. They knew I had a a bit of a background in in the business side and um they asked me if I would represent Darham and do what I could to try to create opportunities for him and we were able to get him some some endorsement deals and and um that's kind of how that went and then um a couple years after that of course through that process um I managed to form a few relationships along the way and then a guy named Richard Enla who owned a company called Physical TV um decided to put the Mr. Olympia contest on pay-per-view. This goes back to like 01 02. Um, and he was looking for somebody to host the pay-per-view. Now, I guess there weren't a lot of candidates in the list and we had a mutual friend um by the name of Kelly Ryan. Kelly Ryan um introduced me to Richard. Richard ended up hiring me to be a part of that. Of course, back in those days, if you remember Joe and those guys were involved in that. Um, so Kelly Ryan um, introduced me to Richard and then I started doing the hosting thing. But, uh, really when you connect the dots all the way back for me, it starts with a conversation um, with Darren Charles um, shortly after the 1998 Mr. Olympia. That's how you I didn't even know that story to be honest with you. And luckily you didn't continue to be friends with Kelly Ryan too much longer because you might have wound up uh, behind bars with her and her husband Craig Titus. Now, where did the idea, Dan, come from uh to do a bodybuilding podcast because no one no one ever did it. Uh, no one had even thought of it. It really was kind of hard to do back in the early 2000s. It wasn't like it is today. You just kind of everyone who has a Skype account can can do a podcast. Where did this idea come from and how did you actually make it, you know, come into play? Yeah, it's a great question. So, um, it was 2004ish and I'm driving around in my car. Uh, I live down in South Florida. The Miami Heat had I think just acquired Shaquille O'Neal to play basketball for the Heat. And I only mentioned that because I was listening in the radio to Shaq give an interview on talk radio. And I thought to myself, what a shame it is that bodybuilding fans at that time didn't have the opportunity to hear the voices um of their favorite bodybuilders. And you know, we take it for granted now because as you just pointed out, there's such a saturation and there's so much available content. But back in those days, people hadn't heard the voice of, you know, a Nasser or a Shawn Ray or a Kevin or a Dorian. They didn't hear their voices unless they were fortunate enough to attend an event. They never got to hear the voices of their favorite bodybuilding stars. So, I made some calls and and I and I figured out back in that time, um, there was all sorts of new technologies coming out. So, I I did a deal that would enable us to do a a web-based program. Uh, obviously there's nothing local market about bodybuilding media, so you have to be able to deliver it to the world. And um, so we figured out a platform to do that on. Um, I made a a few phone calls. My first call, believe it or not, was actually to Shawn Ray. Uh, Shawn Ray and I were pretty close to the time. Shawn Ray was about to have his first uh, baby um, Asia. And um, so he was kind of busy. He didn't want to really commit. And then my second phone call was to Bob Cherella, who's become one of my really close friends, as you know. Bob Cherto said, "Let's do it." And um next thing you know it uh June 13th, 2005, I think we're on the air and uh Dexter Jackson was our very first guest. And um back in those days, Dave, we were actually able to break stories and we were able to deliver the news. Nowadays, everybody takes to their social media accounts to break stories. And it's a whole different game, unfortunately. But uh while there's a lot of great things about social media and the way the world is today, I I definitely missed those days when we could uh you know, we could have a bigger impact with what we did in terms of being able to break stories. The big story that night for Dexter was Dexter um announced on our first show that he was not going to be do that not going to be doing that year's Olympia. And at that time that was a big story. These days we don't get to make those announcements. They take to their Twitter account and they blast it for the whole world to see. But that's the way it was. You know, you're right. The world of radio podcasting has really changed because of social media and the whole world of of how we report on bodybuilding has evolved. Even from the the way back in, like you said, the mid 2000s when we started doing the coverage online, it's completely changed now. Message boards and forums are not as important as they used to be. I mean, I remember Chad had that muscle mayhem forum that was huge and it kind of died off, you know, because it just everyone is using, you know, Facebook now, quite frankly, Twitter, Instagram, uh, you know, but back in those days when you first started the radio show, of course, you know, I was had gotten the job as the editor-inchief of musculardevelopment.com and I developed that website uh for Steve Blackman and Steve of course wanted to have a radio show because Dan Solomon had a radio show who by the way at that time uh Steve you were like his biggest nemesis because, you know, Steve always likes to be on the the cutting edge of doing things. And John Romano and I had that radio show called Noble Radio on Muscular Development. And Steve used to go crazy trying to outdo you. His his whole thing was we got we got to we got to do better than Solomon. And I remember at the time we were just when we started, we started vying for guests. And you know, you were a very ruthless radio host and businessman because you wanted those guys first. you wanted to be able to break the stories first. Bring us back to that point in time and tell us now I want to hear your version of the story of what was going on at that time in your mind and how you were, you know, uh, setting up your shows and and and picking your topics for that matter. It's funny. Obviously, one advantage that I had was all I did was the radio show. you know, Steve as a multiaceted media outlet with a with a you and at that time obviously a very successful magazine in multiple magazines and um the radio show was just sort of an extension of the MD brand. Um so all I focused on was was doing a radio show and and at that time I had a little bit more autonomy I think. Um, MD, of course, back in those days, I always call it the magazine war days when Flex and MD hated each other and uh, it was just nasty and it was crazy how intense it had gotten for a time and I was kind of the Switzerland guy sort of in the middle that I just kind of did my own thing and I didn't get wrapped up. MD had their team of athletes and Flex had their team of athletes and then there was a lot of guys who were unsigned. Um, but as it turned out, I forged a more meaningful relationship with the Weer side. Um and Peter McGgoth uh brought me aboard over there and we started to do that. But uh yeah, you know, it was just definitely a different time and I I will tell you this and and we'd be remiss if we didn't mention um our colleague Larry Pepe, who I know was a big part of that for you guys back in those days. Um but you mentioned John Romano. I I got to tell you, man. I was listening to you guys do your radio show, you and and Romano the other day, and Romano that I I think it's a disgrace that John Romano is not making $5 million a year doing a nationally syndicated radio show. I can't stop listening to that guy. When you guys have him on and he's your co, that guy is so freaking talented as a writer and as a communicator. I don't agree with a lot of the stuff he says, but I can't turn him off. I can't stop listening to him. So, I'll give I'll give some props to uh to Romano. But, uh yeah, man. That was just a different time back then and it was it was nasty and I think we were all just kind of wired to just battle. It was just a constant, you know, trying to outmaneuver the next guy and uh on some level that whole competitive spirit for the most part has kind of died off. Um and that's good because it's a little bit easier and less stressful, but I do think it kept us all on our toes and it probably made us a little bit better um and a little sharper uh back in those days. So those are my memories. Absolutely. I remember pretty much just for those people who don't remember those days, Dan pretty much outmaneuvered Blackman almost every single time to get who he wanted. Except there was one interview I know that you wanted to get that you never got. It was with Tom Plattz and Steve Blackman probably gave the guy a million dollars, you know, with advertising and deals here and there and and promotions to get him to be interviewed. And I remember interviewing Tom on that radio show and and Steve felt like he won the Super Bowl that week that we Tom Plattz and Dan Solomon did not. I will I'll never forget that. And uh I'm sure you probably remember that whole thing too because Tom had a wife that you had to kind of deal with it and she he still has the wife Cha and you had to talk to both of them and it was it was a very complicated uh uh fiasco trying to get him committed to doing the show. I think it took us like six weeks to to get them on, but it was a great Funny part about it is now just as evidence to how things have changed. I don't even think anybody aspires for exclusivity anymore. It's not even realistic. It's like when you go to a concert, they don't even tell you to put away your cameras anymore, right? Cuz you just can't control it. Everybody's going to pick up their phone and they're going to video everything. It's just gotten to a place where you just can't manage it anymore. All you want to do is provide quality content to the um to the to the viewers and we all try to give something different. Um, speaking of that though, Dave, I have to comment on something. I'm actually wearing uh my lucky hat today. Um, this is an old school vintage IFBB logo hat. It was actually given to me by Ben Weider. I mentioned this because I wore it today because today's a very special day. And I'm going to tell you why it's special because I was thinking that prior to this interview, let's face it, you and I have been at this for close to two decades each. So collectively we probably have about a combined emphasis on combined 35 to 40 years of um doing the business of bodybuilding media. Uh you of course were were kicking ass on stage long before that. But in the business of bodybuilding media we got about a combined 35 to 40 years. If you add it all up we've probably interviewed roughly about a thousand or so people. I would guess if you put it all together. You've probably interviewed more people than I have because you work harder than I do. Um, but today, this interview marks the very first time that you and I are doing anything of any kind together. So, for that, I wore my my lucky hat to commemorate this historic moment. And I don't think that should be lost in the shuffle because that's kind of crazy when you think two guys that do what we do and have done it for as long as we have. Um, today's the first day. So, I'm I'm grateful for the invite and uh u I just thought I'd put that out there for the viewers because I don't know if people um fully appreciate how strange it is that you and I have never done anything together except pose for a couple pictures over the years. Well, I I think you've had me on the radio show in in your on your radio show in the past. I think once or twice, but uh I never got to interview you. I don't think anyone's ever has anyone ever interviewed you for any any bodybuilding related show at all? You know, I hate it. I I'm I'm a believer. Joe Eater always used to say and Peter McGuff too always says it's about it's about the sport. It's about the athletes. Um I I I really feel that way. I think their stories are the interesting ones. I live a real simple life. I got to be honest with you. Um when we finish up here in about 20 minutes, I'm going to be coaching 12 nine year olds on a little league baseball field. That's what I do. I keep it simple. Every day I get up and I I I figure out what I could do in the bodybuilding world to to try to create um you know, new opportunities and new projects and all that. But I got to be honest, I've never really seen myself as an interesting interview. So, I just always say no. I say go interview somebody else. I've just never really wanted to get started doing it. I like asking the questions. I got to be honest with you, I'm a little intimidated by the fact that you're the you have all the power here. You get to ask all the questions. So, I guess agreeing to be interviewed by Dave Palumbo is like somebody being scared of heights um skydiving. After this, you won't be afraid anymore. So, I'll make you a better uh a better interview. Let's talk about some of your interviews you've had over the year because I might have done more interviews than you. You had I think a a lot higher uh echelon of interviewe uh for whatever reason. I think you're a little more politically correct than I am probably. That's why it's like uh it's like uh what's his name? Frank Sinatra never wanted to be interviewed by anyone because he never wanted the hard questions. So they would he would always go on Larry King because he knew Larry King would always you know protect him. I don't protect my my interviewers. So maybe a little more nervous with me. But you have interviewed Arnold Schwarzenegger, a guy who I've always wanted to interview. I only got him at the uh at the buffet once with a meatball in his mouth and I really didn't get much out of him. But you've interviewed him on Pro Bodybuilding Weekly. I listened to the interview. It was a great interview. Talk to me about that. Were you nervous before that interview? Uh was were you, you know, afraid that man, if I asked the wrong question or maybe if I screw up, you know, I'm going to I'm going to mess up my you know, what did you were you feeling inside of yourself prior to that interview? Your buffet line interview with Arnold was one of the great moments in the annals of bodybuilding media history, by the way. Um, but to to answer your question, I was I was petrified. I actually got a phone call from Peter McGuff. Um, by the way, I mentioned Peter McGuff. Um, and I just hope everybody's thinking about Peter. Peter's had a really uh tough year as a lot of people know. Um, and and I just he texted me yesterday. It sounds like he's starting to get his strength back a little bit, but uh hopefully everybody's thoughts and prayers are with with Peter and Ann and their family and uh uh let's get him back in the mix as quickly as possible. To answer your question though, yeah, so Peter calls me and he says, "Uh, Dan, in about 2 hours I have Arnold Schwarzenegger available for you to interview you, uh for you to interview him." And I was shaking. I'll be honest with you, I was shaking. I ran to my office and I put together some questions and I lined up Bob and uh we uh Bob Chicarillo and we ended up doing the interview and I still remember how nervous I was. I even remember those initial moments when Arnold, there was about four or five minutes before we started recording and I think it might have even been live, but before we started uh doing the actual interview, there was four or five minutes. And I remember the conversation Bob and his wife Tasha had just given birth to their daughter Melania. And I I still remember like it was yesterday, Arnold informing or or Bob informing Arnold that his daughter um was born in the Maria Shrivever wing of that hospital. and Arnold got a kick out of that. Anyways, we ended up doing it. And um man, I'll tell you, it was a big deal. That was also at a time when Arnold was a little less available than he is today. Um it seemed like Arnold's more obtain more getable. You know, he's available. He's doing all sorts of different things. Social media, the world has changed so much in terms of access. Back then, it was really really hard to get a hold of of Arnold. And I'll forever be in uh in Peter's debt for having um for having um put that together for us. But where it gets really unner nerve-wracking is on the webcast because on the webcast he walks over to you and I've had the good fortune of doing that a few times and as you know Dave you've interviewed a lot of people. When you interview somebody on camera you're inches away from them. It's not normal human separation. It's you're like four your face is like 4 inches from their chin. So the first time Arnold gets brought over to me he walks over and he says hi Dan and hi Bob. And to this day, I I I still don't know how he knew who I was and or who Bob was. I think he's got an adviser in his ear that tells him who these guys are, and it makes us feel really important when he does it. But he walks over, we do the interview, and of course, you're on camera now, so you're trying, you're trying not to sweat, you're trying not to shake, you're trying not to ask him questions that he's been asked a thousand times before. the microphone is up against his mouth and you're trying your best not to let the viewer see your handshake with the microphone in front of him because you're so petrified and so nervous. Um, fortunately, I've calmed down a little bit. Um, I've done it a number of times now or it's a little bit of an easier experience. But it never gets old and um, I take the responsibility of interviewing Arnold seriously because he he seems to have a level of trust and and com and a level of comfort. So, um, but yeah, man, it's it's a cool thing and I'm hopeful we can, uh, arrange for you at some point to get in front of Arnold because I I'm I would just venture to guess that your questions to Arnold would probably be a little different than what I would ask him. Absolutely. I I will say one thing. I did interview Maria Shrivever. I I got her backstage one year at the Arnold when they were still together, Arnold and her, and and I got her for about maybe about 60 seconds of interview. And to me, that was my uh my Arnold interview. Okay, that was as close as I've come. Let let's talk about, you know, the Arnold interview had to be a little, you know, I guess you could say uh conservative because you had to be careful what you asked him. What was your most enjoyable interview? The interview that you say, you know what, this goes down as my best interview that I ever did. That's um Yeah, man. That's that's something. So, the interviews to me that stand out over all of them are when you get the opportunity um to interview guys that um unfortunately uh today are no longer with us. Um, I had an unbelievable interview. I'll never forget it, with Mike Matarazzo, uh, Serge Bray, uh, uh, Joe Weider, Ben Weider. But the one that stands above all of those is an interview that I did back in 2007, and it was an interview with the legendary multi-mr universe, former Hercules, um, the iconic, uh, Regge Park. And the reason that was so special for me is because that interview was arranged at a time when Reg was very sick. And we knew that the purpose of this interview was so that he could have a final opportunity to communicate uh with bodybuilding fans, with the people that have supported him for so long. And we were able to put the interview together. And what made this interview so different? Um the other names that I mentioned, of course, we didn't know that they were um that they were dying in in in those cases. I didn't know Joe and Ben Weeder were dying. And of course, you know, the Mike Matarazzo interview, he was actually doing pretty good at the time. The Rege Park interview, we knew Reg was dying while we were doing the interview. We knew he had a very short time left to live. So, as the interview is going on, there's this real sense of um responsibility to make sure that he's able to say the things that he wants to say to the to the fans and to the listeners. And I'll never forget how nervous I was to make sure that Serge in what would probably be his final interview ever um was given the chance to say the things that he wanted to say. And it was a moving interview and it was so poignant and so personal and so special and he said some things that um I would encourage everyone to go listen to it. And when the interview ended, you know, he he wished he uh wished everyone well and he said some very emotional things and I still remember it to this day. The interview ends. I I turned off all my broadcast equipment and even as I'm thinking about it, I get a little emotional. I turned back I turned off my broadcast equipment and I sat in my little office at the time where where I recorded the show um by myself and and there were tears streaming down my face cuz I knew I knew what was happening. I I knew that that was probably the last time any of us would hear from Re. As it turned out, about 2 and a half or so months later, he ended up dying. And um that was that was intense, man. That was an intense thing. And you know, a lot of times, Dave, we we talk about we we interview guys and um you know, and it all seems so superficial and silly and all that, but these interviews in certain cases um they're they're they're special. They're legacies. They're opportunities to give someone's voice um life forever. And in that case of of the Reg Park interview, man, that was a powerful experience. And I wouldn't trade a 100 Arnold interviews for that interview with Rezar because uh that was a that was a pretty cool thing to do. It is interesting when you interview people sometimes to look back you know years later at how impactful that interview actually was because you don't know I mean I remember when I interviewed Vince Cford uh a year before he died and he said you know he had told us stories about how he had tried to make a comeback in bodybuilding and he had a heart attack and then it happened twice and and and now he's he was he was back again and he was going to try to compete and I said you I even said to him I said does it it sounds like you know that that might not be a good idea you know for your health and he said, "No, no, it's fine." And then a year later, he died and it was and I went back and I listened to that. I remember Johnny pulled that interview up and we put it up and it was like almost like prophetic. It was it was it was weird. It was scary. But, you know, you can see the passion that he exhibited for the sport that he loved. And I think that's what you got from Reg. He was so passionate about what he did that he even knowing he was dying, he wanted to get that last word out to the to the the audience. And I think Arnold, you know, who's Reg Park was his big hero, is like that. I think Arnold realizes now he's getting a little older and he really wants to give back to the bodybuilding community more so now that he's older than he did, I think, during his middle years. Wouldn't you say? There's no there's no question. Look, let's let's um let's not dismiss the fact that it would have been easy for him to just do this Columbus thing every year. You know, that's that's larger than what they say it's in terms of athlete participation and uh number of sports, it's larger than the summer Olympics. But um the reality is he along with uh you know Jim Lurmer and Bob Lurmer they expanded to six continents and you know it's easy to sit there and say they expanded to six continents you know it's all a money grab but he's got to get on a plane now you know six times a year and fly to different continents and a lot of them are really close together you know Australia is two weeks after Columbus and you know and then you know of course the South Africa's on there and China and um you know Rio these are long trips he has to take so um and I'm sure he'll you know I'm sure financially it's a good play for him But look, it it really there's other ways Arnold can make money and the fact that he's willing to attach himself to a sixcontinent bodybuilding and fitness um venture. I think that says everything about where he's at in terms of his connection to the sport. 100% right on that note. Um I want to take a quick commercial break. Uh I know uh we have our Scitec Nutrition is our sponsor of all our coverage leading up to the Arnold and all three Arnolds that Dan just made notice of. USA, Australia, and Brazil. So, we're going to step aside for 30 seconds. When we come back, more with Dan Solomon. Hey, hey, hey. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. All right, we're back with live with Dave Palumbo and we're talking with Dan Solomon, the I should say the former host of Pro Bodybuilding Weekly. And we're going to get to find out why that is in a minute. But Dan, uh, I want to get back to the years when, uh, in your heyday, uh, obviously when Pro Bodybuilding Winkley was, you know, was the the place to go and the the radio show to listen to. Not that it isn't today, but, uh, that was it was a more important show back then because there was no social media really. As the years, you know, progressed, um, your relationship with Bodybuilding.com and Flex Magazine, AMI, kind of started to deteriorate and at some point you decided to make the move over to muscular development. ironically enough, the guy that you were in competition with earlier uh in the 2000s. Talk to me about how that uh relationship uh came about. Yeah. And just to circle back, I don't think it's so much of those relationships deteriorated. Bodybuilder.com kind of went down a different road in terms of they graduated to a place of covering all sorts of things and the time when bodybuilding was the center of their universe had changed. So, it wasn't really an ideal um home at that point for what we were trying to do. and uh and of course uh and a lot of things changed on the media side. So uh yeah, so the um the MD relationship um was actually pretty timely because um at that time I was looking for an opportunity to intro I've always tried to create new alliances with entities that could potentially introduce um PBW or really anything that I'm working on to a new corner of of the fan base. And uh let's face it uh you know Flex and and AMI and Muscle and Fitness, they have their own you know corner of the industry and MD has its own corner. You guys have your corner and you know there seems to be the pie seems to be big enough to to go around and everybody's making a living which is great. But for me um I hadn't really done anything with Steve. Steve at that time was in the process of really uh making a big surge to try to he had just kind of committed to this uh you know multimedia destination approach and obviously PBW is sort of the embodiment of you know multimedia to some extent so it just seemed like a natural fit. We had a conversation and once one thing that we've learned Dave um is that you just never know how things are going to play out. Let's face it there there was no bigger rivalry than than Peter McGuff and Steve Blackman, right? I mean those guys didn't like each other at all. And now now Peter McGuff is of course the um senior editor of of Steve's magazine. Um so you know this industry is small. You know these bridges you got to keep them intact and you just never know. One second some guy's posting on a message board next second he's uh you know running a major he or she are running a major uh media outlet. So it's it's just kind of a funny thing. And um that's how it got started with uh with Steve. And then shortly thereafter he he made me his uh senior features editor. I was actually kind of interested in getting more involved on the magazine side. My education and background is in journalism. I'm a writer by trade. So for me personally, the idea to be connected to the magazine side of it, you know, even though people will argue that, you know, magazines are fading and so forth, and that that's fine, but to me, I I've always had a a soft spot for magazines and for print and for writing. So for me it was a chance to do a little of that with the magazine and and find a good home for PBW and uh it was just a good fit at the time. And you know at the time your host was of the show was Lee Thompson. Uh and obviously we all know where that went. Lee Thompson went from being the the NPC district chairman of Texas, the state of Texas. Uh building that state up to a you know huge huge uh I guess you could say entity. and uh just last year this past Olympia decided he was going to break off and start his own organization whenever that you know comes about. I haven't heard anything about that recently by the way. Um was that a big shock to you because you were kind of friendly with Lee Thompson. Uh you know you you you were his co-host. You you spoke to him frequently. Was it a shock when you found out what went on with Lee? It was a big shock for for all of us. I mean I met Lee Thompson back in 2006. Um, we were actually at the we were in Denver at the 2006 Colorado Proer. That was the event that uh Sean Ray was putting on. He had Bob Chick and I come out and do this on stage hosting thing. I don't know. Were you there? At that show. Okay. That was that was Phil Heath's prodebut. And so we were all there that night and Shawn Ray actually introduced Lee to all of us and we all became fast friends. It was actually fun for a number of years. We were all traveling together. I used to travel a lot more back then. And um you know our families got to know each other and um so you know you go through this process and you become real close with with everybody. I mean Lee was close with a number of people and and and then there was a time we brought Lee in because Bob Chick um Bob Chick and I stopped hosting PBW together. So I wanted somebody who was really on the inside on the inner circle of the of the of the IFBB and the NPC. And uh so I um I reached out to Lee and I and I told him uh I asked him if he wanted to be a co-host on the show to kind of give us that, you know, insider perspective on the rule changes and all the things that go on in the organization. And uh he um um accepted and uh and he ended up hosting with us for a number of years. But yeah, to answer your question, it was uh it was shocking. I mean, it would be shocking for anybody. Um it was especially shocking for those of us who who of course, you know, Chad Nichols and I, we co-hosted with him, and we were shocked. He actually called me right around that time when the announcement came out and um and uh yeah, I was taken aback because there was nobody who was more loyal to the NPC and the IFPB at that time than Lee. So when you hear somebody like that who had been so close to all of that for so long and then suddenly um he was moving in a different direction, it it shocks you. But uh you know I I guess as we've learned in the world in and out of bodybuilding uh we should always expect the unexpected, right? because people, you know, change companies all the time and things happen. But yeah, it was definitely a shocker for sure. Was it difficult to have a judge as your co-host? Because you almost, you know, he judges almost all the big shows. He was all over, you know, Europe and all the international events. You almost can't how are you going to call out the guy and say, "Hey, I didn't agree with the with the with the with the, you know, decision you made." Um, it had to be awkward because it kind of put you in a position where he's my co-host, but at the same time, you know, do I should I call him out if he's making bad decisions out there talking about the way a contest went? I always thought it's added value for the listener to be able to hear what they were talking about at the table, what the judges actually thought, what they saw. Hearing from the actual judges, I always thought was a perspective that the audience deserved. So, that was always my take. That's why I always loved, you know, having big Steve Weinberger on the show and, you know, guys who are in the trenches and have the opportunity to um to to provide insight. You know, Jim Manions been on the program many times and uh for me it's just it's a treat to be able to talk to these guys and to have um that information that comes from the highest level passed along to the listeners. I always thought that's what sort of made PBW a little different because um you know, everybody else was sort of talking and stirring the pot and and creating you know, great entertainment and great listening value. I always thought our role was we were kind we weren't so much um people we weren't so much people who had sources we were the source right so that was sort of the way we positioned ourselves so um but yeah you make a valid point you know people could criticize that but uh I always liked uh presenting the views straight from the judges table you think well you know just to get back to Steve Steve Steve Steve Steve Steve weber never made a very I don't think he's ever made a bad decision in my mind uh on on you know when he's judging Lee had a lot of controversial decisions so you It wasn't really equal, you know, one to one. But I I want to just ask you another question on Lee and then we'll move on to the next topic. Um, why do you think he left? I mean, because you knew him better than anyone. Why would he pick up and and and move or try to start a new organization when he knew very well that he was well seated with the one that he had? You you make you make a couple good points. Um, all right. So, I think in Lee's DNA, uh, in Lee's DNA, he is one of these guys that always wants more. You know, certain people are wired that way. It's never enough. I mean, let's be honest, the state of Texas real estate in the NPC is very, very valuable. It's one of the most valuable pieces of real estate in our industry, the NPC, Texas real estate. It's incredibly valuable. There's a ton of athletes over there. Their contests are well attended. the bodybuilders and and the in the fitness competitors and the bikini competitors, physique and figure. There's tremendous talent over there. It's a it's an incredible, like I always say, it's sort of like NPC Texas real estate. It's like it's like a piece of beautiful beach in Maui, right next to the nicest hotel on the island. Like every chairman would want to to have the keys to that kingdom, right? So for somebody like you or me or or a lot of the people who are watching who are more conventional in in their thinking um would be thrilled to have the state of Texas under their watch and be able to enjoy the fruits of having the state of Texas and all those contests every couple weekends having a new show. One's bigger than the next. Um yeah, it was hard to believe but Lee hard to believe that he wouldn't want to continue doing that. But Lee, I think throughout his whole life and anything that he's ever done is just a guy that it's just never enough. He just always wants more. And I think deep down, um, Bob and I always kind of thought, I know Bob had this inclination, I think even more so than I, so I shouldn't even take credit for it, that at some point he was going to want to have his own thing and he was going to want to do something bigger and or at least in his mind bigger and try to go ahead and create something. Um but uh yeah, I think at the core of all of this is a man who just simply wanted to do something or tried to do something bigger. And um but I'll tell you right now, there's a lot of promoters and a lot of chairman in the NPC and around the country and around the world that would kill to have the state of Texas to run. And of course, now Ed and Betty Paris are doing that and they're off to a good start. But it's it's definitely a um it's one that scratcher, but you know, I'm not going to try to understand it. I'm not going to try to relate because I don't think that way. I can't even pretend to understand why somebody would would walk away from the state of Texas as the MPC chairman, but it was a decision he made. Well, you know, Dan, I always say that uh you're the best paid man in our industry. I I jokingly say it every year, but it's true. I mean, you do 30 radio shows a year, and you probably make more money than anyone else. Uh you probably have the the highest make I think you make more money than me, Dave. I got to be honest with you. You got a lot of stuff going on over there. I don't think so. For the amount of work you put, if I put 30 your 30 hours in a week and made your money, I'd be very happy. I would. Come on. But, um, at some point, you know, uh, Steve Blackman and you this past couple months, even though we were breaking balls, Chris and I, on the radio show, we were actually right. You and him kind of dissolved your relationship and you decided to move forward on your own. you created a website known as digitalmuscle.com uh which is a blogospherce fight and you uh you moved your radio show over there. Talk to me about how that came about and why all of a sudden was this the time to do that. Yeah, and and it was it was a tough decision, man. I'll tell you because you know, look, I know you guys enjoy, you know, beating up on on Steve. I know that's something you guys enjoy doing. Um but I I'll tell you, I was there for four years and Steve always Steve always treated me fair. He really did. In fact, um we um he he did a couple things for me that I I really enjoyed. For those people who have worked in the magazine business, you know how rare it is to have the total freedom to write about whatever you want to write about. And every month I would, you know, write a feature article and a column. And and in my column, um I would turn in over the course of four years, so that would be 48 issues. I turned in 48 opinion pieces on whatever I wanted to. And he never he never kicked it back. He never told me I couldn't talk about that. So I was always grateful. I even mentioned your name, Dave, I think, in a few columns. and he never he never kicked it back. So for that um I was always grateful to have the freedom to write about what I wanted to. Um Steve and Ely, his wife is is a classy lady as you know and I always enjoyed um visiting with her and and the whole team over there. But but I'll just be honest, it just became an exercise in redundancy. I was doing a lot of the same things over and over again. And I've been doing a lot of the same things over and over again for a long time. And I just got to a place where I wanted to do something different. And I had mentioned to Steve on many occasions that you know there's different things that I want to do and I want to kind of mix it up a little bit and life is short. Um so uh you know my father passed away 6 years ago at 66 years old of pancreatic cancer and it was kind of a reminder that you know who knows how much longer we have to do the things we want to do. And I know you're a you're a student of of Wayne Dyer, Dave, and we I know you and I have had conversations about that on the side. And I and I take these years um seriously. And I and I really think that we only have a certain amount of energy to spend on things. And I was just spending my energy on the same things redundantly, monotonously over and over again. And I had some ideas and things that I wanted to put into work. And uh um so I I just decided that I wanted to go ahead and move on. And uh but no, it wasn't a bad departure or Steve doesn't, you know, Steve doesn't owe me any money. It's all good. And we just um decided to move on. And digital muscle uh.com is a project that um I thought would be fun. I always wanted to avoid the creation of a of a full functioning destination website because how hard it is. You know, more than anybody, Dave, how hard that is. You got a whole team over there. And um you know, we we talked earlier about your seven-year anniversary. Um, I can appreciate how hard that is for you guys and what you guys do and what goes into the process of creating content and you know uh servicing advertisers and doing all the you know SEO work and the social media work and acrewing talent and all that stuff. It's a lot of work but it was a task that it just became time for me to take that on. And um digitalizer.com's a little different. It's not a bodybuilding website um really by any means. In fact, um I always tell bodybuilding fans, if you're if you're interested in hardcore competitive bodybuilding, you know, RX Muscle MD, you guys do it great. I'm not going to try to deliver what you guys deliver to the fans. I'm just doing something that's a little bit more of a sort of a multimedia blogosphere hybrid. Um over the years, I I've had the opportunity to get to know a lot of really talented, you know, smart people um who have done some really um cool work. and uh you know the the the Doug Dr. Doug Calman's and the Chad Nichols and the Ben Pakowskis and um you know the John Hansen's and you know all all these guys who are tied to the organization. and Skip Laour and you know Tad the Diet coach all I mean this just the Scott Ardella the list is endless and I could go on and on but these are people that I just love man and uh I love what they had to say and I wanted to provide a platform for really smart people with really cool thoughts and ideas and research and perspectives to be able to share it in a place that's high integrity and incredible and uh it's very different than you know what certainly what you you know you guys are you guys are doing you guys are having fun over there I always say if if somebody's out there and they want to have a good time go hang out with Dave Palumbo So, um, hang out with me. It's not going to be nearly as fun, but I'm I'm proud of I'm proud of what we're creating. Of course, the webcast deal that we just secured, uh, with the Arnold folks is a tremendous sort of I want to ask Hold on. Hold on. I want to ask you I'm going to ask you about that in a second. I got to get back to Blackman because my fans would not I have to ask you this question. Blackman has got to be going nuts. I'm going to tell you why. Because digital muscle is that's his coin phrase. Digital digital digital. He that he created that word, I think. and digital muscle DM looking almost like muscular development MD is just too close for comfort. A matter of fact, your coin phrase for digital muscle was the next big thing which was a big Blackman expression. I see you've since changed that. You're telling me Steve doesn't have a problem with you doing digital muscle. You don't think he's like going crazy over there? Look, I don't know if he's going crazy or not. My guess is that if he visited the website, which I'm sure he does every day like he visits your like he visits yours and so many others. Um, my guess is upon arrival at digitalmuscle.com, he would realize that our two sites have very little in common. You're right though. You make a good point. I actually opened it up as the next big thing in bodybuilding media cuz that's all I knew. And it's so funny how in this world you sometimes don't know what something's going to be until you put it out in the universe. and and I put it out in the universe and it just sort of took on a life of its own and it's moved further and further away with each passing day um from hardcore serious bodybuilding and uh we actually just struck a deal. We're very excited. Uh Ruth Silverman, the former she was actually a lot of people don't know this. She was editor-inchief at Flex Magazine. A lot of people don't know this and longtime editor at Iron Man and columnist. She came over to Digital Muscle and we're going to announce that today or tomorrow. She's going to be a managing editor and help us gather some great content and polish up what we're doing a little bit. And uh so we're just trying to bring really quality people to the forefront. But to your question, I don't know what Steve thinks. I will just say this about Steve. And this isn't so much a criticism as much as it is an observation. And and and I I feel like I have an obligation to give you something because I know you're you're you're searching for something on Steve. U but I'll just give you this. Um there's two schools of thought I think in the world of business. There is the collaborative spirit. people who like to collaborate and um form strategic alliances and work together with their friends and figure out ways to expand their brand and and all that sort of thing through um through meaningful relationships sort of like what we're doing right now, right? Uh you and I um aren't in business together, but we're we're we're doing what we can to provide value for each other. Uh and so there's the collaborative school of thought and then there's the isolationist school of thought. There's the there's the folks who just can't find their way to figure out ways to do things with other entities and not everybody is wired to do things that way. Um, so I think at the end of the day that's sort of what led to us not being able to Steve and I not being able to continue because Steve is a guy who just likes to do things a certain way. He's got a very old school way of approaching business and I don't know if something happened in his past. I don't know if something happened before I knew him that u maybe something was taken from him that he feels protective over things and doesn't have a level of trust. That's possible. But Steve definitely is not the um synergy collaborative type guy um that um that certainly that I am and that I I think you need to be nowadays to um to grow because let's face it, it's not as easy as it used to be with unless you have a really big checkbook. Unless you're willing to spend endless amounts of money to acquire the universe, um you better be collaborative, right? you better engage other outlets and figure out strategic partnerships and relationships. That's how I feel. Uh and that's that's kind of why I think in the end it just didn't work out. But uh yeah, I just think it's different approaches to uh to business. But Steve's got the big checkbook. That's why he can do that. You know, he's like the he's like the the guy the kid on the block who's got all the baseball cards, you know, and he that he wants them. He must be saying like curse is foiled again because, you know, he started out as your as your as your rival back in the rival again. So, he must feel like he uh I'm sure he's he's he's hurting over this one. I know he is. All right, let's let's get decide to call me he might decide to call me his rival. I really don't know what we're competing for. I'm not trying to go out and get interviews with Dorian Yates and that that's not the model that I'm following. But if it if it gives him a competitive edge or it gives him a reason to get going in the morning to feel that there's rivals out there, then by all means, we all need our own fuel and if that works for him, that's great. But, uh I really don't see the the parallels in what we're doing. But again, like I said, sometimes for some people, they actually become better versions of themsel. They perform at a higher level when they manufacture rivalries and and if that's and if that's what's happening, that's that's okay. He can do that with me for years uh with the rivalry that never existed. I'm I'm a big believer like you are. I'm a believer in collaboration. I I I think that everyone should work together and we should share interviews and and who cares. I don't I think exclusivity is the stupidest thing in our industry because it only hurts the athletes. uh because the athletes want to have as much exposure as possible because that's going to enable them to make money uh moving forward. Uh now talking about exposure uh you know you you originally told me when you when you started Digital Muscle you had no interest in doing contest coverage and then an opportunity presented itself to you to be able to live stream or orchestrate or produce the live stream of the Arnold Classic USA this year. And I know you you have some relationships you forged with that and you're going to be presenting that on digitalmus muscle.com. Tell me how that came about, the Reader Digest version of that and what can we expect uh come four weeks from today. Yeah. So, it was funny. You're right. I it just kind of um it just kind of materialized. Um we um we put together a really interesting production team. Well, let me let me take a step back. So, an opportunity was presented to me um from a really talented um collection of production guys. A lot of guys that you you know um Jay Hammet and Tommy Roer and Patrick Rivera, Travis Chapman, who of course has been doing this for a very long time. Uh Dr. Norma Kirby, Dr. Brittney Kirby, uh they have a great business in Atlanta called Nutrition House Atlanta. Um she has a great website called leantherapy.com. But I mentioned all of this stuff. So, this contingency came to me and I and I've known a number of them for years and they wanted to figure out how we could um create some more production opportunities. These guys are big on production. They like to do things really fun and really add a lot of gloss to um to the production and try to take things up a notch. And they asked me if there was any way to get involved in the game of doing webcasts for major events like the Olympia or the Arnold Classic. And I said, "Well, listen, you know, I I don't know. I I know bodybuilding.com's done it for a long time and they've done a great job. I've been a part of that for many years." And um I uh I just gave uh you know Bob Lurmer a call over at the uh the Arnold offices and I asked them if if those uh rights were available because I think I have the team where we can put it together and and and make this thing happen and uh um they the rights were available and um we ended up uh putting the deal together and and for me I just viewed it as an opportunity. See I will say this I I've seen this debate go on lately on the forums. I think I may have seen it on on on your forum. It may have even been over at MD also where people are talking about the viability of the webcast, right? That's a big topic right now. And it's funny because I feel a responsibility that bodybuilding fans need to be able to watch these events. Like, it's crazy to me. Anybody who likes to anybody who wants to pose the argument that viewing a play-by-play thread is equally as valuable as the experience of watching a live TV like experience on a screen of an event. So, I'm committed to that. I'm committed to making sure that fans are always able to watch them. And people talk about ROI. I know Dave, you love to joke about the term ROI, but the the the truth is, you know, it's up to us to figure out ways and and Dave, I know you've been very good at this as well. It's up to us to figure out ways to to create win-win type deals so ROI is there for everybody involved. And people who will fire back and they'll say, "Oh, there's no ROI." Well, maybe um if you look a little closer and you get a little creative and you figure out ways to bring the right people and the right resources together, you can um you can do these productions and everybody can win, especially the um the fans who get to watch the event. So, um I'm proud that digital muscle.com is going to host this thing and uh hopefully we'll be able to do it, you know, for many years to come. I'm I'm real proud of uh being a part of of this year's Arnold Classic because once you sort of do business with the Arnold people, you really realize um you're a part of something pretty big, you know, and uh being a part of the Arnold brand and I flew out to Columbus a couple weeks ago and spent a couple days with uh Jim Lurmer and Bob Lurmer and um it was just a it was a really cool experience because you know Dave, sorry to ramble on this, but you know how we always talk about the the absence of um you know, ever since the Weer office is closed in Woodland Hills, California. That was always kind of like the center of the bodybuilding world. Well, I always wondered where the center of the bodybuilding world was now. And and I'll tell you, when I walked into that little office they have called Classic Productions, which is where they produce all the Arnold Classics. And I walked into their office and I sat in Jim Lurmer's office in the conference room and I saw all the posters. Remember, these guys were putting on events before the Arnold Classic. They put on Mr. Olympia contest and so forth. And when I saw the history in that in that office and I talked to Jim Lurmer and I had him tell the story about, you know, the the time that he sat there and he watched Serge Bray and Arnold or not Serge Bray uh Sergio Oliva and Arnold compete and it was just such great stories and such great rich history and um uh to be a part of uh that and to be in that office with them. I I think that trip made me discover like where the new center of the bodybuilding world is because that office out there in Columbus, Ohio is definitely sort of a hub for um where a lot of very important things in our industry are happening now. All this time it was in my snake room, but I guess it's not. Well, Dan, you know, it was really good catching up with you. Uh I think the world uh the bodybuilding world that is really had uh very little to know about you and how you got started and I think that you know you you're a major player behind the scenes in the bodybuilding world now obviously doing this Arnold Classic webcast and you're right uh I do AI do a couple things with the Arnold Classic people. We we host we live stream the Bodybuilding Hall of Fame, the International Hall of Fame hosted by uh uh Dr. Bob Goldman every year. We've been doing it the last three years now. And we also do a live pregame show that the Arnold people are kind of, you know, they condone that. They they they promote that on their website. And uh, you know, they're very loyal. Once you show them that you can do a high quality production and you're adding value to their show, they'll they'll back you forever. So, the fact that you were able to raise the money to do this webcast in the fashion that you're doing it is is is really admirable on my part because I know how hard it is to get people to hand over cash to you. I only hope that this webcast will be able to be procured yearly for you because I think it is great so the fans at home to be able to watch the show uh while we're commenting and we're doing our playbyplays and you know it just makes them feel like they're part of it. And let's face it, TV is not as important as it was, you know, 10 years ago. Uh the internet is much more important. Matter of fact, I don't watch cable TV anymore. Everything I watch is on my Apple TV box, whether it be YouTube or Netflix or or the, you know, some of the cable stations apps that they put out there. And uh this is the future. We're forging the future now. And I can only hope that we can somehow set up a system, and I've said this before, uh I don't have to be involved with it, where all the shows can be webcast, and at some point there could be a centralized website where you can go and watch every show, you know, that's happening on a single weekend, flipping back and forth. Uh maybe at some point uh we could all make it happen together. I I think we're working towards that. I think that's in the future and uh with the technology here in 2016, it's unacceptable if we're not able to put that together. So um we'll definitely have to do that. And uh and by the way, it's also going to feed out on uh the Roku boxes as well. So you mentioned Apple TV, so it'll give people a chance to actually experience it on television. My production guys are putting that together. So uh that's really exciting. I want to mention something before we close, though. Prejudging is, of course, on Saturday, I think afternoon, one or two o'clock, uh, Columbus time, and we're going to be sitting at a really nice booth in Columbus, um, that these guys are setting up for us, uh, you know, Jay and the crew and, uh, and Travis. And uh I know we're going to need probably one more really insightful commentator to lend some value to what we're doing uh with our Arnold Classic um webcast and with the bodybuilding show and and and I only know a few people that are actually capable of giving some really good perspective. So Dave, uh, if you know anyone, uh, I I might be interested in extending an invitation, uh, right here and now, um, to to join us for a little bit and and provide some Palumboesque perspective on the, uh, the lineup at the Arnold Classic. What do you think? What What's your ROI on that one? I don't know if I can afford you. You're a big ticket item, but hopefully we can get you there. Hey, if if the invitation's open, I I'll take you up, but I'd love to uh to add my two cents to the equation, you know. Uh, you always got to have the guy who's politically incorrect on the panel, right? Hey, as long as you promise to behave, wear a suit. I promise. Did we lose him on that one, Johnny? I think I think that I think I put him out of business right there on that last comment. Well, you know what? Uh, this is the end of the episode. Anyway, uh, Dan, I want to just thank you for coming on if you can still hear me and uh, thank you for that invitation. I will accept. Uh, so I will be on that pregame or I should say uh pre-judging uh panel there and hopefully I'll be able to give some interesting insights into what I'm seeing up on the stage. I think it's going to be a great webcast and like I said, I hope you can continue doing this for years to come. Uh, and thank you for joining us today. For now though, we are out of time. Until next time, you've been watching live with sponsored by Scitec Nutrition. Check them out at scitecutrition.com. We'll see you tomorrow. Evans at the party.