RX muscle. We're going to run it back. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back, guys, for another installment of Heavy Muscle Radio. We're live. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by the technician, Chris Aceto. We are less than four weeks out now from the 2025 Arnold Classic. And uh things are heating up now, Chris, because uh I just saw that Derek Lunsford was out in Long Island at Steve Weinberger's gym with Jay Cutler doing a seminar. And I heard uh from my little spies over there at Bevs that that Derek is looking very, very dangerous. Let's do a commercial break for the fiber on your desk, Dave. Best product. Best product. It is. It is. I was going to compliment you again, Dave, because Dave sent me complimentary U fiber and it is it's the best product. But let's that's that's that Dave. Um so Lensford you heard looks good from who? Dave's got a Dave H. Dave. You Nobody can hear you. Dave can't hear you. Dave, I don't even think Dave knows he's on the show. Keep talking. Keep talking. I'm trying to fix my camera. Yeah. So, what did Jay Jay had some type of seminar out there and at Weineberger? Talk talk a little bit about Derek because I'm I'm I'm just fixing my camera, but I heard that he he was looking shredded, full, veiny, and very dangerous. Who told you that? I I don't know if I should give up my uh I mean, anyone. I mean, I think Sid was there. Sid was actually in the Jimmy. He actually saw him. Oh, really? Yeah. I think that was I think that was Derek's first time out there to buy burgers, if you can believe it. I think Oh, it was. Wow. I think so. No, it could have been his first time out there. You don't think Hani brought him out there a couple times? I don't know. I don't think I don't think he's been out there, but no, he looks good. It's a month. I mean, who's not going to look good a month out? Well, you know, I mean, the guy's won the Olympia before, so I mean, he knows what he's doing. So, I don't know what's going on with my with my thing here, but it's a month out and right and it's before you blink it's going to be here. I haven't even my Have you Dave, have you got your tickets and your you know the plane tickets and the hotel and Oh my gosh, I got to write that down to do. I haven't if anyone knows a super cheap plan. I just want a studio. So yeah, we have a month out. Lunsford looks good. You know, of course the headliner, Mr. Olympia going into the Arnold and uh I think that type of news Dave is not really I mean people are expecting you know a showdown between obviously those two because it's first and third at this year's Olympia and of course Hson hasn't won the Olympia but right I I think the real excitement is going to hit people like two and three days out when fans realize well I get to go to the Arnold Classic and we're going to have two guys in it who have won the Olympia two out of the last three years, you know, minus Heidi. It's it's the it's the two Mr. Olympias, the the current Olympia and the Olympia winner from two years ago. Yeah. I um I think the reason why this Olympia this Arnold is going to be so exciting is because number one, Derek is at his best obviously or he's on his way to being his best. He obviously was upset losing the Olympia. I don't blame him. What m reigning Mr. Olympia wants to lose the Olympia and he's getting a chance to get redemption against the guy who beat him which is even better right because you know usually you have to wait a whole year. He he doesn't have to wait a year. You you know what Mr. Olympia jumps into the Arnold. You know Samson is probably one of the few guys who's not afraid to compete multiple times a year. He's make raking in a lot of money. He's smart. And so Derek's got the chance to, you know, redeem himself. And then we see these pictures of of of uh of Samson online and he's looking like like a super freak. I mean, every time I see him, the guy gets bigger. He's he rem reminds me of like what Coleman was. I'm not saying he has a physique like Coleman's. He's doing what is doing to his physique. He's improving like Coleman was was improving those first couple years, you know, leading up to the Olympia and then when he won the Olympia. So, we have two guys that are still young and that are ga making improvements by leaps and bounds and they're facing off, you know, a whole half a year before the Olympia and we've never seen this in the history. You know, imagine if we would have seen Jay and Ronnie at the Arnold after the Olympia. That's my that's what I mean about the excitement. I think it I mean like Bible fans in general are you pumped up for the show but I think it's really going to come to a a tipping point you like four days out and just you know that this is going to happen and you know that Mr. Olympia is doing the Arnold um and not only is Samson Mr. Olympia but keep in mind he he beat the previous two Mr. Olympias in that lineup. So, I mean, Derek won two years ago, Hardy last year, or was it Hardy won two years ago, then Derek, and then now you have Samson beating them both. And rather than sitting it out and waiting for the year to um, you know, go by and defend his title, here he is putting it on the line, competing at the Arnold. Well, and and look, I have to I have to say, when you're right, you're right. I always have to say when Chris is right, you got to give him credit. You said if they put the money up, the guys will show up. And you were right. Arnold, you know, giving away what? 500 grand this year. And Samson said, "Man, I just won the Olympia and I just won 600. I could win another 500,000. That's a, you know, that's a million within less than a year's time. I mean, how could you turn that down?" He's the best bodybuilder on the planet right now according to, you know, what happened at the Olympia. And I'm sure that's one of the reasons Derek jumped in. I mean, yeah, you want to get you want to beat the guy who beat you at the Olympia, but it's not a bad paycheck, 500 grand either. And I'm sure that's one of the reasons we see Andrew Jack in this lineup, you know? Uh, well, you you probably wouldn't see I mean, this lineup would not be the lineup if the prize money was what it was three years ago. Period. Period. Period. Yeah. Yeah. It is the name the Arnold Classic, which has some pre prestige, and I've said it before. You and I could have a show in Seafford, New York. And if we got this serious, if we got the sanction and we wanted to offer a million first prize and we said, Jim, you know, Tyler, we got a million dollars. It's in the bank. It's waiting. You know, we just need the athletes to show up. Every single athlete would show up. Yeah. I'm sure if look if someone came up to Steve Weinberger and I'm sure he'd love to hear you know if anyone out there wants to do it if like some Middle Eastern guy said hey Steve I'm gonna give you you know I'm gonna hand you $2 million to give away prize money at the show uh if you give away a million first place. You don't think Steve would do it? Of course he'd do it. Everyone wants to put that money out there because you know you're gonna get the best lineup if you do that. I mean how many chances does a bodybuilder in his in his lifetime get to make half a million dollars in one night? This never people I don't think people have a perspective to this guys in the history of bodybuilding. We have never ever seen this happen from Arnold's day to today. This is the this year or last year and this year are the first years we've ever seen this kind of money being given away for first place. And it's changed the whole landscape of bodybuilding. You're going to see a lot of really good guys coming into bodybuilding now who are going to say, "Man, I could make a really good living if I, you know, you're going to see more Levrone that are like guys that play football and and they're going to say, "You should go in bodybuilding. You know what? You're going to be a half, you know, you might be the lowest level, you know, NFL guy, but you could be Mr. Olympia with that physique you got." And guess what? You can make a million bucks, you know, winning the Mr. Olympia. You get to have guys doing that. You don't have to get your head knocked off on a football field. you kind of, you know, you can train and eat and, you know, and do your thing and and show up and and and make a couple million bucks a year. I think that the sport's going to grow tremendously from that. No, I I agree with you. I I think uh I think not only will the sport grow, but you're going to see more people really good physiques competing more frequently because, you know, how do you pass up the Pittsburgh? How do you pass it up if you're, you know, a really good bodybuilder who places top five at the Olympia? I mean, it's it's good money and it's the first year they haven't it and and they're giving away a ton of money. I see I see pro which has got the last couple years good money. I mean, there's a How do you pass up Dubai, right? Bader's giving away 130 grand this year, I think, for first place. 70 for I think the uh classic guy. It's a lot of money. It's a 70,000 is. Yeah. Maybe you should send Greg over there to do that show. One day at a time. Do you do you guys have a a game plan with Greg for qualifying this year? No. Well, he's doing the Arnold. Oh. Oh, yeah. But yeah, but what's the chances of him winning, you know, are going to be tough? Obviously, it's a tough tough tough show. Um, if he doesn't win there, what would he what would he do after that? I don't know. you know, think past that show. He buys 140 for the Open, 70 for the classic, 50 for men's physique, and 40 for 212. You know, I was looking at this when Bader posted this and I said, you know what, I might, you know, I I guess it's always good to have multiple divisions, but I would have liked to seen Bader hold just the men's open and put all the money into one, you know, let it ride on one division, you know, give 250 for the, you know, for the men's open. Well, then then we'd be crying on this show. Why doesn't bet to support the 212 in the I I wouldn't I I think that uh you know what look Lee Priest has a very good point when Lee Priest says these 212 guys should not be afraid to compete in the open. You know what I mean? If you want to stay in 212 fine but if you're really good you should be going into the open. You know there's really no need for a 212. Same thing with these classic guys. You know what? If you want to make the big big money go into the open class if you have the genetics to do it. Okay. Um, and I think that by giving more money and having more open shows with a lot of money rather than trying to water it down into four different divisions, I think you're going to get more people gunning for the open division. If you if you start bringing up the other divisions, you know, with prize money and you and you don't let the open grow uh as much, I I think that you're not going to get the best talent in the open. And and look, being a bodybuilding fan, I want to see the best talent in the history of the sport in that open division. And I think a lot of those guys could come from classic if they would say to themselves, you know what, there's a lot more money in open. I got the structure. I can I can build the muscle. I'm young still. I'm going to go into the open class because I want to make all that money. Uh if they don't do that and if if the classic division comes up in prize money, which I don't see it coming up to the open, but if it did, you'd have guys just staying in the classic division because they're like, "Well, it's a might as well stay here. I mean, the same money, you know." Well, so you know that the classic money right now is technically it's not great. It's nothing to sneeze at seeing that it's only been around for how many years now, right? But there's only so much money you can put it, you know, that that sponsors are going to give you for these shows. Now, in the Middle East, they have the Dubai, you know, tourism board giving them money. So that's he can he can get more money, you know, but when you when Steve holds a show or Tyler and Jim hold a show in Pittsburgh, they got to get sponsors to give him that money. They they're not going to take it out of their pocket and give it to people. So it's a little harder, you know, to to raise the prize money. Arnold is is an anomaly because Arnold um has a lot of relationships with people and that's and that expo is so huge that they can pull the money from there. You know, Jake Wood is is just happens to be a lover of bodybuilding and he supports that. I don't even know if if the sponsors are even making it, you know, worth, you know, him rising raising the prize money. I think he's doing that on his own valition out of his own pocketbook, you know, but there are very few Jake Woods out there. So, you know, I commend him for what he did, but at the end of the day, you know, the money's got to be there. So, the question is, you know, yeah, for the Olympia, you need all the divisions. But if I'm holding a show in Dubai, you know, or Qatar or, you know, Saudi Arabia, I might just put it all into one kit kitty and say, "Let's let's let's put up the most prize money we possibly can for the men's open divisions." But that's that's that's my thoughts. I don't know what what's your everything takes time and you know at the end of the day the sport has taken a big step in the right direction by increasing the prize money to all divisions and you know the one that's carried the sport from you know 60 years or whatever men's open I mean it's only fitting that men's open bodybuilding has the the higher or disproportionate amount of you know price money because all the divisions without men's bodybuilding wouldn't even be here. Right. Right. What did did you see that picture of um maybe Sid, can you pull up that picture of the um they had a AI guess a female to male trans person who competed in Classic Physique. I don't know where which where the show was, but they had her on stage and she had like I guess she hadn't gotten her gyno surgery removed yet. She had like some I guess nipple covers on her thing and people were like outraged by it, you know. I think that and I don't want your opinion in a second, but I'm just going to give you my quick opinion. women in who women who compete in you know men's sports obviously are not going to have an advantage in like you know you know running and stuff but when women when men go to women's sports it's unfair obviously and I'm going to totally agree with that in physique comp bless you in physique compet competitions I'm not so against it because I don't think there's a real advantage for men competing with against women and women competing against men because let's face it you know It's a physique competition. They're not they're not wrestling. They're not fighting. They're not running. What do you think about this? This see the picture here? This is the the woman to male, you know, trans. I think there's nothing wrong with her doing classic. I'd like to see her get some gyno surgery removed before she goes on stage, but other than that, I don't have a problem with it. Do you It's a female who you It's someone who used to be a female. Right. Right. I have no thoughts actually on it. It's so tiring that I can't even formulate an opinion. Well, there's going to be people that are trans people. Do you have a problem with them crossing divisions and doing, you know, classes like in What about a male to female who's doing bikini now? Do you ever I wouldn't have a problem with that. I mean, if she can if a man can can beat women in the bikini division, then guess what? He deserves it. You know, why not? There's no advantage. Well, yeah. I I They're not lifting weights on stage. You know what I mean? On it because it's like I can't wrap my head around the whole thing yet, right? But look, we know there there's not a lot of people out there, but we know there are people that are trans people. I'm really an opinion because just like I I don't even choose to make one. Well, at some point we're there's going to be a lot more of them doing this. And so I guess, you know, as people who critique the sport, we people are going to want to know our opinions on it. I I don't have a problem with it to be honest with you because I don't think it's an advantage to be of one sex and go compete against the other sex. This it's just this isn't. In other words, if I'm a man and I'm going to do women's bodybuilding, I you know, unless I look like a female bodybuilder, I'm I'm not going to have an advantage. I'm just going to look like like a guy in there. And that's not You would You would You would I guess I only have one question. Would you have because this is the only logical one, okay? Would you have an issue with a man becoming a a woman and competing in women's bodybuilding? No, I don't have a problem with that. In in powerlifting, I'd have a problem with it because they're actually lifting weights and so there's there's a there's a physical advantage. Then you say that then that that rules out that do you believe there's any advantage that a man has who transitions to a woman that he has female bodybuilder? I don't I don't think he does because I don't I don't even think a man's physique looks like a woman bodybuilding physique. So I think that it wouldn't help them because I think the judges would be like it could looks like a guy. You know, there's been there's been women who won, you know, there's been men who won beauty pageantss as female. I don't have a problem with that. I think if a man could could look more beautiful than a woman on stage and then then then so be it. I think I think that's a fair comparison because because it's not a physical there's no physical, you know, race or strength aspect. So, is there an advantage? There's no advantage to a man becoming a woman. There's no inbredad or whatever you want to call it advantage to John Smith becoming Jane Smith and competing against a slew of other female bodybuilders in a bodybuilding competition. I I don't I don't think so. I mean think that there So why is there an advantage in any other sport? Swimming because swimming it there's you're you're competing in a physical sense against that other woman. In other words, who's faster? There's and men have an advantage because un in bodybuilding it's a beauty pageant. There's no there's no physical aspect of it that hey I'm going to be stronger than you, faster than you, better than you. It's if you want to be a man, you're going to have to look prettier than a woman. And if you can look prettier than a woman, then you did your job as far only bodybuilding. So physique competitions. Yeah. Bodybuilding. So there's no there's no advantage that John Smith has when he becomes Jane Smith competing against a bunch of female bodybuilders. I don't think so because I don't like I said I don't think that that the male will have a female looking physique and I think that remember there's a level of femininity. Well, if if they could have a female looking physique when they become I that's why I said men have won women's beauty pageantss when we're looking for Marilyn Monroe looking bodies not you know ripped and shredded type seats. Right. Right. So, how about So, Dave Dave's prepping uh eight ladies for the Masters Nationals and Jane Smithes them all. What's your reaction? I don't think I don't think Jane Smith would smoke them all is what I'm saying. I think that she wouldn't have an advantage physique-wise because I don't think that she's going to have the curvy hips and the and and the the female bodybuilding physique that we're used to seeing from a a female perspective with the female curves. I think she's gonna look like a man on stage and I think she's not going to do well in the judge's eyes. I, you know, if she can some or if she can somehow mold her physique into looking like a female's physique on stage, then so be it. That's great. But I think she's going to have a a disadvantage. And the reason why she really have an advantage is because female bodybuilders take steroids. We know that. So they're kind of on a level playing field. That that was my next question. Yeah, my my next question. So, so how manly does the female bodybuilder become? Like I it's just you get it. No, in other words, it's it's what you what we perceive on stage, right? Judges always say we judge what's up there, what we see. So, if you see someone that fits into the class, whether they come from the you they're males and they've gone to women or they women that have gone to men and they fit and they look better than everyone else out there, then they should win because it's a phys it's a physique competition. It's like I said, there's no you're trying to mold your look to look a certain way that the judges prefer. We know female bodybuilders can get strided glutes, so there's no disadvantage putting a man in there who's going to say, "Well, he can get shrated glutes more easily." Well, we know the women get them, too. So, there's there's no disadvantage. If anything, women's legs look a lot different than men's legs on stage. So, for a man to make his legs look like a woman's legs on stage, it's going to be very hard. And so, I don't see an advantage. I think where you you might see it more is in these like fit model bikini divisions, wellness maybe, I don't know, probably not wellness because the men's legs don't look like women. So, I think in these like bikini divisions, you might see transition people going in there. And you got to remember a lot of these men that transition to women, they don't want the mask. They want to re get rid of the androgenic, you know, effects of their body. And so, they're going to they're they're not going to be taking tons of drugs because that's going to make them look more masculine. And most of these women that transition want to look more feminine. So, I don't see a problem in in the physique world with having transition people powerlifting different story, but that's my opinion. That's Yeah. Like, do you think that that that girl that Sid put up there had a had an advantage over I mean or or had a disadvantage because she was a female? I thought she had a really good physique. I think she fit into classic, you know, and she she matched up. The only thing I didn't like is look, if you're a female and you're going to compete in the men's division with no shirt on, you got to get your gynecomastia removed. You got to get the breasts removed. If you don't do that, it's breasts, right? Yeah, she has breasts. You can see them here. That's the only thing that if she didn't have breasts, no one would even know. Why are you calling it gyno? Like she took too much like So, well, if you're a man, then we call it gyno. If you're a woman, it's breasts, you know? So, now she's calling herself a man, we have to call it gyno. We have to change the We have to change it. Oh, that's why I can't comment. It's too much. It's It's blowing your brain. Yeah. What place did she get? He got I don't know. What What place was she? Yes, John. I'm fine with it. If a man can pull off Miss America, then I'm I'm okay with it. If these judges are judging the the Miss America and they're they're picking the man just to make a statement, I'm against that. So, if it's a legitimate win, then fine. If it's not, I don't like it. In sports that require, you know, regular sports, absolutely not. There should be no men in women's sports. I'm totally against that. Just in the just in the NPC, just in phys physique is a beauty pageant. as far as I'm concerned. So, I don't even know if people would even call bodybuilding a sport, right? It's it's a pageant really, as as John Romano would say. I agree. There's two genders, but some some gender people want to change genders. I don't think I don't believe in these non-binary and all these other dog people think they're dogs and cats and stuff like that. That's ridiculous stuff. So, check my text. Sid sent me a private text. Let's see what he sent me. It's a note from Donald Trump. Let me read it. Tariffs on fiber eyes. According to Sid, the competitor was removed from the NPC contest page. Hm. Interesting. Wow. So maybe maybe the NPC is going to be banning them then from doing it. So maybe they're as confused as I am. That's why I can't comment on it. It's Look, it's it's a difficult it's a difficult subject and there is a fine line obviously between what's right and wrong. Um, and once again, I am completely against men and against men and women's sports, but physique competitions, I don't think that crossing over has an advantage to be honest with you. And I think that I don't think it should be banned. I don't think there's a problem with it. Except if there's a woman going on stage without a shirt on and she's got breasts, I have a problem with that because look, there's kids in the crowd. It's it's if you're going to do the transition, do the transition completely. Get get have the breast removed and then I don't have a problem with it. All right. This guy Nino thinks it's immoral. Okay. Two bucks. He paid us to say that. I have to give him his his his uh his moment in the sun. All right. Let's get back to uh Oral Classic. Let's talk about Samson verse Lunsford. I would like to get your opinion on what in what scenario does Derek Lunford beat Samson? Okay, we've seen the pictures of Samson. He's looking crazy. Samson comes in looking like he did at the Olympia. How does Derek beat him? Can he beat him and why? Um Derek can't beat him unless he's at his best. That's for sure. Period. Well, let's assume that D you're you're helping Derek, so let's assume he's going to be at his best, right? Yeah. I mean, I I think that uh I said it a few weeks ago, it's two totally different physiques and I think that um there are poses that Derek will win and this poses that Samson will win. And and it's going to be up to the judges probably to weigh like fullness and condition on each physique versus the other person's fullness and condition. Right. Right. That makes sense. In other words, you're asking me like who who, you know, what's Derek have to like to beat Samson? I think that the judges just are go are going to, you know, if they're both at their best, it's it's probably almost comes down to like a a preference among some people on the panel. Not personal preference for who they like better, but like as a person. I didn't mean that personal preference that way, but just whose physique whose physique do you end up, you know what it's gonna it would come down to if they best whose physique do you end up looking at more in the slew of comparisons. That's what it comes down to because you can't go like, well, this guy's arms are better and this guy's legs are better. This guy's hamstrings and glutes are better. can do that. But ultimately it comes down to when you're looking at the those two if they were standing next to each other, right? Who do you look, you know, one's on the left, look, one's on the right, you you have the judging pencil in your hand or as a fan, you look up and who are you looking at more and that's probably the person who's going to win or who's going to beat the other guy. if Derek comes in with those crazy shrink wrap glutes he had, you know, two years ago at the Olympia, you know, and his front improves, which I've heard from what Sid saw. He said he looks really good. Um, is that his ability to get into that insane conditioning, you know, that's kind of similar to what we saw from Hottie last year, will that be a look that will eclipse a Samson who's maybe not quite as hard from behind? You know, that that's the question. And obviously it might be hard for you to answer that because until we see them standing next to each other, we won't really know what looks better, right? Yeah. Exactly. I mean, I I agree with that com completely. You're not going to know. I I'm I don't think I would know until I see them side by side. Yeah. Next. It's it's a it's a hard thing to speculate. And then we and then we, you know, bring in like a D an Andrew Jack who is an anomaly. You know, we we don't know what we're going to get from him. Obviously, you and I were talking about him before the show. You said that, you know, the guy is just his physique changes so fast. He's kind of like a Levrone physique. You know, he he you know, he starts dieting and all of a sudden, boom, everything changes. So, I mean, this guy is is the guy who can stand next to Samson size-wise. He's taller than Samson. He's wider than Samson. He's got, you know, you know, ostensibly better structure than Samson. Samson obviously has maybe a little bit more muscle, especially in the legs. But is Andrew a guy who can come in and disrupt this whole top two that we're talking about, and maybe win the whole show, you know? Does he have that ability, Chris? Yes, he's he's gigantic in the lineup. Gigantic. His legs are ginormous, and you know, he's he's taller than everybody and he's wider than everybody. Yeah. Um, the size improvements he's made in the last two years since he did that Arnold are just insane, too. I mean, if you look at his legs there to what they look like at the Olympia to what they'll probably look like here on this stage, it's unbelievable the improvements that he's made. You know, we talk about Samson's improvements. really Andrew's improvements might even be eclipse those because he's probably gained more muscle in the last two years than anyone. Yeah. And he and he's still growing, you know. He's he's still growing. His body is extremely fresh. And again, it comes down to seeing these guys really on stage because they're I mean, I've seen the Samson pictures. He looks nuts and you know he looks gigantic and he is gigantic and he's coming into his own or not coming into his own. He won the Olympia came into his own. Um and I I think it comes down to like comparing and contrasting each person's strengths because you know I mean it's not a slam dunk for anyone. I don't think any of these shows are slam dunks for anyone. I've I've said that and and you know, the Olympia was supposed to be a slam dunk for Hottie. It wasn't. You know, you don't know until people get on stage. Yeah. I don't think I don't think people expected to see like he did last year when he won the Arnold. I mean, you can speculate like crazy. You can build people up like crazy. You can, you know, say, "What if this guy had the glutes from this year with the fullness of that year and, you know, I've seen photos of this guy running into the show and zero of it matters. I mean, Wesley Vissers, who's the, you know, favorite to win this show, who beat Ramon last year, you know, crashed to seventh at the Olympia. Right. Right. I mean, and it it's what's so bizarre is like everything we heard running up to the Olympia was it's him and Bumpstead, right? And he wasn't second, he wasn't third, he wasn't fourth, he wasn't fifth, he wasn't even sixth, was seventh. That doesn't mean that he can't rebound and, you know, come in and and win this show because he can. But the speculation is like mind-numbing because all that matters is the way people show up on that stage that day to uh you know and the way they look. Yeah. I um you know I I I can't leave out Carlos Thomas Jr. too as a dark horse in this lineup because we know this guy is crazy dangerous. He's got more than enough muscle to stand with all these three guys we just spoke about. You know, it's always been a conditioning issue with him. Does is he gonna bring the conditioning and the fullness he needs in with that level of muscularity? Because this guy could be a spoiler too in this lineup. We have a lot of heavy hitters in this lineup. Uh you know, how does Carlos Thomas in your mind at his best stack up with these three guys? Are they are they ahead of him at this point or is this can he not? Honestly, he he looks as good as anyone, you know, at least from that th those couple snippets that I've seen of him with that black like that that gym whatever it is of the post, he looks fantastic. So, um he he's you know there's not 75 people in the lineup like the classic Mr. Olympia. people will get overlooked and they will get a chance to compete. So that's the you know the secondary story or stories of the show. There's so many stories running into it. You know there's the Andrew you know people we just talked about Lensford Samson but you got Carlos Carlos and he's as good as anyone. I mean, he just hasn't he hasn't proven that yet simply because he's only competed, I think, as a pro, I think, just once, you know, but I mean, if if you're a fan and you follow his Instagram, he's he's been freaky for like three years, you know. It's just a matter of being freaky the day of the show. And part of that hasn't competed. You can't be freaky the day of show if you've only competed once. So, he is super dangerous, though. He's he's got a lot of weapons at his disposal and if he can, you know, load them up properly and and dispense of them at the show, I think he's going to beat a lot of people and shock a lot of people. I want to ask you a question, and this is AI don't know if it's an ethical question or what. Do the judges do the judges have a higher level of responsibility? Okay. When you're giving away half a million dollars to a guy for a first place guy to really really work these guys and do more call outs and make sure you do your due diligence to make sure that you pick the right person because we're talking about a lot of money that we're giving away. We're not we're not talking about a couple extra thousand bucks. This is $500,000 to first place, Chris. Yeah. My my opinion is you just judge it the way you always judge it. I mean, I understand your point. You know, you want to get it right. Right. Right. They had the Olympia. Right. Right. Right. I thought the the Olympia the previous year was right. Right. Right. And the year before right Arnold, right, right. I mean, there hasn't been really like a quote bad call. That's because you got guys like Steve Weinberger head judging these panels. What about like in shows, you know, we're going to start getting shows where they're giving away 100 grand first place that's going to take place in, you know, Budapest for instance. And, you know, we're not going to have Steve Weinberg necessarily at that show. And so I think once these price packages start getting really through the roof, I think it we it's the onus of I think the IFBB has to almost establish make sure that there's a judge there or at least a head judge there that knows what the heck he's doing because this is a lot of money we're talking about, you know, and and if I if I'm a bodybuilder and I'm going to travel from you United States all the way to like China or Budapest, wherever the the hell they're doing the show is, I want to make sure that I'm going to be judged fairly because it's a lot expenses and I'm I'm going there because the money is high for the first place. So I think that yeah I think once the money starts really going up that the judging is going to be much more important you know to have a legitimate judging battle there. I think the judging becomes more important by de facto simply because the money motivates the competitor, right? Is number one for a competitor, but the money becomes a all of a sudden this huge factor as well. So I think it it has an impact on the way people look and it may be such that you need to scrutinize people more than you have in the past because people may be bringing a better version they've ever brought before simply because the prize money is more important. It's big. I I got another question this that's going to even add to the controversy a little bit more because I've been thinking about this. If you're giving away $500,000 prize money to the winner of the show and the judging panel is very important obviously, right? Because we want to make sure we get it right. And you bring in a head judge like Steve Weinberger who's the best in the business right now, right? Yeah. You know, and should the judges be paid a higher salary when they're judging a show that's giving away half a million dollars for first place? Why should the judges be still getting the same salary they do? I would think that, you know, an allocation of the prize money should be relegated, whether it be a 5% or certain percentage that to the judges to make sure that these judges are getting well paid so that they are going to make the right decisions. Uh otherwise, it's disrespectful to the judging panel, right? For the judges to sit here like, we're still getting the same pay and these guys are getting $500,000. I think that the judges have to be paid more in shows where the prize money is is significantly higher. Do you agree with that or disagree? Disagree. Why? Because the because um for the same don't charge a lot of money. Well, why shouldn't the judges be compensated too? If the if the promoter is going to give away half a million, why not give the judges more? Sean Sean Idiot Ray is actually right. Christo is not in the gym with Derek Lunsford and Andrew Jack. you know the the athletes in terms of once the start coming you know what now that we have good prize money around the prize money should go to athletes who have put in the work you know dedicated their lives I mean you were a competitor judging is hard judging is a skill judging is a talent judging Judging is crucially important, but judging is [\h__\h] compared to how hard and how much the bodybuilders sacrifice to be able to bring their physiques to the level that they get at. They sacrifice. You do not as a judge sacrifice your entire social life for 20 years, 10 years, 5 years. You don't sacrifice relationships. You don't sacrifice your health. You don't sacri you you don't sacrifice holidays, birthdays, nephews, you know, bar mitzvah. And I mean, it get right down the line on how hard it is to be a professional bodybuilder and how much how much you miss out because you're in there daily putting in hours and hours or, you know, at least, you know, the training is not hours and hours a day. I'm not telling you to take the money away from the athletes. I'm just saying why not pay the judges more at those shows because because they've shown that they could do the right thing when getting paid I don't know what they get paid little there's no need to pay him more but don't you want the best if you want the best judges and you want these judges to be focused you are implying that judges cannot make the right decisions at the biggest show of the year with the biggest amount of prize money unless they're making more money does does u what's his name Um, what's the guy from America's uh American Idol? Does Simon Cowell get paid the same thing as the person who's judging the local uh talent contest at the high school? Without Simon Cowell, you would not have that damn show would be able to see that talent. You would without Steve without a guy like Steve Weinberger judging these shows with the level of professionalism and and and the fact that they get it right almost every single time. You might have you might have decisions that we we can't deal with. We're like, "What the hell is this guy looking at?" So, I think that there should be compensation to the judging. I don't I don't I'm not telling saying they should get a half a million dollars. I'm like, "How about boost their salary?" You know, 15 20%. You know what? If the entire judging panel from the Olympia and the Arnold retired tomorrow, the show would continue to go on. Of course, it would. But I'm not That doesn't mean you shouldn't respect them and pay them more at a show that's giving away half a million bucks to first place. Um I So I I don't think that I mean are they not being paid? I don't know. I don't know the dynamic. I don't think they're getting paid more any more than they would if they were doing the the Mr. uh you know um Detroit Classic, you know, IFBB Classic. I I'm just saying for the bigger shows that are giving away a lot more money, why not compensate everyone a little bit more? Well, because it's you there's not any more there's no more new work to judge the Arnold this year than the doesn't matter. There's no more new work to compete at the Arnold versus the Mr. You know, uh, Illinois. But yeah, you still want if the prize money is higher, then there's obviously the money there. There's no more, if you want to rebut that, there's no more new work for the judges to judge this Arnold lineup than four years ago Arnold's lineup with crap money. So then why raise the prize money at all? Are not convinced that that the judges need to get paid more to be able to do the job that they're already done? They don't need to get paid more to do the job. But I'm saying it would be a respect thing if you why not earmark a certain percentage of the prize money, the total package to pay the judges because nothing should come out get better judging because the answer is this. You asked me the question nothing should come out of the prize money. No tariffs on the prize money. No tariffs. We So what about if if if there's a show in in China, should they should Jimian charge a tariff? That's not to say, like I said, Dave, judging is a like AI can I can judge like I can judge like the top five of one division and that after that like if I if I wrote my placings down, people would say, "Oh my god, good thing Chris is not a judge." You get the top five right like the judges and after that he's all over the place. It's hard and I think that judges should be, you know, treated well and taken care of. And um I would say that's up to to the promoter just like it's up to the promoter who, you know, wants to decide, okay, do I want to give a h 100red,000 first prize or 25,000 first prize? That's up to to the promoter. Well, it is up to the but I think the promoter should do the right thing and pay more. I mean, does John Scary brought up a good point. Does the Super Bowl referees get paid more than, you know, when they judge when they when they ref normal games during the season? I'm sure they probably do, right, dude? The the people can can people get it through their head that the [\h__\h] bodybuilders have been making money for like 18 months. I'm Chris, I'm not saying you should pay the judgment 10 grand a piece. I'm saying give them a little bit of a raise is all I'm saying. It's a little premature to start like, oh, Samson's making 500. we need to get somebody or like well the Super Bowl. Did you think a second about like how many NFL players get paid extremely well on every team and the idea and how expensive the Super Comparing it to the Super Bowl is dumb. The like No, because it's proportionate. It's the Super Bowl is ridiculous. It's proportionate. The gate, Dave. The gate. The water boy probably makes for the Super Bowl team probably makes I'm getting the water boy on the show. We're going to interview him and see what he makes. I don't know. I think he's I think that the the water boy is not getting paid as well. Athletes get paid for God's sakes for two years before you even start like thinking about like, well, you know, I'm not getting paid either. You know, speaking of Water Boys, you remember um you remember you ever see like you ever go to spring training like when you were when you were a kid? You ever go to Florida and you go see the like Yankees or the B you would go see Boston obviously. Actually Boston has spring training here in Fort Myers, but you ever go see that? No, we were too broke to travel anyway. My grand My grandmother flew us down to We weren't one of those families who could get on planes and fly places to look at things. We would watch it on TV and and the kids who got to go on planes. Yeah. Or like February vacation and you come back and you say what you I said I I stayed in like you know around my house and got I I went down for spring training. My grandmother was living in Fort Lauderdale for for a year or two. And so we went down to visit her and my parents got me tickets to see the Yankees in spring training because the Yankees did spring training in Fort Lauderdale at the time. And I saw Reggie Jackson and you know all all the all the guys in the 70s there in early 80s. And my father played baseball with a guy Nikki Ta who was in the Yankees organization and you know later in his you know after he retired obviously he uh used to pitch like uh you know the warm-ups to the to the batting practice he would pitch. So he was going to get me he was going to get me uh the ability to be the one of the bat boy the ball boys you know that would run and get the ball and my father was too lazy to drive me to Yankee Stadium. Can you believe this, Chris? My father was petrified of driving. I said, "Dad, you're from the Bronx." He's like, "It's it's it's it's a it's a nightmare going over there." I could have been one of the the ball boys on on the sidelines for a couple games, uh, the home games, and my father wouldn't do it. My father would not drive me to Yankee Stadium. And of course, I told you, Dave, that that game I sent it to you first because you you wouldn't be able to take an Uber back then. Of course. Yeah. Yeah. Of course not. Yeah. Yeah. But they would have been very cheap anyway to pay for the Uber all the way to Yankee Stadium. But yeah, if my father would have just said, "All right, you know what? This is the chance of a lifetime for my son to be on on the field with the New York Yankees when they were winning the World Series, you know, during those years." And he just he couldn't do it. He couldn't muster the the drive from Long Island to to Yankee Stadium in the Bronx. Wouldn't do it. So that was I see I could have I could have been a contender, Chris. Yeah, I might have been a Yankee. Well, you could have been in the like in the uh you know in the office back offices maybe. Who knows? Like George Castanza, you remember when he worked for the Yankees? The Oakland's most famous ball boy. Who was the Who was the most famous ball boy? Oh, he was the big- time rapper. I mean, what's his name? I didn't know that there was a rapper. Yeah, he made millions and millions and millions. What's up, Xavier? Dave, you can be like the man. That's right. Oh [\h__\h] that's funny. MC Hammer, we're gonna put such a tariff on you, Xavier. If you want to fly to the Olympia, 50 grand, you're next. I'm telling you, I think Jim Mann should put a tariff on the on the Chinese. If the Chinese want to hold a bodybuilding show over there, 25% tariff. Just don't put it on the Chinese GH. No, not on the Chinese GH. No. But you know what? That's gonna that's what's going to be what's going to happen probably. Um, all this all the nutritional pharmaceuticals come from China. I wonder if they're those are going to be all tariffed. You know what? I would they should start making them here. I don't know why we have to go to China to buy the stuff anyway. Like when you buy a $12 shirt from from Teeu, it's going to be instead of $12 $24. Yeah. 100% tariff on those. Teamu start but but you see it's teamu is smart because they they have all their warehouses here now and Trump said as long as you guys set up shop in the United States I'm not going to tariff you. So that's that's what they're going to do and that's going to bring more business to the United States. So I I don't I don't mind you know buying from a place that you know that that's employing you United States citizens. So these tenu warehouses like the Amazon warehouses are all in the United States. So that's great as far as I'm concerned, right? Chris is very quiet all of a sudden. No, when when the stock market opens up down a thousand tomorrow, may give you may weigh in on how tariffs are doing. Did you did you see the speech that the um that the the Canadians gave about it was I couldn't I couldn't finish watching it about how they helped us out, you know, during the uh the American hostage crisis during Jimmy Carter's time. And how can we put a 25% tariff on them? Well, they Ottawa, they just banned American alcohol. They're not even tariffing it. You just can't sell it. I look I can't I sell product to to to to Canada. It's a real pain in the neck to get my product into Canada. So, you know what? I don't have any sympathy for them whatsoever. They have so many rules on receiving, you know, uh, nutritional supplements there. It's a real pain in the neck. And you know what? If they they're going to cry that he's going to put a tariff on them. You know what? Take all the regulations off the stuff that we got going from our country into their country. Let's see. What's this? The Scaderi gave us a lot of tips today. IFBB needs to get more salespeople to groom more sponsors to help bodybuilders get them what they deserve and stop charging for pro cards. Nah, you always got you got to charge something though, John. Otherwise, there's no value to it. I think I'm not against them charging for the pro card to be honest with you. It's not it's not a lot of money. But yeah, I I think that, you know, as money comes into the sport, I think what'll happen is some of these big time, you know, uh companies like Under Armour, you know, maybe Red Bull, they're going to say, "Oh, you know what? There's a lot of money in bodybuilding. They're giving away a million dollars first place. Maybe we should be getting into this space." So, I think the idea of bringing more money into the sport is going to bring more sponsors into the sport because the sponsors go where they think the money is. And if the sponsors think that there are o other people putting up big money, they're gonna think, well, maybe we should be in that space, too. Because let's face it, Red Bull sponsors, you know, extreme sports, way more dangerous than bodybuilding. So, I don't see why they wouldn't necessarily, you know, fork over some some dough for the bodybuilding. I mean, the energy the energy drinks alone, I mean, we see Celsius in in sponsoring the Olympia. I think you'll I don't see why all those energy drinks don't sponsor the bodybuilding uh competitions because that's right up their alley. Yeah, I I agree with you and you're right where you know sponsors at least they'll step towards you know the attraction of where they think the money is. They just got to figure out on their return. Is that actually this the space where they can get a, you know, where they can make money, which yes, it might not be traditional advertising the way they advertise or the way they've done things. Yeah. Because they don't know like the ins and the outs of the sport. But look, when I go to Crunch, I ask the manager there because I'm friends with him. How many energy drinks do you sell a day? He's like, you would not believe it. He's like, "We sell a thousand energy drinks a day here." Of course, a thousand a thousand energy drinks a day. They sell in the gym. That's crazy. Bodybuilders use energy drinks. Why aren't these companies all sponsoring these bodybuilding competitions? It's ridiculous. Not to go the the go to a 7-Eleven. Ask the 7-Eleven owner, how many energy drinks do you sell here compared to like Pepsi and Coke combined? I would think thousands, too. Yeah. Well, it's just more they they sell more of those than they do Coke and Diet Pepsi. Yep. Yep. And you know what the funny thing is? The reason why, you know, these companies like Coca-Cola, I was listening to Anthony Tony Robbins did I was watching listen to a seminar with him and he was like, you know, Coca-Cola wants you that's the number one, you know, sold drink in the world, right? And they wanted to be the the drink that everyone drinks like like that. Anything that goes into your mouth will be Coca-Cola. That's why they invested in water. You know, their number one seller now for Coca-Cola is their water that they sell. And so they want they want people to be able to say everything that pe a person puts into their mouth to drink comes from Coca-Cola. Whether it be a Diet Coke, a regular Coke, a you know, a a you know, an energy drink, or a bottle of water. And you know what? For a lot of people, they could probably say, "Yes, everything I drink comes from Coca-Cola." Isn't that incredible? Besides my coffee, everything and I Well, you make you you might make your coffee with a with a water from from Coca-Cola, you know. Well, I used to Dave, I used to put my what here. I mean, it's dead serious. I just throw a Coke. I'm going to grab it out of the trash. Finish this. I believe it. It's the number one drink. Everyone, you know, dead serious. I used to combine my coffee and Coke. Did you really? That sounds like an Italian thing, Chris. They put the wine and the soda together, too, also. You know, have you seen the coffee Coke? They have a coffee Coke. Oh, they do? I didn't even know the soda. I think it was limited time. Maybe it didn't, but it tasted exactly like I've been mixing for years. Coffee and Coke. Yeah. Well, I I got to thank what called Sid Aman and um I think Alberto. They they they bought me this Ember mug. Have you seen it? Ember? Haven't seen it, Dave. Like it's a it's a coffee mug. You got to get it. It's a coffee on Bush, too. Thank you. And uh it's a coffee mug that that sits on this little like thing and it heats keeps your coffee warm. Keeps it hot. And they embroidered it, but they they embroidered they didn't embroider. They I mean they had it my name put on it and they sent it out but it took like two months to get to me. It was supposed to be a Christmas present. I got it today and uh it's beautiful. Thank you guys. But you definitely need it. The way you drink coffee, you got to have it. You can have it right here. A little charging thing. It keeps it warm and you you have warm coffee all the time. Oh, you know, I have I have a microwave in the office next to me because I run I It has to be the perfect temperature. I No, I know. I know you like hot coffee. That's what I'm saying. If you keep this ember, they get the ember cup. It always is is perfect temperature. You can actually set the temperature. Lady sued McDonald's for too hot coffee. I want to sue him temperature down. I want them to go back to the old temperatures that would burn. You like it scalding in other words. Yeah, Trump drinks 12 Diet Coke. He does. I read that somewhere. He drinks 12 Diet Cokes a day. That's funny. But uh yeah, I mean, look, you know, I know Chris loves his coffee and I think we got to invest and buy him an ember. Sid. Yeah. I didn't even know what an ember was. I didn't even know what Sid was talking about. I looked it up. I'm like, "Oh, this is cool." Because I have my I have my decaf coffee every morning. Dave, ask Sid what he thinks of uh Cooper Flag. Cooper I this guy's that's gonna he's gonna be the next big billionaire. And Dave, I I just I main over the weekend. Yeah. And I was texting someone about like regularly text about like how crazy Cooper flag is. Yeah. And you know, Maine is beyond rural and then you just drive and drive and drive and like I'm driving like a hundred to Bangor. There's not one car on the highway. Then I see the the green sign on the side of 95 that says Newport this exit. And I took a picture of the our video of that exit because he came from a place where there is no basketball background per se of like level of competition is zero. He's 18. Cooper flag is the Chris Bumpstead of basketball. He'll be a mega star. I agree. He's he's he's he's like a mix of LeBron and Larry Bird. Yeah. And it's it's unbelievable. You think he'll stay in the college or you think he's going to go to the uh the pros? He's gonna he's they're going to win the national championships this year. That's my prediction. Yeah. And of course, he's going to be number one. He's gonna sign the biggest contract ever and then he'll be MVP next year. Someone got so mad when I said he'll be MVP next year. And you know why I said that, Dave? Said he's gone this after this year. Yeah. He's going to be MVP next year in the NBA because you technically you're only as good as well when you're superstars you're it doesn't matter who you're competing against. So he's a superstar. But you hone those skills when you're competing at a higher level. And the reason I took the video of this like exit sign in Maine is he couldn't have been playing up to 16 years old against he was playing against Maine kids. Isn't that crazy? Imagine playing against this guy in high school. Holy two years ago, two years ago he was playing against I know. I know. You know kids where you can only play basketball three months out of the year because of the snow. Well, I'm sure they play in inside somewhere, right? No, he used to he used to shovel the driveway and play in the snow. Is that what he said? Oh, wow. That's great. That that's dedication, right? Yeah. So, it's it's it's mind-numbing is uh you know the where his where he came from. I thought you were going to say that um that you're doing Cooper Flag's diet. I thought that was the what you were going to come out with. No, I I would I was trying to think of a hook my claws into them to do like a real estate investment trust. Yeah. I'm sure we'll hear from George. I am helping Cooper Flag. We'll buy a hotel and Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Can you imagine the sign the signing bonus this guy's going to get when he signs in the in the NBA? Insane. Sid, what what team you think will sign him? You think the Lakers will grab him? Who's who's got the number one? Who's got the draft pick? Sid, who gets Sid? Ask Sid who gets the pick. That's I'm wondering. I'm I'm that I'm waiting for the drum roll here. Brooklyn Nets somehow land the number one pick. He'll be in New York City. Oh yeah, he he'll be a superstar in New York City. You know, Sid announces. Do people know that Sid announces on occasion for the Nets? He's the house announcer in Madison Square Garden there sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. For the Nets, I think for the I think I think you've announced the Knicks though, haven't you, Sid? No. Knicks and Nets, Dave. So, the Knicks. The Knicks. The Nets the Nets are in in Brooklyn. When you get him into when you get them in uh at Columbus, we got to do a mock like NBA draft. This is the Net Cooper Flat. He's the backup announcer of the Nets, but he has announced the Knicks in in Madison Square. You know who's I I will take a pot shot. What? He's the back. So, who said he's the backup announcer? He said he said it. Well, he announces sometimes, right? What's the backup? I'll announce it. Backup means if the the announcer can't make it, they call him and he goes in and he announces the games. So that that's great. The house announces. It's like if if Bob Chikorilla got the flu, Sid would do the Olympia, you know. Well, Bob is the backup announcer for for the Hornets. are you talking about? Don't start rumors. No, it just happens to be that the Hornets announcer has never been sick. Oh, is that Oh, is that what it is? I got you. I got you. I'm the backup for Jimmy Kimmel. Did you know that? He just never gets sick either. That's why I haven't got AI haven't got a gig yet this year. All right. Well, we're going to wrap up today's uh action here. A lot of excitement building as the Arnold approaches closer. And to answer your question from earlier today before my camera went bad, my flight is booked for the Arnold. So I'm already, you know, heading over there. I'm waiting for the Arnold people to give me my hotel room as they always get it for me every year. And uh, you know, they if you need a room, I can tell them. I was just going to say the minute the show ends, I need a room. All right, Sid. I'll have Sid. Well, they don't pay for the room, but they get us the room. So I'll sid have uh have them get Chris and I a room, please. uh in the host hotel there and this way we'll be all settled. But I get your flight book because the the book the flight is the most important thing, Chris, to get down there. We'll get hotels. That's not a problem. Yeah. All right. I uh I like where we're at. I like the lineup. I like the prize money. I like uh what we're seeing from the competitors leading up to this show. And I think it's going to be a great one. And I'm looking forward to uh It's always the It's great because it's the first show of the year, so there's a lot of excitement around it. Everyone has got a lot of energy. People are not tired of bodybuilding. We haven't had it for two months and so we're ready for it again. And uh I I can't wait to see you guys at the end of the month. For now though, we are out of time. Chris, as we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you guys next week.