Heat. The Arnold Classic is around the corner and RX Muscle has you covered with previews and analysis from the top minds in bodybuilding and interviews with the top competitors and personalities in the sport. It's RX Muscle's Iron Road to the Arnold, sponsored by Scitec Nutrition, only on rxmuscle.com. Welcome back to Live with RX Muscles Iron Road to the Arnold Classic brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecn nutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and it's my pleasure tonight to have in our studio our next guest, IFBB Freak of Freaks, Max Charles. Thank you for having me. Thank you for coming. I love getting you in the studio. Yes. Because you're very soft spoken and I can look in your eyes and I can see the determination and passion in your face. I'm focused always. Two weeks out from the Arnold. You got to be feeling uh pretty stoked, huh? Pretty exhausted. exhausted but excited at the same time. How many hours you putting in the gym every uh day now? Uh training at least three. Yeah. How many how many hours? Three hours. Every single day. Yeah. Now, for those of you who don't know, Char Max never takes a day off, right? Seven days a week. Seven days a week. Yes. I said to Chris Aceto, who's obviously doing your diet, and I said, "Chris, don't you say something to Max and tell him to take a day off?" He goes, "I wouldn't even dare." Yeah. I I mean I told him exactly everything that I'm doing. So he knows what I'm doing. Yeah. It's not like I'm training seven days. I tell him I'm training five. He knows I do seven days and I told him that's what works for me. So what what do you do on the other two days? Like is that like a tuneup day for you type of thing? No. I say I would not train five days and tell him I'm I would not train seven days. You're being honest with him. Yeah. Yeah. I I actually do train seven days a week. Never never take a day off from weights. I mean I've taken time off. Let's just say if I finish uh my competition season, I like to give my body a break for like two weeks, take a break. But when I go back to the gym, yeah, I train seven days a week. And you never feel like a little burnt out or like, you know, maybe you're a little sore or maybe you just feel like, oh, I don't want to go to the gym. Not really. If I do feel burnt out, then I'll take a day off, give my body a break. That's usually what I need. I'll take one day to recover so that I I know how to pay close attention to my body. I know when I need to do So, you're instinctual. Yes. Now, 2015 was a was a really a banner year for you because you finally this was your breakout year. You placed third at the New York Pro uh and then you went on to win the Tampa Pro. You went to your first Mr. Olympia competition. Um you placed top 12. I'm sure you would have liked a higher and we'll talk about that in a little bit. But, um I mean, do you feel that this was the first year that really validated you as a you know, as a real threat in the IFBB? Um, I think so far that's the year that I actually was getting better and better. Every year I just keep getting better. I think that year was the year that actually brought my confidence up to let me know that actually do belong on the IFBB stage. Do you think that the uh at the IFBB pro level that there's a a very big mental component to competing as well as physical because everyone's got physical gifts. I I'll say a lot of it is mental because from what I've seen I some people most people actually most of the post they chase some other guy look I've never chased somebody else's look I have to see the look that works for me that's what I chase I don't I'm don't really care if like Phil or whoever is Mr. Olympia. Most people trying to go for that look, whoever is on top. I trying to go for my own look, whatever goes with my own body. Well, no one really looks like you. You have a pretty unique look of your own. And it seems like at these at these regional shows now that you're you're very confident. You go in there, you you feel you look like the winner on stage, you know, when you're up on that stage. I don't see any fear in your face anymore. Um, how was it going to the Olympia though? The Olympia had to be an overwhelming experience for you because it's something you've never experienced. Yeah, the Olympia actually you're talking about I look like a winner on stage. But the thing is when I get on stage um I always feel like I belong there. I have to show that I belong there. And since I always get so so many crap from people, oh you look when I walk around people say oh you look too mean. You look too too arrogant which is I'm completely the opposite. So when I get on stage I trying to hold myself back and trying to look confident. So but I realized that actually hurt me on stage. It's one thing when I'm walking around for me to look humble, but when you're on stage, you cannot look humble on stage. You have to look like you're the winner and you want. So, I have to switch I had to switch that around and actually look like I wanted more than the next guy when I get on stage. So, that's what I had to make that transition. So, you have to almost act when you're on stage. That's not who you are. No, that's not who I am. But when I get on stage, I had to show, you know, that I'm aggressive and I wanted more than the guy next to me. And that was was that a tough thing for you to do or to to kind of it's tough, but once you get in the mindset, you just get it done, right? What about the competition? How'd you feel at the Olympia? Were you intimidated at all by these guys? I mean, not not in the sense that they're that they're better than you, but just in the sense that it was an overwhelming experience. You never I was not intimidated because I went in there knowing that it's not like I went in there thinking that, oh, I was going to win or knowing that I didn't belong there or knowing that everybody there was better than me. I went in there knowing that thinking to myself that it's going to be a learning experience. I want to see what those guys on on the top five. I wanted to see what they look like, what I'm missing, what they have, what I don't have. I was more focused on paying attention to them, what they look like and what I'm missing than anything else. What did you think you were missing uh that that pushed you down to 12th place? Um, from what I noticed from from the top five guys and from that point on I noticed that a lot of them really had it seemed like back in the days you had to have proportion upper body and lower body. Seem like now most of the guys their lower body kind of overpower their upper body. If you're if you have even leg with with upper body then it kind of it doesn't really flow too much. Like I see most of the guys that do really good seem like their leg is actually a little bit bigger than the than the upper body. That's observation. Yeah, that's what I noticed. You think when your upper body is a little bigger than your legs, it kind of throws it throws your eye off maybe a little bit because obviously your your upper body there's no one bigger. No one has a bigger upper body than you at all. Yeah, I think when your maybe it throws the symmetry off a little bit. when your upper body is a little bit bigger than actually your leg is. But when your leg is a little bit bigger than your upper body, it actually I think it give it a better flow. Do you feel that you should have been higher than 12th at the Olympia? That's in the past. I don't I don't I don't sweat that no more. No. No. Where where do you think if you were like judging and you looked through the pictures in the video, where do you think you should have fallen? If I was judging? Yeah. I I don't know. I I would have to actually go back and judge every single person that place ahead of me to actually know who I would place myself ahead of which I didn't do that cuz I was just basically using that as an experience. Does that really matter where I place? Yeah, it does matter. But after I get placed somewhere, I'm not going to sit back and stress it and make excuses for it. I just know I got to get better. What did Chris Aceto think about the Olympia? What did he think about your placing and where you felt? No, no, I didn't discuss places with Chris. Oh, you still haven't? I don't I don't I don't discuss places. It doesn't really matter. I just the next day after the Olympia, I just went right back to the gym and just start working on my my neck for for this year. I I just want to move to the next to the next point. Did you take a day off after the Olympia? No. For what? I I was 12th place, so I didn't deserve no day off. There you go. There you go. Um you know, you started working with Chris this past year. Uh you had some great great results obviously. uh the last two years I'd say your physique really came into its own. I saw a lot of changes in your physique. What do you what do you attribute that to? Do you attribute to diet? Do you attribute to the way you've changed your training in the gym? A combination? Um a lot of it have to do with diet. I'm not going to say that. I mean eating and everything like that was never a big part of my daily thing, but eating is a big thing. like training. I have trained most of my training, but I could I have always trained training, but unless your eating is what it's supposed to be, you're just basically wasting your time because I know if I'm training a certain way, I have to eat according to how I'm training. So, that makes a big difference to how I was able to progress. Training every single day, 3 hours a day, I imagine you probably have to eat a lot of food, a lot more than you were eating, because I know you were a skimpy eater, you know, when we talked. Yeah, I I I do try to eat to eat more, but I'm not going to tell you that I eat a lot of food because I can't. So, I luckily have side effect, so I drink a lot of protein. Okay. Drink a lot of vitago. So, I I make up for it by drinking. As far as appetite, I don't have much of an appetite, but I also have the option to drink my my meal if I cannot eat it. So, what is like a a typical pre-contest, you know, meal regimen for you now leading up two weeks out from the Arnold? What are you like consuming uh daily? You want to you want me to give Chris diet away? Yeah. Yeah. Well, just give me like a basic protein fat carb breakdown for the day. Well, carbs is just regular like 60 gram a day and that's low. You're very low. That's carbs. Oh, I don't mean carbs. I mean fat. Okay. Yeah. But no, no, no, no, no way. Fat's low. Fat fat is low. And then carbs I would say right now I mean getting in starting the starting starting phase I would say maybe 350 and right now I'm probably at 200. Okay. See that's and that's pretty low for you given your activity level probably. Yeah. But my body actually can handle it. Like my body doesn't need some is you have to work with your body depending on what your body need. My body doesn't need that much that much um carbs to really do what it's supposed to do. has I guess Chris and you kind of figured that out trial by that's why it's good for me to work with him. I can only work with somebody that understand who I am and how my body works because if I explain to you this is how my body work because before we started working I give him a whole run how my body work and what I do usually do. So I think he could take it from okay if that works for you this this work for you then this would be a better plan for you. So with that it would just it was the best thing. How much protein you eating a day approximately? Um 30 300 350. Okay. So, you're not eating a lot of calories. You're you're you're you're pretty moderate. I mean, on the food intake, like you said, I mean, you're not really you're not lying. If I if I was to eat more than that, then I wouldn't be able to get down my meals. Really? No. That's even even with craving. Even when I even when he was giving me extra food, like a cheat meal, it's still hard for me to to get a cheat meal. That's amazing. To get it down. It's amazing that someone's so large. I mean, what are you weighing now? Right now, I'm probably 270 plus. Okay. And that's that's a big that's a very big man. you know, you're not eating, you know, what we would normally see from a 270 lb person. Put it this way, Juan Morell is eating a lot more food than you are. Yeah. But, um, way before that's compared to what I'm eating now, that's a lot. Is it? So, it really is. It is an up. It is an up. I know. Before when I tell people what I used to eat, they give me a whole lot of crap. So, that's not Trust me, right? I have zero appetite. I don't really know how to get people to understand that you cannot be this big and eat that little. Well, that's how our body is. That's that's what I do. You want me to tell you a lie just to satisfy whatever crap you have in your head? I can do that. Ask me a question. I can only tell you the truth. I'm convinced that's why your waist is so small because you eat very small portions. I know. I know. That's why I'm con because you know what? I I had to eat an enormous amount of food when I was competing. I think it made my waist bigger. It makes your waist big and it actually especially when you get for most people that get like a ton of not only carbs also a little bit but I think when you have to take excessive amount of protein I think it actually extends your waist. I think it did it to me and I think that's why Kai has the same problem. Yeah. When you take too much protein like so much beef, so much chicken like I think it's definitely going to push everything out. So it's actually a benefit that you can't eat that much food or that you don't need that much food. I think it's a benefit that I don't need it. Not that I don't. Right. Because if you needed I mean I mean if you if you disappear you would have got no choice. Right. Exactly. Let's let's talk about the Arnold Australia for a minute because the Arnold Australia is two weeks after the Arnold USA and and Tony Dar called me up and he said or he texted me I think and he's like you got to get Max Charles to do the Arnold Australia and uh I don't know if are you are you planning on doing it? I I wish I could see I still have a holding 9 to5. I I told him that. I said Max is not going to do it because he's got a real job. I got I still have a job. I mean, actually, I was I've been meaning to even get back to him. Oh, you didn't get back to him? That's cuz I've been trying to see if there's a way I could do it, but I couldn't even get a definite answer for my job. So, finally, they told me no, I wasn't cuz I'm leaving for the I have to leave for the for the Arnold, Ohio. Then after that, I have to be in France and Germany, all this traveling that I have to do. So, I was trying to feed in the Australia show and there, but they did not got it. you know, in essence, you know, it kind of it's it's bad because you I know you have a tremendous, you know, fan, you know, base in Australia and Tony's dying to get you there. And I said, "Look, Max has got a real job. You know, he still works. You know, hopefully one day I can get to the point where I don't have I can just be a bodybuilder, but for now, I got a family. Got to pay the bills. I got to do what I got to do." Yeah. Exactly. So, I think you would do very well. You know what? The longer you not don't go to Australia, the more popular you'll become so that when you finally do go to Australia, you'll probably make a ton of money like Ronnie Coleman did. So, yeah, bring a lot of t-shirts and and and pictures to sign because they they love to buy. I I need to get in that business mind because I I guess I'm too busy throughout the whole day that I don't really think too much about I mean I mean I know I'm taking the question somewhere else because I've seen so many people that take bodybuilding in a whole different level not just come to the stage actually I've seen a lot of guys that say effort they don't even compete no more and they actually still was able to promote themsel in a way that they still making really good money not even competing. So I I look at them, I said, "Oh, that's not that's not too that's not too bad on the part." But I cannot really do something like that. No. Because of the day the way that my days go. I don't really have enough enough time to come out with a plan to to even come up with a good plan. Well, but that's something that I see that I'm impressed with the guys that are able to do that. You'll do it. You'll do it. You'll find the right people to help you do it because uh look, you're a brand now and you know the brand people want the brand. So people want to buy Max Charles. You know, it's weird for you because you you you came up so quickly that I don't think it really struck you that you were a brand and people do look up to you and you got a tremendous fan base out there. I guarantee there's a million people watching this show right now who, you know, want to know more and more and more about Max Charles. Now, Scitec Nutrition has been with in your corner for a couple years now. Almost two years. Yeah. And uh you know, obviously that makes it easier to pay the bills. Obviously, of course. You know, there's a lot of travel involved. You've been all over the world now. How does it feel when you go to other countries and you're like this superstar? Cuz you never you're never a star where you live. You're always a bigger star elsewhere. My experience with other places is almost before I started traveling going all to all these places, you always hear from people say, "Oh, like French people are rude or so and so are rude." So once you first get there, you expect to to to get that experience. But my experience going to other places is completely the opposite. Like I guess you're going to have rude people, bad people everywhere. But when I go to those places, maybe it's cuz people that actually wanted to see me. Maybe when they see you, they might treat you differently. But my experience is always even when I go out to eat in a restaurant, it's always very pleasant. It's I never really have any bad experience is always I love traveling and I love meeting new people. But it's weird though when you go to a place that you you've never been to and then they all know you. I mean that that's what always struck me as crazy when I would go. I'm like, how do these people know me there? It's like you don't realize it. Obviously with the internet now it's it's a lot different. Back in the day when I was competing it was mostly all magazines. I remember uh when I was it after I turned 12 I was that's when I was with Ronnie Ronnie Coleman line and then I was there at the at the Arnold Expo and I was sitting down and this kid came up to me like oh my god I can't believe it's you like I'm your biggest fan and then he's like can you please sign my heart and everything like that. I looked at him I said dude Ronnie is right there. I thought he was talking about Ronnie. He said no you're not my Charles. I said yeah you sure you want to? He said, "Yeah, you I'm your biggest friend." I said, "So, you don't want to speak to Ronnie?" He said, "No, I'm I came here to see you." I like, "Oh, I was so shocked that he was actually talking about me." Because that's what he came to see Ronnie. That's pretty impressive, right? I said like, you know, most people say, "Oh, all black guy. All black people look alike." So, like I said, you're the black guy. I'm not that one. But he was like, he was actually literally he came there as a fan of mine just to see me. And I was like, "Really? You fan of mine?" I was like, that was my first time interaction with a real fan. So, I was Yeah, I was really shocked. It it it is incredible. I had a woman come up to me once and she was like, "Oh my god, I'm your biggest fan. I can't believe it. I love all your movies." She's like, "Can I get your autograph, Arnold?" I said, "I'm not Arnold Schwarzenegger." I said, "Arnold's about 20 years older than me." This happened in Brazil to me, believe it or not. Yeah, Brazil. So, talk to me a little. Let's talk about the Arnold Classic lineup. Uh it's pretty competitive group this year. Obviously, we got Kai Green in the lineup, which I'm sure you're going to really appreciate standing next to up on stage. You'll probably be one of the only guys who can kind of match him for size-wise up there. A lot of these guys are smaller than him. Uh you got Justin Compton, who was third last year at the Arnold Classic. You got Juan obviously in the lineup. Branch Warren. Um where do you see yourself falling in this lineup? Can you win this show? Can I win this show? I think I can. Mhm. Yes. Definitely. Tell me why Max Charles should win the Arnold Classic. Because I see the letter they sent out, it's all going to be about symmetry, line, proportion. I think I will bring all that condition. I don't see anything that they require that I'm not going to bring. I don't think I don't really feel that if I bring what I'm supposed to bring, anybody else really going to outdone me can outdone me so much to the point that I feel like I have no hope. Chris Aceto Chris Aceto told me this is the best Max Charles he's ever seen. He's so impressed with the improvements that you've made over the last six months that he almost can't believe it. He told me, "Is that an accurate assessment?" Um, yeah. I I get that from people that's with me every day. So, I'll say yes. And you and you're always covered up. I never see you. You're never in the gym with a tank top. Why do you Why do you stay so You know, I mean, I don't I don't stay covered up on purpose. I go to the gym wearing a sweater. I keep a sweater on because I don't go in there to show off. I go in there to work out. I only it only matter to me how I feel and how I look. I don't the whole world how they think how I feel or how I look. It doesn't really Don't you like to go in the gym when you got a good pump and want to look in the mirror and a couple shots and see what you look like. You know, when I when I get a good pump, it feel good because I have the pump. Not because I'm looking in the mirror because I I love the pump. I love the burn. For me, I mean, it's it's what I look like showing off. It never really crossed my mind to be honest. I I mean, you're very humble. You know, a lot of people probably think you're full of crap. I I know you're this humble because I've known you for a long time. I never I've never really been somebody that into impressing other people. It's never really really my thing to really trying to prove something to anyone. I It only matter to me how I feel. What I always say that if you give people the power to make you feel good, they also have the power to make you feel like [\h__\h] True. And nobody can ever make me feel like [\h__\h] cuz I never give anyone that power. It only matter to me what I feel inside. Well, that's important. Now, what is Chris Aceto saying? He's texting Max. He Chris Aceto said he wants to see a shot. He wants to see your pose. Hit an arm. Show us your arms. Open the sweatshirt up a little. Listen, I don't have anything under that sweater. That's good. That's even better. Get just peek an arm out. Give us a quick arm shot to take us out of this interview. Four arm shot. Forearms. Come on. Give us the vice. Open up this unzip the thing. Give us a little sneak peek of Max Charles. Aceto's giving permission. Your coach. Yeah. I'm I'm going just open those zip up. All right. Give us a chest. Just that's all you get. In the camera there. Look in the camera. Look into the camera. Put Put a hand over your head. Hit a little bit of app shot there. Put your hand behind your head. I don't know how to do all that. All right, Chris. That's all you're going to get. Max Charles. Uh sneak peek. We want to We want to uh wish you the best of luck. You're a local guy. Uh we I've seen you come up from the guy who was walking around the gym and everyone's like, "Who was that?" to now a full-fledged pro. You have a pro victory in your corner. You were at the Olympia. It's time for you to win this Arnold Classic. I'm going for it. You got to bring it home. I know nobody have me. Probably I don't even know. But I don't think nobody see me as even a potential to do anything big. But it's good to be the underdog. I It make me feel better actually. It's harder when you when you have expectations. Underestimated. All right. Well, more fire. We're We're all rooting for you. Thank you. Max Charles will be up on stage at that Arnold Classic in less than two weeks. Uh for now, we're out of time here today with live with RX Muscles Iron Road to the Arnold Classic brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecnutrition.com. Dave Palumbo. See you next time.