It's Arnold week here at Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Wednesday, March 1st, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you want to beat the bully on the block, then you've got to come out swinging. And if you ask me, rookie pro Luke Sandow is about to come out with one hell of a roundhouse kick. The former UK national champ is locked, stocked, and ready to do battle in bodybuilding's granddaddy of them all, the Arnold Classic. From top to bottom, Sandow is an absolute powerhouse in every sense of the word. But we're about to find out quick, fast, and in a hurry if he's ready to stand in there and go toe-to-toe from the opening bell. Getting to the top of the mountain is no easy feat. But staying there, well, now that's an entirely different beast. So, I guess it's a good thing that Brandon Hendrickson has dialed into beast mode. The returning Arnold Classic men's physique champ released a sneak peek ab check earlier in the week, showcasing a small piece of that impressive championship look we saw from him a year ago. When this guy is full and shredded, his combination of size and conditioning are in a class by themselves, but he leaves the door open. Give it a little bit of a crack. It might be enough for the Jeremy Podfins and Ryan Terries of the world to come storming through. Wide shoulders, check. Small waist, check. Crazy 3D muscle, discount, double check. So, I guess that means Alo Augusti must be almost ready to take flight. This week, the 212 veteran released his latest offseason update, showing off a physique that looks awfully similar to his top 10 Olympia form from a few years back. When it comes to the shape and structure department, August is as gifted as any athlete in the division. And when he hits a home run with his conditioning, he becomes one very hard man to beat. There are exactly 14 letters in the name Ahmad Ashkani. So, if you're an engraver in Columbus, Ohio, I get busy practicing how to spell that out. A few days away from taking flight for the first time this season, the secondyear 212 superstar is heading into the weekend as one of the early favorites to come in and steal the show. After a blistering second place performance at last year's Olympia, Ashkinani has been pretty firmly established as one of the premier athletes in the division. But adding an Arnold Classic title to his resume would certainly catapult him to an entirely new level. There aren't too many things out there more impressive on a bodybuilding stage than a good big man. And right now, there aren't too many guys out there who are bigger or more impressive than Josh Lonardoitz. The Aussie big man has no definitive dates to make his 2017 debut where he'll look to start writing his name in the history books and becoming a member of bodybuilding's rarified heir. Lonardoitz has every weapon you could possibly want at his disposal. And when he comes in at 100% this guy is truly a sight to behold. If he gets a full steam ahead going through the early part of this year, there's no telling what sort of destruction he's going to cause leading into the 2017 Olympia.