I'm standing here with Marcy Simmons, the women's physique division overall champ and new IFBB Pro here in Miami, Florida. You are the national overall champion. How does that feel? It feels great. I am so excited. Very much so. Now, you know, it's it's interesting cuz Chris Aceto and I were looking at your physique and we loved it. We like muscle. We like conditioning. You had both a lot of it. Were you concerned that maybe you might have been a little too big coming into the show? No. I did my research. I looked at the people who were in Olympia and I'm like, "Okay, I look like them." So, if they look like me, then you do look like Juliana Malik. So, I was like, if I come in this show looking like what I believe looks similar to those of the Olympia, then I should be on point. Well, you certainly were on point. Now, you look at those legs, John. Get get some camera light on those legs. Chris Ace and I had a bet. He's like, "She probably squats 225." I said, "Probably 315." You told me 435 lbs. And here 30 in the hole. You started in powerlifting. Is that true? Yeah, that's my uh background. I've been powerlifting for about 15 years. Yep. Heavy weights. I love it. You're really east coast mentality, huh? Yes, absolutely. Not west coast. No. Now, is it true also that you want to try to get a 500 lb deadlift? Yes. That's my next goal. Break all the Illinois state records in powerlifting. That's amazing. Now, does does strength come easy to you or It does. I gain muscle easy and strength very, very easy. You have to be careful now that you don't get too big. Nope. Just I just cut back on my calories. But for the most part, I could eat candy and gain muscle. I think I'm a genetic freak. Yes. Now, what about diet? Is it hard for you to lose body fat? It's not. For me, it's just I have to just make sure I stay on my cardio for the I diet most of my fat off with um just clean eating, but I just up my cardio six days a week. What's a lot of cardio for you? Hour a day. That's not that much. It worked for me. Obviously, it did cuz you won the overall here today. Indeed. It worked for me. How many shows have you done prior to this one? Um I did one national qualifier a month before this show. You did? Yep. And I did a show four years before that and I was the only competitor in the show. So you don't know if you beat anyone. This is really my first two shows. These are my first two shows. Why'd you wait so long? Cuz you've been you've been lifting for a long time, right? I had to get my mind right. You know, I always kept my body in a shape where I'm like, "Okay, if I want to do a show, it's not going to take me more than 3 or 4 months to get ready for it. I just had to get my mind right." I had this happen or that happen. But I made a decision. I'm like, "Okay, I'm going to do a qualifier, win a qualifier, win a national show." And I did all my research and I made a manifest. What distracted you for 10 years that you couldn't get yourself on stage? Um, boys maybe. Oh, boys. That's bad for you. No, just um, yeah, I guess a faulty relationship and, you know, just being a mother. Yeah. Oh, you're a mother. Yes, I have a seven-year-old daughter. Oh, wow. Where the hell did that come from? I don't see that. My uh, battle wounds are covered up really nice, you know. Well, I have a seven-year-old daughter. And what does she think of the whole bodybuilding thing? loves it. You know, the last show that I went to, she went up to the stage and was like, "That's my mother." Hey, so my daughter, she's very proud of me. She's very health oriented and, you know, she dances and does gymnastics. She understands the concept of health and fitness. So, and you're from Chicago, the Windy City. Yes. Which you which I think explains the hardcore atmos attitude because in New York and and Chicago, places where it's cold, people like to train hard. Why is that? You got to protect yourself. The crime rate is kind of high. So you Yeah. Where you are to be ready. Are you from Detroit? Not from um south side of Chicago. So I mean Chicago, excuse me. Yeah. Yeah. From Chicago. So yeah, we have very high-risisk areas that you need to be prepared for. So it doesn't Most people are afraid of me, you know. Just I would be too. Yeah. I mean, you're pretty big. In high school, I did uh break the goalie's uh thumb in soccer. Why was it the men's or the women's goalie? The men's. I kicked the ball. He caught it. He caught it and his thumb broke. You're tough, huh? That was when I was 15. Yep. So, and you had a track and field uh background early in high school, huh? Yep. 100 meters. 200 meters. 200 meters. Yes, indeed. Your time was 24/7, which is which is definitely faster than me me and Chris Aceto for certain. Yeah. Not bad for somebody with some big legs. So, I I always wanted to organize like a a women's physique or women's bodybuilding or figure like sprint like races like to see like who's a functional. That's a good idea. I think you should have track and field events for bodybuilders. Alicia Harris is is is a big track athlete from your area. Yeah, I've seen her. Yeah, I've seen her on the magazine. Um, probably. So, if not, I can definitely outbench her or squatter or deadlift or I can shoulder press her one. Get you in Bros versus Pro strength challenge, I think sometime in the future. I love I love flipping tires, anything heavy. I'm I've always been good at lifting heavy stuff just from a child. It's just it came natural to me, so that's what I do. Well, congratulations on the win tonight. You're very entertaining and uh you were an awesome spectacle on that stage. Thank you. I appreciate you guys. Talk to me. One more thing I want to ask you. One more question. Now that you're a pro, okay, everyone's going to want to know when they're going to be able to see you on a pro stage. Have you even thought about that yet or is that not even in your mind yet? I I I it grazed my mind last night. I have to sit down with my coach. We're going to pick out some shows, but I want to try to do something within the next like five months. Just knock them out. out. You ever think of maybe New York? Probably. Maybe Juliana Maloney will be back there. New York. Yeah, New York is a good scene. And then on to the Olympia. That's my goal. All right. Congratulations. Out. Thank you on the win. Our overall champion here in women's physique. New IFBB Pro. For now, Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.