

=== FILE: 'FAKE' LEE PRIEST RESPONDS TO KENNY KO! [9wVYWacwtCo].txt ===

Oh, you're funny. Oh, you're funny. So like I said, like I said, like I said, do you like my title for the first year? Oh, yeah. Welcome back to Iron League. Jump deep, love out here with Lee. Actually, I think it's, oh wait, Darth Vader. What did you do with Lee? He did a demonetized us with his music. What? Has never demonetized him. How dare you say that? Thanks. You made his friends with the person for his demand. I'm here to put you back on stick. I'll show you more of that. My man, I'm on this bus. I'm not having a second. I'm with you. I will never go as you dive Vader. I'm a Jedi. Shave, it's really me, but we can't release that it's really me yet until Kenny Kayo calls up George Lucas and does an inquiry to find out on the fake Darth Vader. But until then, let's let people believe on the real Darth Vader. Okay. I want to know how Darth Vader had a coffee break. This is very old on Dave. I want to look upon you with my own eyes. Oh wow, he's got the real one I know, that's pretty. Jesus, I still can't see. Oh no, let me, let me wait there my son. It's been a long time since I was your father. I'm going to take my collar off. Ah, that's better. It's lead, please. Who were you? I don't know. I got worse. Hold on. Look at this one. Hold on. Another one, just in case. Oh, I'm going to fall out of my seat. The things I do for Kenny Kayo, I tell you, Dave. The things I do for Kenny Kayo. You're really, you're just a fake Darth Vader. That's what you are. You're fake. Hold on. One year if Kenny went out of business, they were you're me. Hold on. Hold on. No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I am not the real robot Danny Jr. Okay. But it's alright. I can. It's my hands, man. What's going on here? Man, man, man. Man. Man. Are you the fake Iron Man or the real one? Oh, no, no. My lighting systems now functions. You've been doing a lot of fake stuff lately. What? This is real. I like it like this. Good. Fake a real wager. That's thEQuestion. Kenny Kayo says you use the fake weights. Oh, well. That's pretty cool. Get to the lights up though. Hold on. Let me just do my. What? They're back on. What is the battle mode? Well. I like it. Very nice. Yeah, you can see it. When they've got all the cool toys, you know, that every kid would wish you had. Like on Batman with Jack Nicholson. What is he gets? That's wonderful toys. That's right. That's right. That's right. People don't know that. They were. I don't think Tyler was born when that movie came out. What? The first. The first thing. Yeah. 80s. He was in the morning. He was still swimming in the boat. He was still swimming in his father's bowl sex. Oh, yeah. So, so Kenny Kayo, which is the. You know, he is the obviously the the judge. Oh, no. I know. Kenny. Kenny Kayo is the um. The one that calls out fake fake people fake girls on the butts. Yeah. Fake everything. Kenny Kayo is the one that um. When we're talking about fake isn't Kenny Kayo to one that. Put on 28 pound a muscle in two weeks. Yeah. 28 pound with coach. 28. Tony. Tony. He's 28 pound a muscle in two weeks. And he's got the hide. The say anyone else's fake and bullshit. Come on there. What he should have done was a video because everyone kept sending it. His fake video one did he did and spent hours research. I think the guys just came looking at my fucking bicep. Yeah. Trying to work if this thing's fake or not because he's weird. But I want to see him do a video on how he put 28 pound a muscle on two weeks. But how he lost it all in fucking 12 hours. He took a diabetic. Oh, give me 10,000 dollars. You say it's the proof it's true. Kenny. Keep your 10,000 for food and steroids. You fucking need it. Fuck. So he did just take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Just wouldn't fucking be right. He probably makes more of a the bottom of us with his YouTube channel. I don't know. I don't know because what I looked at it. It'd be not for a while. And he's got like 400,000 subscribers. But he only had like 1500 watch each video compared to Nick put up the video of me doing a Nick was at like 250,000. I think. Same fitness was close to 100,000. So he has already subscribers. But no one watches this shit. So what's that tell you? I don't know. Yeah. Let me let we're talking about is Kenny Kay. I'll put up this video of you doing a like a strict bicep curl with some of your friends. I don't know what's going on. But I didn't want to even trick because when I put up the first time I said it's not strict. Because of my injuries and stuff from stuff like this. But what people felt the sea was. Let you know the secret, the bars real. The collar's a real. The 20. The 20 kilos on each side of real. And the red ones are real. 2.5. I never. I never hit the fact because this is. This is how a rowing a reporter here is. if you go to Sam's fitness where he got the video from and probably from, well, there's probably six videos of me using those red plates on Sam's fitness or I'm curling two of them on each side. I got two red ones and then a black one and I'm doing straight bar curls, then I'm doing reverse curls with it going into a press. So the roving fucking report of Kenny didn't have to go to a far if you really wanted to see them. Well, I think that's where he found his evidence for those from those other videos you had. Now, now someone, he said someone else sent it to you and they said, they didn't even see those videos. I've always, they would have brought him up. Well, they did brinGHim up. I think it was in his video. They put those videos up. Now, now somebody sent him something saying, oh, this and that, the company makes these fake ones that he went into it and he had the zoom in on that a red one, the show where we scribbled out the point. Rather than just going to the other video where it shows me doing reverse curls with, that would have been 110 kilos or more. That's right. And then like that from revenge. I know you don't give a shit about that. Was that like the sand put you up to that to do some kind of, you know, sensationalistic videos? That way you did it. Wait, look, look, look at my same videos. That's all we do is just riffing into people. And then the whole thing, too, is you see when it comes out even more, the full length is new slash Kenny. I'm wearing a defund immediately at the show. What I'm doing at talking about. Hate news. So what you say is it was taking out a context, you know, and understood the joke because they didn't see the whole video. Is that what you're saying? Exactly. I'm just showinGHow pathetic the meat area is and you people believe, fucking anything they fucking see on whatever. It's not crazy to how people love to, and because you're about the most authentic person. You're actually too authentic. I tell you this sometimes you're too honest and that's why people get pissed off at some times. But, you know, if anyone's going to pick on anyone is being on, you know, authentic, you're the last person I'm going to go after. Probably would, you know. Oh, well, I just thought I'd get in. I have the final because the first video I ever sent Nick of doing that I just had a five kilo on each side. And I struggled with the five kilo. So I progressed Dave. I progressed a bit since then. And then and then people I said, in that one point that I say I'm going for a world record and I wouldn't do that. Look, if my arm was better, would IMaybe because you're in the back in the day, like I said, it will. Jim, I called 300 pounds on a stripe. But it wasn't strict because as I was, because I was going to get ready for Olympia. So when I got through a bad here, you got 300 pounds. I said the lean back just to counter the way back. Exactly. Yeah. No, but I didn't swing it off. I brought a lot of norm would then just let back with it. And that sort of thing. But now, now, it's always going to go for the record and this. But I'm just proving a point that how many other people that they're doing their videos. You can't believe what you're fucking see, babe. Or Jesus fucking Christ. If Trump hasn't taught you anything in life, that is fake news. Hey, but listen, don't get mad at me. People with, you know, what Nick and everybody look, you got 250,000 of more stuff. Keep going up. I fucking made your money. Yeah, yeah. Well, you know, it's also, I think what's, what's, what's causing? You're not trying to hide you to anything like that. You know, some of these guys, like, if you were trying to like, you know, justify what you did, you would be like, but I think way to know, but you're like, I don't give a fuck. You know, here, this is the way it goes. Let me just say it, but I lost it in a half or more same, and I've been sitting back having a good fucking life. I was gonna, I'll imagine you probably wouldn't do here. And when I saw Kenny's, that just popped it off the way he went into the hole. Fucking, you know, this was almost like a round. I opened up fucking alcohol, a pound's bolt. Yeah, it was a round of people who even don't, we thought, a rather rare idea to show where he was going to open crack open the secret vault of alcohol. And it was like a, our special to wait to the very end when they actually opened the vault, but there was nothing in there, right? Yeah, I was empty. Oh, oh. Look at why Kenny's going into that he's doing, you know, so I just such told me, and then I went to the site and then I did this and then I did that and I was like, well, he even figured out why he even figured out the rationale, why you didn't try to break the record with the fake weights because he figured that then if you broke the record, more people would screw it nice in the record with what you did, the left. So you thought you were trying to purposely, not if I was going to break the record, I would have done it properly and actually look, people on the secret, if I do go to do it properly, I'll do an unedited video of me weighing each plate, putting it on this scale, but then you're going to get the people go, well, I've seen him in a movie is what I can catch you, have you got to win them at a what way you do? No, unless someone's in there. Kenny's pay, oh, say he's going to fly out to you and then in Australia and then witness it and then you're going to give you $10,000. I thought would I let him in as you got a criminal record? He probably come out for the, he'll probably come out for the game, mighty girl. I think that's in January, February, Kenny. So you can come out and show that body that you built. I don't like the promote stuff and I don't promote anything really, but apart from supplements and whatever, and these show and stuff. Well, now you can have it to challenge that. He put it out there, Tango ran if you can do the weight for real. You think would you start maybe practicing now and really do the weight, you've done it before. I have to work on the strength here because even when I did that, cause this side takes most of the weight sort of a lock side of thing. It's almost like you go to squat and you've got the bar a bit crooked and all the weight seems to be on one side. So it feels a bit weird if I do anything like that. But well, the last time I properly cooled outside here, I had a 28 side of 10 and a 5 on an easy cool bar. And I asked me what that is. That's a 20 35 kilo each side plus the 10 kilo bar. So that's 70 80 about 80 85 kilos I did out here at home. But that wasn't strict. That's just doing normal cool. That's a nice 7 pounds. That's pretty close to 2.10. Yeah, so that's what I did properly. And my friends at trening with me can validate that. But yeah, if in a 14 gram would I probably go for at least 20 in case I did get injured. You know, yeah, you only got to go one rep though. So right, you only have to do it once. Yeah, but still, he takes one rep to fucking, you know, I took me one second when I pulled the two there at the box to tear the 10 that off my shoulders. That's true. But then again, 10 grand is 10 grand, you know, you like to do those crazy lifts anyway. So really, but I've never done one obviously. I've always in all my trening for out my years. I've never done a PB on anything of always. I was always on the impression if I can't get six reps. I'm not going to try it. Maybe at least everything was five, but I was never a four rep tree rep go for a personal best of one. I always had to do at least six repetitions before. I think you can do it. I think two 10 is doable for you. Hey, look, it doesn't matter. When you still got fucking 21. He jumps. You're getting 80. He's not in now. Hey, Kenny. Fucking Kenny. This is real. No fucking oil. Go investigate the oil in people's fuck. Hold on. I think I see a simple markedair. I see a zoom in. Let's zoom in on that. I don't know if I'm right there. Lights are a bit bright, but fuckinGHell. Look at that different. I'm fucking alums the Olympia. Fuck, I think I'm going to be ready. I think you can. He's going to have a forensic expert analyze that arm now to see if there's any kind of marks there. I'm by the way, Kenny. This shirt here. I got from Rebels Sporting Shop. It's actually as the true underarm is sure. It's not a knockoff from piloting. Oh, yeah. I've got to say big thank you to VP. Thank you to Cardillo. He sent me a belt. You sure that's out of faith? Did you burn that on there yourself? Hold on. Let me read the tank. I heard you're a leather tanner now. Is that true? I did. I was from Cardillo. 1,800, 272. Built. That's the style. I'm going to show you what's on it here. I'm here. It's got a machine gun and bullets. All right. And on here it has me. That's pretty good. And then me. And then oh. Me. Oh, the Punisher. The Punisher and me. And on the inside it has the Punisher. Wow. Did you have that made? Did he say send that to you? He made it for me. And then it says banged and then the Punisher. Yeah. But it says on the back it says banged. Lee priest. I did it my way. And then just a couple of pictures of me. Me flipping off the bird. So thank you very much. It is real leather Kenny. It's not our streets leather or fucking whatever you want to call it. It's a. Actually I had to measure my a tell you my waist didn't I because I scared to measure it. Go as early. I need your waist size and what is it? I can't remember. I can't remember the last time IMeasured my waist. So what do you think it is? 32. Are your clothes. It was just on 33. That's not bad for an old man. That's great. That's great. It used to be 29 when I was competing and that was with a real tape measure. Kenny, not a fake one too. You know what the point is? I actually like most of Kenny's videos. They're pretty good. And this is actually sad thing is so. The sad thing is the last time I even thought of Kenny or saw Kenny was on that huge doctor Tony huge document where they were all shooting up their insulin in drostanolones and taking their gear. And from the beginning of the show that ended it I couldn't see any difference. I knew that fucking Paul Paul Zach was going to die or something. And then the other guy could have could have trened because his shoulders were too sore from all the fucking injections. And the other guy had a towel on his head. He's like, he's just the tren today. And he's breathing like this and stuff. That's like, Jesus. And then he goes, and Kenny's put on this much muscle and I'm thinking, he looks the fucking same. It's almost like if you had a pile of steam and dog shit and it's like brown, steam and hot and then a week later you got the pile of dog shit. But now it's white. But it's still the same dog shit. That was like Kenny in the beginning video. He was fucking red and shit from taking all the injections or whatever. And at the end of the video, he was still the same shit Kenny. But now he was pale. So it's just like a piece of dog shit that just changed color. But the shit was still what it's saying. So I've got analysis of the movie. Thank you. It's only the priest can do it. That's for sure. So to reiterate, will you be taking Kenny up on his $10,000 challenge or no? If I'm, I get a bit better. Yeah, IMight, but that's a thing to the injury. When I watch it to you guys, I do not believe Lee did this with his injury type thing. Can you was talking like the injury was just yesterday? Yeah. Kenny, the car accident was five and a half years ago. But the injury problem is just due to that nerve being crushed. I've only got half the strength on one side. So I'd have to try and work out it because as I said, the hardest bit is when you're lifting all the weight goes to this side. It's like if I do back now and I'm doing a pull down. Most things I have to do, I have to do single. Maybe I have to try to do a stripped dumbbell, because I can put a hundred key on this hand. I'll put a 80 key on this hand and a 60 key on this hand. But if I do a pull down like this, the bar goes, er, this pulls more. So I've got to try and do isolated, you know, isolated type shit. Anything that's joined on a bar, this will just go. Right. What's the, what's the, what's the topic of today? Kenny Kio. The top it was does Lee Priest lift fake weights and the answer you gave us is yes, you did lift fake weights and was this sensationalist. We can't say it was all fake. It was half an hour. But again, it wasn't, it wasn't two ten. But they can't put the, yeah. But Kenny is doubting your act, your, is doubting your, and I think you can do it. I think you can do the 10 grand. When did I get it? Back in my hey day when I was young, I did it the 300, 35 whatever it was. It was, there was the smallest straight bar at World Gym on the balcony. What's the smallest straight bar? Wait, 10, 15 kilos back then. There's, you know, the smaller, they had the free 20s. And then there was a five on each hand. So that was it, and it was there. Like I said, Eddie threw me the fuck off because I've had my wrist straps on. I think I've told you, just putting the wrist straps on, I'm just picture in it. Joe Golds got his head out the window. Come on, if that thought you come with that boy. And then, I'm wrapping, you know, because Joe Golds got a name for everybody. Even in shape, I was fat boy. So I'm wrapping on, I'm pictureing in my mind, you know, just picture it. You got a focus. There's a couple of other people there. Steve, the lonGHere. I remember Steve, he did the drawings to a lot of stuff. It looked like a tall Viking guy. I think it is last name. But these are one I'm trying to track down for the photos. Just see took the photos. And here I'm psyching up. I'm about to lift it. And he just walks over. So I put his hand on my arm and go, he's Lee. Don't teet your bicep. So I'm like fuck, they're fucking unwrap the fucking straps and standing there. Go, thanks, Eddie. I didn't even have that fucking image you might. Yeah, yeah, you're trying to like focus. Yeah. They're all at now. Well, I see these fucking bicep coming off my house. I'm just going to never find minutes to try and get that image out of my head. And then take take two. Yeah, just put his hand on my arm and go, Lee, don't teet my stuff. And then stick my arm back. Eddie. Yeah, but the whole thing like I said, it's like the only had to go to Sam's fitness room, muck it around with those plates before. So there wasn't an end-depth thing, but there's mainly just the proof how to media and people believe anything they see. And half of these other people do encourage unambilip. Yeah, we have a time I used fake weights. I think was in my life was Robert Reef. Remember after while and people get injured doing photoshoot sort of time? Yeah, well, because they sound you. Chris, I'm glad you had the fake weights too. Yeah, I didn't really use them with him, but it's mainly Robert Reef. And yeah, maybe because he had those dumbbells that look like they were probably 160 pounds with downy weight, like 20 pounds in aromasingle curl with them. Then he had those 20 kilo ones that were metal, but they probably weighed five pounds each. Yeah, well, that's because for photoshoot because people don't want to get hurt during photoshoot. Yeah, well, not good. Remember Chris Lung, Chris Lung, you didn't give a shit. You put the fucking real weight on. No, he would never really. Yeah, yeah. He was three. And that was like two weeks before a contest, you'd have a photo shoot with Chris Lung. We're doing legs and sadly, remember he had hooks when he told both his fucking cords doing that. Remember the worst thing with Chris was you'd want to heavyweight, which was great for the photos, but the thing with Chris was like I remember once I was doing squats. So you got no shirt on which I don't know why he's squatting around a shirt. And you got oil, you got oil all over here, so the bar is slippery. And you just start going down with five plates. Or magic, hold it there. Hold it there. Go a bit deeper, go a bit deeper, hold it there, hold it there. After what I said, look Chris, I can't fuck you know, if you hold and stuff and hold and stuff, and if you're heavyweight, that's fucking, even doing dumbbells, it's like, even just holding it. Yeah, it's a good idea. You're asking for trouble. The funny thing with the jump here was able to do the weight. It was an easy squat for him, but the problem was he had ready, he arranged finished the photo shoot. He was leaving the gym and and lung wanted to do a couple more shots. He had already cooled down and everything like that. That's why he'd score his quads. And nothing, he said the weight wasn't a problem. It was a lot of weight for a normal person, but at the end he was squatting that easy, you know. Yeah, but the thing was, I said, just say the Chris listen, I'll use a weight that's heavy, but what I'm going to do is I'll just do the reps at a nice slow pace. And as I'm doing the reps at a nice slow pace, you just put you little fucking finger on that button and start going. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm going to say, even if you hold it at the bottom for like even three seconds, hold it, and then push halfway, hold it, hold it after what you're like, there's nothing left to push it. Yeah, I thought that sort of so that was it, but then they as I said after a few injuries happened, they brought out the fake ones, but the thing with the fake ones, I'll zoom it up a refold say, okay, Lee grab it now, you know, similar to Tom Platskart. It's like, I can't fake that it's like, you got to act at me. Every time I did it, he's like, Lee, you look like your laughing or something like that. Like give me a real fucking weight. And so it actually shows me that I'm struggling, you know, but I'll be like, he's like, you look like your laughing again. So if you were, if you were one and you wouldn't be able to fake an orgasm, basically, you'd not get access. Is what you said? No, I wouldn't. No, I would be able to fake that. Now, and who'd want you? It's like Jesus, who's on a fake and all guys in this life? Yeah, but to me it's like, you know, everything's a contest day, it's like you just get as long as you get your stay that sort of matters. That's what matters. You guys sucked into the whole thing. I don't even know how you got sucked into trying to do this whole trick rep thing. I didn't get stuck, you know, I'm just showing people how it done. That was, that's why my first video I did do on five. My very first video I sent the Nick Ditty put up was me struggling. IMean, struggling with five kilos inside. IMean, I got the bar and I'm leaning back and a little bit in the bars going sideways. So I just thought I'd just show how pathetic it is because it's getting old people. It's like, everyone now's just doing these stupid strict curls and this and that is like, really? You know, this is getting Nick. He's got a big far, I see, he creates these weird like, I guess I'm going to put on a natural fucking strict curl contest. What are we going to do? What's people doing these strict curls in their garage? It's got to be in the same place that the same time as the other people because otherwise it's not a contest, you know. And it's got to be like I said, I had my bar against a poll type thing because the wars had stuff on, I'm so it's like, too. And then it's got to be the exact same war that everybody can be caught in the back against the exact same war. And then, you know, like I said, and then do you go by, because I noticed something when they lean against the wall, do you know, you make the heavy heels against the wall or how far can you feed me? Because some people have their feet down here like that. Yeah, that's your elbow. I'm up and down, twisted around. Elbow shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes, heads, shoulders, knees and toes. Yeah, so if they kid how far do you put your feet out? It's like, some people have the feet right out, so even that, against the wall, it's like the sort of leaning a bit than some are standing straight like that. There's so many rules we've got to look at here before we have these contests going on for people. It's like, you know, but anything, I've got enough. So you were making a political statement about how ridiculous you felt the kind that's was. And just to hold how people believe shit, everything they see online, they're like, oh, wow, look at him doing that. It's like I said, did the fun, the media shirt should have sort of been the first question of any tip. So people have to when when Lee priest has to have to always look for the clues to get the true message behind what he's doing. It's always a metaphor behind what you're doing. Exactly. But I said, if you look at Sam's fitness videos, I've never been serious in them once. You know, even when I talked about that whole the secret to bodybuilding is when you're ejaculating, you get the coming, you're rubbing on the muscle. Larfo, Larfo, you want people actually wrote in asking is this true. And this, I told him, I told him in a serious face like this, you have to do it straight after trening, because once you've done your trening workout, that's when your body, you know, really produces a lot of testosterone. So I said, it's highest point. So 10 minutes after your workout, you need to go and get a change, or you reject your leg. And cause your warm, the cause of your skin, the, you're rubbing into the muscle. I said, but this secret has never come out day because cause you imagine if all the top coat coaches and bodybuilders like me was trening a young boy. And I said, you got to ejaculate and rub it on your muscle. He'd go home and tell his parents, and I'd be charged, he's been a purifier. I said, they're close. The closest the secret ever come to getting out was in pumping iron. When Arnold said, the feeling of the pump is like coming, I'm coming all the time, I'm coming at home, I'm coming in the gym. That was the first time the secret was almost released about this trensdermal semen, indenomussel, you know, anabolic effects. But you know, if you're watching those videos, you can see, but if I ever was the breaker record, I'd make sure I had people like you there, or people that had no, had no ties to me whatsoever who would be like, what is, Lee's mate, of course, are going to say he didn't blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay, he's willing to come out, so we'll get him out there. He seems to be the official validator of the industry. He's like the referee of referees, though. Well, hack and we trust team. That's a guy that's hit he put on 28 pound the muscle. Yeah, he's stuck on the stomach. Yeah. Well, he was put up to tank grand, so, you know, he's going to make sure you did it right. Really? Do you think Kenny, Kenny, look, look, they're why he looks and stuff. Do you really think he's stuck gutting grand? I think he makes a lot of money, but his YouTube channel, I think I got it. I was given it the charity. He's given it to you. If you can do the two of it. I like to see Kenny with the girlfriend. I think that's what he's lacking. Is he going to go for a never-save him with the girl? You can ask him when he comes out there to make sure maybe there's a 210 pound trick girl. Maybe we should look into that. Does Kenny have a girlfriend? Or boyfriend? Do you stay in age? It doesn't matter, so. Maybe he's afraid that you're still a, or her away. I did after the last, I don't know how he's because I'm up thinking of boyfriends all the for some Steve fucking popped into my head, but I did after the last hit that video. I was the sitting by the tool and then they incorporated the puppets and that whoever did that, that was pretty nice. That was my sugar daddy is something or another. You got that video handy? Tyler? How about that? Tyler? I'm an aminoide. C-B-D. What was he? At permitted then when I first looked at him, I was like, oh, I'm playing it. Get the other one. I don't like the one that I saw. Get the one with the CB2. There he is. 22 billion in 2022. High-pot CB-D is way ahead of the science. Latest research shows that CB-D could lower dopamine in the brain and may inhibit long-term brain and race-based dopamine more than a month. One-seek in the cognitive function, go to advancemedeclabs.com and read my new article entitled New Research at Cannibre Dile. CB-D lowers dopamine. Dope rush cocktails to the rescue. Until next time, remember knowledge is knowledge. Wow. Power. I'll age his about. When I first saw the guy sitting on the pool first, I thought, wow, that guy is really impersonating Steve. I thought it wasn't impersonatinGHim. I'm gonna be like, oh, he's not really Steve, and he's sure enough. And he's sitting there. Oh my god. This is like, he's fucking, someone got left behind on fucking Epstein's eye. And then he's fucking fucking sitting there by himself. When's the Clinton's coming back to get me? I feel like I'm back. I'm gonna talk about CB-D. Can have it out. What is it? Can have it out? Epstein said it would be back in a couple of weeks when I found it easy. I've just got to keep making these videos. You gotta come back. Jesus, I need to feed the women up inside. I'm really gonna go to school soon. Let's go and on. Oh my god. What's with the shirt off? And then the other one, I was just like, oh my god. What's pretty good for guy 70 years old? Oh my god. Oh, I thought it was a lease. Was he, I'm looking at his recent videos on it? I think it was a reason though that they can have a dab of dial one year. CB-D, you know, the hottest news in town. That's the new one. But he's just discovered CB-D, you know, whatever the latest fan is, he's gotta go out CB-D always been out for a long time, but I guess like I said, newsy slogan, Did he Island Epstein Island? I guess. I have a headache from laughing right? I got it and so. I didn't get even. What's going on with? Oh god. That's all right. Well, the guys remember to fund the media. Don't believe what you see. Lee Priest tells it like it is. I'm Dave Palumbau for another installment of Iron Age. We'll see you next week. I'm going back to the Death Star for I'm going to get my cannabadial.

=== FILE: 1 [6TXHpIEWV3k].txt ===

It's much easier to have<|nl|> And we need to surrender And to nurture Guys, did I over talk when we were talking? You guys were surprised Wasn't even動画 we could get everybody on the line."

=== FILE: 11EuropaSuperShow202FirstCallout [6cOa8ftMtO8].txt ===

We're going to have a little game. Number five, one number five, a lot of and a lot of guys in places. Four. Four. Four. Four. Two. Four. Two. Four. Four. Six. Five. Four. Three. Four. Six. Eight. Five. Four. Six. One. Four. Five. Four. Okay, now spread out this funny room. We're out. I think we're ready. We want to be need water. Something left there. I just know. Okay. I double my step. Okay. Okay. Okay. And last. Okay. I'm going to try. All right. I'm going to try. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. We're going to try. Okay. And last. The inside. Just. I'm going to try. And last. Face to your back. Come on. Yeah. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. And last. Last. Last. Last. Just. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. And last. You decide. Should I try? I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. You. Okay. Last. And. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. Can it. Hey let's. Let's They're. To be this side Okay. Me. Me. Me.

=== FILE: 11EuropaSuperShowFirstCallout [uMaJTuM8iho].txt ===

What are you trying to do right? What are you trying to do? What are you trying to do? What are you trying to do? Find a bomb ice. And last one. And last one. And last. And last. Inside. Inside. You can see it. You can see it. You can hear it's low. And I'm starting. Oh yes. And last. The beer. And then we'll buy some. And. Right there. And. And last. That last one. And. And. And last. Inside. I said. We'll let that. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And,

=== FILE: 11OlympiaSallyBryanHotelTour [kbp7WDp8sbU].txt ===

Hey Brian Hillbrown with our Exams of that calm. So selling our took a couple days of hard and before we came to the Big Olivia Weekend to hear in Vegas and we're staying at a really cool joint called River's boutique hotel. Look crispy this morning, sorry. We give her a couple days just to hang out and relax. Have a couple cocktails and sit pooled, saying unfortunately it's been a little rainy at the time of your story. So I have an out-of-the-all-up pool time but it's been a great time. The rumor staying in is called the Swayer Suites and we were upgraded to this room not quite sure why because the hotel is reasonably empty. Straight out vintage 80s porn room, vinyl furniture, vinyl pillows, the baddest super comfortable on one bus and it just like that had a long time. So let's call this a stay-of-the-steel fridge which is super important to store cocktails which we have several hours. Now I'm functioning to Chrome bars unfortunately, let me get some salad and do some pole work for me but not a chance things are going to hold up to anybody. We can see the bed. Actually, it used to be comfy and a bed, I was a little bit angry. Again, what I was talking about, we are late with the course and up there. There was a couple air brushing things around and I'll show you another one of the bathroom in a minute. The vinyl furniture is got the black sparkly basketball kind of thing going on. The vinyl pillow is super cool. Really good. And it's stepping outside here to the one eye, nice comfy places to lay down. Great poultry is poolside. Kind of quite a few girls out there today, but not too many. It's kind of a nice day. I'm finally getting a little warm and sunshine. They're 60 inch on the wall, it's always important. My favorite part, by far my favorite room in the house. The bathroom, this is the bathroom later on. Again, we have that vinyl sparkly basketball furniture going. Another plows moment. Sir, what did you put on? What's that? Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. The favorite part is this. A little walk through shower. Dual heads, super comfy, toasty warm, beautiful black vinyl, little slippery though. We have found that out the heart actually. And then I come up the other side. They see it's nice and clen and very well-appointed. The toilet I think was a bit of an afterthought. It's buried in the corner over here, which is a really fun convention. I'd very excited back there. But we made it work. Anyway, here we are. We're going to start the rumors boutique hotel. And lots of things about it if you have an opportunity to come stay here. It's cross street from her rock cafe. Her rock hotel is all right. If you have a chance from stay, awesome place. We're going to bring the thumbs up right in hell. We're going to throw our explosive out.

=== FILE: 11OlympiaStrongmanBradyBakke [BQc5QCBC4no].txt ===

I think we have it. Oh yeah, yeah. In my performance ofâmity, I think we have this. Anyways, I will show with BLM!! The work of our team. And have a unique childhood life in our country. Honestly, I'm sorryBarara Sharipay's Our We are what we have determination of We're going to be a biGHit. We're going to be a biGHit. Brian held a band with our ex muscle dot com. Here with American Strongman superstar and the hero of the Olympia weekend, Mr. Brady Baki, how old are you Brady? And who made your implement that you pressed earlier? My dad. Who's your dad? Does he lift a lot of heavy weight too? When you guys tren together, who trens heavier? You or your dad? That's I'm goinGHeavier on something. My dad thinks if you're me. I'm quite certain that you push your father as far as possible every time you guys work together. But what grade are you in? Um, fifth grade. You're five years old. You're in kindergarten, correct? Nice. Have any girlfriends? Yeah. You have more than one girlfriend? Yes, this has two girlfriends. Oh, two girlfriends. Brian, where are you? Where are these? He talks about a brand a bit, but I don't know about the other one. Good. That's secret, I guess. Is this right in the family? Yeah. Where's Jennifer? She's competing in bikinis, so you know, maybe she'll be another girlfriend in line over there. Well, terrific. Brady will really proud of you. Thank you very much. Nice job today. And Ryan, thank you. Awesome. Awesome display. You are the new superstar in American Strongman. Don't you forget it. Until next time, Brian, held a brand of RxMuscle.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: 11OlympiaStrongmanFinalWrapup [0PJQomaIu-Q].txt ===

We're in hell to grab with our XM also.com and Mike Johnson, a huge Olympia weekend. Absolutely fan, absolutely fantastic production. Not a hitch, nothing problem, no broken equipment, no issues at all. Hey, we don't do broken equipment in American Strongman. I'll tell you what, we use big dog strong equipment. There are exclusive equipment manufacturer. They take real good care of us. This stuff is top notch top quality. So we usually don't run into issues like that. But always the second day goes smoother than the first. You get all your hitches out of the way on day one and then day two it runs right through and these athletes were absolutely amazing today. Some amazing performance today. And now we had Mike Coruso three event wins but it wasn't enough to bring them to the top. I'll tell you what, this is his first contest competing as a pro. But he did not let that big stage bother him. It didn't affect his performance at all. He knew what he had to do and he went out there and he did it. And Mike looked terrific. Tom McClure, pros and 2,000, five, a horse of a man. Tom McClure is absolutely a monster and you talk about the split between Mike Coruso and Tom McClure, a half-point difference between second and third place. IMean they just fought for position all day long. And today Mike Coruso snuck in there, half a point victory took second place over McClure as third. Now our winner who took third at the Arnold Strongman, amateur last year to win his pro card took third behind Travis Ormire, Dave Osselen at America's strongest man. And Hock's Prince Ormire this year comes in with redemption today. Are you kidding me? And actually it was this year, 2011 amateur Strongman World Championship at the Arnold. He took third on the big stage earned his pro card as a top-facing American. His first pro show, like you said, America's strongest man, he finishes third. His second pro show, he comes out here to Vegas and he wipes the floor with everybody. IMean, five point differential between second and third. He really, really, really nailed it down. I'll tell you what though. It's kind of reminiscent of what happened in 2009. The first inaugural Olympia's strongest man, Andy Vincent did the same thing. Ernest Pro card in Orlando came into America's strongest man, finished third. Olympia and wins the whole deal. Close race, he had back in 2009 when Vincent, with Van Hatfield, a Michael Burke, shot the door on the competition today. And I tell you what really did it for him. His overhead pressinGHas improved tremendously. He looks strong at America's strongest man. He's with the opening axle. But here today, he just flew through that meddling. Oh yeah, he was much better with that today. Little trouble on the O'Ket and started today, but he really clened up. To work on his course, strength a little bit, I was talking to him, get his deadlift up where it needs to be. But this guy really doesn't have a chink in the armor. He doesn't get a zero. He's got tremendous grip strength. His overhead first, tallazies. And frankly, he's pretty lean guy. He's got to be six foot five. He's not a 390 pound guy at all. So he's got plenty of room to fill out and gain some more muscle. And he's got to go in the next season, strong and confident. And he's got endurance and gas to get him through those events where some of the other guys struggled, especially with the cardio related events. Oh yeah, the suicide medley is the test of everything that you have. 90 seconds of hell. And you see a lot of these guys didn't finish, but they were pulling for a full 90 seconds to try to get that done. Mike Burke lives in Colorado. It's got to be to his advantage to have that high altitude trening on a daily basis. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. Mike, thank you very much. We're going to see you again. I'm not sure what I'm going to see you again, actually. Well, hopefully you're going to come out to the 2011 North American Strongman Amateur National Championships. Also, we're going to have the 105 kilogram light, light, strongman pro championship and America Strongest Woman in Tunica, Mississippi coming up the first weekend in November. I guess I'm going to see you the first weekend in November then at the NAS event. Mike, thanks again for having us. We absolutely enjoyed beinGHere this weekend. Glad we could help spread the word of what you guys do. It's a great partnership and really look forward to working with you again. It was my pleasure. Thanks for coming out. And again, MHP Olympia Strongman challenged huge weekend. It's finally winding down. The booths are starting to close and we're tired. It's been a long weekend. Until next time, until November, Brian Holibrand with ourXMuscle.com.

=== FILE: 11OlympiaStrongmanMikeBurkeConanWheel [2WGob-gFQT8].txt ===

truck. New� American vehicles. we all roughly and 100 pounds two of the most to the hottest girls that I've seen here as added weight Mike Burke absolutely destroyed your six inches is all you were looking to get past Marshall right he said if I beat him by six inches he was gonna stab me so I figured I better beat him by a little more yeah you got him by just a bit more than six inches right yeah I don't think it was too happy with me but that's the way it goes you know that's the way it goes and you and you need it you need it this went with this event so we're like excited for it yeah correct I needed to win I think this one she put me in first place so how to get place to be yeah Tom Tom had a disappointinGHe was the first of 21 points and he had a disappointinGHalf partial circle yeah he said he couldn't breathe so IMean my endurance for me is great because of where I live and where I trened so endurance invits for my thing I guess a trunk carries for my thing I guess there you go while your your as long legs up you get a riddle faster right true yeah the faster you get to that point the better I guess so yeah long as you're gonna breathe and you got blood going to your head right what's that? long as you can breathe and you got blood going to your head we're good to go there my congratulations hope I'm gonna see you here again next event next event is 390 pound stone over 54 inch bars many reps as you can get mics and awesome stone loader expect to see you again soon all right till then Brian held it back with our ex muscle calm

=== FILE: 11OlympiaStrongmanMikeCarusoLogPress [SVXO0qFekPg].txt ===

. Brian Elderbrain with all right muscle.com. Here at the huge Olympia weekend in Vegas. My carousel turned pro-lastry in August in Dallas. This first show since then and absolutely smokes 410 pounds on the log press. Thanks Brian. Appreciate it. Yeah. It felt good today and when I pretty easy I was about I didn't have to do 420 dollars. I was getting kind of tired. Tom McClure picked up the 390 and strict pressed it. Like I've never seen before and I thought I'm not sure he was going to have it. You picked up the 410 made it look easy. It was really nice lift. Yeah. Tom's an animal. I thought he was going to get it for sure. That's why I was getting ready for 420 but I'm glad it didn't have to do it. Good. All right. Well, hopefully we'll see you again here in the winter circle. Over the next couple of rounds. Good luck with the medley that's coming up next. Until the next time, Brian Elderbrain with all right muscle.com.

=== FILE: 2011 America's Strongest Man Day 1 Wrapup [msM44HvhQFw].txt ===

We're going to be back. Brian Hilderbrand with our XMuscle.com here. Quick wrap up video of tonight's events for events Mike and Scott Weech right out of the whole sets of record. I know on the second attempt he breaks the American record, Derek Poundstone, former record of 414 pounds, the 423 pound axle clening press was absolutely amazing. He was a little hampt after that. He's jumping up and down like a schoolboy. I think he had way more in the tank too. I think he probably could have gone higher, but you know, second attempt he doesn't have to take a third, saves himself a little strategy there. He won his pro card back in 2009. So he's got a couple of years on. He's kind of a veteran now sort of getting to figure out how things work. And the second attempt, the yolk and the Harley drag pull, Travis steps up and had somEQuick feet and looks really good. All those medley type events are absolutely awesome for Travis. IMean he's so long and lean, but he's in the best shape of his life coming in. Like 295 pounds are so hard. He's doing Nathan Payton's diet, Nathan Payton of RX muscle. He's been working with him for a number of years, kind of lost a lot of weight there for a while, but now he's kind of solidifying it and bringing it back. Travis looks absolutely amazing, but he absolutely blasted that. And that was a very heavy sled pole. And on these slick surfaces too, kind of hard to get a footing, but definitely a thousand pounds sled there. Yeah. Absolutely. They had great feet, which is a key to that event. It's keeping the feet and keeping the momentum. Now the third event, newcomer, first pro show, Michael Burke, steps up, had a little bit unorthodox grip and nailed it. Yeah, his grip was definitely different from everybody. Michael Burke remember though, he's from Colorado, trening in that high altitude. You know, air is not so much of a factor for him, but absolutely he comes in third at the amateur world championship at the Arnold. You know, on the big stage for the first time, his first pro show, America Strongest Man, it doesn't look even look like it faced him. It's like he was walking through the park out there. Absolutely. Great feet. Just kept going and going. Remember, our fourth event, the wheelbarrow with that Chevy truck tonight, the winch or the hitch of the back looks like a ticket of beating. Oh, yeah, the piece of equipment that Big Dog Strong made, that was holding up, but the actual physical, you know, the receivinGHitch, it just, I don't think it was up to the task, but I'll tell you what, Alan Tilary, they did a really big favor for us. They put that on a brand new truck, they put that hitch on for us so we could get that event done. But you know, that, that Colorado, we even had the hold up the suspension because some of these guys that was just those tires were hanging down, but absolutely amazing. That was probably, I don't know, 800 pounds, 750 in hand. And at the last minute, we made a last minute decision to allow the guys to use straps and still it was testing their grip. Those handles were coming right out of their hands. Yeah, the lots of wraps, lots of straps popping off for sure. A little bit of a scary moment when Dave Oslo took a tumble and we heard a well, allowed the truck thought he took his head into the tailgate. Yeah, he's a veteran, you know, no side of recovery for something like that. But yeah, it's always scary when somebody goes down or gets injured or something you never want to see it to shows. And you try to do some events or a little bit on Orthodox. IMean, it is odd lifting and strong man. It's not supposed to be in the box. It's always supposed to be out of the box. So it's the risk you take, you know, a couple little mishaps on this event, but all in all, really a crowd favorite, I think. And again, the veteran Travis Ormire, he puts it together. 29 seconds, absolutely a mate. Yeah, he was seven or eight seconds ahead of second place. Ryan Bracewell having a great night tonight from our ex-Muscle. He was a little skeptical. He took essentially last last year. And he was really looking forward to this. He's strong and he's looked terrific so far. Oh, absolutely. And he's celebrating. He loves the crowd. He loves the attention. IMean, he's at the biggest moment of his life already this year with the birth of his kid and everything. You know, so this is just gravy for him. And one of heck of a performance. He's a first guy to finish that incredible wheelbarrow. So IMean, just a great accolades to him. And so Travis is our leader going after four events going into tomorrow. We'll be back here at 12 starting at 1 o'clock. And we've goT4 more events tomorrow. We've got the cake toss for height. We have the Atlas stones. What else do we have? Tomorrow we have the, actually it's a cake toss, medley. 16 feet, they'll throw over eight cakes, a cocoa beverage, cake toss. And following that, we have the push pull medley. That's a new one that we're adding this year. One of our state chairman Ashley worked from Texas, kind of developed that. And that's a combination of events where the guys will actually be pressing overhead and deadlifting. So they'll go five implements. They'll have to press a 200 pound dumbbell. And then they'll move to a 675 pound axle deadlift. Then they'll move on to a 330 pound axle clen and press. And then to a 715 pound deadlift. And finally a 340 pound log clen and press. And then we'll move right into the Alan Tillery Chevy Cruz car pickinGHold. That's a favorite. They really just test all of your body, your grip strength and just your will and determination. We'll have two cars and sort of have the guys facing each other. So that should be a really a crowd favorite too. And then finally of course the American Strongman Atlas stones. ThEQuintessential event for every strong man show and the around the world. Really looking forward to bringing this back to you tomorrow. Mike thinks for your time and just an absolutely amazing day. We got an American record, a ton of PRs and really no problems or issues at all today. No real injuries. Everybody's goinGHome safe. We think the fans enjoyed it. And IMean really just these guys get out here. See all the little kids running up to the gate. Just an amazing, amazing day. And thank you guys for being out here covering. I appreciate your time. No absolutely thanks for having us. And again, here with Mike Johnston of the American Strongman Corporation who put on American Strongman's tonight, there's 2,011. Until tomorrow, Brian Hilderbrand with ourXMuscle.com.

=== FILE: 2011 America's Strongest Man Event Winner Compilation [PZhvWE-3Q2o].txt ===

I've been stuffed in your pocket for the last hundred days. When I don't get my bad, I take it out on the sleeves. As soon as I sum your baby, they're full of ball on the hill. I'll polish them rockets down and swallow those pills and say, oh. Space lo and muggle muggle. There's a car in the sea, or now it'll be a collar in the flame. With two doors to cheap, no respect, only one there's your name. You've been drinking my blood, well I've been making your wounds. Well I shave off the pitch now in a scopa Yorking. You'll see my heart. Space lo and muggle muggle. Come. Snow falling above a wave, a drizzle of love tosquaredверs of love. I breathe from life to the sea with notable worth.

=== FILE: 2011 America's Strongest Man Final Wrapup with Bryan Hildebrand [rJw8QHd-SsM].txt ===

Brian Hilderbrand, our exp muscle.com, wrapping up the 2011 American Strongest Man in Hot Springs, and I'm here with Dion and Mike, and let me tell you the both of you, an absolutely awesome show with some terrific performances Mike. Tell me your thoughts on the first day. IMean, the first day was very exciting. There's always a couple of kinks when you get out there the first time, but the staff was amazing, worked very hard, and the athletes were very impressive. A rare of the gate, Scott Weech, IMean, just hammers up, breaks the American record. You know, that kind of set the stage for the rest of the night, and then closing with that Colorado pick. It was just almost an impossible event, but just to see the stren on the guys' faces and watch the crowds where to get behind them. IMean, it's really awesome to see the emotion that the competitors have when the crowd shares that emotion and they get involved in it too. IMean, that's really what it's all about. It seems to elevate the athlete too. Another psychological level to keep them in the event. Oh, absolutely. Some of these guys, you know, you take particularly somebody like Travis Ortonmire. IMean, they actually feed off the energy from the crowd. You know, Brad Duns, another one, he gets out there, the crowd gets excited to see him. You know, it's maybe not always the biggest strongness athlete, but the fans are really receptive to the people out there and the personalities. And I think it really makes it worth everybody's time and effort to put this kind of thing together, to entertain the folks and for those guys to have that moment in the spotlight. It really does seem to benefit everybody. Yeah, absolutely. So, Dia, not to keep you out of this, but today, today was kind of quick. We went through this real fast today and under four hours, I think, give me your impressions about the events today. Well, like my just to reiterate what Mike said, you know, we tried to move events this year. So, events that you've never saw in person a lot, or even indoors such as the cake over the bar. We're the first people to do it. I think you gotta start sending it a lot whole lot more. That was impressive for the crowd. Obviously, we want to go probably higher. Higher, higher the next time. The Colorado pick. That was again, a first move for us to do in a contest. So a lot of new events. The athletes love it, the crowd love it. Yeah, the push-pull medley. A lot of the athletes were like, well, I'm really looking forward to this. And when they finished it, they were like, what the hell just happened? You know who was weak on what event? You know who was strong, who was the day-boss and as a veteran, obviously in the sport. And it showed on the push-fillment. Yeah, absolutely. It was a terrific day. And then Travis and Dave Oslin, in the last event, the Atlas stones. Travis was in an early lead. He was in a lead of the fourth stone. Tell me what happened with five. Well, I think that maybe Travis might have sensed that he had a wrapped up, and he didn't push himself all that hard. But you can't take anything away from Dave Oslin. He's an amazing stone motor. At six foot 70s got those long arms. As Deon said, IMean, he is one of the veteran strongmen that's still on the circuit. You know, people don't think about it. Dave kind of went to World Strongest Man. You know, early on when the ifs to split happen. But this is a guy that's been hammering it out and growing year after year after year after year. He's amazing deadlift. You know, that kind of experience pays off. But there's Travis right behind him from an experienced standpoint. Both these guys around the world stage. And I would say that they really both deserve to be there. IMean, to me, it proves that they went up against the youngest in America, the best and brightest up in coming. IMean, look who finished in third and fourth the youngest guys. But those veteran movements, those tactics, making sure that everything is just perfect, making sure that you have extra attack. IMean, you watched at the end there, Vince Erbank ran out of attack. He's got the hide. He's got the strength. He's got the leverage to pick up the stones. But he made a rookie move. He made a rookie mistake. Those veteran guys really earned what they got this time. Absolutely outstanding performances by Michael Burke and Vince both. Deon, tell me when what is next for America strongmen, American strongmen, core president. Next for American strongmen, core president and six lead to have the Olympia strongman competition following that. There will be a world competition in China that the athletes will be going to. But not to take away from any any other international events that we haven't really mentioned. Next week, Travis and another athlete, myself will be getting on the plane going to Russia for USA versus Russia. The following week after that, America strongest man is on the road again with the American strongest woman as well as the 105 team championships against the Ukraine. So we'll begin another plane going to the Ukraine. So a lot of things in the store from the American strongmen. I'm reckon up the frequent fire miles. And not to mention two, seven American strongmen and core president athletes will be competing at the world strongmen competition in North Carolina. You know, whether they came through us to get there or not, all those guys all seven of them, Nick Best, Travis Sortmire, Derek Poundstone, Brian Shaw, now David Oslin, Michael Jenkins, and the seventh who am IMissing. Oh, Bergman, Jason Bergman. Every single one of those guys was an amateur with North American strongman. Every single one of those guys earned their pro card and they're now competing at the top level and they deserve to be there. However, they got to World Strongman. They absolutely deserve it. But it really just proves once again that the NAS, ASC, the amateur to pro system, it's the best in the world. Bar 9. And I think that that is exemplified by Dave Oslin taking second place behind Travis. Travis already had his invite and now he's been invited. Whether he's an alternate or has a spot in the final group or world strongman, come up next month in North Carolina. No matter what, he's still inviting. Absolutely. And so terrific. Forms is by everything. From a production standpoint, I can tell you, Sally and I have had an absolutely fantastic time. The production value was amazing. And I can't think enough for having us here. And we will see you in six weeks at the Olympia. Appreciate your time. Until then, Brian Helderman with ARXMuscle.com.

=== FILE: 2011 America's Strongest Man Interview with Promoters Mike Johnston & Dionne Wessels [NpIEn15mHzA].txt ===

Brian Helderman with RXMussel.com. Here in Hot Springs, Arkansas at the 2011 American Strongest Man. I'm here with Mike Johnston, Dion Wessels, the the impetus behind American Strongman Corporation who's presenting today's event. Mike, I know this is the second year in Hot Springs, correct? Oh, that's correct. It's not the second time we had America Strongest Man, but it is our second year here. The crowd was absolutely fabulous last year. The facility is great. The venue is great. The staff has been amazing. You know, so coming back here and bringing our biggest show, the biggest show in America back, you know, just something we had to do. Absolutely. I talked to some locals earlier today and last night at dinner and they said, oh, they had a great time last year. So the folks here in Hot Springs should be packing the stands and making this a fun event. Dianne, I know you've had your work cut out for you. You guys have some really good news this year with the world strongest man, which tells about that. Yes, the winner of this show this year for America Strongest Man will go directly to the world strongest man. Terrific. So these guys actually have an opportunity to progress into that next phase where that relationship has an existed before. So it's really good to see that these guys have an opportunity to make it to the international stage. Now speaking international, there's another show coming up in China. Is that correct? Oh, that's right. It's going to be a team show. So the top three or four guys from this competition were not sure exactly on the logistics yet, but it'll be three or four the top three or four athletes will get an opportunity to compete in China. And so tonight we've goT4 events. Tell us about the events. First event you're going to see is the max axle press. And that's an iron mine. Excellent. We're set hopefully going to break the record. Currently Derek Pounds down close. That record aT4 14 and a half. So hopefully we'll see that record go down tonight. And now that's what the guys are warming up backstage now with the act with the axle. What do we have after the axle Mike? After the axle tonight, we're going to have the what is next is the Yoke. Oh, the Yoke and Harley drag. So it's a lander's Harley Davidson. So they'll have a 950 pound Yoke for 60 feet and then they'll drag a fat boy motorcycle sitting up on a 425 pound sled. So you're maybe looking at a 700 pound drag. They'll drag that back 60 feet. And that'll be followed up by the Hussa felt stone. Big dog strong, Hussa felt stone. 400 pound Hussa felt stone carried as far as you can. And then finally an event that we're really excited about. Alan Tillery Chevrolet, the Chevy Colorado wheelbarrow. That's going to be interesting. They're going to pick up the back end of a Colorado pickup truck and walk it 60 feet. So that'll be a fun one. I assume that's fast as time when that event. Fast as time correct on that. Another some there's some returning names here. Travis are winter last year. Returning again spoke with him earlier. He looks fantastic. He certainly looks healthier than he did earlier this year. He had an issue that he's overcome. So and he had a chance to meet with a number of the guys. You can see those preview videos on our X muscle.com. The muscle central. I want to thank both of you for having us here this weekend. Looking forward to a great weekend. We goT4 events left tomorrow after this. And we're going to put all this together and hopefully put a good presentation together for you guys at home. This is Brian Heldobrand with ourXmuscle.com.

=== FILE: 2011 America's Strongest Man Pre Competition Athlete Interviews [0GsAroZudoE].txt ===

Brian Hilderbrand with ourXMuscle.com. We're here in Hot Springs, Arkansas. The 2011 America Strongest Man. I'm here with the Great Travis Orton. Brian, I'm Travis, you're already qualified for World Strongest Man. That's correct. Yes. And what brings you here today then? I just want to retain my title. I won here last year and I'm going to take it back again this year. That's pretty sound reasonable. I understand that. You look healthy. It looks like you put some weight on since I saw you at the Arnold. Yeah. I had a known list that finally shook earlier this year. I took about two and a half months off. It actually kicked my butt. I got down about 251 pounds and now I'm 295. I was competing last year. Yeah. No. It's a bit of an ego boost to have somebody else notice you that you put some weight on as a guy in this field. So Travis, you look terrific. I'm looking forward to tonight. Good luck to you. And thanks for your time. Brian Hilderbrand with ourXMuscle.com. I'm here with the much esteemed Brian Brace. Well, the co-incre of the RX Power on ourXMuscle.com. Brian, first congratulations on your new edition of the family. Thank you. That's going to be my excuse when I get last. That's my excuse why I'm doing bad. So I don't even want to keep it going. And keeping it going way too soon. Yeah, not too bad. But we have nights where it's every three hours. And even if I'm not feeding a my get up, you know. And then we have nights where he'll sleep six hours. So it's a hidden miss. So you're wife's not too upset with you that you're sleeping through the night. I'm sure she's not. No, no, I get up. I feed actually I take the feeding it like 3 a.m. Because she has to get up at 5 where I don't get up till 8. So, you know, it's not too bad. I can fall right back. Sleep. So about today's competition. This is your second show. Second one. Third. Third. Third pro show. Yes, yeah. First time doing this show. No, no, this this show last year was my first show and did horrible. Got a second to last in front of a guy who was injured. So it wasn't one of very good showing, but then I kind of redeem myself when we went to the America Strongest Man in Vegas. And against virtually the same competition got six place. So it's just a bad showing. I'm hoping to improve that this year. Absolutely. It's understandable. But it's a pretty interesting field this year to minus the big names that have already qualified for World Strongest Man who are going to be in Poland. Mike Jenkins, Brian Shaw, Jason Bergman, Nick Bass Travis is here, of course. So it's going to be a really great show. Good luck to you tonight. And hopefully we're going to see a few times for interviews after you have already met. Hopefully I do pretty good. Then you want to interview me because I did well. And not just because I, you know, go with our acts. Because we worked together. Brian Hilderman with our acts muscle.com. Brian Hilderman with our acts muscle.com 2011 American Strongest Man in Hot Springs, Arkansas. I'm here with a big Dave Oslin. Dave, you know, you're just coming back in and in and you've done a couple of two-note events. Is that correct? Yeah, I did just a local show in Rochester, Minnesota at the M.A. June. And then we can after that drill up time to hear you. Did another one. So this will be my first big one back. I'm kind of a test to see how you're physically. Yeah, IMean, you know, I've done a lot of this stuff in trening with trening and competing are two different things. So, you know, I've see how I hold up in this one and hopefully have a good result. Now, when was your last appearance of World's Tournament's been? I was there in 2010 in South Africa. So you'll be able to hopefully you win this. You qualify for 2011 and in North Carolina. Yeah, I'd like to go back to for 2011. IMean, the big picture though I really want to be in shape for next year's for the 2012. So, obviously any time you can go there as a bonus. So that's what I'm working for this year too. Yeah, the exposure is terrific for not only for you as an athlete, but within your community, I can imagine as well. Yeah, that's good. IMean, that's kind of the big one that everyone sees on TV. So, you know, people can't know you because of it. Right. Good. All right. Well, Dave, hopefully we'll see in the winter circle a few times for interviews later today at tomorrow. And the till then is Brian Hill, the brand with the original.com. Here in Hot Springs, Arkansas, 2011 American Strongest Man. I'm here with returning competitors Scott Weeach Scott. You didn't do this competition last year. Two years ago, you were here. How'd you fare then? I did okay. I qualified for the Olympia that year. I'm going to do as I want to. This year I'm coming back. A little bigger stage. I got some really good competitors. Hopefully fair a lot better this year. Yeah, we had interviewed several of them today. Everybody looks terrific. Travis is put some weight on since the Arnoldy looks terrific. Dave, look at the show. And I think it's going to be really good competition. A lot of good athletes here this weekend. Again, considering a missing people like Brian Sean, Mike Jenkins and some of the guys have already qualified. Going into this, what is your favorite event between the eight events that we're doing over the weekend? What do you like to do? I think overhead, I wish we could do eight pressing events, but they just wouldn't have it. So I think the axle will be a really good event for me to start off with. I got to start really strong there. I'll at least the top view. The push pull medalist should be really good. Three pressing events there. Go with stones. Mainly the pressing events that are going to be key for me to do really good on to get the points and those events. Nice. We're looking forward to hopefully seeing winter circle a few times. I get some interviews. I saw you in Orlando at the Europa and the APF. Yeah, the Rally APF. And it had a terrific week. So I expect nothing less this weekend. So good luck to you. And hopefully we'll see in the next few hours in the winter circle. Cool. Alright. Hill to Brand with rxmuscle.com. Here in Hot Springs, Arkansas, the 2011 American Strongest Man. I'm here with the ASEs News Pro, Mike Burke. Mike, you took third of the Arnold Amateurs last year. The first overall is an American. Third overall out of 50 sum up competitors internationally. It was a huge showing for a lot of people. It was a huge showing for a lot of people to be an ASE pro. And qualified to come and compete here this weekend. Tell me what specifically looking forward to event-wise here. I don't know. I expect to do pretty good in the who's felt in the Cag's. The axle, I've got a pretty decent axle. So I'm hoping it gets me up there in the points and then just trying maintain and the other stuff. You know, not have a horrible showing. I'm like first showing out though. So, you know. This is a great show. Lots of great history with American strength athletes with pound stone and Fort Miron and Sean and all the other guys that have come through here and done well. IMoved on to international competition. So I think this is a great platform for you. Good luck to you. Hopefully we're seeing the winter circle for a few more interviews later tonight and tomorrow. Alright. Thank you. Mike, thank you very much. Brian Helderman with rxmuscle.com.

=== FILE: 2011 America's Strongest Man Yoke⧸Sled - Video of All Competitors [ZH3I_Q8hFvI].txt ===

Brian Hildebrand with OrxMuscle.com. Here with the winners today's second event, the Yoke and Harley Sledpole Travis Orton from my or Travis, 950 pound Yoke is a big pain, how much gas did it take to pull that sled? You know, that was really happy with the Yoke first off. I was probably one of the best runs I've ever had with that. So I saved a lot of energy and the sled actually felt pretty good. You know, it's the secret with that, with a slick floor like this, is to really get a hard start and get the momentum going and fight to keep the momentum, the amount of how bad your legs are burning. Just keep going. I knew you had incredible foot speed in the Yoke and just absolute determination to get through the line, not let that sled stop, which is really a key. Yeah, absolutely. I really had to fight the pain in my leg from that ankle break in my steer, but you suck it up, take the pain and it feels better once you get that first place. Yeah, first place always feels better, right? Always good. All right, well congratulations. Then a good start with the axle today too. How heavy did you go? I got 393, it was should have been my second attempt and I wanted at least 15 pounds more than that, but sometimes you got to take what you can get. So it was a strong press and women heavy today at the axle, which was really great to see for the Americans. Yeah, there was a lot of over 400 attempts and really strong guys, IMean, 363 pounds took last place. So yeah, that says a lot. All right, I'm here again with Travis Sort and my, America's strongest man, 2011 Brian Hilderbrand for rxmuscle.com.

=== FILE: 2011 IFBB Arnold Europe Preview [aD0XMgP-OXQ].txt ===

So that comes from Spain from Madrid, we are at the Arnold Classic Europe and behind us the exhibitors for tomorrow's expo are working very busy at the boots and for my good I'm have some some part for the strongest man from Germany, Patrick O'Wing and say a lot to all users. Looking for the top three positions for this contest I guess we got one major favorite for this contest and that's its victim Martinez. The victors are already qualified for the limpio so I'm not sure if all the other guys are very happy about this experience here in this show. What you say that some other guys from Ronnie Rockford, extra Jackson are able to beat him tomorrow. I guess Victor will come and shape then there's no one who could beat him so it depends on the shape, the victors in and if he's in shape no one will beat him. The Spanish country is a very good place for Ronnie Rockford because he won two times here and the last time it was in the spring season so maybe he got some some luck here in the show and can be some kind of dangerous for Victor let's hope so but I think it's very very hard to get the two left tickets for the Olympian in this show so let's went through the competitors who are able to hit the finals tomorrow. I guess Ronnie Rockford is someone who's for sure in the finals. Yeah he's in I guess there's a couple of five guys that are maybe a little bit class for their own so it's Victor it's Texas Jackson of course Rocky maybe Ronnie Rocky yeah we call him Rocky and of course he did it harder and I guess Flex Lewis too. Flex has a very good placing in this spring season this year he placed shirt at the Mr. Europe in the open class if someone from the beer guys have some some some flaws or didn't do his homework tomorrow I guess he's in the spot to catch this place. But I forgot one I forgot Tony Freeman the X-Men of course the X-Men is one of the dangerous guys. You know of course it's one here in the lineup. Yeah he will surely be a eye catcher because most of the guys arEQuite short so he will be a little bit separated just just because of his height. I guess Flex Lewis will be dangerous if some of the veterans will open the door by being not in shape then Flex can be dangerous for all of them. At the Sheryl Classic in Union we saw quite equal results that we have at the Olympia so we got the Olympia play things and compared in here to the Arnold Classic Europe it might be that way that Victor Martinez is placing prior to Dexter Jackson who placed six to the Olympia who places prior to Tony Freeman who were seven to the Olympia then Ronnie Rocker and then he did that. What means that Ronnie Rocker has a very hard work to do tomorrow to even catch the Olympia qualification. Exactly and there's another point that we have to think about because we're got mainly European judges in this show like we didn't have at the Olympia so the European judges are judging in a whole different way like the rest judges do because the US judges are searching for something special while the European judges are searching for which with us and false in this the main thing where one Rocker is placinGHigh in the Europe and placing low on the US. Yeah exactly I guess the US style of judging seems to be more like looking for eye catchers and here in Europe they are looking just for harmony and symmetry and so on so that's a little bit bit of a different culture of judging. So it's maybe the main reason why Robock felt your COVID from Poland placed first at the Mr. Reo in the spring season and I think he didn't placed any place at the Olympia. So we're looking forward to a very exciting show for tomorrow for the very first Anos Classic Europe show here in Madrid and stay tuned on our ourrschema.com with Patrick and me.

=== FILE: 2011 IFBB North American Mens Comparisons- Part 1 [E1nxqGMXLEk].txt ===

even though cocoa has rampers integrate but 78mm beious the most Keep my hand, I've still never never left All something's wrong, just the light Maybe not tonight, if they are the white Things are walked into life, Things are taken by And the things that will fade Now, sleep with one eye on me With me your pillow tight Excellency End of night Take my hand Lost never never left Now, sleep with one eye on me With me your pillow tight I've still never left I've still never left Now, sleep with one eye on me Now, sleep with one eye on me With me your pillow tight Excellency End of night, sleep with one eye on me With my eye on me With my eye on me With my soul to take the rest I still never don't see your words And never my name don't you hear It's just the piece under your bed In your body, in your hand Excellency End of night End of night Take my hand Lost never never left Now, sleep with one eye on me With me your pillow tight Now, sleep with one eye on me With me your pillow tight Now, sleep with one eye on me With my soul to take the rest Now, sleep with one eye on me With my soul to take the rest Now, sleep with one eye on me With my soul to take the rest Now, sleep with one eye on me Out of my name don't you hear dollars, nine Green dun dismay New words, voiceslistless When we used to do The caus graduated We knob the door Go, oh! It's time that someday

=== FILE: 2011 IFBB North American Mens Comparisons- Part 2 [GKY7FHhGgkQ].txt ===

Is it really a tickle for me? When I felt that I've known never shined on my actual love or be never she Once you were not able, but I felt that I've known Never shined on my actual love or be Never me, so I did the love of you They did it keep their lives To running out of the hills Each rise to three to three to three more This bit of man in the hills To run his lap to see He battled down to the land This fighting in our wings A tired man in his feet no longer cares The old man in his feet To die in red for the air That old man in his feet When I felt that I've known never shined on my actual Never me, never she Once you were not able, but I felt that I've known Never shined on my actual love or be never me So I did the love of you They did it keep their lives To run his lap to see He battled down to the land This little man in his feet He battled down to the land This little man in his feet When I felt that I've known never shined on my actual love or be Never shined on my actual love or be Never she Once you were not able, but I felt that I've known never shined on my actual love Never me, never me So I did the love of you They did it keep their lives Never me, never me So I did the love of you They did it keep their lives To run his lap to see Never me, never me So I did the love of you They did it keep their lives To run his lap to see Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me Never me, never me

=== FILE: 2011 MHP Olympia Strongman Farmers Walk Medley winner Andrew Palmer [_O2rgD0WzaU].txt ===

Brian held a brand with our exmuscle.com here with the frame carry and farmers walk medley and your palmers are winter. You just eat down a win over Mike Burke. Yeah by a split second we've had several medley in the last few contests where we've been just tens of a second apart. So you're trening in Seattle. There's a big strong man community because Jesse Maroonie being from there and you're trening out of a power lifting gym. Yeah mostly a power lifting gym in downtown. So yeah beautiful. It rattles my home and I can understand why you live there because it's a beautiful place. What's the next event? The next event is Conan's wheel. So I've the one we walk in a circle within the crooked arm. So about 800 pounds I understand. I've been told 700 I've been told 800. I'm expecting it to be about 800 in hand. Mike brought it up earlier. He said it was going to be about the girls from MHP coming over about 800 pounds. So he said it is a 1-800 pound girl or several girls are going to equally 800. I honestly don't have an answer to that. I assume I think they were going to have a motorcycle before it didn't fit. So they're just loading a bunch of random weights and bricks and cakes in there. We'll see what happens. Throw girls on their make-and-event. Those are going to sit on top of their way. So we'll find out. Perfect. Good luck next in the next event. Until then, Brian Hill, the Brand with ourXMuscle.com.

=== FILE: 2011 Mr Olympia & Ms Figure Olympia Final Wrapup Video [l1RCwvYWap8].txt ===

This is Dave Palombo with RXMuscle.com. I'm here at the 2011 Mr. Olympia Contest. We are here after the finals where we had an incredible, incredible decision before we get to that. We have Lonnie Tipper from Iron Man Magazine and Chris the technician, Asito here to assess all the action here in Las Vegas, Nevada. Started out with a hookarachid dance in the hotel. We wound up with Phil Heath as the new 13th Mr. Olympia where you happy with that decision. It was a right decision and all three of us won't want Jay Colour and the predictions we did. In the predictions, yeah. And all three of us had Phil Heath ahead last night. Why did Phil Heath win this contest in your estimation? Well, he's just got beautiful shape. Jay came out last night and he just was not at his best to begin with and he's going to have to be at his best to be to kid like Phil Heath. I thought Colour definitely was better than I did. His color was way better than I. But he wouldn't have made a difference. And he had some good makeup on that arm that was all bruised up. You know, and I looked at the arm closer day, but it really to me wasn't that much of a negative when he hit that left by his a pig and still you could didn't affect the muscle, the shape of the muscle. Did you agree with that? That it didn't affect the shape of the muscle. Yeah, yeah. What about the arm? Did the arm detract from his physique? Of course it did. Of course it did. IMean, if I'm sure if you asked probably the most straightforward honest guy in body field and Jay, he would say of course it did. IMean, do you think that Jay actually thinks going into the pre-judging with an arm like that that it's not going to affect the way he either feels or how he's going to pose in a presented. So IMean, did it affect his, you know, the judges? I don't know, did it affect him? Yeah, I did. Did it affect the outcome? No, because if his arm was, you know, perfect, then I think the seal ends. No, he still wins. Yes, with the perfect arm, he still wins. I understand, I don't know what happened to his arm, but he obviously had some kind of a hematoma in there. He bruised it in some way. I heard they had called in Chad Nichols as the expert to try to help them with the bruising. I heard he had suggested they apply he to it, which obviously anyone who knows whenever you have a contusion or kind of hematoma, you want to apply ice to that to detract it. But I think Jay did the smart thing. He probably went out and got a very good makeup artist because they did cover it up. I didn't notice it as much. I noticed the lump, but I didn't see the discoloration. Yeah, you know, the night show, I don't know if I would use to it or the fact that it was covered. So we didn't notice it as much. You think color knew that he lost the show. He seemed almost very consulatory. He was kind of like being nurturing to fill. Do you think he had a time he kind of knew that he was not going to take home the title? Yes, I do. I really do. And I think you could tell in his speech that he, you know, like he said, he was telling Phil before they even announced the results. Congratulations on this victory. And I think he knew it was just pretty much an impossible task. Phil Heath was even better than he was last year. This was a very controversial decision in 2010. Now you come back in 2011. He's even a little better than he was last year. Jay wasn't quite as good as he was last year. Where else were they going to go? This Jay was higher after this or does he say, you know what? I screwed my bicep up. I'm going to come back and I'm going to try to regain the title. You know, he now we're talking Thursday night. He always talks about retirement. Come a limpia time because he's in such a long year. One difference I really noticed between those two guys is Phil seemed so energetic and refreshed. And Jay seemed tired last night. He just seemed drawn and tired. Head more energy tonight. But, you know, he's on the road almost every week all year. He's 38 years old now. You know, who am I to tell somebody wonder retire? But if it was, if he asked me, do you think I should? I'd probably say yes. I would agree, Lani. I would say that, you know, Jay is a great champion. But at this point, he probably can make more money not competing, not at the subject as body to the rigors of what he's doing. Jay is Jay getting all of his body's not responding or is he just not got the right formula to brinGHim to the point where we've seen him in 2009 when we saw him in 2001 when you helped him. What do you, what's your assessment? You have a better understanding of Jay called it than anyone. Well, IMean, the formula, if you, if you be backtracked, oh nine was great. Oh, ten was down and oh, you know, here we are 11 when talking about not as good as oh, ten not as good as oh nine. I don't know if it's age related and it's certainly not. I don't think anyone can doubt Jay's dedication and drive and you know, focus on what he wants to accomplish when he focuses on something. So maybe it's in the formula. You know, I don't know. You know, that's something that only he would know. But you know, if there's somebody who, IMean, we've said this before, if there's somebody who has the ability, the mental capacity to come back, IMean, a lot of people can't from even any type of loss, let alone, you know, losing something like this, it'd be Jay. You know Jay though, just hearinGHis speech that he gave, is that Jay saying I'll be back next year or is that Jay saying, you know, it's filled you're in the new man now. I'm moving on. Well, goes right back to the arm. IMean, you had he had. He had perfect excuse, right? Well, no, not excuse, but he's he's going to, you know, you, you, you, you have to wonder when he walks back stage thinking, okay, I'm second. I've been here before. Why am I second? What's going to factor in there is, you know, possibly, you know, the arm. What would have been if my arm was a lot of worry with the arm, which made him cause, you know, to hold a lot of water, it's called all levels go up or whatever. But, you know, another point is Lonnie saw him and other people saw him on our site, looking wild, ten days ago, wild, unbeatables far as I'm concerned. And what happened to you think? I don't know, maybe the arm injury was in that last ten day period, but Lonnie saw, I saw Lonnie a couple days ago, and Lonnie was speechless with the way he looked. And, you know, Chris, another thing when we talked about this last night at the Pre-Judging, take away 2009, there's always seems to something go wrong with Jay. In 2008, he had an infection. And to last year, he barely made it through the Pre-Judging, this year he had the injury. I think the biggest thing to think of it and going back to Chris's point, whether he retired or not, when he lost in 2008, he lost it to a 225 pound guy, it was 38 years old, Dexter Jackson. Tonight he loses to a 245 pound guy, three inches taller than Dexter Jackson, 31 years old. You know, that's a lot to come back and beat. I want to call Phil Heath rather than the gift of the prophecy, because you told me that when you were working with Jay back in 2003, he had seen Phil Heath backstage at a show he won, I guess Jay was guest-posed. Hey, is this, was that a prophecy was Jay seeing Phil backstage almost like what was to come before shadowing if you may? Well, IMean here, this is April 4th. It's funny that Phil mentions it. It's my brother's birthday. Jay calls me that day and said, there's a kid I saw this guy and thEQuote was, he reminds me of Kevin LeVron, he's going to be Mr Olympia period at the end of the sentence. Little did you know he would beat him for the Olympia? It's unbelievable. So let's talk about Kai Green. Third place here tonight, not the best Kai Green we've seen, but the guy has got enormous potential. In my mind, Kai Green lost the Olympia. I think Kai Green comes in the shape here. He's the new Mr Olympia. What do you say to that statement? So here's the thing, Dave, as I was talking about earlier in the Iron Man rap, does Phil Heath now went at five years in a row like every Mr Olympia does, like Mike Lacknuss is don't forget about Kai Green. And like Chris said last night, I said if he comes in 10 or 12 pounds lighter, Chris has come in 20 pounds lighter, let's see what he brings. When he brought that package to the Arnold Classic in 2009, that was freaky. You put that Kai Green on the stage versus this Phil Hill. Phil Heath, Phil Hill was great too. You remember him? Who in the, who got that? I got to go with Heath right now because he's Mr Olympia, but let me tell you, I have a lot of Ethan Kai Green. Was this Kai Green's show to lose? Yeah, it was. That's why when we had a fire side, Lonnie wasn't there. We had a fire side chat. It seemed like we were just dogging on this criticizing the hell out of Kai, but the point was, I think we were doing it is because everyone understands what he can achieve and we've seen it before. But we've seen, you know, last year of the year before the Vegas heat, we've talked about the humidity, you mentioned at the, you asked him about his weight and, you and I were concerned that it was so high and we knew that that was not a good weight. I think Kai was 10 pounds lighter from yesterday to today and he still needs to be 10 pounds lighter and I like 20. Yeah, that's your 20. Yeah, and so we, at that fire side chat, it sounded like we're dogging on him because the expectation other people have for him is what is just, you know, is unbelievable. And that's what he's capable of. So yes, was did he, you know, through it was his show to come in and decide where he was going to play. When I saw Kai eating for a full straight full hour through the whole press conference, I knew he was in trouble. Kai Green, I think there are phones where I said, Derek said they should start him for two days before the show because he'll probably look bad because I've never seen Kai be flat. Yeah, you know, he's, he was much tighter tonight and he was very impressive tonight and you could see that crazy thickness and he just, he's got to be frustrated because this is a show. You can see it in his face. He was frustrated. You know, the one thing that he definitely lacks at Phil Heath now has consistency. Right. Yeah. Yeah. It was great at the 2010 Arnold where he arguably could have won the Arnold over Kai Green. He was great at last year's Mr. Olympia. And he was... Exactly. Yeah. And he was great or at this year's Olympia. Kai Green's like the stock market. I don't think Kai Green is found the formula that works for him and when he does, I think that he will be very dangerous. I don't know, you know, if, if, whoever's helpinGHim, who's ever been helpinGHim is just feedinGHim too much, I think his food consumption needs to come down. There's no one bigger than him on stage. And I think that he's missing the boat, so to speak. Let's talk about a guy he helped for 28 days, Victor Martinez, who I thought was one of the most improved body bills of the Olympia. You know, arguably you could put a put a put a put a put a put a put a put a put a put a put a put a put a a little bit tighter and maybe Chris had a little more time with him. He might have been second place tonight. I don't think anybody would have, would have argued with that Victor Martinez was back. I want to congratulate Chris for the short time. He worked with him whatever, whatever he did 29 days. That's okay. It wasn't a long as time, but let me tell you, I'd give an up on Victor Martinez. Always thought he had a beautiful physique, but now I was in the stage, you know what show me, I'm tired of it, you're just not nailing it. He came back, there's a best we've seen since 2007. Now he's back in the mix too. We talk about Kai Green being a threat to fill Heath. I think Victor Martinez is now a threat to fill Heath. If you have 16 weeks with Victor Martinez, does Victor Martinez win the Olympic classic? Yes. I think so. You know what, you got to put it into context. Jay's not going to do it. Fill is not going to do it. Kai's the most dangerous in consistent bodybuilder and bodybuilding. So I think it comes down to the Kai versus Victor. That's really what it is. That crazy, unless psychotic Texan can decide to jump into it. It's a real matter of being a champion. It's on the next Olympia problem. He'll have to try to qualify before the Vahacer. He'll qualify. With the new rule, you have to win a pro show to qualify for the Olympia. It's going to make it a lot more difficult. Top three. And the Arnold. Just the Arnold and the Olympia. Right. And the Olympia. The branch is not competing till next year. So I think what Branch will do is he'll probably do that aeropic. He's in from Dallas, Europe. I've got a Dallas. Let's see, once we wait to see one of the week before. I don't know if it's that. And they'll, but probably see Branch Warren at that aeropop. Victor Martinez now, real curious about him. I'm real curious about Brandon Curry who I've really liked. The numbers of guy that didn't make the top 10 that I think's got a lot of potential is Sean Road. Yeah, obviously a future star. Let's go back to Victor Martinez. You said he was a little resistant to the water depletion with you on Friday. He listened to you on Saturday. Arguably he was very much better tonight. Does Victor have trust in you again to say, if you start cracking the whip on him, he'll listen. Well, I always like I tell Troy. I've trusted me, which means that I can't force anything on people. I trust my instincts and if somebody can trust me, that's fine. I think that's part of the formula going forward is part of working together is if he can go back to the old 304 where it's like, okay, this is the dick. You tell me what to do. I trust my instincts. And if I think if that, you know, formula pans out, I think he's capable of winning the Arnold. Let's talk about Dennis Wolff, who in my mind is Mr. Olympia from the front and the sides. He turns around. He shows vulnerability in the glute hamstring calf area. Is this the best that Wolf can expect fifth place here? Probably, like you say, you know, and certain poses he looks like Mr. Olympia. And then other poses, you say, hey, may squeak in the talk, 10. At the post down he was next to Kotler. He looked better than him from the front. He's big and wide. He's, if you want, and need somebody with a smaller waist, really wide. I don't know if you guys tell me, you guys competed, you guys were, you know, work with people. I haven't. I don't know. Can you fill in those weaknesses now after competing for 15 years? Anything can be fixed, I think. But you know, whether he's got the mindset or to do it isn't, you know, what is he willing to do what it takes to do it. Sometimes you have to go back to the drawing board and retake yourself how to lift. Some of these guys are so stubborn with what they do that they can't do that. Yeah, you know, I agree with that 100%. You know, when he came out in pre-judging, I was doing the play by play and I thought, well, Bictis in trouble for sure. I thought like Jason trouble and I figured, well, you know, maybe he just was really impressive when he first came out. So when you put him next to each other, people, you can see some things that need to be filled in. But I think they're like, you know, focus issues, trening issues. Can he, can he, he's improving? He has improved. He's improved a lot. And throw him in the mix for the arm when he said it's the guy. He could be, he could be a winner. And put throw and Dennis Wolf and that, that trifecta. What's, let's maybe I said Victor Martinez in the comeback show of the year. But, you know, maybe Dexter Jackson might be because Dexter looked terrible. He'll like he's sweet that a few wins in the beginning of the year. He really came back and looked a lot better. But he's still really suffering from lack of size compared to some of these guys like, you know, Wolf and obviously color. And they just, he looks small next to these guys is Dexter back in the mix or is he going to still remain in thaT4th and fifth-page slot? I think because of the lack of size, if these other guys are anywhere near in their top shape, you can't beat him. He's given away 30, 40 pounds. I don't know. He says he weighs 235. I don't think he probably weighs 220. But too much to give away. And he's going to be 42 years old in November. I don't think he's going to be getting any better, you know, physically. He, you know, conditioned wise. This is as good as he's been in a long way. Really when that mess is pro world championship at the end of the year, you think? Who's actually doing that? I think Tony Freeman's right-eels, you know, all the 40 you plus guys, Marcus Haley. I would say right now, the Dexter Jackson. He wins it. It's 100 grand. Dexter's looking to shop. The 100 grand in Miami. All right, this is the Lining team for addiction. It's always in the show. Tony Freeman will play, I heard best of Mayor Benoots in the show. Yeah, but similar Benoots. I went to high school with me. I loved the life in the 11th home. And unless it's a reunion pose now, you know, no offense. And you don't get mad at me. He's got a bad temper. You know, I love the guy. Tony Freeman finishes in seventh place. Chris and I said he's trying to glutes away from a top three finish. Yeah, well, they're judginGHim. I think on whether it's fair or not. And it's fine with me is that judginGHim on his weakest link, which is really the condition of the back, but also the glutes. And I think if you know, the strategy for him going forward in the show like this, big show with a lot of money on the line, contracts, whatever is bringinGHim in at all costs. Whatever your body weight has to fall to, just brinGHim in. And I think they will overreward him because they'll say, OK, wow, something different Tony pushing up right there. And he's got the shape, you know? I know he's upset, but he's on the cost, but hopefully he'll be back for the Arnold. He's another guy who could be in that mix for the one for the win. And when any show as far as I'm concerned, I like Chris said he's like this far away. The certain things that's such a beautiful shape. He's six foot two. He's wide. He's got a small waist. He's in good condition. And in some poses, he looked the best out there tonight. Yeah, the X factors always a title factor to me. Let's talk about the 202 Olympia or 202 showdown. If they like to call it here in Las Vegas, Kevin English repeats. You know, a lot of this, what a point out. After pre-judging, English was really very depleted because he had trouble making weight. And the way in this year was a day earlier. Okay, usually they have two days to fill up. Kevin only had one day. He was very light at 198. I know he said he did a colonic the day before. It sucked down. He might have depleted too many electrolytes. He looked like he was having trouble posing on stage at the pre-judging. He couldn't open his back up. He looked real out of it. He did come back better tonight, but he was winning by three points after pre-judging. Do you think that was a good decision? Not if I was voting and I picked Kevin English to win. So I'm actually going and saying my pit was probably wrong based on what I saw. I would have flexed Lewis winning the tonight. You know, could have gone either way. But after the judging, I would have flexed Lewis. Matter of fact, I did an in-depth interview with Mike Catt today. It was one of the judges. And he was saying, you know, who's that guy from England from the UK, the little blonde guy and I'll flexed Lewis? The judge's a me who knows name. That's a problem. Well, it's probably better. You know, he's a me who might be a problem right there, Chris. Did you think there was any way English had the lead after the pre-judging? No, I didn't have him winning any shots against Flex Lewis. Arguably tonight he was a lot better. He was radically better tonight, but I didn't have any, you know, I never, there was no poses against each other at night. This is a lovely me confused. Lottie, you seem to be up on everything. Why was there no two-out two comparisons tonight? Because I know 50% of the score is tonight yet. They don't judge the posing round. And all there was was a pose down. Did they forget to do the comparison round? I'll remember now. The two of you guys, I don't even think last year, the top six, even got to do their posing routine. So they've always been kind of like the stepchild. I think it's because we got to fit this in and we got to fit this in. Oh, they, they, they think, takes two minutes. But I think that's what they're thinking. Either that or they're just, you judge the night show though. I don't know. I think that that's a major mistake. And I think that's one thing that needs to be correct in the next year. You got to compare those guys. Who was your top three for the two-out two, Lottie? I had Flex Lewis first. Because I actually had Jose Reitman's, Ron, Jose Reitman's second and Kevin English third. After pre-judging, I had Jose Reitman first, Flex Lewis second, English third. After tonight, I really did like English the best on stage tonight. I do know if you have enough points to win it for himself. But obviously the judges had him winning after pre-judging. So that made it easy. I did like Lewis better than Reitman tonight. He has, you know, people have criticized me for saying it on the boards because I was such a big guy myself. Is Reitman too big? Is he bordering on possibly putting too much muscle on that frame? He almost, you know, well, first of all, I'm pre-judging. I had him, you know, I was leaning towards him and at the night show, I kind of switched with Flex and Jose second and Kevin, I, you know, second and third. But he looked surprisingly to me a little boxy in the pre-judging. And I've always been a super fan of his because I've always thought he had a, you know, really significant V-tapeer. He still has it. Not as good. It's not as good. He's just put on so much muscle that it, well, it's, it's still crazy and impressive. It doesn't help his balance and symmetry. You agree? Yeah, he's getting, and the worst thing it can happen to him is that we're going up to two, twelve now starting November. Yeah, it's the worst thing for Jose Reitman. Well, he, I thought the worst thing is, as long as he doesn't try to get up to two, twelve. Well, but I think, but their mindset, Dave, is I have to get up to two, twelve because everybody thinks they know how much, you know, if I come in at 200 pounds, even if he looks spectacular, this is what they're thinking. They're going to hold it against me. That's why everybody lies about their weight. You know who the two, twelve is going to benefit the most flex, Lewis, because flex, Lewis has a lot of room on that frame to add the muscle that he needs. And if he does, he could challenge English, I think. But then again, English is going to be able to come in that much better. Is Seth Farochi going to compete in the two, twelve? I don't know. What do you think? Would Farochi give these guys a run for their money? You know, Farochi, IMean, just do. We don't know, like we've said before, but we draw to Korea, you know, I do it all. But there's people, we don't really know their weights when they come down. Dexter Jackson is probably 220. So, IMean, they have to make two, twelve. IMean, seriously, and Troy Alves. Troy Alves should be able to, you know, maybe he can suck it down. Sean Roden, he needs to put size on. I think he should go up. But if he does the two, two, twelve, now he's got a choice. He doesn't have to put that much size on. He's going to, well, body bills want to get bigger, ultimately. I think the most overlooked guy in this Olympia was no dot Chris Cormere. IMean, Chris Cormere, let's get him over here. You're only 20 minutes late for the wrap up. Who was given? Yes, who? We had to club. We had to club. He already's going out. He said they have to party. No one was there. He came back. We're trying to roll one over there. Chris, talk to me about who you had winning the Olympia. Was this the right decision, Phil Heath? Oh, yeah, he was the right decision. It was the clear winner in the show. For me, it was sort of what I've envisioned even a couple years ago when I was making predictions that Phil should be beaten Jay. I just liked that type of style of physique and what it brings to him. It's come around in the center of yours. Yes, kind of he did the old coming in. No, the old small waist trick on Jay. No, the Jay did a great job. Had a great career and he has nothing to be ashamed of. Jay retired? Well, IMean, I was just like health reasons. Not a penalty to help you as things be walking around like that. Oh, really great Chris Quarmea retired. Or did he? Yeah, this is vague. You're on the, what about going to class? What about the two or two? Did you have Kevin English winning this or Flex Lewis? Well, I just liked, I just liked that Flex Lewis is brought a package that he's never had before that not too many two or two is had before. IMean, he had the cross-dracings on his glues, which was like it was like a reminisce of a, like a like a gritticus barrier from his day. He was totally just like rich. Well, the great Chris Quarmea agrees with all of us. So he's, you know, Kevin, the Kevin I thought he was like 70% coming up. Like he was like in between being like he was tonight as he could have been in the pre-jazin and I thought that homeboy kind of brought it. We're a bit more in that book. They're both neck and neck and I was then after night. You know, they were, you know, they started catching up at the end and it's not over till the end, but, you know, I thought that I thought that it could have been, could have swung the other way. Yeah, I had no problem with English winning tonight. I'm glad to fill Heath is now the 13th Mr. Olympia. One more, let's talk about the figure line because you and I were arguing back and forth. Nicole Wilkins regains the Miss Figure Olympia crown, beating the defending title, the title holder, Aaron Stern. Good decision. I think you asked me that on the radio show. You said make a prediction. I said it's too tough to call you said you have to make a decision. Pick one and I think I said Nicole Wilkins. Yeah, you did. You know, I thought that Aaron Stern was going to win tonight, not because I don't like Nicole Wilkins, but she was the reigning Miss Figure Olympia. You almost have to give the edge to the reigning champ. She was the best that I've seen. What do you think won it for? I just, you know, I just think she's got that wow factor. The pops out at you with the blonde hair, you know, and I think she wanted because she's on the current issue of Iron Man magazine. I heard she is. And that was the final deciding factor. I don't know. They're both great champions. IMean, Stern won it last year. Nicole won it the year before Nicole's the first athlete ever to win the Arnold and the Olympian the same year. That's one of those apples and orange. I didn't see the score. She had, I don't know how close it was after the pre judging, but I had no problem. I'm not so sure Aaron was better than she was last year. I think what happened was they really liked Nicole Wilkins in that figure Olympia stunt. She was off last year. They punished her. Aaron won. She got her game back on. She won the international and now she won the Olympia. She's again, Ms. Figure Olympia. So we have a lot of great champions here tonight. Nicole Wilkins, Ms. Figure Olympia, Phil Heath, the 13th Mr. Olympia. Kevin English three times two-o-two Olympia champ Chris, any final words? No, this is happy for Nicole. We got out thought she ran, kind of like ran in her physique. She just told you to try to prep for it. That's what I like to see how to athletes, male or female. I think she was like the pin of me on the sport should be for a figure. I don't have the great champ but she was a little bit less curbish and hervazied. A little bit too little. A little bit too little. I was a little bit afraid and I thought that kind of did her in with as far. She was just perfect presentation. Your score mirror has better insights into female figure, turn, turning and presentation and bikini presentation than the women do. I've never seen anything like it. Why do you want to explain to you why? You're not sure. You're not sure. IMean you spend enough time with him in the room and have him do turns and all. I had to eat. Yeah, yeah, he's right on the spot man. This is on this spot. Hell, posing. Where's the after party tonight Chris? I'm probably going to go to Oncourt and then into Drainys Drainys must spot. Drainys is like we're all the dead and zombie. The vampire is going to head out with after after in the hotel room and then we're going to have the pool party next day. So I got my next 48 hours. I'm about closing the car and I'm ready for it. You're up to the next 48 hours. I'm ready. Yeah, I'm on it. Yeah, so we went out with after the USA. Who? Me and I haven't been the same since. Yeah, we went out. Chris, can you imagine if they wouldn't saw you with the feeling I'm taking a lot of people out? Are they ever to keep up with you? Yeah, he left out. He was on the room soon. He got in there. He would like, man, this is crazy, man. You're the real deal. He is the real. Now was somebody on his arm. He didn't even have to. I'm not a vampire. I'm a lot of pantheon here in Las Vegas. Devada outside of the Orleans Arena. I'm Dave Palumba with Lonnie Taper from Ryan Man Magazine. Chris the real deal of Kormir and Chris the technician of Cito are axmusl.com.

=== FILE: 2011 Ms Fitness, Bikini, and Bodybuilding Olympia Final Wrapup Video [TRgC-oVtMNI].txt ===

This is Dave Palombo with RXMuscle.com. I'm here at the 2011 IFBB Olympia weekend. I am here with Ruth Silverman from Iron Man magazine and Chris the Technician Ascito. We are going to do the Women's Rap Up here specifically Women Body Building Fitness and Bikini Ruth let's start right off. Iris Kyle seven time misalimpio what she deserved tonight. I think in the end she knocked him off. Yeah. You want an ally? I want an ally. Because the morning she was not quite as crisp we were all sitting there in the press pit remarking on it and I think that tonight she brought a little sharper but also Yaksanne leaned out so much which was a big wild factor for the judges but when they stood there and they did that little lats spread you know Iris just overpowered her and I think in a lot of times Iris beat her in the back poses too. Was this the most vulnerable Iris Kyle's been in recent memory too? Oh yeah I think it was she was very vulnerable. I don't think she dominated the show by any means. I agree with Ruth that Yaksanne she leaned down. It's almost like she went a little bit too far. I think it she just stopped you know she was a little on the flat side and it had she had a little bit more fullness than I think you know could have been tables could have been turned. Iris Kyle was a six time misalimpio going to his dad had a count for something it had to give her a little edge. I believe that she wasn't the misalimpio and Yaksanne had been misalimpio. I think that Yaksanne would have walked away with this with title tonight. I think the answer to that is look at their ways. Iris has just got a smaller way to Yaksanne. She does. Yeah she does. I think that Yaksanne even though she's large and she's majestic doesn't that nip in little waste. Iris is is and I think that counted shape counts. I think the Yaksanne orquins I guess the thing that hurt her was that her legs are very straight up and now Chris she doesn't have that sweep that Iris has when she puts her leg out to the side. You just see crazy crazy detail that you don't necessarily see from Yaksanne because she's got a little bit of straightness to that quad. Yeah you know at the end of the day from the front there's some parts of the pre-dech and during the front where Iris puts it away. It's her structure which is a little you know which is unique. She's got the sweep to the thigh which kind leaves the other girls a little vulnerable. And she's still got the cap delts with the small waist so even though she's not at a best and she was very vulnerable here I thought and and from behind I didn't think she was hard from behind really. I thought her glutes I've seen her glutes so used to seeing this that honeycomb and ask looking for a seat up here and she didn't have that and I think maybe that's why we're being a little bit more discerning about her but I guess you have to say when all said and then she's still the best body of the other stage. I think that's how the judges are and that's how you know pretty much the you know experts like Ruth's are. What is Yaksanne do now IMean IMean she feels like obviously she should have beat her last year she thinks she should have beat her this year people are tellinGHer that does Yaksanne come in a little bigger maybe. Can you lock Sanne come in a little fuller and still be hard that's all that's her dilemma right. I don't know the answer to that Yaksanne did win at the Arnold Cup of years ago when ours faltered. IMean clearly she's number two she's this her 13th Miss Olympia I saw her in the first one in Prague in 1998 IMean she's a great body builder I don't have an answer to that. Brigitte Brezhervic come is in third place here tonight I thought it was a very good decision. She arguably has the best image she on stage not the biggest body builder but very pretty shape especially from behind the glute hamstring lower back insertions yeah that's what kept her right IMean from the get go I think you know had I been judging the show I'd have her third because of her condition her natural shape she has great presentation and and she was she was hard so you know if you want to know how like you know to critique let's say Iris if Iris had that hardness from behind then this would be you know a done deal like piece of cake with that Iris you're expanding maybe without Iris here Brigitte could be mislipi for how many you know tens of years maybe ten years you know because she's got the beautiful structure we I would say that's correct but what about Elena Popa also with the structure I wanted to bring up a let's bring up a Elena Popa we skipping over double chef's who took forth but but but Elena Popa has an interesting dilemma she was third at the Arnold I actually thought that she could have been as high a second here tonight and I don't think anyone would have complained that's why I was sort of surprised that Brigitte slipped into that third spot and you're saying you expected it all day so you know different folks looking at the bodies if you're not going to go with Elena Popa as as second or third then obviously this something they didn't like about a maybe too blocky maybe maybe so they're going for shape so then I'm thinking okay Brigitte slips in there obviously that shape on stage what is devilishewski fit into the mix here because she's arguably the hardest girl in the class and and per height maybe packs the most muscle she absolutely out muscle Iris she definitely was harder than Myers I don't think I think Debbie is fightinGHer structure I don't think there's anything she can do I know I think she thinks she can keep putting on size and be direct but it hasn't happened yet you think it's gonna is it a mistake for her to put anymore muscle on I think it probably is I think so but the more I listen to Ruth she's the female tape female technician I agree exactly that was a perfect assessment from from from Yaksan being long and majestic too

=== FILE: 2011 Phoenix Alfonso Del Rio [abNLvkZkAuY].txt ===

Boo Boo Boo Boom! New Love according to the earth Memory will Sonic shit If that's the pace is the race The young snowfls are alone We can time the child's roles in This will be boring down our own She tried to vote his thoughts So they got a man to throw the world home And all he's done Who are bad want to kiss or They never from this day His little ticker will be Mom, I will scare you These little ticker who can bite Coming away A black sister, baby

=== FILE: 2011 Phoenix Ed Nunn [UoV2bYqBzoQ].txt ===

Get ready for the next couple of rounds Even God knows the time for the race I'll see on this with me falling down a road She tried to walk his thoughts Oh, they got a man's drug, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh He's no one, no one, no one, no one, no one To his own, they never from this day His little ticker will be When I felt that I've known never shandled that I've shown Never be, never she won't see

=== FILE: 2011 Phoenix HidetadaYamagishi [JUWzKEolqgs].txt ===

The image of this The two, the two, cause the pain is correct They don't fall in the rules We've got time to try and throw them This will be more in the wrong Keep trying to walk in the spouse All they got man's trouble All in all he's done Who are bound to his own They never from this day Is really a little too quick When I felt that I've known Never shandled that I've shown Never be never she Won't see what I ever When I felt that I've known Never shandled that I've shown

=== FILE: 2011 Phoenix Marcus Haley [9dxnudbfztw].txt ===

I'm not gonna do it, I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it You love going this earth And when we need to talk to you The cause of being this crazy They don't belong to you We're the time that you're frozen This will be born in the wrong She tried to walk here, stumps All they got to dance, throw the world cold in on his nose Who are bound to kiss or they never fall this day His little ticker will be I felt that I knew never shall Never shall never be Never she won't see you and I But I felt that I knew

=== FILE: 2011 Phoenix Mark Alvisi [WmFWA21QrME].txt ===

Las Can restrictions Non-COV One moment The pain Fearful A part of the sadness But the pain that's not raise We're tired of the child's role, we're the young This would be boring that I'm wrong We tried to walk a little too quickly When I felt that I know never shined Don't let I shine, never be never she Won't see you and I ever know But I felt that I know never shined Don't let I shine, never be never me So I took the opportunity

=== FILE: 2011 Phoenix Mike Liberatore [ftCXfwUTvps].txt ===

Broom啊 Peace All is The cuss Any ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? This way we've been born and are wrong She tried to avoid his thoughts So they got a man's drug and a whole lot of his nose Who are by one to his own They never from this day His little ticker way When I felt that I've known Never shandled that I've shown Never be, never see

=== FILE: 2011 Phoenix Moe Bannout [Dt9HenHoQvo].txt ===

Me You We G Like Me For my My No Your It What Very O Eden You need55 CO Damn I I'm frozen, I'm dead with me, boy and I'm wrong Keep trying to avoid his thoughts Oh, they don't manage, throw the world's on it, on his nose Oh, I'm bound to his own That never from this day His little ticker will be Oh, I'm bound to his own Oh, I'm bound to his own

=== FILE: 2011 Phoenix Robert Piotrkowicz [86bwocmjoXE].txt ===

This is not anything I believe. Those are rules We've tied the child's rolls in This will be born in the wrong She tried to vote his spouse All they got man's trouble Rolled all in on his door Who are by one to his own They never from this day His little ticker wins When I felt that I've known Never shandled that I've shown Never be, never she won't see

=== FILE: 2011 Phoenix Troy Alves [KxFoT3QdUHg].txt ===

Here we come families with marries You hide from this And eat the homes Youpayers We're all done Come and see us And see us And get rid of And I'll tell you The day, this mountain And I'll never let you down, this will be born in that a road If you try to walk, it will take you away When I felt that I've known never shined on that I've shown Never be, never she won't see your life But I felt that I've known never shined on that I've shown Never be, never be, never be, so I don't need it for you I'll never let you down, this will be born in that a road If you try to walk, it will take you away If you try to walk, it will take you away

=== FILE: 2011-Phoenix-Jeff Long [WKf4lRnsO8M].txt ===

This will be boring down our road She tried to walk here as fast So they don't manage to roll Roll, roll, roll, roll, roll, roll And all that is done Who I'm bound to be so old They never from this day His little tickle will be When I felt that I've known Never imagined or better I've shown never be Never seen

=== FILE: 2011ASMScottWeechInterview [CFOtMLCk6dE].txt ===

We're in Helderman with our ex-Muscle.com. Here in Hot Springs, Arkansas, 2011 World Strongest Man, America Strongest Man. I'm here with Mr. Scott Weach, who won a first event at Axel clenup Press and set a new World record. Yeah, it feels good. Don't enjoy it when I second attempt. So I got to say, I'm going to introduce you to the next event. I've always been pretty good at pressing. So, you know, worked out good for me. I knew I needed to start off strong with my best event. So, it turned out good. Yeah, it was terrific. And your toe was forward 23. Is that correct? Yes, there are forward 23. Second attempt. Yeah. Next event coming up is the yoke with the Harley's sled pole. What's your thoughts on that? It's not an event I like. Hopefully, the floor won't be too slick here. It's a finished concrete. Because sometimes we get pretty slick. You pretty good with the yoke. So, it should be another good event for me. All right, looking forward to it. And we're going to be back in just a few minutes to catch up with the next event with the yoke and the Harley's pole. Until then, Brian Helderman with ourxmuscle.com.

=== FILE: 2011europasupershow202nightshowfirstcallout [ArWip3ocKX8].txt ===

And last, last break. And last, last break. And last, and this side, the side chest. And last, the last break. And last, the rear back, the little bicep. And last, the last break. So shows you're welcome to the back. Those who are the first one. Yes, that's right. First and third. School, this one. And last, the side, the side, the side, the side. And last, the side, the side. And last, the side. And last, the side. And last, the forward and the back side. And last two, and last two. And last, the favour of most customers. So, and last, I'll be taking a second and say right now.

=== FILE: 2011europasupershow202nightshowsecondcallout [7diuej-e6NU].txt ===

And last, you decide to sign the sign chest. And last, the rear, back of the line, second. And last, back last, second. And last, you decide to sign the sign chest. And last, the forward, and the rear of the down. And last, back foot. And last, the big and most possible. And last, back foot.

=== FILE: 2018 NPC USA RECAP (Palumbo & Aceto)! Heavy Muscle Radio (7⧸30⧸18) [WLIzh27H4ec].txt ===

10 and 9 You must and I will repeat There may for two guys who can handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true but we can be Lomble Chris Asito Orangemuscle dot com presents Every muscle Leave your watch out Welcome to another episode of heavy muscle radio on the Day of Palombo and I'm joined as always by the technician Chris Asito On this July 30th, 2018 evening and Chris Big weekend and body building at least amateur body building The USA championships one of the best shows In the world I should say for amateur talent It didn't disappoint We weren't there you and I this might have been the first day The both of you and I weren't there but Family calls and crazy stuff going on and I was talking about that a little bit and But the show went on as it always does over a thousand competitors and We have a new overall champion in Shane Stewart now Shane Stewart was a light heavyweight And for those of you want to little wrap up actually did a wrap up on our site with some pictures Something that but I wanted to just talk about the Shane Stewart as the overall trip light heavyweight You know another light head I do me a light heavyweight last year wasn't lunch for the light weight Yeah, but Shane Stewart is Reminds me of a young branch warrant Did you see pictures of him? Yeah, I think he's very good. Yeah, he's good, but he's got that like you know he doesn't have it You could tell when he first started probably people told me and that could be that could have a body But and they put he's got like that grainy nasty norley muscle He's got a lot of muscle on his body any any I pick he's whatever he's done with his physique it flows real well He's got a big back he's got big legs And he's a he's one of these guys that will be to a lot of guys in the pros and no one will ever never believe it people Like there's no way this guy's gonna do well. No one will ever put him in like there. Well, they're gonna they're gonna look I'll tell you what have the people gonna do is Signal look at pictures and they're gonna not know that he's actually better than he is because the lighting at the show is His bright it's intense. You get a very bright background You get a very confusing background and that it's not just plain black or even plain white Yeah, we like what they did at the night with they did used to do it other shows a lot of the pros shows They did they think they're a pro used to do as to is they would do pre judging and black and then it then they would bring up the set for the night show And you'd have like your your normal. You know your fancy little USA background because you're right. It is a little distracting when you have like you know words and stuff like that in the back of the back drop But it looks great. I don't know if he's old the young or I don't know you can't tell what the guys anymore. Yeah I'll get him on the show. But he'll find out everything. We've got some maturity wise. He looks old. You know what IMean? MeaninGHe's density of the muscle and thEQuality of the muscle is it looks like he's not a spring chicken. Meaning looks like he's been trening a long period of time I've had he hasn't been but I'm just telling you this guy has got branch horn written all over it. I'm telling you These this reminds me. I just the best thing I remember when branch turn pro at that 2002 NPC Nationals And He just was Shredded you know I think that and I said to myself wow, this guy's pretty freaking impressive. You know and I didn't I didn't really know who I knew branch horn They might have known his the extent of how lonGHe had been competing for but He probably had been competing ten years before that and I'm from teenagers and everything and look at Brand and I don't think anyone would have said branch horn was going to you know with normal twice and it was going to be a second If you want to be a Some people know pun intended some people who are there twice but I'm not sayinGHe wanted much But no, I know you mean meaning Six most muscular words Yeah, you know it's so funny Well, I won't even say a good judge when he was somewhat some people did you know Some people thought he was going to go all the way I don't want to call them all in the power or somebody IMean it was in a complementary way Some people did they were like behind him and said you know this guy he's even when he wasn't doing Super well as first you know year and a half two years as a pro He pushed Jay that one year you know when he came in second with the Olympia IMean that was I don't I think people always say when the Arnold twice I think the highlight really of his career was placing second with the Olympia That was the first one because he beat he beat the extra he beat the extra that year was raining Mr Olympia Yep So Anyway, this is not branched for him but this guy is a very very very good. He's very good. It's a good line That mean light heavy was without a shadow of a doubt the deepest I'll bet you he does the Tampa Pro next week this coming week I should say As a two as a one It's got to be crazy not I heard the heavyweight kid Lucas Carroll is doing that So I know what is the heavyweight cut off 225 but you know he's he'll suck down through 222 he probably wasn't a full 225 anyway this guy Yeah, he's he's very good. He's got tremendous vacuum hose right? Yeah, probably Fundumbles off the hook Yeah, I thought his glutes could have been a little a little harder. Maybe they're just a little flat But because they are pretty he's pretty ripped everywhere this guy Like I said a friend of mine There's personal friends with him And he he sent me pictures before the show and I said that and if he wins I said I'll interview him So he won I'm going to be a very good good good back double good front double Now it's interesting because this guy is going to drop down from heavy to to 12 And the and Shane is going to obviously just go into 12 or probably You know hopefully he won't come and you know he won't say I can gain weight now and I'll get him comes in smoother But eventually they both do tap it you know and IMean to see who wins it on the pro stage you know Yeah, because obviously Shane won you know the overall here but coming into the 2012 he's still the Carol if they both compete I think there is zero reason for either of these guys to like well I'm going to wait a year And IMean it's not the open they do and they're doing the 2012 you know So no Still demon process you know you talk guys you know IMean you're People were online saying bashing the how the week the show as I don't think the show is weak at all I'm looking at this sixty people and some of these classes you know some of the classes like light weights only any guys and Banems had 10 guys all right, but that's that's always stand well look this two class wonders I both think I've kind of been around the block. I think they look really really impressive. Yeah, and I'll tell you why I don't I don't get those four guys in the class. Those two winners right there are really good I'll tell you what the super heavies weren't too bad either. They were really good. IMean Henry Jackson the third is a guy I interviewed Two years ago. I think it was he won Junior USA and I was impressed with him that he was IMean the only big I think was his second show or something like that I said this guy's this guy's gonna be real dangerous in the future and I hadn't seen him since then He kind of waited kind of you know takinGHis time to put some sighs on and you know he's a pro now now I thought the top two Henry Jackson and Ron Gordon Once again, if you want to see pictures NPC there's online has the pictures I thought there was it was a very tight battle And that effect I thought the second place guy from the pictures now. I wasn't there of course. I need to wear you. I thought he was I think he looks like a young Ronnie Coleman this guy Ron Gordon I think he looks let's see does he look like a Coleman Look at the front last word You know IMean he's he's phenomenal he's good he's got the cold he's phenomenal because I'm gonna put in context He's probably even trening right he's well he's find up in trening a long period of time That's my guess look at his arms that is not it if that's not a Coleman. I'll look the side The great is pex of full hamstrings of great from the side he's in very very good condition He's in better condition than anyone in the class. I think right. Yeah, I think he's better than the winner Henry Jackson I think he needs to fill out his frame a little bit more, but maybe you know, but IMean that front doubles pretty deadly right It looks like a young Ronnie Coleman. I'm telling you I I remember the young Ronnie Coleman to you did it Dave. Yeah, you know at the back does right the glutes and ham It's like when you haven't had the before Coleman got big not facially he doesn't look great Ronnie I'm talking to physiquized like Ronnie He probably has a better waistline because he got a long torso too Ronnie never had a runninGHead or short torso He's probably from Texas too I've changed the metro flight right home He's in terrible we don't know anything about this. I'll get I'm gonna get all these guys on the show These this isn't gonna crop so I'm gonna get him on the show because I'm gonna get no like no no no no You know no variety go tight and interview with you unfortunately Well, you know, it's a quiet show. You can say that right I like the one that we see new town like this Don't how often do we get like a crop of new guys that really we haven't really you know heard any buzz about you know That's exciting especially in the opening Like yeah, I went to heavy season then they've to the fifth time Yeah, IMean usually it's a guy who's like 35 eight years old and interviewing because he's about 20 years to get the pro card You know it's funny. I think when does the hand sharp turn pro he can tell you I think it was his because he'd done a lot of shows It was like his third year What the North America so people like oh, it's just like your tenth time here. It's like time What are you talking about it? It's my third time. Yeah, it's just that I've done multiple shows You know so people know the face sure Where's you know, I don't know the face of these guys any of these guys The top five at the here in the super is a good. IMean obviously Matt Perzacot I you know if I would as a betting man if I was going to if you were not going to handicap the show before the show took place Yeah, I would say Matt why don't you know because he's next in line and that tells you how good Ryan Gordon and and rejects it on Yeah, I'm just lining up Oh, that has to go to settle the third Good you Yeah I like Daniel no C. Although Oh no C. Oh he He was good too big big front last bread You know conditioning could have been a little better I think the biggest disappointment well and Brett Swanson who's really good. That's uh, Autumn Swanson's husband Yeah, he's got a good experience He's got an inch he's got a great quad. It's good legs, you know He doesn't have the smallest waist but he has he's got super great conditioning You know this guy who was six is the Jose helps he looks like a road-nish type Federico Gordy Yeah I think there's a lot of you know future talent in this lineup that we see Think about how good the lineup was like Vincienzon, Massoni who we were you know, Vinnie, Massoni who we were really high on at the nationals I thought he was going to come into the show and win you know, obviously way too smooth here But he's one of these like future talents you know Jerry trens with Jerry's policing in the gym Old school you know type of physique he's probably one of the most popular guys in social media And that you know you do follow your begins to grab guy Well, I don't follow anyone but I'm just post You know all the Instagram gossip though All but I thought that he was going to come in here and really do some damage But he yeah, if you look at the pictures he just wasn't in good shape No, he was a good place he can he can suck it down to the North American yeah nice spirit very good and something so good Yeah, no, I'm telling you why I think that's really good. That's a reflection of the depth. Yeah I think I think what people got all I'm tired about was the fact that was only 10 heavy weights which You know usually the heavyweight classes stack you know there was there was 16 super which is which is good for super heavy weights usually I still don't see why more people do national's the end of the year than than you know Yeah, there's two programs per class but they give me at least you I say is every class gets approved I have you myself don't 42 heavy with the national's you watch people like if I dumb that you are saying I would have been top three Yeah, I don't know I don't think anyone was beating this look as Carol guys so Pretty big and I just said top three yeah, but you got to be you have to be first to really win You know it is nowadays no one wants to go to a show to place they all want to go to win I could guys I know guys that did one show they're like I'm going to I'm going to USA and one national's next year or this year I'm like what are you guys not are you nuts? I knew nuts you just wanted like the you know the local you know state show you go to nationals you'recompeting one year Yeah, and they go in not just to say hey I want to place they go because they I got to get my pro cards Because you know what you can do that in men's physique you can do that in bikini in figure you can't you can't do that men's body But you know you might even be able to do it in classic body building, but even now that's getting too hard What do you think of the classic go over a one of Brian Jones What do you think gave you reminds me of like a young guy queen doesn't mean not just because they're You've got like that tygrene is very awkward. I know that I stopped doesn't show up and well in pictures But I'm sure in person he was wacky looking from what I was going to be alive It's pretty impressive Well, it was the most packed just for a statistic what was the most packed class? IMean in terms of numbers bikini Oh, yeah probably absolutely bikini in figure men's physique was huge Men's physique was huge, so But it's not always the case. I heard there was 250 bikini girls in the show As my grandfather would say, mazultuff Yeah, there was there was four women body roles in the whole show and they gave her poker You know if I'm advising women's physique, yeah if I'm advising women's physique Well, if you're a women's physique, you better just do body building if you have any of these eyes I know I've said it, but no one knows how people think it crazy, but the girl who one is looks good She could have won physique if you look at the picture Marla Maria Marla Maria Marla Maria Marla Maria She definitely could have won, which she'll be a great women's physique pro She was smart. She was the smartest one there She figured you know what I got a better chance of body building I don't know why I don't know why the women's physique women wouldn't cross over or do the just do body building All you got to do is come in the shape What did they give a classic body building? Brocar of somebody One, two, three, four, five, six, seven pro cars You know we had, yeah I don't have to even determine that It was a two per class, it's why they give the classic two per class But they give them the men's body building, one per class That's what IMean, isn't that weird? Well that's why they have that's why all the classes have 35 people in it Well IMean if you, if you, if you, if you gave a four I'm just saying four three pro clients to each light heavy heavy super IMean you wouldn't get 10 guys in the, in the, yeah Look, every one of the national's everyone, let's assume that 50% of the classic physique guys would have been men's physique Before class was around and 50% would have been open body bones Right? Yeah, well there's, there's the people you lost That's why the classes are not the stats, why open body building doesn't have as many people's usually Because here, you know, there's a certain percentage that went off the classic And that's just the way it's going to go And that's, that doesn't mean you're going to, I don't think it's going to water the Pull down necessarily in the open class. I think you're just not going to get as the numbers That's all. Yeah. The guys who are going to win classic never would have won open anyway, not on amateur level Maybe as they got, if they got bigger and went on a pro level they would So I don't think you, you're losing, you know, your, your top tier talent You know, it's just a matter of will these men's classic guys stay as classic guys in the, in the pros If they do then you might lose some, you might lose some talent in the pro ranks Because these guys could theoretically, you know, grow into, into open men, competitors So I heard the lorry still wants to go up to open men's body building next year I'm going to get them on the show interview before they look there. I'm going to ask him I heard he gained 20 pounds already. What do you think by that? He may have, IMean he, he may have but, um, for open body building, the thing to win the Arnold classic, you need more than 20. Probably, yeah. IMean, a couple of, if he's willing to, you know, put the work in over a couple of years I think he could probably do it, you know, people did it all that's how people in the past You know, you're looking at a guy and see there's no way this guy can be an open guy No, of course he could, that's, that's where everyone starts, you know, he's got the structure ThEQuestion is, does he, can he put the muscle on, you know? That's, it's just a matter of, you know, time. Time over tension, right? Is that what, what's, that's what is that equal? Time over tension. But it's some kind of, I remember that from first. That's two scientific from me doing. Yeah, it's a little too, Chris, I'm not even doing the show at 12 30 and I was one in the morning, so. That's okay. It's so alert. We, our brains don't work that clearly at that time. No, time over tension. It's a trening, it's like a, who came up with that time over tension? Yeah, I know it's body building the way that we, I think it's Ellenton, Howard and Howard, how are you put out, you have something like that? Yeah, work equals more mass times accelerated. That's our move from physics. Because people say, people, I hear that all the time. This is, you know, Chris is not scientific enough. I, I'm serious. Some people tell me, I hear that. This is, you know, Chris, you're not scientific, you just like, make stuff up or lucky, I said, or lucky is okay. So I'm scared by help when? Time under the tension is the time your muscle spends under load during a set. Okay, and I guess that's associated with hypertrophy, right? No, it's just, in other words, how long you take before you do the positive and negative contraction, eccentric use. IMean, you know, you, you, you could, you could take a hundred pounds. And then you can take a hundred pounds on the bar and bring, take 20 seconds, 30 seconds to bring it down and 30 seconds to bring it up and do lots of those. And I think if you mentioned 450, it negates everything under time under tension. I, I was found that I liked it to really control the negative portion of the eccentric portion of the movement. Like, very, very controlled. And how quickly I came down with the movement was basically based on, on feel. So on bench press, I really control the negative because I felt that that was really important, you know, to the, to the set. On squats, I controlled the, the, the negative or the eccentric, you know, going down, but I, not as much because I just felt like I didn't have to. In other words, so it's important to control your negative, but the rate with which you do it is, really, depending upon how it feels. And you can't teach someone that you can't say, well, you have to take 25 seconds to lower the weight. Now, because not for everyone that's going to work, especially if you have long, long legs, very short legs or long arms for short arms, it's got to work. It's got to feel. There's got to be a, a feel aspect of it. But when you bring it down, when you bring it down, bring the weight down, and the negative slower, you don't recruit more muscle fibers to you. Well, I think you, I think you're, I think you're breaking down more tissue. You're thinking about the muscles and the contracted position at the top of these state bench press. And then you're lowering the weight. Now, the muscles that are contracted now are tearing or, are shearing apart, because the slower you're moving the weight down theoretically, the more shearing force on them. And so that that's the theory, if you can, if you can create more shearing force over long period of time, time on the tension, you're going to, you know, you're going to, you're going to get better gains. But I think it's, it's, there's an, an individualistic type of portion, or, or, or, or, I guess, aspect of this because if you lower the weight too slow, you won't be able to bring it up again. You know, necessarily, you might actually do it yourself. You might need to do it yourself. You might, you might, to take the muscle too much, because you're taking too long to do the set. You're not going to get enough reps out. Now you're reducing the amount of reps you're doing because you're lowering the weight too slowly. I don't think you're going to get as much development. So I think this got to be like a balance between, you know, I always found that, you know, when I went super heavy, you know, the try to stimulate your muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, I had to move the weight a little faster. I couldn't lower the weight as quickly with, say, 500 pounds on the bench as I could with 400 or a 315. And if I tried to do that, I would get stuck in the end of it. I would get no reps with it. So I think at some point, you might need to move the weight a little faster to get into that groove of building more strength. And then once you have more strength, you can slower, you know, you can do your, so in other words, on the lighter sets, you do, you do, you do slower reps, as least the negative portion. And then on heavier sets, you might go faster because you want to use that in a little bit of momentum to try to be able to get pushed through that barrier of nothing on the lift. So I think that that has to be that balance between it. And that's, that's why there's no, there's no formulas in stone for lifting. You just can't make formulas up, is it this is the way to do it? Because that's, it's not the way to do it. And then this, this variability to everything you do. And everyone is different. That's why you can watch Branch Warren do those crazy ballistic, you know, type of movements that he does in the gym. And it works for him. He built a ton of muscle doing it. If I did it, I would be injured and an ambulance problem. Sounds like you're explaining, Joe, we just instinctive trening. Yeah, Joe, Joe, he took, Joe, he took credit for every, every, every trening principle. And he found it out with Joe, we just naked of gravity. He had to actually have like a naked of a gravity principle, which was when you bring the rap sounds slower. Well, you know what he did? He just, he just basically named all the things that people don't know. You're ready, you know, which is good because now we have a, we have a language to talk about it. You know, we can describe these things. It's important that sometimes give names to things because otherwise how do we have a conversation about what we're doing in the gym. We have to say, oh, you know that movement, you want to do it. It's better to have these, it's funny. It's funny. It's all crushers. Who gave up with skull crushers? Well, because when you got two tires, the fucking bar hit you in the head, you cracked his skull. You know, the way to principle, we'd have then stick to trening, virtual gravity, you know, there was a principle for every contraction principle. What's when you hold it and squeeze it. Can you hear him coming up with those things? Because you know why it was easy for him to come up with those? The same reason was easy for black men to come up with the headline to articles. Well, you know what, Charles, you were talking about. Charles, that's probably come up with a couple. You probably have a whole book of principles that he's got for all his exercises. Charles, I was pulling on principle. Yeah. I'm saying if Charles was an Ego maniac like Joe is, which is not, he could have made up his own list of principles. I was so surprised. No, Charles is like the trening chip, but if someone went to the gym and watched Charles trening people and started quantifying everything that he's doing, you can come up with a whole new set of principles that no one even heard of before. You know? The Charles Glass Interangular Production Principle. Think about that. We think we know what the exercises, Charles could probably come up with, with 50 new exercises, no one ever heard of. You know, he can make his own names up from, and he can put it in a book and probably sell a million copies of the thing. People are obsessed with trening. I can't tell you how many of my clients asked me for trening programs. I hate doing that because I was an instinctual trensit, but I've been writing down different programs for people just, and I've been saving them as files because people get bored. You know, I used to just instinctfully change things up here or there, but some people like to just follow routines, you know, and I forgot Chris that there's no magazines anymore. So the magazines did have those cookie crazy workouts that they pretended that the body bulls used. But they were there. Iron Man magazine was notorious for putting out a tremendous, different muscle back to different variations, and we would follow them. You know, you probably follow a lot of my probably follow a lot of them. There's nothing like that anymore. So it's actually not a bad idea to put out some new articles as well. Okay, here's some of the weed at principles and just Google it. Thanks to Google. The first rep principle, right? That's when Dave can't do any more, and I lift the bar off on the bench press and help him do it, and then he'll all right, right? Oh, wait, no force rep is you can't do it anymore. Yeah, okay. The pre-exhaustian principles you're going to do pecs, and instead of doing bench press, you're going to do like pec deck, peruscable crossover, So you can lift lesser weight, less weight to get the more out of it, right? Yeah. The muscle confusion principle is when you've been trening chest on two, even trening chest like the other, really, really tired of the gym. You know, I can play that breast. Did you tren chest on Mondays? Yeah, and then you could use the body by starting with inclines rather flat bench. I purposely never tren chest on Monday because I didn't want to fight with people over the bench, So I would do back on Mondays, and then on Tuesday I'd come back and do chest when no one was on the bench presses. Oh, I can play it. It's staked of the instinct of the instinct of the instinct of navigation of the gym principle. Wait, did we say muscle confusion? We said muscle confusion. Wait, the muscle priority principle. Now that would be when you're tired of the terrible, so you come right in and you target calves. It's funny that we both know that all these things too. The partial rep principle. The partials if you can't get the full range, you know, you're going to get the partial build up strength. You know what, you know why we know these crisps because we read the magazines like they were the Bible. And there was nothing else to look at. There was no internet. So we knew everything that was in those magazines and we were brainwashed by them. So that's why we knew and I can have this discussion and we don't even, we don't even know why we know this stuff, right? It's just in the spirit principle. Do you know that one? Oh, go faster to get more reps. Yeah, do faster to create explosive power speech strength. But that's what that's like I was saying before when you were using newer, you know, more weight that you've ever used. You're going to go faster because you're going to be able to get more reps and get used to that weight a little bit. But one of you say that you're going to give a notation to back to Joe. The descending sense principle. The descending sense. That's drop sets. Yeah, drop sets. That's drop sets when you do it, you know, you're doing by-seps with 50, 40, 30s. The staggered sets principle. I don't know what that is. trening several muscle groups together alternating, oh yeah, the muscle groups. Is that joint sense? No, no, that's a giant set. That's another principle. That's when you do like chest and you fatigue on chest and then you'd go do a set of back and then you come back and do chest and then back. Agingistic muscle groups like that. Yeah, and tacking the stick. You got it. And then you got the giant set principle, which I think Leo needs to give. Joe, credit for that one. That's it. And then the instinctive trening principle, which is- I wouldn't just do it. Yeah. When you use all those principles, but you don't know why or when you use something. Or you just go to the gym and you might tren chesT3 days in a row because you're instinctually thinking that's what you got to do. Yeah, that sounds like, who would do something like that? That would be like a- Riding course. Yeah. We'd worked for him though. I'd lose muscle. He'd grow three inches on his pecks. Who used to tren back every single day? I'd get them with somebody, both said that's totally built it back. I tried to do that once. I tried to do like pull ups every day. You ever hit these people to do that? I get my back at smaller. I got 10 to 90s to my shoulders and everything was hurting me. I couldn't- I couldn't recover from doing back once a week. I needed to do whatever he ate days. You know, these guys were doing it every day. I always tell people, if you have a week body part and you're- and you're instinctually thinking that you should just- You listen to someone else and tren it every day a little, like a couple sets. I said, do the opposite, tren it less. Because if it's a week it probably means it's not recovering from the workouts. It's probably not the inner trening and hard enough. Unless you just- a lazy trener. Suming an unalazy trener. I think the worst thing you can do is over-trened weak body parts. Usually that doesn't sound so weak. IMean, maybe for a week or two, that's it. But if you do it more than that, they can think of anything. I'm gonna be terrible. I don't know how people did two body parts a day every day every week, rather. I don't know how they did that. You know, they would do like a chest twice a week and back twice a week. I would be so burnt out on that type of a trening regimen. It was terrible. Never worked for me. Works for some people. Doesn't work for me. Ronnie for his whole career did that, right? Yeah. Every three days he was doing it. That was a little he-hany, you know, pretty simple. Every three days you trened body parts. Can you imagine those leg workouts Ronnie did and doing those twice a week? Oh my god. That's why he can't twice cripple now. No, I think he's crippled because of his- Because of his- the weight he was lifting. But yeah, the fact that he wasn't recovering from those things. But he was recovering because he was getting you from this. He was probably doing something. Yeah. Who could tren with callmen if he's doing chest? Chest rolls try back by legs, repeat it. And doing it in 150 degree heat in the summer and probably zero degrees in the winter. With no heat or acne shingin' and metrophlex that. Those are like jail-like conditions. IMean, it's crazy. No. No. Don't let's see. One. And figure Diana called the, a cadena. One, the overall there. Sarah Davis, one bikini overall. See you, Ross. Some more. You see. You'll say, I don't give credit to you. We classes anymore. I told you, I talked about bodybuilding was Marla Maria Marathoo. Brian Jones, we talked about classic. That's my, my chide green look-a-like. Yep. Men's physique, Carter Montgomery. Great physique. This guy's got it, wow. Great show. Women's physique. Ashlyn Richardson. She, you know, she's a little more on the smaller side. For women's physique. If you put it in a pose, she'd be like, figure in the pose now. It's weird. I haven't seen too many good like women's physique at the, at the amateur level. They're the pro level. They're great. But the amateur level that they're, they're definitely smaller. There's definitely a big gap between the pro and amateur level and women's physique. Side of things. I've known the least. I don't know if you've known that. No. I know it was a lot of classic. Well, classic is not a good gap because you know why? Because the weight class is a different, which I still don't understand. I don't know why the weight class is would be different for the pros versus the amateurs. But I guess they think the reason I'm sure- Well, they think when you turn pro, they want to have some, I grew up to grow a little bit. But why not just have it in the amateurs and you're right to the pro? That's- that's- that's- doesn't make sense to me. But I guess you know what? Look, there's two-12 in open and pro body playing. So, it doesn't really correspond to the weight classes in the amateurs at all for that respect. But I guess that again, I guess classic is the only really classic has a weight restriction on it. If you think about it in the pros, we're, you know, for every single person. Because your weight restriction is your height, you know? Which is kind of weird when you think about it because if you don't make weight, okay, in a classic physique pros show, right? What's your option? Now, I guess if there's an open or two-12 you can do that, but, you know, assuming you're in there, you can, you're on the, two-12. But you kind of screwed it away, right? Right, you can't compete if you don't fit any of those other categories. Imagine you do a show that only had- Imagine you could travel halfway across the world to Vietnam like this last weekend and to do it to a two-12 to do it. To do it to be a classic and you don't make the weight class. And you got it. You can't compete. It's crazy, right? You can't compete with it. I'm crazy. By the way, speaking of which, let me pull when we pull this up first here. So I'm accurate with what I'm saying. I get emails from people at the time. I don't know what you're doing. Where is this show? There was a show in Vietnam. What's there in Vietnam? Let me pull this in here. Everyone sends me the controversial stuff. And, you know, it's enough to take away the grain of salt because I wasn't there. Let me see what I'm looking for. Oh, here it is. I'm not going to say the person's name. I'd like to highlight you. I guess English is not the first language. But the recent muscle contest show that was in Vietnam and the Philippines. They are using non-qualified I-FB Pro at Judges. Judges from other federations even people have never judged before. I don't know anything about this. What do they want you to do up all? I don't know. They want me to go back to something. First of all, there are no freaking part judges who live in Vietnam. But they want to expect. They want to fight against the same people. Well, you know what? Let me trenslate to you. I coach who I think should have won gets grew. That's probably where it's coming from. Unqualified Judges. Like, what's that mean? They have no, you know what? I hear that all the time. They're unqualified. He never competed. Well, IMean, it is nice to know that somebody competed. It really, really is. IMean, I would like to be on stage and have gay plumbo. Judge me or, you know, sort of judge me or who's a Raymond judge me or a black slowest judge me. But at the same time, there are damn good judges. Some who don't even look like they work out. Maybe they never have. IMean, I still kept in touch with fans for like 30 years. Who I still say, hey, who do you have in the top five in the show? Because they have a great eye. And some of these people who I know, I swear to God, if you saw me, it's a, what's he doing at bodybuilding shows? He just a fan. Yeah, no one's ever happy, you know that. They have a show. I thought maybe it was, you show, they have a show in Singapore, this coming weekend. But that's obviously not what they're talking about because they're talking about a show that took place. If someone says to come to Singapore, they've mean you'll go, well, abandon in the wives, abandon in the kids. I said my wife down to see them. And they get down to the home school woman. We'll go to Singapore cover the show. Yeah. If you actually told you wife, Dave and I got to go to Vietnam this weekend. I can say that on the radio show. I did it would never happen. She'd be like, you're not going to. He, he, he. Lose the power, Dave, somebody told me once you lose the power when you get married. My dad, that's my dad. So I think he took it. Yeah, he took it. That's right. He warned me. Speaking of my dad, he's, he's still hanging in there. I don't know how he's doing it to be honest with you. My dad hasn't had any food or liquids for four days now. I just wanted to thank everyone else. I've been getting a tremendous amount of text and emails for people, you know, setting prayers and giving all kinds of emotional support. So I, I appreciate it. I, I, I, I put it out there just because I, I like to keep my life out there and let everyone know it's going on in my life. And a lot of people responded. I didn't even think that they were going to because you know, my dad's a daddy. He's just, he's dying, but he's not dead yet, but we've been trying to go there and spend a lot of quality time out and going there every day and spend several hours, you know. I don't see, I go in and out of the room because he's kind of like, you'll fall asleep and he's not really speaking much anymore. But although he yelled, ma, ma, a couple of times today. There's a nurse for me. It's my dad. If my dad was only if they got my dad can't speak because if he was alive, you'd be like, you know, because the nurse looks just like his mother. She does. I can understand where he's coming from. It's not even like that he's like screwing up too much because, do we get a load of this one? So, you know, man, it came by the kids. My son is like, he just, he would try to explain to him the whole process of like, my father's like, it'd be very difficult, you know. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What can he really get? Right, well, man, as like, explaining, you know, that the pop is going to be with Jesus. The Jesus is going to come take him. And, you know, like he did. And then, it's funny. She was explaining to him, and then, well, since she sees, they walk up the driveway, there's like a dead snake on the driveway. And she's like, you see the snake? Snake? But the Jesus would stake there. The snakes with the Jesus, you know. Yeah. He came it, understood the whole. Oh, but I think he does. I don't know. But he goes there and he likes to say pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop. Which every time he does is my father, you can tell my father is responding. He definitely hears what's going on. It's amazinGHow your body can shut down, but your hearing seems to be the last sense that still stays. And I don't know what that is. You think it's something of like evolutionary thing, you know, for survival. It's a good point. I really, I really get it. Well, what comes for us? You are safe when you, when you, when you, when you're being formed in the womb. I don't know. I forget. I have to get my embryology. But I'll tell you this, what's the most important for survival? I guess would be hearing, right? To hear a predator coming. Because what if it's dark out? You know, your vision is not going to really help you in the dark, right? So I guess hearing was always like a very important sense. You know, for survival before we had houses and, you know, when we were in the wild, so to speak. And that must be why these two, these two, these two, these two, these two. Because if you say the right thing to him and he, and it's touching or whatever, it's some kind of emotional thing. You can sometimes like, see, a tear and his eye and man, it was saying, look, Salve, you hear me blink, you know, he's blinking. So, I don't know. He's hanging in, I like I said that. I never heard, I always thought you couldn't last one two days without lick fluids, but my father had nothing to eat or drink for four days and he's still pretty safe. IMean, he actually looks pretty good. He probably did seven days for the do your girl. So, you know, fluid. That's why he made the way. Yeah, my father's getting stride to glutes now because he's, his body's absorbing all the fluids. You know, you have to make my father would say the, and I said this to him. I said, dad, you know, you taught me that you got to find the absurdity and everything in life. And so, this got to be some absurdity and something ironic about what's going on here. You know, you're going to a better place. You know, it's funny that you, you told me the absurdity is that he's, that he's on wuffy and, and it's a decrease from, it's like the way they decrease principles. Yeah, you know what IMean? I couldn't figure out why you'd be like, we were talking about pain principle. I couldn't figure out why father was so sensitive and everybody's, so in touches on him. And then one of the nurses said, did he drink, did he, did he, did he, did he, did he, did he, did he, did he, did he, did he, did he did that a drinker? I said, well, I don't know, was a bottle of wine, a day of drinking. She's like, yeah, that would probably qualify. And I said, well, what about like, the 80 millionaires of oxy-content twice a day? Which he was not, he was actually on less when he was living in a system living, because he had no stress, he was only 20. But I guess what happens is when I give you a morphine drip, my father's actually getting less pain kill of the new, he was getting when he was taking the pills. So he was, they were under, you know, they, they think they keep it uncomfortable on an IV drip of a morphine. He's actually, he's in with the draw for this stuff. So he had up his dosage. What is this? What, what would be the way to principal, the weeder says to desage, I suppose, desage, desage. Yeah. So anyway, it's kind, it's very sad, obviously, the whole situation. But you know, my dad's 88, and I, I think, once again, I tell people, and I said this, and I know my father would agree with this, I would rather my father pass on knowing who I am than getting to a point where he didn't remember who I was anymore, because I think that would be horrible. Because then it's like, had he, comfort someone who doesn't even know who you are, you know? Yeah. So he's like, me, he knows me. He knows my son, Logan, if you mentioned that in 80, and see, he knows that. He knows my cousin Michael, who he was very instrumental in raising, helping raise. If you, if you tell my wife's name is Claudia, even though it's a man to, I'll know Claudia, you might know man, IMean, you know, Claudia knows her as Claudia, consistently as Claudia. And that's my, that's his brother's ex wife's name, I don't know where he came up with that, but that's what he always calls a man to him. It's aromasincere matter. And so he's still in there. I kept going every day, IMight go there, and I'm like, I think this is the last day. He gets through another day. I'm trying to just enjoy all the time I got with him left. But once you get back, you guys, I appreciate what out there. Who sent their well wishes and everything like that. Crazy. Crazy. And didn't hear. I put up a, a man, if reminded me that I did a, ask, ask, we did a, on the old movie must of TV show. I remember that, that video, I remember you sending that to me. It seemed like it was 2013, it seemed like it was yesterday. Yeah. And he was, I, I told you many, many times, I told everyone I told Dave, you got to give him his own show once a week. Talk about Dave, so what, what did you get to talk about? It said two cares. Yeah. I should have, well, I should have taken more of them there because he was, he was so animated, my phone that I forgot how like with it he was. He was still losing. He was still, he was still, he was still, he was still, he was still, he was still, he was still there right? I don't know what he was doing. But that's what he was just like really, really, we should have taken tons of wine. I know that. That was the, like right in the beginning when you started to really lose his memory. So I, I was doing this, what would dad, what answer, we did like a quiz show, what would dad, what would Dave's dad say? And I would ask the people in the studio, I'd give him a question. And then I go to the clip that we filmed with me asking my father a certain question. Like, what's, when's my birthday or, you know, how many times have you been married? All these, like, things that he should know. And you got it. I just go rewatched, I don't want to run a friend of mine. It's pretty funny, you know. And the funny thing is that one of the people on the show I had was a very long time childhood friend of mine, Larry Ushah, and Larry jumped off the Verizano Bridge. I had given him the nickname, the Bridge Jump, because he actually won't have only two people, however, lived from jumping off the 200 times. I told my son that story the other day. How's that? Go ahead. Unfortunately, he wanted a couple years later. He's successful though. Yeah, I believe he owed it on heroin, yeah. Some kind of drugs. I think it was New Year's Eve or something like that. Kill themself. But terrible, but he was great on the show. No, and he knew my dad really well too, which was pretty funny, because he grew up around the corner for me. And so he was used to shovel my dad's walk and the winter, and he would break the leaves and remove the lawn and the summer. While he was going through the loss, actually, he probably was still a lawyer. He was just going through it. Then he actually read that a room in one of my rental houses for me for five years. So I just knew this guy. So, well, it's ironic that he was in that episode of my dad. And he'll probably be mowing my dad's lawn and heaven up there somewhere. He never knew. But how's your dad doing? My dad is not doing well. Yes. He's, you know, he's a good guy. He's got dementia. So it's, you know, you never improved. You only have good days and worst days. The progress base. Well, you know, they fall on the falling. Yeah, falling again. Um, he broke his hip and it never healed. Oh, it didn't. Because he was too stubborn to do any type of therapy for it. So, but I don't know if it was being stubborn or, you know, because he's by nature stubborn. Well, it's probably safer because now he's not walking around. So he's not going to be, you know, true. True. You know, it's so blinding there. So, um, but, you know, holidays where he seems decent. And then, you know, right when you think like, well, he's really not that bad. You know, he's not that bad. And then he realized, like, he could visit another day and you say, yeah, he's not bad. Yeah, they have bad days, they have bad days. So, and he would have, you know, bad days, of course, one, you know, any day. So, you know, I hate to make this show about death because a lot of people who died, I want to just mention, and you know, this person, I didn't even know he died. His girlfriend contacted us through our ex-Muscle's Instagram account. Carliske Doi, his wife, he's sorry, his wife. Carliske Doi, you remember my friend down in Brazil, he's the cover of the Brazil. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, amazing. I give him a hand. Because he's driving us around and he was our trenslator. Great guy, you know, he was, I don't even know what the cause of death is, but men, he's got a young baby, you know, he's leaving behind wife, and he had been sick, but he had beat it and I don't really, we have to be in a blood disorder, and I don't really know exactly if that's what took his life. But he had started a website like for us, I remember, like we did, like, after our ex-Muscle, because we had, you know, worked with him so much, he started a Brazilian website, site and he was covering shows and he had a YouTube channel and I actually named his YouTube channel for him a game of the name. And he was at the Arnold this year. IMean if I got him press passes I validated because Matt Loris called me up because if you know if this guy said yeah he's a good guy. Game press passes. So he was really doing well with that and unexpectedly got the freaking phone call terrible. Then I saw in the news you pointed out to me that Jerry Lawless son Brian Christopher and said he got arrested for DWI he was in his jail celly hunGHimself. What's going on with people? What's with the suicide Chris? Is depression that deeply rooted in our society? It is. It's a successful people. We talked about Anthony Bourdain a few weeks ago now this guy. Wow. And then of course Nicolas Volkov dare to die. Nicolai Volkov another WWE Hallfamer from. He was like who was he the tag team partner with the particular guy? Yeah he was the actual number he was. The one you mentioned before the iron sheep. They were like tag team partners. They won the championship belt. Boy, very, very back. And he died. He was the 70s. But a lot of people died in the sweet unfortunately. Here's a good story for you. Do you follow gymnastics women's gymnastics a little? I don't think you can follow these. Well Simone Biles is probably the winningest. Yeah, everyone's Simone. She's the most winningest. Probably the best greatest gymnast of all time. She won in the Olympic gold. And she's making a comeback now. And she did her first meet back. I didn't even, I didn't even, for a year or something like that. Or over here. And she won. And I'm looking at her physique. This girl's got the greatest genetics of all time. She, if she wanted to be like a figure like pro, she probably would be a figure pro. Or at least she would certainly be a fitness pro. They would be no doubt about that. She probably would be mislump if she wanted to. Just crazy genetics. I always love it when I see someone who's like a super, super talented person who could just, they could take time off and then come back and just still be at the top of the game. Unbelievable. I just, you know, just some people have a genetic gifts that are just leaps and bounds above everyone else. Of course she happens to be one of those people. Most gymnasts stop competing after they're teenagers. And I think she's probably got the kind of genetics she can probably compete until she's 30 if she wanted to. Crazy. Crazy. What else do I want to talk about? I have a quarter of the week, Chris, which I think is important. And it, and I'm going to prophesy by telling my dad story first. My dad, the least, the second half of his life, I think, was just a very pessimistic person, which is ironic because I'm the complete opposite. I'm like, I'm almost two non-pestive a second. Maybe his pessimism led to your optimism. Maybe. Maybe. I always try to convert him. I couldn't do it. And the, thEQuarter of the week is you cannot have a happy ending to an unhappy journey. You cannot have a, yeah. Do not have a happy ending to an unhappy journey. No, you're miserable at the time. And it's not good and well, fear. You're not going to have, you're not going to achieve what you want. You've got to change your mindset first if you want to have success and anything you do. I always, I, you know, I see there's a lot of people who battled the pressure in the body-pilling world. And those people, they always find a way to screw up the contest prep. I don't have a deal with it, but it's true because I think they attract negativity to themselves. And if you want to have a happy ending, meaning if you want to do well, achieve whatever you set your mind to, you got to eliminate the negative from your life. You can't be sitting around miserable. Time where you're going to attract more misery and you're going to find the way to screw it up. You have to see these people, Chris. You're like, how do they held this guy screw up two days before a show? It's everything in the, in the, in the Chinese buffet and then screws it up. Or how does this person get into a car accident? You know, the, the day of the show, what the hell they doing driving around? You know, it's like people, they, they, they find the way to screw up. Well, someone said to me, someone that probably could be considered depressing. IMean, a bodybuilder said to me today, they, it's, it's not someone I help, but it's, it's a good professional bodybuilder. He made me. And he said, he was talking about going to extremes. He said, I think my body fights extremes. You know, like when I, you know, fight extremes in the process of dieting and unworked, you know, make me go low carbs, high cardio. And I think it was just, you know, way of seeing what I would say to him. And I said, um, I said, well, there's always a time to be extreme. You know, you don't have to be extreme all the way through, but, you know, being extreme can be beneficial. So don't rule it out, you know, just because your body, quote, you know, just work well with, with extremes. And he said, well, maybe I go, maybe I resort to the extremes for paranoid reasons thinking about, you know, good enough. And I'll just, you know, do the three hours of cardio in 10 carbs a day just because of fear, you know, unreasonable fear of it. I'm not going to be a chea. There's not way higher coach so the coach can say, don't do three hours. You don't need to do this. Yeah, they, they hired you, but they said, you, you could do the same thing. I can't be one. That was my next subject. I was going to talk. I didn't really want to talk about it. I didn't really want to talk about it. I, I wanted to give you a chance to divorce a big as Nick Trigilli. Um, was, well, I actually like, I actually thought I, I interviewed him on our show a couple weeks ago, and then I went on his show. And then interviewed to help his channel on YouTube a little bit get some notoriety. So I noticed he's not competing for tire from competing and he's looking to make money. And obviously coaching people. And you know, but he came out with some kind of products, you know, that I did not, and I'm not only going to go into it, but you see, watch, but I, you can watch my response video on our channel to see what I'm talking about. But he came out with some kind of sight injection, oil, not even oil. It's a sight injection, a hyaluronic acid product, which doesn't do anything when you put the muscle. And I did a, I did a video on it, basically saying that there's no science behind it, and it's ridiculous. And that's what I do. You know, I'm not going to endorse something. I'm not going to tell people this is great if it's something out there that's irresponsible. And he obviously took offense to it, and he went on this channel two days in a row, and it was bashing my coaching, which is ironic because your people, 25 years, you know, I have more pro cards, you know, for people that I've helped, you know, than he'll ever get his entire life. And the funny thing is that he was bashing the fact that I give similar diet to, to, to multiple people who happen to be in, and claiming that I am overcharging people, and I'm taking the initiative, like I'm like some kind of like scumbag or something like that. And, you know, he even mentioned your name, also that you charged too much money, and this and that. And I don't think I charged enough, but yeah. The funny thing is that I'm the manager, I charge whatever I want. If people are going to be stupid enough to pay me, I can, you know, now it's a feeble attempt, obviously, to get people to leave people. Because he badmouthed the Matt Jensen and the couple of people to obviously. So I'm not giving you tomorrow's Jose and, uh, saying more, sending money back this year. No, but he's doing it, obviously, to drum up more business for himself, but the irony is, and I went on this, I went on this rant that I basically explained what coaching. You know, if you, let's, you know, let's say you're helping someone for 16 weeks, and over that 16 weeks they give you, you know, 40 updates, you know, 40 checkins with you probably more. You know, if you're depends on, you know, how much you need to interact with the person. And if you're changing their program 40 times during this week, or you've let's even half the time to change it, changing it 20 times, then the program you initially give them is not really the program because it's not a static program. And if someone waste 220 pounds and they're a male and they'recompeting in body building, how many different diets really are there, right? IMean, if you would give someone a different diet, then you'd give the other person to kind of visit the same category, okay, and try to achieve the same goals. You'd actually be cheating one of the people, just because you're trying to be different and make it seem like you're giving them something unique. You'd be actually a Charlton to give someone a different diet than you know, was the perfect diet for that, right? The perfect start diet at least. This is nothing stays the same because some people get more food, some people get less food, some people get more cardio, some people get less cardio, some people get more fat burn, some people get less fat burn. And coaching is how you craft and change and mold the diets that you pick the person to be the best that they can be on contest day. That's what big of coach is about it. Now he wouldn't know that because he's not really a coach, he's a guy who just started helping people using other people's programs that he's used in the past. And he's trying to learn how to do that, and that's fine, and that's maybe one day he'll be a good coach. Takes years and years and years to obviously have experienced to do that. And I found that I arrived that he was attacking me for that, and that's just really because he was just mad that I put down his product. But then he started bringing up your name and Matt Jensen's name and a few other guys out there, which he couldn't hold their jock strap these guys, as far as coaching goes. So I thought it was ironic that he would do that. I think a lot of people agreed with what I said on the thing because it looked on them, I'm not trying to say I'm better than anyone, anything. But I certainly know what it is to be a coach, you're a matter of fact, they tren coaches with my secrets to becoming a thai guru, of course. And I get people different templates, and that's that's what being a coach is about. It's taking templates and applying it to the person that you're using and then changing it as necessary. That's what coaching is, it's a dynamic program. And a lot of people don't understand that. They think it's about, okay, I'm going to give this guy 14p's to eat with this meal, and the other guy will give 16p's of corn, and the other guy I'm going to give, you know, ground turkey, and this guy I'm going to give, ground chicken breast, and just trying to make something unique for the sake of making unique, just make sure that it's better salesman doesn't make it, you're better coach. And I'm sure you've written thousands and thousands of diets over the years, press and I'm sure most of them are pretty similar. Because that's what works, you know what works, you know. Yeah, I don't even bother to bash them back, I don't want to laugh. That's the bash, I just, it's more about education, because I think that a lot of people don't really know what it is to coach people. They don't understand it, they think it's like, all right, I'm, you know, I have this, this goal to win the USA championships, and I need a unique program. Reagan, you're not getting your money back. I need a unique program that's going to make me better than the next guy. And I'm paying Chris Asito, you know, a hundred thousand dollars, he'd better give me something that's going to be just for me. The bottom line is, how do you look on contest day? That's the bottom line, isn't it? Yeah, it is the bottom line, doesn't matter, doesn't matter what type of diet you used. No, it's a front line. The coach shows how to manipulate whatever they're giving you to get you to that end point. It doesn't really matter, the process, you know, everyone has their own process. And when I tren coaches, I tell them that, I say, look, here's the starting point. This is the science of what you're doing. Now take this and make it your own. And you're going to develop your own techniques with your own templates, with your own ideas of how you apply this to people. And that's what's going to make you a great coach. The only thing you can do now is you've got to get experience and do a lot of diets for people. And you're going to learn on the way how to manipulate things and how to make your own changes. That's just the nature of the beast. They say to be great and to come and master it anything, Chris, you have to do it for at least ten years. So, look down on the shadow of a devil. And I believe that because I believe that. I believe that, ask anyone who's going to successful business, take some ten years to really get it fine, fine, tuning. You know what IMean? I thought I think it took us ten years before that this radio show got good. We're just about to ten year mark this year. It's actually our 10 years. So we should be great. We'll be masters of radio next year, Chris. We'll be, we'll be other people. We'll be a master's degree. What's happening with the radio? Great idea. The top 70 by building podcasts. Yeah. That lead. She probably like took the surhead on the sand every time a stone probably. Yeah. And he from friends over there's got to be someone who knows this person. Yeah. I, by the way, did I did a rant also on Dyside and had a dry out for a bodybuilding competition about how to do it? I really did. How did different direct work? Yeah. Give me this. Give me this. You know, the close no, the close no, the plan. Well, I just explained what, why, what the different dioretics do for out act on versus like a dioryside versus like a LASIX. And why Dyside tends to be the dioretic of choice because it's very predictable because it's not. It's potassium sparing, but it doesn't stifle out us around if you cramp on Dyside. It's because you're so re-inducated. And it's an easy fix. And so, you know, I explained why I felt I felt the Dyside was the most that that beneficial dioretic to use. It's very predictable and you can cut, sort of problem solve easy with it. And obviously Dyside has different names in different countries. The maxide and dietyde and moderetic and this different version of it. But it's their old dual dioretics that kind of balance sodium potassium loss. So because whenever you give dioretics to obviously, I don't have to tell you this. If you're losing potassium and sodium and something goes wrong, you don't really know how to remedy the situation because you're not doing blood work for the person. So you don't really know what their electrolytes are doing. So it's always nice to have a dioretic where you know that the only thing that you can possibly be losing would be sodium. So that was the rant. And you know, because a lot of people, I did we take for granted that we know this Chris, because we've been doing it so long, but there's a lot of new people coming at the point they know nothing about those that last week of getting rid of water and carbing up and using dioretics. And it's almost like it's scary for them because they have no clue. And you know what, you and I once again, we take it for granted because it's so intuitive to us how to do this that we've forgotten what it's like that when we were first doing it for the very first time. You know, I don't know what to do, right? Bob probably told Bob Grush can probably told you what to do and you just probably listen, but you didn't know. You know, of course, you know, those coolers. And you were lucky to hear Bob Grush can most people don't have a Bob Grush game, you know. No. So, nothing down. We have to get the girl club. You get the girl class. Right, yeah, that's I teach all that stuff in the garage. I have to make the new class that's probably going to be in October. I haven't made it. Maybe you could give like a like a little water or something from like the Bob Grush in a word for best like a 10 to a student. Oh, yeah, it's good. It's good, you're right. I like that. Guru have a Guru of the year, the Bob Grush and Guru of the year award. They can give it out to Mr. Lepia competition along with the whole fame ceremony. You know, what's happening? I keep saying, you know, we used to kid. Shouldn't they do we would we would we would we would kid on this show. Dave, hold on. We used to kid on this show years ago about I used to say, we're going to have a Guru summit. And that kind of led to the Guru of the classes. It did because I took that and said, you know, you're right, Chris. And I thought I started holding the Guru classes. Because I used to make fun of a handy and and George, you know, and say, we'll invite them or fly them to like to heady and what would be how. We'll want you know, the people there and you know, bring the rock into fishier. If we get fighting and and then we used to also say. We used to talk about. And nobody built in class. Right, classic. Yeah. And I remember you saying, I think we need a new class. And we were talking about the ball of chicken. Oh, it was a big ball. I was going to do a little. And in lowly holds. Here's classic physique. Yeah. We were talking about that way back. We knew it was necessary. Once once men's physique came out, it was absolutely necessary. The bridge that the two because they were too far apart from each other. And that's why if they never came out with men's physique, we wouldn't need it. We wouldn't have a middle ground because people were stuck in the middle late. They didn't know what to do. And that's why it was that's why we we weren't crazy. I did an iron rageous pass. We also with Lee priest about who the toughest mr. Limpi was. And I wanted to ask you your opinion on that. Not the best mr. Limpi the toughest. The guy who was the hardest to beat. And I'll tell you, you probably didn't watch the video. So I'm not going to say who I. Lee and I kind of agreed on this way. The hardest one to beat. Yeah, who is the hardest guy to beat? In history, you mean? Yeah, like which of the mr. Limpi is. Who is the guy who we like? Oh man, this guy is just he's just he's relentless. You can't beat him. Well, you mean his physique or him? It doesn't matter. It's the same thing. Who is the hardest mr. Limpi to beat? Well, I would I would. You'd you'd have to go back to Dorgon probably. Yeah, that's exactly who we said. Do you know because he was able to fend off. The grand silence of our history. Well, he he had to fend off. You know, the best of room we ever saw he had to fend off him. You know, we all are. You know, we all are. He had to fend off now. He had to fend off. Sean Ray. Yeah. He had to fend him off all the one show. He's one thing is one thing to fend off. You know, to beat like a really good the room, which a really good the room was the first year I run if we never ever owned it the Limpi out. Yeah, 97. And that was the best without a shadow of a doubt. That Sean Ray had ever looked. But also to you know, be we were in 93. You know, people forget how crazy we will look at that show. Sean Ray looked unbelievable with that show. The only reason Dory in one that was because that was his best year. Yeah. So, you know, when you do it year after year. He was, you know, his tough as nails. You couldn't beat this even wheel of city because I never really thought that I could beat Dory and I thought so or him is unbeatable, which is weird because Dory didn't have like a Ronnie Coleman physique. He had a flex wheel or his physique. He just he was mentally so strong. That's what the problem was. And that's why I'm saying I don't think Dory and had the greatest physical time. I think he just was one of the hardest guys to beat because he was relentless. You know, he was going to be his best every time. And it didn't matter if he had injuries. He was not missing that show. He competed with more injuries that guy than any other body but in the history of the sport probably. He didn't branch. Branch Warren looked like a jug. His branch would get the injuries after the show. At least he wouldn't have them at the show. You know what IMean? Dory was like a peat with torn biceps and torn triceps and thEQuads that were like you know half attached. So he just he was just tough as nails. You know that's all that that's all there was. You couldn't you couldn't budge this guy. Mentally either. He was just too too damn tough. You'd never be able to on stage. He was like Roberto Durant. He was like you couldn't even catch him smiling on stage. Right? No. Was the interest in smiling? Yeah. He was there to do battle. You know, and that's it. And no one and he got involved in no one's drama. He didn't know anything that was going on. He would hide out and you know, England the whole year and he'd come out to do a little guess posinGHere and there. But go right back to the dungeon over there. A temple gym. You can't get through to a guy like that. You think he if he was competing in today's social media. He still wouldn't get through to him. He probably wouldn't even be on social media. He wouldn't have a social media page. Right. You know who don't. Yeah. You know what? I don't even think he does but he doesn't. Craig Richardson won that show and he doesn't really. IMean he has like an Instagram page but he has like 10 posts. And like nine of us family. I think that you know maybe that like one body of the picture. He don't care. Yeah. Well, that's that's why he's he's able to focus in and he doesn't he doesn't even worry about what the people. Probably doesn't even know who after people he competing is. No, he doesn't. He doesn't. He doesn't. That that's the best way to be. Somebody these guys. Somebody these guys have lost the battle because before they even arrive at the show because he's so worried about who they competing. Of course they've seen the filter pictures of their competition. They come to get killed exactly. Well, anyway, next this coming weekend is the Tampa Pro and Chris you'll be down there with Rafael nolvalo photographer and John Hanson. You'll be doing some good coverage for us. And John. John. John. Yeah. Well, he lives there. So he'll be there the whole time. Oh, then we do it all time. Yeah. I'll go. You know what? I'm going to go by his house. He must have a little haul thing going on. Yeah. You should go back there and do you guys should do a video. I just had his place. IMean, you should interview him at his house. I think. Tell John to pull the video camera out and have someone hold it. You interview John in his house. He'll probably show you every the trophy that he got when he was like six years old. Yeah, this is me. The teenage Chicago land. I was 14 years old. I got second and actually the open glass. You know what the funny thing is? I saw pictures. He put it some video up of like his first show or something like that. He looks exactly the same as he does now. Doesn't he? He looks like he looks like this. Yeah. He looks like this. He looks like this. He still looks like he's like 14 years old. You know, John. Yeah. I couldn't believe it. I thought it was like a recent thing. He looks exactly the same. He has not changed one bit. He hasn't lost the hair on his head. And he still got a great physique. You know, so it's really pretty funny. But that's John John. There's no one that I know that loves body building. And lives body building more than John Hanson. I'd say that. He has a secret hall of payment is based on it. But I can say that because you know it. At some point I stopped. You know, it's with the competition. It's a bit like this. There's the inies. He still eats. I bet it can brass, you know, every week. I thought that's a Chuck. That's this is. You know, you have a little weird things in Hall of Fame. Yeah. That's a Chuckly any use of use for the 85 Olympia. New York City first year 243 pounds. You. I got that chart from him. He gave that to me. Thanks to him. I put it in the Hall of Fame in the future. Yeah. That can't. That's a that's an actually. Starkest canotony is for Loufrey knows come back in 1993. Blue first class with Dave Blumbo. You know, been up at canotony. I'm just too scared to write it. Yeah. You know what the funny thing is? If I was going to start a Hall of Fame, I would. The job would be the first person I would call. To get all the collect all the, you know, all the fact, to wait and all that stuff. You know, this. You know, this. You know, this. You just go ahead. Well, if you ever go to a Hall of Fame, you see they have likEQuotes on the walls and stuff. Yeah. Yeah. He would be needed. This is a syringe used by great Valentino for the movie. The exploding arms. There's probably a vessel. No, you got to get Peter McGaff and you get John Hanson in a room. And with someone taking notes in video tape in the whole thing. And you got to get a strong, you need an actual star for like in the court. It could type of thousand miles a minute. To get all the information down to to be accurate. Who knows, IMight do that in my later years. Hopefully John Hanson will still be alive. This is a PIPe. Come here. Use when you enter the sound factory after this. Here's a crackfight. Oh, man. Chris, uh, I don't know. We give up the power. You give up the power. That's the theme of the show. Yeah. Remember, you can't, you cannot have a happy ending to an unhappy journey. I think that's the core of the week. And on that note, uh, until next week, remember with heavy muscle radio. The truth hurts. Good night, everyone.

=== FILE: 2021 Arnold Classic Lineups + Korean BEAST's Next Move + Sergio READY! [4IvFIyAaXio].txt ===

I'm gonna be launching the tasty pastry with a low carb hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams in that carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back! Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Friday, June 18th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Happy Friday, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining us. Again, we have another great show lined up for you today. Starting with the brand new list of invites for the Arnold Classic that released a few days ago. Besides the fact that seeing the list right in front of us really hammered home, the idea that this is real now one of the other things that jumped off the page to me was the depth of this lineup. In pretty much every division we have current champions coming back to defend their titles. Four champions trying to win their titles back and five or six other athletes who could be a serious threat to win the whole goddamn thing. This is basically Bodybuilding's version of a winner take-all conference championship game that sets the stage for the big final showdown less than a month later. So buckle up because things are bad to get wild. Being catch yesterday's show, we did a segment on Sergio, leave a junior's decision to pull out of the Chicago pro. But the thing we didn't talk about that you all know now was that he had already confirmed that he was planning to compete at the Arnold a few months later. Even though the official invite list hadn't been released yet. People might not remember this because it feels like it was 100 years ago now. But Sergio actually placed fifth in the Arnold last year behind William Bonac, Dexter Jackson, a big ran the instee of Ku Klou, which would tell you how good he must have been in that top group. And considering the fact that two of those four names I just mentioned aren't competing this year on paper that makes him a top three contender. And I don't think we can talk about potential winners without mentioninGHis name and the conversation. Before I wrap up the Arnold coverage for today, I want to highlight one more athlete who deserves some recognition. Sung truly. We haven't talked about him before on this show, which is my fault because it's long overdue. Now, if you're staring at your screen, trying to figure out why his name isn't ringing a bell, it's because he's only competed once in the IFVV. But it was at the Olympia last year where he actually placed 12th ahead of people who had a lot more coverage and name recognition heading into that show. I heard some rumors a few days ago about him potentially competing at the Tampa Pro, which could be huge in terms of boostinGHis profile considering the other names we already know will be there. He's underappreciated and underrated, but I wouldn't bet against him being a sleeper at one of these big shows later this season. If any of you are going to be in the Dallas area this weekend, you might want to drop in and check out the Dallas Europa show. And if you get there early enough, you might be able to get a front row seat for 20 to Varys, makinGHis season debut in Classic physique. I don't know if seeinGHis name on the Arnold invite adds more pressure or motivation, but from a fans perspective, I do think it raises the bar to a certain extent. He caught a lot of people by surprise when he won the Savannah Pro last year, but that element of surprise is gone now. So if he's going to start building some real momentum heading into the big showcase at the Arnold, this is the perfect opportunity to do it. And that does it the end of another edition of Lassal in the morning on Dave O'Lumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

=== FILE: 2021 TAMPA PRO 212 RESULTS & RECAP! [csHTjhiRUpU].txt ===

Dave Alamo here with an RX muscle news update the Tampa Pro 2012 has led out and we have a new champion, Carruth Bajo, Wednesday event, he is going to the Olympia to his first Olympia and it couldn't be proud of for him because I actually worked with him and he's worked his butt off of his last couple of years, winninGHis pro-quart at a master's event which a lot of people think doesn't trenslate to the open division. I knew we had the talent to do it. He's worked his way up the ranks, he plays third, a lot of people 40 couldn't have a little higher in Chicago two weeks ago and I said look you're going to come back, we're going to bring you an even tighter than you were before and that's exactly what we did and he came in, he was probably right around 2-12 for the Chicago pro and I had him down to probably 208-207 because I knew the conditioning was going to be the key factor for who wins this show especially going up against guys like John's here with who's known for his conditioning, almond el de saudi known for conditioning and structure. I know Carruth has tons of muscle on his body, it's put together and it laid out well, he really has no flaws in this physique in terms of gaps and I sit to myself Carruth, you got to come and peel through the ball, he's got a suffer and that's exactly what he did, he did in complaint, he suffered, he dieted, he cardioed, he virtually went, you know, no car is held fact for a couple days just to really brinGHim out a little drier to bring in every little detail and that's exactly what the doctor ordered for this show because conditioning I think was the winning factor looking at this lineup and looking at the pictures and the videos that were up there because Carruth has a lot of wealth with physically know that but when you brinGHim on stage and he turns around and hits a bad thubble by step and he's got to loosen hamstrings that's impressive with his physique and his structure and that's what won it for Carruth guys out here. almond el de saudi from the front, you know you see that front double by step of almond and man it is you almost get scared it's so good his waist is so tiny he's got those big arms but I felt it from behind he could have been harder and I think it had he really run it out from behind he could have won this show because he's got a lot of bells and whistles to his physique he's got a lot of wow I really I've been a very big advocate of his physique from day one I think he's going to be great pro he's going to be on that Olympia stage battling it out he's got to brinGHim better conditioning from behind he's got to bring those glutes and hamstrings ridiculous not just lines but ridiculous and what he does that he's going to be very very dangerous. Boluas look this guy is super impressive we've set up before and he's one shows he he's a guy who you know when you'recompeting in a lineup you don't want to have to stand next to it because he'll make it look bad but once again he did not bring the levels conditioning from behind that I felt he needed to really take home the victory here. I believe it's hot anyone that's hot for could have won this show. Hi they've been if they're best character with his and his best this year and on this day in this show John's do it he's the guy who's always the most condition guy in the show but he's also the guy but if he doesn't bring the ridiculous conditioning and he only brings good conditioninGHe can be beaten and I think that's what happened here today he brought a full look rounder look but he gave up a little bit of that insane conditioning that he brings to the stage and maybe he was you know maybe the judge is told to come and forward but I felt he lost a little a little bit of sharpness from especially from behind a little bit even from the front and the abdominal area and I think that's why he wanted to be forth you because he easily could have come in here and won this show he's got the tool set to do it we know that everyone that top fork win a pro show on any given day terror badge however was the man of the night he brought the goods he brought the conditioning and he is going to the Olympia congratulations to character I couldn't be happy if he am my friend and that's going to take us to the end of this little wrap up tomorrow will be the man's open and we will be back highlighting what happens there for now though I am capable of both with an Rx muscle news update

=== FILE: 212 DIVISION： THE FUTURE! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸18⧸18) [zrTgVeoIGnk].txt ===

It's Humpty here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm the Palombo and today is Wednesday, July 18, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of body-building and fitness. Just when you thought you were going to have to call off work today to avoid another Humpty Disaster, there comes another live and direct edition of RXMuscle.com's World Famous Recap Wednesday to help you through your morning. We're going to kick off today's show with a full rundown of the hottest ticket in the week in the London Murray Classic. In the Men's Music Division, veteran Greg Brandt continued his resurgence season as he managed to earn his first win and his first Olympia qualification in one wildly emotional night. Pop owners in the Bikini Division went to Ashley Janell who seems to be getting yourself back on track at the perfect time now. And in women's body-building Swiss import, Jacqueline Fuchs was brilliant in her win over one of the last line of that we've seen all season long. Right up until a few days ago, the only thing I really knew about Portugal was that they were one of the only countries in the world to decriminalize the use of all drugs. But apparently, they've got themselves a strong body-building scene over there as well. Right there in the heart of Lisbon, we had an all-out war go down that might have just given us a snapshot of what the future of the 2012 division looks like as Hotty Schuppen in Nicholas Vulliatte, bowled it out for 2012 supremacy. And when the dust finally settled, it was Schuppen who managed to come out on top. But the highlight real effort we saw from Vulliatte in this season, a view was definitely worth mentioning. Overall, on the Men's Music side, Italian star, David Amazalari, collected his second win of the season with another monster effort here. And the top owners in women's physique went to check native, Linka, Farenca Kova. And in the bikini division, Ukraine's Ludmila, Nassanava, outpaced the rest of the field, and wrapping up things in the figure division with the decisive victory with Italy's Zulima Durair. If you and your friends are ever sitting around wondering what the temperature in hell feels like, well, all you need to do is go out and hit the digger strip in mid July right around 3pm. And now that Enfuego bikini star, Jennifer Duria is about to crank up the heat index this weekend, all of a sudden we're talking about a whole new level of hot. For only this week, Duria now is the choose planning to brinGHer talents out to Cincinnati this weekend for the battle in the desert. We're shall be looking to keep the momentum going from the her monster's second place effort at the Vancouver Pro two weeks ago. Duria has been a beast of epic proportions in every step of the road this season. And now that she's using this mid summer stretches her personal tune up for the Olympia, I wouldn't be the least bit surprised if she marched out of there with another win, tucked safely in her back pocket. With the amount of talent that we've gotten the men's physique division right now, sometimes judging these shows feel like it comes down to who timed the best. And from where I'm sitting, it looks like the time could be now for better and stand out to Nell Rodriguez, according to my sources, Rodriguez and his camp are in the process of reloading the chamber to take another shot at clenching their third straight Olympia birth. Over the last month or so we've seen Rodriguez put together a handful of top six finishes, including the top three finishing pulled off down at the next go super show, where he's probably at his all-time best. So as long as he treats his body right and doesn't try to do anything crazy, I can see a scenario where he ends up qualifying on point by the time September finally rolls around. A few weeks ago LeBron James almost broke the internet. When he single-handedly shifted the balance of power in the NBA, when he's styling with the LA-akers, and based on what I've seen from her lately it looks like third year figure star, Melissa Bumstedt might be trying to shake some things up at her own right. Two weeks after she put on another clinic where their fourth place finished up at the Vancouver Pro, Bumstedt and her crew don't seem like they're showing any signs of slowing down. Rumor has it that she might be planning to hit the LA Pro this weekend, where I think she'd come in as a lot to settle somewhere in the top three. And if you're a fan of the figure division, you can't help but love that long-lead, almost statuesque look that she has as she gets it all clicking. What would take is a few minor adjustments for her to come in and basically cruise to a win, there in LA to really help build some momentum for this next phase of her season. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the morning. On-date, Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

=== FILE: 212 OLYMPIA CHAMP 17 WEEKS OUT! [WYYxvjmTk8U].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Monday, August 24th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. In the words of the late-rate notorious BIG, if you don't know, now you know. And in my head, that's why I like to imagine Boluus was thinking after he brought the thunder to the Tampa Pro a few weeks ago, even though George Peterson captured a lot of the post-tamp headlines for the two 12 fans, guys like Beau and third place finisher Derek Osslen were just as much of a revelation. I think you can make the argument that Beau's second place performance was as good as anything we've had so far in the regular season, which makes him must see TV where I have very land next. This guy is a force to be reckoned with, and I think the best of Boluus is probably still yet to come. I read once that native Amazonian tribes used to control burns in the forest, as we've replenishing the soil and bringing back new life. And I think if Chris Hester could describe what his approach is, heading into the NPC nationals in two words, controlled burn might be the perfect way to put it. People I've talked to have told me that Chris' ultra-focused heading into this year's contest with the number one goal being to come at as absolute best so that this time around he's undeniable. From a raw talent standpoint, Chris is right up there at the top of the list in terms of athletes who are expecting to see on stage this year. But if you can find a way to dig in and use that controlled burn method, he could easily end up as the last man standing. When it comes to goal setting in personal development, experts like to save a sweet spot is to focus on something that's a little bit of outside of your comfort zone. Somewhere right there seems to be the intersection between where you are, verse where you want to be, and that's the place where Ricky Moten's pretty much made his living these last few years. Over the weekend, I heard from a source that Ricky and his team are putting together a plant to smash his previous best at this year's Olympia. And that they believe he has the potential to crack the top 10 this year. Considering there were already seen Ricky be a consistent top 4 finisher at the Arnold 2 years in a row, it's not that big of a stretch for him to do something like that at the O. And if he says, good as advertised is a real possibility that we see him land a spot in that first call out. Two weeks ago at UFC 252, heavyweight champ, Steep Aimeo Uchich put on a clinic when he successfully defended his title against former champ Danielle Cormier. And of Kamala Gorgny was watching that fight, my guess would be that his big tape away was that he should come out swinging. Kamal's first title in the fence is less than five months away now, and by all accounts not only he's ready, but this time around he's looking to make a statement. And the top 5 of the 212 should be as deep as it ever been at this year's contest. So if I were Kamal, I'd be channeling my inner Steep Aimeo Uchich because landing the big shots early on will send a message that the champ won't be going down anytime soon. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Belumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions to make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: 293-lb Justin Rodgriguez + Breon Ansley on a MISSION + Keone Pearson is READY! [rNHkCNHbLAo].txt ===

I'm gonna be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 to four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, a muscle in the morning. Today is Tuesday, July 20th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. You know how people say it's not about whether you win or lose, it's how you play the game. Well, I'll tell you right now, playing the size game with Justin Rodriguez is something you don't want to do or be any part of right now. Because you're probably taking an L there, no matter how you try to play it. In Justin's latest, the Wimpy Update, he said that he was 293 pounds and getting better every day up to this point in the year. It's a safe bet to say that this is the best version of Justin that we've ever seen. He's brought himself up to the point where he's a legitimate threat to be a top 10 contender now. So as long as he doesn't end up sacrificing conditioning for the sake of coming in bigger, he's going to give people some serious problems. Now, if Justin Rodriguez is playing the size game, Breon Ansley is doing whatever the opposite is for his Olympia prep this year. And one of the most recent updates Breon said that he was somewhere in the neighborhood of 198 pounds, which is 17 pounds less than he was at the same point last year when he weighed around to 15. The difference between last year's version of Breon to what we see today is almost like night and day because keepinGHis weight lower really seems to highlight some of his structural gifts. For a two-time Olympia champion to be willing to completely shift gears like this should tell you something about how bad he wants the title back. And if the new Breon ends up being better than the old Breon, then we might have ourselves a new champion. This is an interesting time in women's physique for a lot of different reasons. But one of the main things that makes this division so fascinating is the way we're always seeing new talent bubble up to the surface. And looking down the road, one of the people you might want to keep an eye on is 2020 North American Chef, Kyla Mann, according to Kayla, her goal heading into the offseason was to do whatever she had to do to add more density to her look. So that she can come in and be ready to make an impact when she makes her debut with the St. Louis Pro outside of a select group at the top. We see a lot of parity in the division which opens up space for so many athletes to make a name for themselves throughout the season. So if Kayla can deliver the goods, she'll have an opportunity to make a splash from day one. Definitely a few days away from the Chicago Pro, thEQuestion on everyone's mind as far as the two 12 division is concerned is whether or not anyone there will be able to stop Kyon Pearson. Over the last few days, we've seen a handful of photos and videos filtering out of Kyon's camp. Pretty much everything they're showing you makes this feel like a coronation which feels weird to say because you won the show last year too. But for whatever reason, this year feels different. The momentum behind Kyon makes him feel like a juggernaut who's about to blow through everyone all the way to the Olympia stage will be runninGHeadfirst into another army of guys who are also juggernauts in their own right. But if it does go down that way and he ends up steam rolling everyone this weekend, get ready for the height machine to shift into overdrive because that's what's about to happen. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day for Lumpo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: 300-lb Dave Palumbo & Matt DuVall Train Arms (1997) [oj9bod053Uc].txt ===

When you crash on Spat, load up the barbell, baby. You mean cable curls, don't you? Most people don't realize is that the secret to big arms is concentrated movements. The reason being that by-seps and triceps are small muscles and overloading those muscles with heavy barbell curls stresses everything but those muscles. Right then, let's rock and roll! Here we go! Go! Good! Man! You're nice! Please! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah, Ah! Oh! Shit man! Come on! Great! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! It's time for the size. These are the guns. Let's go. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Let's go. You're the free. You're the free. Let's go. Come on. Three. Three. Drive. Come on. Oh! Drive. Oh! Drive. Oh! Oh! Come on. Oh! Are you done growing? Oh! Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Come on. Squeeze us. Squeeze them. Come on. Hold my down. Push them. Come on. Come on. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Come on. Come on. Let's go. Look. Ah! That's right. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. There. Come on. Come on. Let's go. Come on. Squeeze. Come on. Come on. Come on. squeeze them. Come on. It heard a little bit. Let's go. Come on. Come on. Go, that's it. That's it. Get it all out. Let's go. Come on. Here we go. Come on. Guys, come on. Come on. Let's go. Big guns. Big guns. Go. Bang them out. Come on. Big guns. The yards. Go. Good. Come on. Hold that fast. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Do you know what you mean? Oh, no. Second one, first and first swim down the ground. There you go... Over the form... Quick! Go! Boom B— Good! Game! CominGHere! Nice! Come on! Come on! Come on! Come on! Big sigh, that's it, Bro. Move it, Queen King, let's go. Come on now, back, back, back. That's it, come on. Come on! Come on now, back, back, back.

=== FILE: 4'5 BODYBUILDER'S INCREDIBLE MOTIVATIONAL STORY! [vuqlgfYXgf4].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love this show. This is our best place to be in LA. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products, we use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results, and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo, and today we have a very special guest. I've been so excited to get him on this show. As far as I know, he's probably the shortest bodybuilding ever-wint in overall title in both classic physique and men's open bodybuilding on the NPC amateur level. Of course, the guy I'm talking about, you guys have probably heard me mentioned in before. Hector Gabriel Amazor, here with his two treners, Tomo, Marsha. A lot of it and our good friend Andrew Makata. Welcome, guys. Thank you, Dave. Thank you. Amazing. Amazing. That's the only that can say, because your foot, not five foot, four foot, five inches tall. This is your first bodybuilding show ever, and you won't only men's open bodybuilding overall, but classic. How'd you do it? Where'd you come from? No, she's good. Well, I didn't know how well within, the only thing I could say turned hard in a well-fired structure for my goals. The back, when I first started, bodybuilding, I had a lot of good for all school, I get good for this one, be a peer, I don't know such an angle, but I don't know how those people are doing. They're all sweaty side, they're sitting in the fridge, and when I get myself defined as a... There we go. We lost you for a second. We lost you for a second. All right, let me take you back a little bit. 10 years ago, you started bodybuilding, which we were 14 years old. Now, you were given a diagnosis by the doctors that basically, you were going to be in a wheelchair your whole life. What? Explain to our audience exactly what your medical condition is. You have a lack of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in your body. Why are you so short first on what? And then what was the diagnosis that led them to tell you that you wouldn't walk? The last one, my disease dysplasticale, is one of the senior born, they know growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone property, the reforms, the serious curiosity, as opposed to no access. I think on part of most of the people, I'm Puerto Rico, but then the doctor and Puerto go to the same high-end diagnostic. This is like a crisis. So if IManage to say how I draw something like a day walk and don't have, you know, cure up. So as my mom, also they want to be a serious, for my school, I see my next, they have cords. And a lot of people left me to enroll in the school, they made a picture of the school. And I have a teacher, looking at the 14th of a school. It was very hard for me, very hard for Braucala, Rose, and my mom, one also to do surgery. So I started reading, and you, on books, and you, to comment, how can I exercise for medicine, how I can start, you know, make my mom so strong as I can protect my bones. And then by the week, week time, I do it also exercise. I get stronger stronger. So how did NASA, what I am right now? So you have a dysplasia? I have a lot of your bones. We're actually, they call a brittle bone syndrome. Like, the person who you can fall down and your bones can break, right? That brittle? Yeah. So they were afraid that if you exercise, it sports that you were going to, you were going to basically be breaking bones and, and, and, and full of parts, actually. Yes, I can. Yeah. And you said, I'm not going to take this diagnosis. I'm going to go out and I'm going to start strengthening my body. Yeah, I remember when I started, I started with, well, plastic, both of those go gene, then you might put $20. Right. All right. So we pulled your heart right in the back. A lot of people have made a loss in the school. You want to do a body-in-in-champ. How tall would you? How tall were you at 14? Well, 14. Wow. That was a close, probably. Four feet, four foot. Yeah, four foot. That's it. Wow. That's crazy. Now, um, did you, along the way during this 10 year journey to where you got to now, which you looked amazing, by the way. Did you, did you injure yourself? Did you break any bones? Did you have any injuries along the way? No, because I've been trying to do, I've been trying to do the right thing. Me want to do the exercise. Um, this is pretty much my son. When I do it, because I wanted to tell me that. I don't want to get injured. But by the time, yeah, sometimes I feel so pale, but never, I have injured people. No, no. It's interesting because a lot of guys that are short, you know, like you below five feet tall, you have weird proportion like that, you know, sometimes their upper body is big and they have short legs or their arms and not long enough. You're like perfectly symmetrical. Is that like just five year walk or, IMean, is that just good genetics? What do you think that's the tributable to? I don't know. I hope that you said that, um, the, the medical kind of because I don't want to be here, as a whole, like say, running moisture. No, my head needs to say, yes, I don't like a boat getting the only play play stage or, and that's it. But that's what I can say. I don't, I don't have a explanation for that. And when you went back to the doctor after they gave it his diagnosis, and you started as you starting to increase and get stronger and stronger, um, what, what's the doctor thinking about all this during this time? Is he, is he telling you keep doing what you do? I don't want to see you think you say it, does he tell you like you're crazy? What you doing? Like, um, like, well, this only they say, then I'll explain, like, explanation, what happened to me? Well, it's crazy. This, uh, is all good friend there with, uh, Angel of the Batin, uh, backstage, and, and there on their knees, and, and there, that's the same height as you. That's amazing. That's what you had us, oh my, that's the one thing. Now, when, when you went, I see, you, you, obviously you set up, this is a hit as a good, I want to see those cuts, this is a great picture. It's just to give people an idea of, um, of what you guys, what you look like next to the other competitors. Now, when you're backstage pumping up, all right, get ready to go on stage, and you'll look at it, and that's all these guys, and you're, this, by far, this, the shortest guy after. No one's even close to you. Do you have any inkling in your mind that you have a chance at winning this show? Well, like, uh, my friends and tell me, um, I put in my, uh, I go to do my best then. I got to do well. And when I tren say, whatever it takes, I want to win, right? And whatever it takes, I want to win, I want to go to the station. Yeah, I don't hesitate to tell you, I just focus on my, when I pop in backstage, um, pop with what I have to do. Again, I said, this is my game. So, not joy. I actually have to, I want to play some people in my house. I want to play something, you know, I don't know how to feel the wind, show my memory, my comfort for being the first, the smallest body, being to be a problem one day. But what, what do I do, I want to be a, you won the overall, all you got to do is win the Bannerway class in the national, and you're probably by far, what did you weigh on stage aT4 foot. Why? Why? You could, you could do the women's library class and still make the way classes crazy. Andrew, when, when you tren this guy, what kind of way to see you's in the gym? If I tell him that, believe, I told him, I told him, I started to everybody, one day I was been chest and he asked me, go, you can help me get, I'm doing shoulders, sure. So, I walk in the extra hand and he has an 80 pound dumbbell at the floor. And I'm looking, I'm getting very nervous because I hope I'm thinking to myself, please, don't try to show off. Don't hurt yourself now. And he gave me one of your cards, that's it. So I put the weight in his, in his legs and he basically curl 80 pound dumbbells. And he's a, I got it. He pushed 12 reps with 80 pound dumbbells with them. Wow. I don't even know what to say. Because that's like having one of himself in each hand almost. Yes, yes. And the other day he's in the video, he's a squatty. 315-480-435-4300 reps. I'm like, don't do this again. You show you that pretty bone syndrome? I think they've decided no if there's something. I know. I know. Definitely. That's incredible. I see this. Wait until you go, Caesar. Don't do 45 anymore. He's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's trening the way he likes to use a lot of reps, a lot of volume. He's simply similar to me. He doesn't even know who me loses. But he's very similar to him. He jumped on the gym. He jumped on the machine. He goes to the gym at the time. There's nobody there. He jumped with squatty, squatty, squatty. Yeah. He's like, and I think in the way he's safe. You know, you got good genetics. I could get you in real life. You thought you got, you thought you got, dealt the bad hand, and then when you actually went to the gym, you realized you had a good hand, actually. Yes, yes, yes. Yeah, he's amazing. Like the way he leaves the gym. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. He's a body of stop just so you can believe me. Because I don't believe. You know? I love this picture, by the way. With Brandon Curry, Mr. Olympus. My favorite picture. He looks like you make Brandon Curry look like Shikiela Niel. And now he's a little bit emotional. Yeah, he's actually five thin. I don't know. Who's the, who do you think was that was the tallest Mr. Olympus? Arnold? I guess? I think so. We gotta get him a picture with Arnold, right? Wouldn't that be great? I don't know. If you have a picture. That's the plan. That's my goal to be. Yeah. I have to be both. I've got to give it a chance. Yeah. The end of class, the future with him. Right. That's right. The end of the year. What's the next show? You guys going to go to nationals? IMean, you might as well, right? Or USA or whatever. Yeah. You can't go ahead. You can't go ahead. You can't go ahead. Because IMean, he's just kind of win the Man-of-Wake class. Although, IMean, those guys are going to be obviously better than the probably the guys he went up against in Tampa, but you know, especially with this crazy COVID year we got going on here. No. No, Tomo, what's going on with the gym? You guys, the gym's open? No problem? The gym's are open here. We got no problem. That's where IMet a movie a week before the tank approach. That's where we were going to start. You know, what's the spy or rejuvenation clinic? Give us a little. That's my clinic. It's a clinic that deals in home and replacement therapy. We do have the aging medical health structure. Yeah. We're here in Orlando. I've been a little in a Pittsburgh Pennsylvania. And we're going to be expanding out to more of the country as we go through hopefully away from COVID. Yeah. Are you sponsoring a. Pacta? Yes. So IMet him only a week before the Tampa Crow. And they were asking for a sponsorship, you know, a little further out. And let's take a photo. Yeah. So for the state and they were looking for a small sponsorship. Somebody to cover his costs. And when I saw him, you know, because they told me, you know, there you little guy. Yeah. And I'm thinking in my head, same thing you probably, most people thought the relationship with the people. Yeah. And I was wondering if the people were going to be looking for a portion of the office. Okay. You know, IMean, so I'm here's under five feet. I'm like, I'm like, I'm a portion is going to be off. It's going to look a little funny. Maybe. But let's see what he has. And the guy puts a pose and routine on. And I was unbelievable. I'm looking at him. I'm like, you just post better than 90% of the body builders. I've seen on stage. I pro shows the last 10 years. Who the. Who taught you how to pose a. Who taught you how to pose? I'm going to do it. Well, I did you work in Seattle. Did someone sit down and teach you? Oh, teach me. Well, nobody. I just looking at a big video. Tutoria. Wow. Both parties. I saw some of the party in the brother. Look at this shot. I have up on the screen. This is an amazing shot. How big is your waist? Like like 15 inches. I don't know what I'm going to make. I'm going to make you a star now. We did the bed. Yeah. His waist looks like it's the price of some guys thighs. IMean, probably more than guys thighs. I do a lot of fasting. I'm asking. And I'm going to exercise. I'm going to put my quams on like a twist. All school exercises like for my chair. But I think my back in. How big your arms? What? How big are your arms? I don't know. I don't know. I've never been to a match. I've never been to a match. I've never been to a match. I've never been to a match. I've never been to a match. I've never been to a match. 13 inch arms. I knew it was like a 27 inch arm and like a six foot guy. No, no, no. Did you ask me? I actually want to pick a match. Yeah, you got to do. We had to do measurements in this guy. I know. It's funny because my I have a good friend of mine. Then he brass guy. I don't know if you don't know him. He's about a small guy body builder. And he's he just got in the Guinness Booker of Records. He's four foot one. But you might be the first guy ever to get your pro card under five feet. Or maybe not Marvin Ward is probably four eleven. BuT4 eleven four four foot five is a big difference. That's seven inches. Unbelievable. So we'll see him. And what? And Nationals in Miami? Yeah, that's the plan. That's the plan. Yeah, yeah. We asked the judges. You got to sit back if you should take that off. They talk off to the baby USA. And the judges told me it's all about definitely not. I want to see him in Nationals. Okay. That's the only one. Now, what do your parents think about this? Active. Name? Well, you're parents. My parents? Oh, my parents. They give me a lot of support. I say my mom. I always with me or my process. And then before. They so happy to. To my mind and control. Did they think you were crazy when you first started? Yeah. But not not not believe them. Not believe them. Yeah. Yeah. But they're giving you. I'm treating a lot of food. But they're okay with buying you all that food. You're eating it on the protein. When I say I eat a lot of, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. That's what I'm going to teach him. That's the tip of the river. So that's why I know the time. You're pretty good. For example, everything is right. IMean. There you go. I was going to ask you. You a big meat eater or chicken and you'd appreciate what you're protein source of choice. I like to get in with my own. I also fish from Montsey. Not to Monte Lafa, but sometimes when I have to do that, I do a full effort. He's very, very fine. He's very much the butcher life in junior. Please, go. Don't put your life here. It's a dirty fish. It's a dirty fish. There are taste care on the river. He's very, very, very much the butcher life. I have no idea. I have no idea. That's you. I imagine you know, he probably has to eat a lot less food than like a bigger competitor would. What's a typical like protein portion and like car portion for for Hector is opposed to like, you know, someone like, you know, who's five foot ten and three hundred pound. And then I'm going to say, sorry, I'm not necessarily. That's how treninGHim. He has some some people. This someone gave it to him was was real bad. He went 38 pounds and I started doinGHis diets and trening. They're going to do give him a lot more rest. He's going to be less. No, don't damage your rest. He trened straight to the vegetables. I'd be dead. Oh, really? Yes. You have no idea. You want to be dead? Yeah. But of course, if I don't tren somebody is going to be trening somewhere. I said, no, you're fine. Yeah. But I started just by any food to his diet. He went from 98 to 98 pounds to a 20. Wow. He was dieting. I'm feelinGHim walking forward. Right. He's going to wait. One thing. Well, he was over trening is what you're saying is that that was the thing. And by the portion, he did a six houses. Wow. That's not a friend. Yeah, I tried to go more, but he shoots to blow it. Yeah, I don't like it. Yeah. Six is a good number. Yeah. He's probably doublinGHis weight and protein probably. I'm sure. I'm just because I'm a person. Yeah. I put the number together. I'm trying to get the chew up. And the syrui belief. Right. And it works well for him. You know, it did cost. Six times a day, is he? Yes. Six times six ounces. All right. Here's thEQuestion that everyone wants to know. No one cares about the body. Yeah. I want to know when you're four foot fought and you got a physique like Flex Wheeler. Okay. What kind of women do you track? Tall women, short women. What's what's your type? I don't really write on. What do you want to have for me? He'll take it more. No, seriously. No, you like tall women? Do you like short women? I've been with somebody. Go with my hand. Hand by hand. We made a bad thing. Your process. My love. Give me support. So in this for because I don't want somebody. I don't give me support. I love this. Right. And the right thing. A lot of competitors out there. I work with some girls that are on the 5 feet tall. IMean, with that piece, something. IMean, you can. If you can date a girl who's like six foot. You can be like. You can be like. I can. People can think you're a kid. You know, but. I'm trying to get your date. Heck, come on. Give me some information here. I'm trying to get my dark hair like there. Or we can live in a time. Do you like Spanish? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't think. I. Anywhat is interesting can contact you. Now you have a great. YouTube. IMade an Instagram account. I'll pull that up on the screen. Yes, people would see it. It's Hector motivation. And I like that because we wanted to see motivated. I've seen motivated a lot of people. Now, here's thEQuestion. When you do nationals, I see. This is, I didn't even see this picture. This is a great picture because you were very emotional. This is when you won. Yeah. Yeah. What, what you, what you, what you, what you crying. Well, I have to say both. I say thank you. I cry because I, I couldn't believe it. I didn't really, I couldn't believe it. I, I, they, or I. I tried to. I'm cry cried when I saw it. And I was not even up there with you. I was crying. Oh, congratulations, man. You overcame the odds. Even if you don't ever do an up the bodybuilding show, which we know you will, you beat the odds already. My friend. You should be proud. Yeah, I'm proud of all your, your helpers there and treners. And because you know what, it was a team effort. And you guys, you guys, you guys kick butt. Now, here's thEQuestion. You do a nationals. Are you going to do classic physique or you're going to do men's body building? What do you go say? Well, for those of both. Can you do both in assials? I hope so. I thought you could. I don't, I think they were before I don't know if you can now. I don't know if you can. Yeah, they always make, they're always changing the rules. I don't see why you can. But you know what, they don't let you do both in pros. You have to pick one and the other. I don't know why. Body building for short. Yeah, it's going to be important if we have to pick one. Body building. We're going to go back to the way body building. You think that would be the case because it's been a way. But you know what, he looks so good in, in classic, too. He's got a classic physique. It's almost like, well, you know, the only promise he might be too much shorter than the shortest class guys, right? And I think I think the, I think it's, it's weird. It's weird sound because it is. I think the lineups are deeper in classic physique now. You're probably, unfortunately, you're probably right. Yeah. Then they are audio building. So actually, in those lower class levels, yeah. The lighter classes. We, without, we don't respect anybody. I'll let it do the research for the national, USC, North America. And I see a lot of those bunkers with you guys for a second. They all look great. But I think he got a better chance. They got their proportion is not as good as this because a lot of those guys are too full. Here's thEQuestion now. Here's thEQuestion. On the height wage charge because for those of you know, in classic physique for you, given height, you can only weigh so much. Do they even go down to four foot five? No. So what's his plan? They stopped aT4 eleven. I think there's a shortest. I saw that any chart. And what, and what's the weight for that? I don't want to fight something. I think it was one thirty seven or something like that. It doesn't sound like the proportions are corrected that lower. I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I probably, probably no one was mathematically gifted enough to figure it out. I don't want to think. I thought it would relevant because you know, who, who's going to do these? They've been falsified one or four. He looks like what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, you guys, what's amazing. Yeah. Yeah. Well, the factor congratulations on the big, the two big wins, I should say. And thEQualification for nationals and I'm looking forward to seeing you at that Miami Nationals and hopefully winning your pro card at the young age of twenty four and overcoming all the odds and having a tremendous tremendous story to tell. Thank you for sharing with us. No, thank you for your talking. We're doing a interview. It's all for Asia. Thank you. I'm here. Absolutely. And for all of us here at our Ex muscle on Dave Palombo with Hector Gabriel. I'm a Thor for live with. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: 56-YEAR OLD WINS PRO CARD AFTER 25 YEARS! Donna Sterling Interview ｜ RX Spotlight [e7E9qoWFz4s].txt ===

Welcome back to RX Muscles Spotlight on Dave Palombo. And today's guest is a very special one I'm going to tell you why because IMet her back in the 1990s. I used to compete with her in the same shows. I actually started as a coach. Together we actually won the 1996 NPC Junior National Women's Body Building Overalls. She placed at the USA after that and then got hurt a little bit. Life happened. She had a family. We're going to hear all about it. And she's back at A-50 years old. She earned her IFVV Procard. The one I'm talking about is my good friend, Donna Sterling. Welcome to the show. Hi Dave. Hey Donna. I call you missing or missing credible because what you went through how long it took you. I have to take three hats off to you because it's a miracle. I'll take them all. That you were really big into body building and the whole scene back in the 90s as we all were. You compete on a local level. You moved up very fast to the national level. You did really well. Very quickly you had to look. You were very pretty. The great shape on stage. Your conditioning was awesome. When you were in that stage of your life, what was body building? That was pretty much the thing you lived for. I loved it. I remember seeing Corey Everson the first time and that was it. I wanted to look just like her. I thought she had everything. I got into the fitness world. I started working in it, doing aerobics, being a personal trener, got into lifting weights, started to meet everybody in the body building world. In fact, then it was a tight family like new everybody. It was really nice. And to this day not to jump where I had fast, I still see the same people. So it's nice. That's funny. It's funny because you know, Westchester area was really hot for body building back in the 90s. Really, you really good body balls that came out of that area. And the shows were super competitive. If you could place in that New York area at a regional show in your class, you were almost guaranteed to go to a national show, at least at the junior national level and do well because that's where the best competitors were coming around that time. And so, you know, women's body, people don't realize when you werecompeting women's body building, there were no other divisions at that point. I don't even think fitness come around, right? I think fitness just started because on the cover of the NPC magazine, it's me, the men's winner and then there's a fitness winner. So just coming out. Right. I think it was like one or two years old or something like that. So like IMean, if you wanted to pose and you wanted to hit, it was no women's physique. It was no figure at that point. If you couldn't do a routine, you weren't doing any words to a body you weren't competing. So that's really what it amounts it's now. At some point, you know, you had the potential obviously to go pro after you won that junior in that junior essay title and you placed at the USA, what went on in your life, tell us what stole the career so to speak and stopped it because you guys got out of that for a while. We were really tight, we were hanging out all the time and then you also kind of moved away from body building. What was the moment that did that? Well, I remember I was practicing my posing routine for the nationals. And I went from a trensition movement and my knee cap slipped over to the back of my knee and that was it. So the doctor told me I never would compete again. I didn't know he said that. I was like, okay, that sucks. And I started a family. I had my triplets, triplets, two boys in a girl. So I do everything big. Now, let me ask you, I asked you, I don't think I've ever asked you this. When you did the, when you had the triplets, was that like just randomly occurring? What were you doing for telly or IMade that? No, I had to do IVF. Okay. But I'll tell you one thing, besides the IVF part, IMean, that's a whole story in itself. My body building career helped me with being pregnant with triplets. Like the whole routine and you have to feed yourself and you have to do this and you have to do that. We're up right and swept away into it. Yeah, there's a reason we just put it through a shot up there if you're an IVF. No, I had to do IVF. Why I don't know. But we weren't looking for triplets. We were looking for just one. Right. So we got lucky. We goT3. Did you, they implanted three new, because I know usually they implanted couple just in case some don't make it, right? How does that work? Well, I went through the whole, I went from flow myths from them trying the least amount of work that they needed to do with me all the way up to IVF and I went through two rounds. This was my third and last round. Oh, wow. And two rounds didn't take. So they did the last round they puT4 in, you know, just hoping one would take. Sure. And I was lucky three took. And now they just graduated high school, right? They just graduated high school. Sick. My, no, what sick is my door to once to compete? That's right. You tell me that. Yeah, that's awesome. I think you're going to be like with me forever. Another generation, I got to work on it. It's like Star Trek, the next generation. The thing that was amazing, because I remember when you hearing that you had to triplets because we kind of lost touch. And here they are, 18 years old. It's like, it's like a blink of an eye almost, you know? It is a blink of an eye. They're 18 and oh my gosh, driving, doing everything. And I don't even want to get into that. The whole, I got millions of stories to say. I'm sure. Now, did you stop competing? Or did you just kind of tone it down a little bit? What were you doing during that time period? I stopped competing. I was just working doing my personal trening, but very little bit, because I was going to people's homes and stayinGHome, taking care of my kids. So when they got into, I think, middle school, I was walking in my neighborhood and I banged into a friend of mine. And she was like, oh, I'm turning 50. She said, now I get to relax and I'll have to worry. And that just got that bugged in me. I was like, you're relaxed. Well, how are you going to be relaxed when you're 50? You know, your life is just starting. And I wanted to compete just to try to inspire women, 50 and over. Don't give up. Don't give up. So when did you realize that your knee really was functional again? Do you think all that time off, let it heal? Is that what happened? You know what? I'm not sure. There was one Christmas Eve. My son was sitting on my lap. And he just moved a little bit and I felt the whole thing. She started to shift. Yeah. So I don't know. I don't know if it's healed, where we'll never do it again. I just think working out and keeping the muscle on, it's just keeping it. I think it was just the freak accident as what happened. And I think it just, you dislocated it. And maybe because you have loose joints. And then I think with the more muscle you have, you would think it would keep that knee tight in that knee, the patella tighter. Well, that's what the doctor and doctors don't always know what they're talking about. Sorry if there's any doctors out there. But he said my muscle was so strong that when I went to move into the other position, it held my knee while my whole leg moved. Oh, I see. So it was a freak accident. I don't know. It was a freak accident. So freak accident. So what point, how many years ago now was it that you started this comeback when you contacted me? Was it like five years ago? Five years ago. Okay. So your kids, IMean, yeah. So you basically were out of it for like 15 years? Yep. That's a long time. And how hard? It's a long time. How hard was it to get back into? I really did. Yeah. Oh, not hard at all. Well, I love it. All right. Were you really sore when you first started? It made it feel good. Yeah. What? Were you really really sore when you first started back in the gym? And were you like starting over again? Yeah. Yeah. Very sore. But you know, that happened. That happened after COVID when everything opened up. That very sore again. But I just love it so much that it feels good. Yeah. Even soreness. When you first started sending me pictures, when you first started working together again, I think it was like I said five years ago, you didn't have any muscle. It was amazing. You lost a lot of muscle. And you wanted to do figure. And I said, all right, whatever, you know, look, I'm friends with Don. I'm going to do whatever she wants to do. We'll help her out. But in the back of my head, I knew that you could get the muscle back. And I was hoping that you would want to. I didn't know if you wanted to because you were dead set on figure. Matter of fact, once you did add back a lot of the muscle, I said, all right, we're doing women's physique now. And you were like, it's a last minute. Like you change your mind. I'm doing figure. And then you get deterable. And then you'd be like, I don't know why I didn't listen to you, you know. But was it a fact that you didn't think you had enough muscle? Because you werecomparing yourself to back in the 90s? Yeah, I never feel big enough. I always feel like small. I remember that show. You told me to do physique. I was like, there's no way. I can't. I'm not big enough. I did figure. Everybody, everybody in that show said, you know, if you did physique, you would have won. I was like, OK, OK. I got it. Dave was right. I was wrong. Got it. Yeah. I was the year you finally. And I can almost say, I think you might have been better this year than you ever were in your entire career. I think you finally added back to muscle plus extra muscle. And I think you were bigger this year than when you first, when you were actually competing, you know, in your back in the 90s, which is amazing. Because people think you can't make progress at 50, like you said. But you really can if you really put your mind to it. You can. And IMean, not to say I don't listen to you. Well, this time I fully listen to you. I used all the species products. OK. And that's like the only change. And I really think that helps. You know, I think that just helped my body recover. Build, it helped to do whatever it needs to do. Those fat burners or my God, I was sweating like a dog. So I think everything that really pulled everything together. I think you really mentally were ready to do it, too. I think you felt very confident in yourself this year. I noticed that in the updates and stuff like that. And your body responded better. Your legs were absolutely the best that I've ever seen them. And really, the reason I wanted to do this interview is because it's a testament that, no matter what happens in your life and you got COVID and all the other craziness we can go through. But it doesn't even matter. You overcame all the obstacles and you found the way to win. And you know what? I tell people true champions don't complain about, oh, I hurt this. I injured that. This happened. My grandmother thought they find a way to win. No matter what. Dorian Yates was a master at that. And that's what makes a champion. And you did that. You were able to overcome it. It took you 25 years to get back to the stage. And then even with all the stuff that was thrown your way, you know, your marriage ending and all the other stuff that went on, you found a way to win. And now you're an IFBB pro. IMean, it's got to feel amazing to have that validation. It feels amazing. I can't wait to compete again. So you definitely want to compete as a pro. I have like really big goals. Now, here's a question. I want to throw a wing right here because we were kidding around about it. But body building was your roots. That's where you came from. IMean, I always felt that if they had had women's physique back in the 90s, you would have been a champion for sure. Because that was your look. Would you ever want to do women's body believing in? Do you feel comfortable in this new division? That's so funny. You said it. So my goal for this offseason that I'm starting is I want to try to put it on as much muscle as I can. So I would like to do body building because it seems like body building is going in and out in and out. I don't know. I want to see if I can, I don't know, maybe do something, bring it back. There's a lot of older competitors that seem like they're coming back and they look fantastic. So IMean, they should drop the ages and just let us all compete. I think that's what I think. I think, you know, IMean, IMean, you could, everyone can compete in the open anyway. But I guess they do the master's divisions in some of these shows to give people who turn pro as a master a place to go if they don't feel that they're able to compete with the open people. A lot of people in the reals, you're still getting better. And I think that's what's inspiring you because now that your kids are graduated, you've done your job. You've graduated essentially. Now you have more time for yourself a little bit, right? I would assume. Can you imagine? I can't imagine. Well, I need this a little bit more time in my day. I goT3 kids in there and I'm just starting still. You're done. So I got another 15, 20 years of hard trening. It goes like that. It goes so fast. The difference is that when I'm done, you and I will both be 80. Yes, we'll both be 80 and I'll be like, you can help me. You're still decommating. How many in a wheelchair? Donna, I wanted to say I'm so proud of you and I'm so happy that you were able to get this pro-card after all these years. It really is a pleasure to always know you as a friend and to continue working with you, you're stuck with me as long as you want me. And I think we're going to do some great things next year. Dave, all I can say is thank you. You're the best. Oh, wait. Always the best. Thank you. And when you do it as ready, we'll get her on say, hopefully she could be misalipia. We don't want to, we're not taking any 25 year gaps in her trening. No, no, no, she's workinGHard. All right, well, once again, this is one of those interviews I love to do because I love to show success stories and I've been waiting for Donna to finally get a pro-card so I can interview her and showcase what she got through. But if you guys are sitting there in your chair and you're saying, I can't do this, I have too much going on in my life. I have kids, I have job, I have to find a way. I'm being spying the way to win Donna found a way to win and Donna Sterling is a new IFB pro. I'm Dave Palombo with an R-X muscle spotlight.

=== FILE: 705-LB DEADLIFT FOR REPS BY JAMES HOLLINGSHEAD! [YKh7IL-zXGs].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Motor 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car cocktail. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning on Dave Palombo and today is Friday, August 28th, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I'm starting to learn that social media can be a real confidence killer if you happen to scroll past the wrong video before you hit the gym, especially if James Hollings head is the man on the other side of the screen. A few days ago I came across a video of James that made me stop dead in my tracks when I saw him rip 705 pound deadlift off the floor for eight clen reps. All things considered numbers like these have to put James in the world strong as bodybuilder conversation with guys like a cameo aimbs and whoever else you want to toss into that mix. But for me it's the way these used this style of trening to trensform himself into a really high level pro that makes it even more special. I've said it a million times before if it ain't broke don't fix it. This weekend's Savannah Pro already looks like it's shaping up to be a good one on paper. So if you're a betting man and you're still in the market for a dark horse candidate in classic physique, Tony Tavaris might be your guy. Tavaris is a former universe overall champ who's actually makinGHis pro debut in Savannah this weekend and so far he and his team have been pretty bullish about how they think he stacks up. Now to his credit Tavaris has done a lot of work to make improvements over the last 12 months. And it looks like he'll be in great shape coming in here. The classic physique is full of monsters and it might be a tall order for a rookie to come out and slay some of these beasts right from the jump. Speaking of monsters in Savannah, one of the biggest threats in that classic physique lineup we were just talking about is Jonathan Hamburg who looks like he might be ready for war. On Monday we saw Jonathan release some of his final updates before this weekend's contest. And one of the things that really jumped out to me was how much his conditioning is tightened up over the last few weeks as soon as we started to get back into the flow of the contest season. Jonathan was one of the few athletes who I saw that was ready to jump at every opportunity he could. So it's no surprise that he's dialed in for Savannah. And if you look at this line of on paper, it feels like Jonathan will be right up there with divine Wilson battling it out for the win. In sports like boxing and MMA fighters stay in shape all year round because they never know when their phone might ring with a once in a lifetime opportunity. And that's one of the things that I love about combat sports. They require you to be the best version of yourself 24 seven. And there's no room for excuses or to put it in the figure division terms. Forces you to walk around like a vina of vusic this week. I've got a released new progress photos where we see her clearly looking like she's ready to start working the way through the early phases of her prep for a lot of people. These photos just underscore her commitment to adopting that MMA 24 seven mentality. So whenever that next opportunity does come knocking, you know that she'll be ready to answer the call. And that does it the end another edition of muscle in the morning. On day polimbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: 90's BODYBUILDER JOE TROCCOLI ON COMPETING W⧸FLEX WHEELER & DANNY HESTER! [DvQhGx66RE0].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsens supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live With Brought to You By Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is our 1992 USA Lightweight Champion. It's got some story to tell us here today. I want to welcome Joe Tracoli to his show. How's it going? Dave? Thank you, brother. Thank you, man. I'm a pleasure. Absolutely. It's been a long time. I remember when I was just starting to really read the magazine to start to compete. I remember seeing that layout. I think Flex Magazine had a big layout on the USA championships. And you were in there as the winner. Mercury Clairborn, who just recently died, we'll talk about him in a second. And Danny Hester, the first classic physique Olympic champion, was actually third in that show. Tell you how lonGHe's been competing. You're great, Danny Hester. Yes, absolutely. He looked good, Danny. He knew he was going to go somewhere. He had a beautiful body back then. You know, Mason, when you werecompeting, bodybuilding was like a big deal. There was no other divisions. It was all about bodybuilding. And ESPN would cover the shows. You know, I remember seeing you. I think it was like American muscle magazine featured or something like that. The show. You got like a little pro star profile. You remember you were with a fire department at the time. They showed you, you know, with your uniform and driving the truck and everything like that. It had to be like a highlight of your life back then, huh? It was so much going on in my life. I had just gone through a divorce. And yeah, it was a nice positive thing as a time. I had gone through a divorce. And when I always found that I try to turn negative times into a positive. And it really reinforced my attempt to bring out something positive. So I really put 100% into it. And having that video kind of validated at the time that really was a game. You have a little attention for the people at the fire department who, they were always seeing what kind of fanatic I was. So that kind of validated and theorized that hey, this guy can do something. Right, right. And we have some stuff we're going to put up on my video. I've put up while we're talking about this and showing you what kind of shape you're in. And IMean, at the time, you know, conditioning wasn't what it is to that. IMean, some of the guys got better and better obviously, I progressed to the 90s. But you were one of the guys that I got really, really ripped on stage. And I think that you will kind of like the embodiment of what we say, conditioning when shows, because you probably be guys with better genetics than you. But you outwork them and you were like, uh, you didn't leave any stone unturned. So to speak. I put 10 to 12 hours a day into that for a full year tren from that one specific conference. It was actually two full years. I had kind of like fourth and fifth at the 1990 nationals. And as a matter of fact, I lost a mercury moor, it's played one night. You all year. And I just put everything into it for two years, because being at the time natural, a few remember Dave, 80, began a span where they were testing. Right. And 80 and 90. And I didn't know that 92, they were going to go back to enhanced. And so I was like, stupid me goes into this thing. What I did do with the very end is I had to take a diuretic because I couldn't make way. Right. I simply couldn't make way. But up to that point, I had been, you know, one hundred percent natural. So you didn't take 80 out of all its terrorism at all? That's zero. Zero. I took some worse because it's a long story, but taking those diuretics, I blew up 30 pounds in a lesser than a week. Oh, everyone had that first band experience with diuretics. No one knows what happens when you stop taking it. You guys didn't go the other direction. But you know, back then, you know, guys, you know, you were passing drug tests, but they weren't natural. You know what IMean? You weren't using drugs at all. What you're telling me? No, no, not at all. As a matter of fact, I was so fearful of doing it for four weeks. God used to deliver our supplements to the gym, I used to run goals gym. And I took, I knew you'd take supplements. I was afraid of taking the motorolvitis. So for four weeks, I took them from the six week mark out to two weeks. I said, I can't take a chance. Right. And I stopped at two weeks out from the show for fear of what it was going to be. Would they really drug testing you guys? Did you have to give urine samples and everything? Absolutely. And you know what the funny thing is? It was arbitrary. They would pick like three or four from each weight class. Right. Because back then, you had to take the drug test also to qualify to go to the universe. Right. And so they'd walk you. They would go through the chain of custody seal it, sign it like you would normally. Right. And I was always one may pick because they knew I was married. Oh, I see. They purposely picked. Of course, of course. Now, what a lot of people don't realize is back then when you won you class at the USA, it didn't mean you got a pro card. They only gave it the overall win in the pro card. You could apply for a pro card. But most of the time they didn't give you one of you in the lighter way classes, you would have to win the nationals. Right. Exactly. But that year, a side story real quickly, is mercury according to him and confided in my wife and I that waned to me, he promised him that because they had just come off the span of tested competitions, they needed to enhance the competition by having some big names in it. Right. So it said, if he went in and won the lightweight, he would automatically get his pro card win promised. This is what mercury told me. So IMean, that's who he is. So you basically ruined that party for him. Honestly, as I look back now, I'm kind of really twice over sad for him. Because I know that devastated, that loss was something that he never got over. He really thought, and for good reason, I was a nobody. Right. I was a nobody. And he really anticipated he was going to win. He was telling my wife and I, he had got relatively close. IMean, we went out, but we got relatively close. And he told me that he fully anticipated winning. We really didn't know inside of me. I was quiet and home. Yeah, yeah, you were invited to beat him. And finally, this fire was burning and every time he spoke, you didn't know what he did to me. Yeah, yeah. It did, it arranged me to do more squats. But I heard he was a big motorcycle enthusiast out there in California, John Ramon, a Tommy. He was always riding speed mics in all the place, you know? Yeah, he got pulled over. As a matter of fact, he sent me an article that was in the newspaper. He got pulled over arrested because of driving. He would drive on the freeways and the canons. And he knew what he was doing on a bike, though. He did. He definitely did. Now, he died recently. Do we know what a quote with the cause of death was? I'm sure it was a result of being a quadriplegic, he hadn't spoken in 10 years. Oh, really? Quadriplegic. He was totally fed in everything by his family and... Oh, he had the trust. Yes. Yeah, the stroke 10 years ago, correct. Do we know what caused that? Anybody can speculate, but I don't want to attach something negative. God, I don't know. God, I don't ask the patient. All right. He was a good person. He was like a little many slikes wheeler back in the day. He wasn't it? He was muscular as you can imagine. Every fiber of his body when he moved. It just was, I don't think I took to that point. I never seen anybody that had less body fat. Well, you did, you obviously did because you beat him. Now, when you beat him, you actually had to go into, speak of Flex Wheelet. You had actually posed down with Flex Wheeler in the overall for the 1992 USA championship, huh? That's sadder, yeah, that's true. I did go up there and I did kind of do my best, but it was a four-concomment. Yeah, I know, of course. A lightweight, not going to be the heavyweight, 99% of the time, let alone Flex Wheelet that year, he was unduly. It was devastating that year, yeah, yeah. It was an honor to be next day. As you know, he became French from that. He's a phenomenal person. God, I love that man. He's a good man. He's been through how awesome the last, you know, a couple years here. IMean, think about it. Yeah. Yeah. One of the reasons I say I'm so blessed is I look at, I'm going through myself, some things, but nothing compared to what has gone on. Let's talk about your story because, firstly, you trened at Pembroke Pines Goldschim, where Vince Taylor, that was his home base, and I know you even were trening partners with him for a little while, correct? We trened, I wouldn't call us trening partners. I would say we did body parts together. Right. I pretty much trened on my own. He Vince always trened on his own, but I was trying to figure out what his secret was. Because you were probably treninGHeavy in you, because Vince lifted very light, right? Oh, Dave, I would beat the living crap out of myself. He ain't coming in there. So, helped me, God. He would do the most unorthodox exercise with a machine, take a back machine, and hold it totally different, and just pump it out. Sit on either, little end to his blueberry pie. That's called genetic. That's called genetic. That's called genetic. That's called genetic. Joe, the funny thing is, you know, Chris Isito used to come down to that Pembroke Pines Goldschim because he would drive his boat, I guess, down from Maine, and he'd park it or where you would dock it right there. And he said, he'd him and Laura used to come in and tren at the gym. I'm sure you guys used to see each other, right? Oh, absolutely. Yeah, they're both beautiful people. I've drilled Laura home on many occasions. You know, Chris couldn't make it or had to leave her only. So I don't drive her back to the boat. Yeah, because I've tried to live on the boat, if I go, that's cool. That's funny. They had the light, man. Yeah, yeah, they had the light. Now, let me ask you this question. You worked for the fire department throughout this time. And now, at some point, I think what you told me was 2006, you had there was an accident. What, what, walk us through what happened with the fire department? We had a call early one morning where some guy tried to break into a restaurant. He was hanginGHis, what other happen was we ended up forcing our way in, getting in there. I guess a police officer, someone had seen some legs dangling from a ceiling. So we broke in and some guys legs were sticking through the shoe, which was hanging over the oven. In the middle of the night with the guy tried to do, was squirm his way down and rob it. And he got stuck. He went away to die. Oh, my god. He went away to die. Well, we didn't know he was dead at the time. So I volunteered to go in there as a paramedic. Right. Felty had no petal pulse on his feet. So I went to lift his legs up to see if I can get some blood flow to his lower body. Right. And in doing so, the fusible link with a chemical tank was, was embedded into his back, but I didn't know that. And as I lifted him, it exploded. It discharged into my face. Oh. And I'm lucky one. He ended up dying. Was he alive? Was he alive when he was hanging there? He was alive for a while, but he ended up dying. He succumbed to. Yeah, he died. Wow. I ended up dragging myself out and held a tremendous amount of chemicals. And over the series of several years, they did testing on me. And they kind of diminished it first. Oh, it's just an infection of your lungs. Yeah. They kept you manned by products and kept thinking, that's what it was. Right. And my, our yearly pulmonary function test, which is mandatory, I started diminishing. I started feeling awful. I started, I just couldn't feel like myself. And as time went on, I just started getting to the point where I was always short of breath. Right. I tried to work that I was always doing the stair master to try to figure maybe I'm just getting old. Yeah. And you know, maybe in stubborn, I only knew the new color way. You went down to more. Sure. And then up over a while, I ended up having, when morning was hot as hell, and it's an August morning. And you were on a call and I ended up having severe dire for recess, I couldn't stop sweating. I was lightheaded, I felt nauseous. Take me to hospital and they kind of say, well, we're not sure what's going on. Except for tomorrow card, I'll just sign up and have an heart attack. Wow. But I did a cath and I was, there was no blockage. But my lung pressure was extremely high. I was very, very high in, it's called pulmonary hypertension. Right. The pressure in my lungs was extremely high to vessels. And so ever since there, I've kind of been on medications. And as time and I'm supposed to be on oxygen 24 hours a day. And I am for the most part, I have pride. So I'm not going to sit here and find you guys with oxygen. But that's one of the reasons I work out my garage now to this day, because I work catheter when I'm working out with nasal cannula. And I don't like to go in front of people and do it. It's like some theatrical thing. So I people always ask me, what's wrong? What's wrong? Right. So my wife and I work out in our garage. Now, you have this diminished lung function. Is this something that's getting progressively worse or has it stabilized? There's a medication that, thank God, I went to a doctor, I'd stabilized to answer questions, exactly. But it's stabilized. I'm on a medication called Rabatio, which is, um, has a sylden of the lid. That's actually what it was at first invented for. But there wasn't a lot of financial back money getting back from the pharmacies who were selling this drug. So he found out it was much more money in the sex business. That was, that's, that's, um, sylice, right? Um, no, no, no, no, no, no, it's it's very accurate. But that's bad. That's bad. Okay, I'm sorry. I always confuse the two different generic drugs. So they give you that. So you have a permanent erection from that, take a minute. Well, if you could notice it, no, it's not. I'm sorry. At first, yes, yeah. When you first start using it, it was chronic. Yeah. My wife and hangar, my wife and hangar tall on her. She was half. You get used to it. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, your body just gets, it gives you a headache, a flush hearing. Right. Kind of blurry vision. I don't get any of that in. But it's, but it's designed for reducing pulmonary hypertension, hypertension, correct? It dialects to boss vessels. They're, they're by reducing the pressure. Gotcha. Okay. Correct. Correct. So you take that and so everything that kind of was stabilized and then you find out what tell us how you found it the next problem. I continue to go every month to get checked. Right. And I'm under the greatest care. I have to give a shot. I thought you were on filming this stuff or incredible people. It's like family now. But anyway, so they do all kinds of tests and they, and my voice continued to get worse and worse and worse as you complain we hear. And in two years ago, I ended up outing a tumor found in my larynx. It's a fix to my rightful concord. Okay. So went to the University of Miami, which is an amazing facility. And they ended up doing a surgery, which they removed part of it because they thought it looked like what's called rabdo miles or coma, which is a very rare, but very bad form of cancer. It had me go to a oncologist and a bunch of people. And of course, I'm going through that. They found another tumor in my media styron coming down from my thyroid. So they're talking to me about, you know, possible stage four cancer. Right. That's what the conversations were. Are you free? Are you going to stay? I got to stop you. You must be freaking losing your mind at this point. I have to imagine. Yes, and honestly, I felt my wife had lost her father to cancer. So she was freaking out. So somebody had to be in the strength. And I didn't want to present this to my parents either because they're still alive. They're old. Sure. Well, they don't have all their faculties. I didn't want to freak everybody out. My kids. So I kind of, internally, I was not happy. But I said, I was a paramedic for 30 years. They've, everybody that I've treated had something they didn't expect to happen to them. So why not me? You know, I haven't different perspective. Okay. But yeah. So then they removed parvacus. They didn't want me to not be able to speak again. Did a biopsy on. They said it's odds will have to continue to come back. They sent me to a thyroid specialist. So recently eight weeks ago, I had another surgery. I don't know if you could see this scar on my dad. Yeah. Um, you know, they removed the left side of my thyroid because I had a two and we're coming down to my media stionum. Okay. Which is behind the sternum. Do they think this is all linked to this that one gas explosion? Absolutely. Have you ever, can anybody actually put a finger on it? Only God knows what? You think you believe that to be the case? Because the doctor said that. Okay. Every doctor I said, we can see no other reason for this. Because he's at all very unique odd things. And to have the series of them, for a place is very rare. Hmm. Yeah. So they removed parvacus thyroid gland. The tumor that was on the, the last year, party of Volklquord was benign, right? So they're going to keep an eye on that. So right now you're theoretically. Everything's removed. That should be removed at this point, right? The tumor that was, that they were looking for to remove, connected to my left side of my thyroid was in fact benign. But they found another tumor on my left road of my, low of my thyroid. After one after the, the media pathology, they just tested that that one area. And the pathology while I was still in the anesthesia, showed that it was, that it was benign. But over time, they froze it, did, I guess, whatever, a more extensive pathology on it. And they called me up on July 9th. And they said, it is in fact cancer. Hmm. But by the position of it, they think they got all the margins. It looks like it was, in fact, just only in the one area below. So I still have my right thyroid low. Oh, good. And I'm undergoing testing now to see further if there's anything else in there. Right. So now you, you can serve that they wanted to chemotherapy, or they wanted to radiation or anything like that. 10 years ago, they would definitely have done radiation or radiated the thyroid to kill all the thyroid. So nothing reduces. But there's a new technique that they do. And they're just going to kind of watch it. And the bottom line is they feel good about it. So I actually feel excellent. So I see you had no health. You had no negative health ramifications. You just just, they just found this on a routine checkup. Correct. Wow. Exactly. Well, my voice, as you can hear, my voice has been getting more and more raspy. That's the point where I'm always clearing my throat. And you sound a little mafia boss now. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. That's it. Or Fauci. You said, yeah, you know, Fauci. Fauci, you have the Godfather. One of those two. Yeah, I'm not sure we're trying. You look. Yeah, let me ask you this. Obviously, body buildinGHas been a staple throughout this few. I know that you, that's got to be a therapy, right? Going to the gym and or trening even in your house. We still get up at 3.30 every morning, my wife and I'm out. Wow. I gave seven days a week. What are you going to do 30 in the morning? So she could be ready to go to work. Oh, okay. She's got work. I got you. She's a dental assistant. So she's still working. And so it accommodates her. In the weekends, we don't get up that early. We'll get up at 5 or 30. But five days a week, we'll get up at 3.30 a week. That's it. What time have you got to bed at night? 8 o'clock? Oh, I say nine o'clock. Okay. I'm going to clock. We're not, we're not exactly the life of the party. No, but you know, I have the complete opposite schedule. My kids, I'm the only people. IMean, only person I know who's kids want to go to bed at 11 o'clock at night. When they're two years old. So we're always fighting with my kids to try to get to the sleep early or early. But I don't, then does it, does it work for me? So then I got to go start. That I first thought working was they go to sleep, you know? So I'm up for, I'm up. When I go to sleep, you're waking up pretty much. That's, that's my experience. I'm not sure. Yeah. My kids rebel against that lifestyle because I've been doing this 40 years. I'm getting up this early. Right. When you're a firefighter, that's why you need that. Right. My kids are night owls. They feel sleepy. Yeah, I'm like that too. So what do you, when you looking back at your body building career and the discipline that gave you plus the fire department, you know, I have to, I always believe that the things progress in our lives for a certain reason. Do you see that whole body building, regimentation, mentality is what enables you to get through these tough times with, you know, your breathing and the tumors they found in there. Obviously because, you know, obviously keeping your health and shack and taking your vitamins and your, and you're keeping your immune system health is super important and obviously overcoming any kind of disease process. There's so much about this is dealing with it mentally and it goes back reformed by the building years. I don't want to get too extensive in it, but I went to a Catholic school back then the nuns would beat the living crap out of you. So the homework we got back then was so overwhelming that it was at first to the point where I couldn't deal with it emotionally. Yeah. I feel like in some ways it robbed my childhood, but that prepared me for the regimentation that was required in body building. It gave me the sentiment to never give up. It gave me the philosophy that I am going to do one more rep than anybody else on around no matter what. In the fire department, there's a joke. It used to be to have everybody's go to the chalkboard and draw different pictures on different quirks about a piece about different people. Right. And they did this Monti's Python stick with me. I don't remember when the cut the guys legs off, because I don't remember when someone's still on to fight. Yeah. They said that's me. They're always joking around about that was me. Yeah. You know, I was relentless. Me being short, 542, I always had to prove myself. Right. You know, so I had to be a fighter because, you know, if I fly for 4, believe me, if you didn't learn how to fight, you're going to get your ass into it. Yeah, I imagine so. Yeah, I imagine. Yeah, I remember seeing that footage of you as the firefighter, and I was like, and I saw you standing at the other guys, I realized how short you were. I didn't even realize it. You know, please, you can't. When your guys are on stage, all the light weights are the same height. So you all look around, you know, Danny was a little tall that you guys, but everyone else is around the same exact height. So you kind of don't look, you can't see relevancy of how tall you are. Until you see you guys in the overall, then you see how big flex we're all understanding next to you guys and that posed that one. The only place I fit in was it was it was it was it was it was. Ah, that was it. Wait, now look, it's 60 years old now. And I've talked, I've interviewed a lot of guys, you know, in your same from your same era, you're a little before me. What, what do you see your future from now? Like, when you look back, you got grown kid, you got a 36 year old, a 32 year old, obviously you did your, did your work already, you put it in. I know you went through some tough times with that with custody battles and something up. But now looking back, it's really about you now your life. You see yourself, what's, what's your future goals, I guess you could say? You have to constantly set new goals or you, you get bored and you don't want to, you know, be around anymore. I have to imagine that you have something in your mind. I always, I tend not to make too many long-term goals at this point. I find myself making many short-term goals and we're going to be celebrating our 25th anniversary my wife and I. So a lot of what our focus is is I'm, as my friend, we're going to go out to the Olympian. That's going to be the way we celebrate. So we're going to go out to Vegas hopefully and celebrate our 25th anniversary. So that's where a lot of our effort is. Are you afraid of COVID seeing that you have one issue's already? IMean, that I would be a little nervous about you. Yes, and no, I am. I'm cautious. I always, you know, I wear a mask. I always wash my hands. I'm a fan of how to, since being a paramedic. And I am that way. But you know what, I look at it a little bit differently. My body has been subjected to so many viruses. I have an uncanny immune system. Yeah. I've been in that in a hospital. It's my whole life taking care of people and environments where the average person probably would succumb to something. But I guess by subjecting myself to that, my immune system was super charged or something. Yeah. So I kind, maybe I don't take any chances. But I kind of feel like I would be able to handle it if it was a minor case. I'm very active still. I will not allow myself to lay around waiting to die. It's not my philosophy. I'm going to do whatever I have to do. Right. So yeah, I worry about it. I'm cautious, but I'm not fearful. No. You know, you lived quite a life. You had a lot of adversity overcame. And you know, I think that a lot of people could learn that maybe their life isn't so bad. When they look back and see all the adversity you went through. You know, you won a USA championship. You know, you be guys that probably would genetic that your superiors because you outworked them. You proved that anything can be done if you set your mind to it. And I think that you're a really good role model for people to really look up to in the sense that you were able to defeat all these obstacles in your path just by your mindset and your work ethic. And that says a lot about your character. Well, I appreciate that. I was good friends with a path of pre-sure many years. And right before he passed away, he commented often about my character. Because I'm a walking dichotomy Dave. I have every temptation that everybody else has. I really did. But growing up in Catholic school, being an altar boy, being all that stuff, it kind of kept me in a position where there was like that good angel band angel. I'm not sure there's time to make. And right before he died, he asked me to write a book. And that's the fact I was going to bring that up. This. And it basically what the book was. It wasn't. I didn't write it to make money. I didn't write it to sell it. He asked me on his deathbed. He said, would you do me a favor? He said, a lot of people out there, they see your body. And they see that this outer shell. And they have no clue what it takes to be you. So he kept referring to me as you're so much more than your muscles. And so that's the part where the book is more than muscle. And essentially what it is is exactly what you said is the character behind that. It's not just what I did in the gym, but what it takes. And it isn't just about me, really. I think you could take my main narrative and flex wheel around and put the any has to put many other bodies. Put their story behind it. And it's essentially about what it takes to be that psychologically. And people could pick that up where it amazons.com? Yes, Amazon.com. More than muscles, guys. If you want a good read, a good inspirational read, checking out, Joe Tracoli's story about his life. And Joe, thank you for joining us today and sharing your story with us. And for again, us back to those 90s, I love those glory years. You know, that's the years I remember. And I can probably tell you every USA and National Winter from the 90s, I could tell you who came one each the way class. Nowadays we have so many divisions. I can't, I don't think anyone remembers anything anymore. But those 90s were the heyday for sure. Absolutely. I have a passion for it because it certainly wasn't to get notoriety. That's actually. Hey, be good. Stay safe. Keep us updated and good luck with all your therapies in the future. Thank you, brother. Always good. Always good. All right. And guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with Broughts You By species nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo for Joe Tracoli. And I produce the Tyler Shore. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: A Day in the Life of Mel Chancey Part 3 [_BfcotkHWqE].txt ===

You leave it and come back. We're leaving. How are we done, okay? All right, good. I've got to see you. Okay. What's up, fellas? What are you gonna say? Do a man, how are you guys? Let's do a man, how are you guys? Let's do a man, guys. You're good? You guys come and you leave it? The celebrity is on, right? Mel is hot, not with star. Since it's wrestling night, hot, cold, cold, and Hell's angel president Chazito, who are actors about Patrick and musician Evan Seinfeld, to name a few. In the body of the world, however, his close friendship with Mike Mata-Raza and four times Mr. Olympia J.Color is much more interesting than he did right down to him. IMet Mike Mata-Raza in 1990, and he was a two early three. IMet him through Ed Conner's, which was one of the corporate owners of Golds Gym, back in the day with Pete Grimmkeowski and him, Ed flew me out to Venice Beach to do a photo shoot for a calendar that he had, and Mike Mata-Raza was living in one of his houses. And he said, hey, you know, why don't you tren what Mike today? He needs a tren in power and I'm so sure. You know, I knew Mike from the magazines, and I went in there and we banged the workout out, and we went to dinner, and we started talking, we just hit it off, me and Michael hit it off from that day, and never been out of each other's lives. IMean, the years that I was away, a letter every month, a phone call to my mother, to see how I was doing checking on me. I'd call him up, you know, when he had a home phone, I'd call him up, and he never left my side, you know, and that's how we are today. When he had his hard problems and stuff, I was out there flew out there, I was making sure he was okay, you know, and checking out him constantly. We just made that bond and never lost it with each other. Mike actually gave me a call and told me that that Jay Kotler was flying out here to do a guest pose. And Mike, like Jay and they knew each other from the business, and he said, you know, are you going to the show? And I said, yeah, and he said, okay, cool, why don't you go see him? He knows who you are, and he would like to meet you. And you know, I think you guys will hit it off. And, you know, I went to the show and I went to meet Jay, and we talked a little bit, and we had nothing in common. Nothing. IMean, it was like the odd couple. And we went out to dinner with some people later that night, and you know, spend a day or two around each other, and that was really it. He went home and I went to my thing, and I was like, okay, he was a nice guy, but Jay was a little relaxed, you know, relax, back then quiet guy, you know, a little bit in the shell and stuff like that. And he was just, you know, very low-keyed. And then, you know, we just kept, we started talking on the phone, and he'd come in there, he'd come in here, I'd fly out to California when he was out there, see him, and that bond just started like that. And then it just grew into that, where I became friends with his wife, Carrey. Every time, you know, when I was in prison, when Jay was in here, gaspose, and I'd come in through here, he came here to see my mother, and it just, we unfolded kind of the same way that me and Mike did. You know, we're our friendship blossom from there. Five years, IMean, I see myself. Hopefully retired, sitting on a beach somewhere, but IMean, I really don't know how to answer that, because I never know what's coming down the PIPe. IMean, you know, once I think like something's done, got through something in front of me, and apart from a movie comes off, this comes off, you know, a possibility for a book. So I don't know, I just know that, you know, I want to be relaxed in somewhere, and just live in a nice, low-keyed lifestyle. If had to be you, IMet Mike Grolf from Melissa in 2004 in Florida. A friend of mine was a head of construction company, and he took his construction company out there, because they had a hurricane. I think it was Charlie, and he got the work out there, and he started redoing all the ruffs, and he told me, like, man, bro, you got to come out here. IMet some nice people, it's a nice town. And IMean, I was traveling a lot, so I flew out there, I think in like, October, and IMet her, you know, she owned the bar, IMet a bunch of the friends, there was a big group of friends that they hung out with. And I became friends with her, and like two months later, I got indicted, and then I went away, and she was writing me letters all the time. You know, make it sure I was okay. We stayed in touch the whole time that I was gone. So I come home in the end of 2007, and I ended up dating a girl locally from here, and I flew out by Melissa in Florida, because she had a biGHouse with a pool, and I was taking my girlfriends out there, and you know, spending some time and hanging out, and Melissa was dating the guy that she was with for some years, and you know, that was a rocky thing, but I didn't get involved in it, because you know, I just, you know, we're just really friends. And it wasn't until 2009, it was after I won the Illinois in May, and she had called me up, and she said, when are you coming back out of here, and I'm gonna visit in a while, and I said, I'm really swamped right now, what pride worked, we're traveling all the body, building shows, and she goes, I'm booking you, taking for the fourth of July, you know, and I said, all right, just book it, I'll get out there. So I got out there like the second, I stayed through the seventh, and we like, I think it was the third of July, she just told me in a parking lot, because her and her dude were arguing, and I said, listen, if I won it, and I was single at the time, and I said, listen, if I wanted to come out here and see all this, I could have just stayed at home and argued with the chicks at home. I don't want to even see this stuff, and she goes, you don't understand how it is for me, I said, hard for what, she goes, I've been in love with you for all these years, and you haven't even known it, and I'm like, go figure, you know, I thought she was like, you know, my little kid's sister, the way we got along. So that's how that started from there. She told me that, I was single, she was having problems, she wanted to get away from her dude, and she said, I want to move the Chicago. And I said, you want to come out here, let's go, I'll get you a job, we'll see you, you know, start a life together and see how that goes. And she's been out here since two years. We met a little over seven years ago in Florida, where I'm from, the hurricane hit my town, and his best friend came to help rebuild my town. So he brought me with him, and I just remember seeing in the first time and going, oh my God, who is this moose? But I used to joke around with his best friend, and say, oh he's just I can't, I've never dated him, he's crazy. But over the years, we got to become really good friends, coming back and forth, except for when he went to college for a little bit. But we still stayed in contact, writing. I see how she was for all the mirrors, and what a loyal girl she was to a dude that wasn't doing the right thing by her. And she's Italian, and you know how a lot of women stick by their men, and that's how she was. And I said, well, if this girl was loyal like that, to a dude that was mistreated in her, you know, acting like that. She's definitely, you know, going to be a loyal girl to me. So, you know, I weighed everything out, and I said, let me try this, you know, because, you know, everybody knows, you know, from the articles and the magazines and stuff, you know, I just kind of bounced around, you know, I dated strippers really all my life, because it was the easy thing to do. As you could tell, I don't like a lot of hard stuff. I really wanna take the easy route. So, it was easy for me to date strippers because really, IMean, not to digreg it, I'm not saying nothing bad about strippers, but they're kind of in the same lifestyle I am. You know, everything's physical for them, and you know, you can get with them, those strings attached to a lot of times. So, you know, going from that and wanting to settle my life down, and I ended up getting a listen and being a, you know, a blessing. Honestly, I think there was always a little something there, because like I said, I used to call them eye candy, but just over the years, we just became very close. We talked a lot, visited a lot, and I always just got so excited when he would come to visit. Two years ago, July, he came out, and I just looked up at him, and that was it. I just told him, I said, I've been in love with you for the last five years of my life. Months later, he flew down, picked me up in my hammer and drove me out, and here I am, and now we're getting married. I had a necklace, and it was a gold necklace with a lot of diamonds, and just back in December here of 2010, and I said, come on, let's go take this into my jewel, or I want to see what this thing's worth of, it's a lot of gold. And I thought it was only worth about 1500. That ended up beinGHe gave me three grand. So when he told me it was giving me three grand for it, I said, okay, bring some engagement rings out, and the jeweler looked at me, because I had never met him. I saw bring some engagement rings out and let her look at him. She was overlooking at watches, so she didn't even know it was going out. So he brings these tray of engagement rings out. And as he does that, I get an email. Now the email was from a guy that wanted me to be in this movie that was coming up, and he, you know, he'd mail me at the time. So I'm emailing on my phone, and I said, hey, go ahead and pick your ring out, design a ring. And she looked at me, she goes, what? I said, yeah, pick it out. I said, I got to go sit down and answer this. And as I'm walking away, I turned around, I looked at the jeweler and I said, don't kill me because I'm not balling anymore. So there's a funny story because I really never asked her. Well, you married me or we did it the right way. I sat down and sent some emails out why she, you know, piece to ring together. We are in the jewelry store, literally building my ring together. I put it on and he goes, are you ready? And I go, for what? He goes, let's go. And I said, you mean I can keep the ring? He's like, yeah. So I looked at my go, you know, fat ass. You still have to ask me. It was not too long ago. It was only a week or so ago. And she said, are you ever going to ask me? She goes, when you ask me, you know, you're going to get me another ring, right? And I said, what are you kidding me? I said, I didn't pay all that money for that. I said, you know, she goes, we're going to arrest me. I said, okay, I'm going to ask you, now I actually think we're laying in the bean bag. And I said, I'm going to ask you now. I said, you know, what are you marrying me? And she said, yeah, of course. And you know, that's what it's said. Is it going to get thick wedding? Huge. Huge. Me being Italian, Melbing Italian, and you know, just his friends and fan base alone. I'm sure it's going to be insane. bigger than the Arnold probably. Hi, I'm three now. These are high people who took their young body gel. And I'm 20. And this is nail is for you. Yes, yes, yes. The two of us. The sisters from Palpat. My dad. My dad. Yeah, yeah. The poor girls in here. The fun girls. They're all down, right? They're all down, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm a little bit like a little bit like a little bit. Come on, man. Get messed with that. I'm going to be a couple. Put my blood. Put my blood. That's a good blood. I'm going to buy one. Yes. All right, it's my soul. CJ, the DJF podcast. One of the best DJs and I know because I see him all in the city. Very intricate, man. Hot DJ runs this club with them with everything you do. I'll see you. Tell them how I used to tren you, though. Yeah, I'll tell you what. Anybody can tren. So be a pro. But this kid's got the heart. And that's why I just want to be one of my wings. Oh, right, I'm going to. Thank you, CJ. Good, bro. Go, man. Flexing that. We're out. We're having fun in Palpat's and taking our Xbox or an admittedly story. You know, going out and having a little fun, drinking a little bit because, you know, it's not show time. Enjoy your life. I'll be a folk at and just wanted to go. That comes up to my night club hangs out. And get kicked out. Yeah. And get kicked out sometimes because, you know, after a few days, she gets in a little bit of trouble. But I'm always her savior over there. No, no, no. All right, Alex, muscle. This is Spy by. This is the club that I run. But I'm down five nights a week. This is our entrence. You can see it's in an alley. Cole-ass city that we're in right now. So, um, and it's actually our 15th anniversary here tonight. So, all right, guys. Let's go. Let's put your doors. Guys, Tom. This is our muscle. You guys Jimmy. I put up. How you doing? Is that better? I already. Get these are the guys that run the door. Except him. He's the old owner. But these are the guys that run the door and the, the guy who gets in and is Cole-ass weather. The security, everything. Make it sure everything's cool. This might do it right here at PIPe's Alex muscle. So, ready? We'll just have to meet him. She is. What's up, brother? I got a wrong number. I got to give you the go-book. There's our door, guys. These are what you got to get past for the cover. So, should we charge him cover? Yeah. Yeah. How you want to charge him? Yeah, we all got to. You're gonna get a go-book. Yeah, we all got to. You're gonna get a go-book. Yeah, we all got to. There you go, gangster. You got to get that. Hey, Sam. You're gonna block the door, block the door, block the door. This is big Sam. That first day, he had to go. He's a guy with endless of doors for me. Thanks, Nick. I'm gonna block the door. You're gonna block the door. There you go, brother. He's going to be all right. Yeah, Sam. Yeah, Sam. Yeah, Sam. I think of that table. I think of that table. Everyone, man now don't go get them out on the rolling. The new flows. More! So nice guys, three, the move, drawings to the Mohsel Alright guys, that's muscle. Yeah, we'll give my men a try. How's muscle? We're there at our period, it's first time night club and my will my daughter. And this don't ever happen. IMean, I never go out. I never go out. I never go out. I'm 2bj running in night club. So I don't get this been a lot of time with my daughter. Of course, just in home. So this is the first night we're out together. It seems kind of weird that I'm bigger my daughter. 24 years old, but you know what, I've ever she is my only child in life. And I certainly more proud of her. Alright, our ex-muscle. In his 415 am, my club was a five but we decided to leave a little early because none of us could talk. It's been a long day, long night. A few cocktails. You know how you do it. You know how you do it when you're out with Dave Aaron and Gail. And has to be this way. So we're drivinGHome. We're actually going to go get some food. Do you really don't want to tell you what it is because it's not good. But it's end of a good night. And we had a lot of fun, man. I hope you guys enjoyed coming into my life. Seeing 24 hours of what I do. You know, not every night. I don't do this. I have a couple nights off. I don't know why just relax a little bit. I think out of the house. But you know, for the most part, this is, you know, a day in my life, man. So thanks for coming in. Enjoy the man. Please. It's a good night for the great day. Something done on. Now you have to see, you know, on the ones of I. Yeah. Well, you don't have a good fucking night out to finish with Donald's breakfast. You have 5 am in Cheyde Town. And what do you eat? I've got two egg. Uh, some sausage and coffee. Some hash browns. I have a bacon egg and cheese. You're a pulp. No, man. You're not a bacon. And they're pretty good tonight. They're all good. I went for the McRiddle. And remember, you have not seen the last of me in any way, shape or form. No, no, no, no, no. I want to feed you. I want to feed you. I want to feed you. No, no, no, no. No, no, no. Mel Chansey's world is like anything but work. His hell wasn't the motorcycle. It was a personal battle. Against his own demons. But in the end, it was the love of his family. His mom's dad. The sisters, his daughter, his granddaughter. That ultimately turned the time to stay. I said, let's go. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. ...and bringי Ring to theерentish and Russia

=== FILE: A TRULY 'CLASSIC' PHYSIQUE! Chicago Pro Champ Darwin Uribe Interview [I8d5L7P_PUs].txt ===

Welcome back to another exciting episode of Live With I am Dave Palombo and today we are joined by our Chicago Pro 2021 classic physique champion he's going to the Olympia you might not know but you will have to listen to you Darwin you rebate welcome to the show thank you thank you so much day thank you for inviting me to every as a monster and I end so and in friends I am kidding the channel I haven't seen for many years I know I am getting the interview is our appreciate very well IMean very well congratulations on the big win obviously in Chicago a lot of people might not know who you are they do now obviously we're going to be putting some pictures up from your Instagram and everything and people are going to see you have a truly classic physique when we talk classic physique you're you're you know you're right there the dictionary definition you got the classic lines small waste tremendous conditioning tell everyone where you came from first of all you're here by the way of Columbia you live in Dallas now how did you get into bodybuilding and how did you actually wind up here at the United States okay so I started bodybuilding I actually started trening 12 years ago and I started trening because when I was here I was over it was really over it and I was here how fat were you you say obese how fat IMean I was like a 40 pounds overweight for a lot of people here so that's a lot I was certainly not a lot of a bullet in the school right for last time as you can imagine so I decided to start trening at 17 years I had no sorry 16 years okay I had 20 a.a going now and 10 after 3 years trening for 3 4 years trening and some of the sugar compete well I was discipline I never was like a party guy alcohol or best stuff right so it was for me like a challenge myself to see who I do and of course the pitch competition is the one that you super allow you super is the first time you do that you hit the situation and then from there to here I am competing for a year now wow now when you when you first went on a diet to lose this weight that you had obviously were had as a kid and I'm sure like you said people probably picked on you and you didn't feel good about yourself how long did it take you to lose you know to be gone from the fat kid to the kid who was in shape how was that process oh that was that was like a well the first year I was trening but I didn't know how to eat yeah that's okay so I was like wow I kind of banned so then I get until nutrition is but you know nutrition is the huge carabour your whole no well they know carabour you for a simple level you know it's different so I probably changed after 2 years and I'll I'll be going to skinny absolutely you know right like at 3 years yeah now you know when I asked you earlier we were talking before the the show and I said you know what did you wait your first show and you said you gave me the the kilogram I looked it up and I I was shocked because you were 143 pounds which is basically like a ban on weight essentially even though you were doing classic physique and you competed in Chicago this this past weekend or whatever at the hundred ninety three pounds you gave 50 pounds of muscle since when you first started that's incredible that's really a huge huge amount of muscle master to add were the friends that you had back in Columbia would they amazed at the trensformation that you made? yeah yeah they know IMean so many people know how I haven't been so disciplined for money years because before I tried when I win my pro even when I win my pro car I was 179 so from two years ago to now I had 12 pounds more of muscle so even even without dual real bull season I used to stop trening the larger for the Kobe and depression maybe eight months nine months so I you know I used about to trening one year ago actually you took a big break during covid yeah yeah no why is that with the gyms closed and you just got the press but yeah I didn't want to tren on home and I was depressed too it's a what if he's hard to tren on how why motivation even being depressed like no one has to wait I just snap out of it what finally say hey you know what I got to get back to trening again because when I come to USA my dreams for come to USA it was my my car as Adli as as compared to in Columbia it's not really good for for who's like Adli is not all over super and when when you come here it's like a it's a lot of knowledge and it's a lot of people that respect that brings shame your world that even when you are buddy with your world you know the three and people take congratulations you look that never happens so under the opportunities as Adli is so much better here so you can focus and you can be one of the best if you are around the best and just here in USA you know so that's why made me to to come to USA to get us a go think when I was in depression say like hey come on you know come here to be the pledge you know come here to be a regular person you know come here to work to just I respond to those people that work to just I wasn't going that to you come for your dreams so it's time to wake up so I start to tren back again back again by again and well I do know that I go into qualipa you get to the Olympium I do you know it's a real process you know like incredible yeah yeah so IMean your body needs a break maybe you need an mental break and now that was the break you took and you're from a midi and right Columbia yeah that's not from midi everyone knows that is the home of Pablo Escobo obviously now it is what is midi and like is it a is a more modern I city nowadays so it's like is it is it is it a modern city now midi and because it used to be like you know like I don't know I haven't been there at all but what is Medi in today like you know the you know oh no my living in the house so they have they have even the Olympia I'm not a so I'm Medicare over there they make in my city yeah the Guinness World no the world Columbia Salabamong times the weather is perfect the food is the best I can't spend the food the food is the best yeah I bet you guys I'm grateful there how did you know what are the gyms like over there well right now they have pretty pretty good gyms before and how it's Salabo gyms everywhere it's a lot you know it's pretty good IMean it's pretty complete right now right do you still go back and forth you go to visit family back there still I see can go there I didn't go there in the last two years and I'm probably in the I can't go by maybe in some G.S. No yet now you're not yet okay are you trying to get your citizenship here is that were you trying to yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah that's right all right well let's get to the chase you one Chicago okay you beat a great lineup out in Chicago you're yeah IMean was that IMean did you when you went to Chicago what was the goal in your mind what were you trying to accomplish I know I think we all want to win but were you gonna be happy with a top five what was you think what was your mindset going in there for the Chicago for the little bit for Chicago honestly I guess when when when buttery I need this side to compete Chicago was only eight weeks out so before that I was doing a bull by myself lean nothing crazy sure control the carbohydrates and we he said he said he said he said he features and I see how you look right now so with right nine I go a lot of days the whole preparation I didn't have any high day and repeat I just got low day every single day doing the same and when the times come I start to see how my body changed although and I start to grow into preparation to so it's like okay why every week that I see progress I start to feel more confident and I I was here people say that my friends in Colombia the Patriot lines is huge so class is mean you can be very well because I was trying to win my pro carim body between four five years and three topics I was competing in light heavy and those guys five five four I am five eight by the same way I was like the skin and I started to think three colors and in Chicago was immediately that center physical so you know this you have honestly honestly I know what's thinking in IMean of course I want to win and I tren and I do die for win I know tren for second place and I didn't see another competitor I know what's Kenny Navajo who is going to compete against me maybe so limp yeah I know what's looking anybody I will I will she's was focused on my salary single day now going to be because if you know if you give it to me you're gonna decide to do it you know you're busy you know absolutely no that's you gotta you gotta only worry about yourself you can't control anyone else you don't control yourself now you once Chicago you qualify to be a big and a good year first classic physical limpia come October I have to believe that super exciting for you IMean what's the game plan now you really can't gain any more weight you're kind of at the top of that weight class so is it just a pretty much bring the same look you brought in the Chicago? No I know what's in my 100% in Chicago because the weight in it was in the afternoon I only have 16 hours for carbob okay because the project in what's next day in the morning so I was completely hard completely dry on the stage so right now we are accused I had it all way Steve he said that I used to need pull my belt more white and the rest I had to keep a lighter and I only had like a one pound two pounds or room for make it up because I weigh one ninety one and my weight limit is one ninety two guys like it wait wait for this to waste until this weekend we increased the food but not in crazy not in crazy because we can pull out of because I don't understand me so right now my weight honestly today my weight was in this summer as well as one ninety five and a hug wow okay so you're you're basically holding yourself at this weight pretty much and I guess you're going to go all the lot all down a little up IMean that's that makes sense do you have any desire to do any other shows or you just shut it down until the Olympia honestly I was thinking in the Chicago Thump Island fixers yeah I think you could jump I think you should jump at the one of them obviously Tampa is as weak and but maybe Texas because it's right in your backyard right there yeah I was thinking in the three shows because it's the reveal so you want to people know you trying to key on a stage the preparation but I thought like Patrick and I thought IMight sponsor us Michael and they want me to focus Houston the Olympia because in some point after Chicago I went to some status and I know when to lose that status if I go to another channel I don't think anyone's gonna be I think I think you'd be crazy not to do taxes it's right there you can pretty much drive there and why not collect another paycheck you know because also too we are we like we like a Patrick give me our rest like a little brain we we we take a money stove off of the preparation for led the body on down and saying we push so hard for the Olympia last eight weeks. So right now that this last two weeks I reduce the cardio I increase the food I take so many stuff out what I was using led the body take a break you know and drink it more heavy I don't drink it more heavy right now right especially back I'm focused on my back you know so great is yeah congratulations on the big win and the Olympia qualification of course and thank you for joining us today let's take us out with a nice bicep shot okay of course you're gonna let's take and the list yeah give us the more the more you give us the better our fans love that kind of stuff yeah you're you can step on stage tomorrow and probably win it yeah you're you have a lost anything you're probably leaner than you are than you were on stage honestly I it's because I answered the discipline why did I you know I follow you for a second what kind of a diet you fall you you eat a high protein you know high carb type of diet because you seem to get a very fast metabolism right now I had 300 runs so carb we highly add it yeah how much protein how much protein I had 200 no probably 300 runs too yeah you you need a lot of food you can tell your body needs a lot or you're probably the way otherwise you know yeah having this way it went caliprode what every bone I was to 100 nine to 100 now wow that was the last one that was 10 days 10 days ago and I did so go 200 now I'll right now I am one 95 so I lose already 40 pounds yeah that's following the diet why more food than she got I have an anandepernephas that's wonderful let's say wait I tell people when you're in shape you could have a little extra here in there and it's actually probably beneficial the problem is people don't want to get in shape early they want to just the weight of the last minute so yeah no but they like him but they like him me make it a consideration before and thank you a little bit more right well good luck to you best of luck in your prep for the Olympia and congratulations on the huge win in Chicago thank you thank you man thank you I appreciate thank you for for Boomin Ditch for thank you for everything you know yeah well I love to show you to tell and thank you to all that's your for me over that absolutely thanks so much all right guys that's gonna take us to the end of another episode of live with on day polembo for Darwin your ebay we'll see you next time

=== FILE: AARON SINGERMAN TALKS BUSINESS OF THE OLYMPIA! [7mwxOnlkNxo].txt ===

Welcome back to RX Muscles. Iron Road to the Olympia 2018 brought to you by RedCon1. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is the owner of RedCon1 and a good friend to the show, Aaron Singerman. Very good. You got to see big, big, big, big booth set up at the Olympia. You might be one of the biggest out there and today's topic, Aaron, is going to be called the Anatomy of the Olympia booth. Because I want to talk about what it takes to set up a booth. IMean, we talked the last time we talked, we talked about how to make a million dollars in the body building in the supplement industry. Today, I want to talk about how you set up a booth at a show of this magnitude and what the strategy is business wise. I think a lot of people really like to learn the behind the scenes happening. You seem to be very good and have some skill at it. You're also a good risk taker, which doesn't hurt as well. Talk to me about what made you decide to go ballistic this year and make this a such a big party, so to speak, at RedCon1. So first of all, I don't know if we're the biggest, the world certainly be the best. We'll certainly be the best. Every year for shows like the Olympia or the Arnold, you definitely have to take a make a judgment call about how big you want to go and what kind of statement you want to make. So if RedCon1, we're only two years old, it comes September 2nd, will be our two year anniversary of actually selling supplements. I think that for a brand, still trying to make its way, to make an impression, I think that it's always a good idea if you have the funds to do it, to make it big. Now, the Olympia and Arnold, more of the Olympia even is important because international buyers come to the show. And a lot of international buyers, they may not even hurt her right kind of one yet. I hope that they have, but there's a chance that they have it. So they walk through there looking like a kind of like a looking for a new ship to sail on, so to say. Right. And then, on the other side, who is the big dog, they don't know about, so they can walk down an exclusive in their territory. And whether it may be a bad way to do it or a good way to do it, a lot of people go strictly by the size of the booth. Interesting. I never knew that. Yeah, that's crazy. So it's important in your mind to make a very good first impression on these international buyers. Yeah. So IMean, okay, let's look at this way. He has spent $100,000 all at the Olympia, right, on the booth and everything. And a buyer comes from, let's say, India. And he walks in. He doesn't really know, but he wants to start getting some exclusive, some additional exclusives for his distribution from a supplement brand in India. He looks around and he says, man, I've never heard of that. I want to. But the end of that booth is really cool. That person will come up, talk to hopefully me or one of my main guys, you know, business card. And it's a past. We've had some really big new accounts come from exactly this way. So you can justify spending that kind of money. Now, not everyone needs to spend $100,000. And what you're, you know, that 100,000 encompasses not just the booth but flying people out and putting them up and feeding them and getting talent at the booth and shipping stuff and setting up the booth. It's a pretty crazy process. IMean, I'm sure I know I've done smaller caliber booths and it's a lot of work. It's a lot of stress. Do you have certain people that you allocate to take and care of that? So for one, I just want to back up for one second for an answer that and say that I definitely would not suggest a booth like the one that you'll see me doing or the one you may have seen me do last year to 99% of the company. I don't think that. I don't think that. People are like, oh, I'm sorry, I suddenly company where I have a peril business. Should I spend, you know, a majority of my budget on a booth at a show? The answer to that is absolutely not, you know, this is, this is needs to be a very calculated risk because the, the return of investment of a booth at a show is generally not a good one. Especially if you're looking for a direct response kind of investment. So like if I do a Facebook ad, I want to spend 100 bucks and I want it to bring back four or five, 600 bucks. Right. A booth will never be like that. It doesn't work. So we sell a lot of supplements on our booth. I would expect to see a sell somewhere around a hundred thousand dollars in product at the booth. That is extremely unusual. And for a, you know, species booth did great. You're not selling. You're not coming in there and saying you're going to sell 50,000 or 30,000. It doesn't. It's hard to do that. And even me selling a hundred thousand if that's what we ended up doing, it's still won't pay for the booth because you got at the cost of goods, the cost of getting everything else. It's not that one break us even. So is it a difficult and stressful process? Yes, it definitely can be because if the product comes late or there's any issues at all, it's on you. And the worst thing, worse than even spending the money or whatever, even losing the money is having no products at the booth is extremely, I can't even imagine a more definedly embarrassing thing. It happened before when me and, you know, my old business partner, we had to, we spent some money to the product and come for the first day. I want to show up at the DM booth because I was so embarrassed to stay at the front of a booth with no products, right? Has that ever happened before? No, that guy was we used to drive down the product actually most of the times ourselves because I was so afraid of that happening, you know, because you're investing so much money into it and it was like, I would always drive it to the Arnold. And that's the one booth I did at the Olympia, we really didn't have a lot of product. We had some product, but because I was once again, it's so expensive to ship product to Vegas, then you have to have the people, the union people bring it in. And it is a big, big expense, like you said, and if you don't get that return on investment, you're really risking a lot, you know, and so in a sense, you know, you're rolling the dice, you know, and I guess, you know, you've rolled it successfully so far, but not everyone does roll it successfully. I've seen a lot of people spend a ton of money at a booth and almost put themselves, and a lot of times put themselves out of business because of that. Well, you've seen, IMean, how many times have we been to shows over the years together where you will see a booth somewhere, and then that company will, we like, oh, shit, who are those guys? And then actually, they don't even exist anywhere. No, they don't make it past the Olympia. Yeah, they'll spend 100,000 on a booth and they'll make, oh, that's all the marketing budget we have. We just went bus, trying to make an impression in a place where realistically at the Olympia, you're going to see, I don't know, maybe 25, 30,000 people. It's not like a crazy amount of people. And at the Arnold, you may see a hundred thousand or whatever, it's 150,000, but of the actual people that you're seeing, how many of them are actually concerned? Probably. You see all the people that come in just to take the samples and run off. Right, right. So how do you pull that trigger? IMean, it's nerve-wracking, because you are taking a risk. Do you think you've got lucky a little bit? Is there a luck involved in that? Or is there a calculated plan all the whole time that you actually carried out? So, you know, I think that some of the booths for me have probably been losers. I just though realize that they've been losers. Right. So for me, how I kind of mind philosophy for RedCon has always been either go big or don't do it. So if I wasn't prepared to do it like the first Olympia we didn't do for the very first one, not last year, but the year before we had started going and we had supplements and we were thinking of doing the Olympia, but I would have had to do a small booth, I would have to do it like a 20 by 10. I would have had to, you know, have normal backdrop up there and it would have been really limited and I said, you know, what I'll wait until I can do it where I feel like it's impressive and we're making a statement. And I think to myself, you know, how much longer will it be important for me to do this every year? Because at some point, I think there's got to be a tipping point where it's like you've already reached a level of awareness. Right. Is there a point to doing it other than like just wanting to be there? So I would imagine for me personally, you would see me do it maybe another year or two and then it maybe one year off when you're on or maybe an Arnold and Olympia or something, you know, where there's some space, some of the big expos that we've seen really big success with have been internationally like Fibos or Dicolas. Right. Did you have your own booth at Fibos? Did you're distributed there? Have a booth for you. The distributor Lars from Peruvius, paid for the booth, our help to us get the booth and it was in his group of booths. But the cool thing is, is the amount of distributors that came up that weren't in the area that he distributes in Europe was amazing. IMean, just incredible. The amount of people from Asia, the Middle East and like places you never had heard of, came up and gave me their cards and were interested in the brand and we got a ton of interest and then it's kind of sales based on being there for an artist distributor in Europe. So it's really depends. They just want to tough because you made a good point about the unions. So one kind of crazy thing with Vegas is you can't actually bring anything to your booth. Right. That was crazy. Right. That. Bring it to your booth. And in the last year we had some really crazy shit happen. You remember the booth at the biGHanging screen around the street? So we had a booth price. In the booth price, we got a very reasonable deal for that such a great booth. And we paid for it. Obviously, we didn't last year, we didn't sponsor the Olympia. This year was sponsored. So last year it was 17,000 bucks for our 20 by 20. Yeah. I went to the college and I knew I was going to get off for all of our artists was empty. This year it's more because we're a sponsor. But we had that space. So I figured out I had a budget and I knew exactly what we're doing and then come to find out all of the rigging charges to rig that thing up. Yeah. Stabilize the big screen. So it ended up being $17,000 for the union to pull up to secure the screen. Oh my god. Wow. Yeah. I had no idea. We were, they had our MX for some reason. I don't know. I guess it's part of the deal I had to give to them. That's seeing all these charges. $25,000 for power. There was additional power for the screens. There's screens. Everything. Anything. Little thing they were hitting us on. So it ended up having $27,000 in additional charges that weren't expected. And so after I was like, dude, how did this happen? And I couldn't believe that this was because they were their billing us. And so it was kind of like, that's why I say it was a winner. I love doing it. But I never, I didn't realize that they could just charge you whatever they want, essentially. Yeah. We did. And they did. So this year's nothing's hanging from the ceiling. Don't say it. No. You're going to see it's 27th foot tower. It comes up in the middle. It's going to be awesome. It doesn't need to be secured from the top. Because there's nothinGHanging. Well, you learned, you learned a very expensive lesson. It was what you said. Very expensive lesson. But these, these are good things. This is good information. Because I, this probably people out there thinking about getting a booth maybe next year. And now they know, don't get anything to hang from the ceiling because you can get nail for that. No, even a banner. Even a banner would probably cost you five or six thousand a hang. You know, just a big banner that you see hanging. Number rich pina used to always have the really big banner at the time. I don't know what it costs to put that at the LA FedExP. But at the Lempia, I would imagine that serious money. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. We've had that. You just tell you, because you have no other option. You do it or you don't. They get you. Now, another benefit. Now, red card one, obviously, is the official sponsor of all of RX muscles, Olympia coverage starting this week through September. And the great thing about that is that we actually get air and sing them into do some of the wrap-ups with us. And I know you like to do that type of stuff. And you're good at it because you did it with us for many years and all the show coverage that used to do for RX muscle back in 2011, 12, 13. Now, are you feel like you could, you're still up for the task? IMean, you know, because you got a little rusty because you know, you've been behind the an office running a company now. You think you can get that net old, you know, flame back in you, that old, you know, hunger to, you know, to really analyze the shows and break it all down again. So that there's two big benefit. Well, one, first of all, I'm not rusty. I'm rusty yet, doing the shows. But I do videos all the time. You see all the commercials we do. Yeah. I feel like I'm in front of the camera more now than I was then, if you could believe that every morning I'm doing Instagram live. So I just like, I'll see that my wife's watch is all your Instagram's. Oh, good. Good. Good. By the way, happy birthday to you, Sunford. I should tell him. Oh, thank you. My middle son, eight and his three today. And I actually went to the beach this morning with him and if I'm a little bit red at all, it's because I've been at the beach this morning. So, um, so what was I saying? Oh, and from the camera. And then number two, the other thing is that I don't have to censor myself at all now. Right. Or I'd be worried a little bit like, oh, if I say anything bad, this guy wouldn't like me or, you know, the powers that be will be upset with me, you know. And now I can say anything I want. Because it was never whatever. I'm trying because everyone wants your body. Yeah, right? It's still be nice to me. I don't want to. Yeah, I could say something bad about that. One of the athletes and they'll come up and ask for sponsorship the next day. So, I'm going to give you, I'm going to throw a couple. We're going to do some official Olympia prediction type stuff over the next couple weeks. And, you know, that's going to be all the fun stuff. But, you know, right off the bat, you know, obviously you're very good friends with Flex Lewis. He lives in your back yard essentially. Flex actually texts me. We texted each other back and forth, you know. He's no longer with it. It seems like no one's with A, am I anymore? So I guess there's no more contracts from what you understand? Uh, I know Phil is not. I think that they just got somebody back on because if they did the whole action. I want to say that it, that it is a chem, Williams a chem is from now because, you know, MHP has always done this. Strard, Dante, now that he's back, he's always back. But there's no magazine. So what's there? What's there? What's the relationship? Well, he loves to advertise magazine. So you probably. But there are no magazines of Aaron. Right? I guess he's done. I think the portion of muscle and fitness that is Flex. I don't know. But I know that's how it works. This is why why would he? As much as I love the chem. Doesn't make sense that MMI would reach out to a chem specifically. You drop, flex and fill and everybody else. But then pick up a chem, you know. Sure. Doesn't make sense. So yeah, that IMean, so I know Flex Lewis is not with AMI anymore. He's only talking. Talk. He's not showing any interviews. He told me until after the show. Yeah. I'll really want to talk to nobody. He's keeping it. Yeah, not even mainstream. I guess media have been contactinGHim according to what he told me. And he said he's just going to hold off. Obviously he's got a losing level like 12 to 13 pounds. So he's really focused on doing that. Now you see him on a pretty regular basis. He's obviously a backyard. And he'll kill his coaches right here. We're going to work out as Jeff. So I see him two, three times a week lately. Oh, yeah, he's been asking me. He's like, when do you come into my gym? I said, well, I haven't got an invitation yet. He's like, oh, he's like, the car. She can come to my gym. So I said, I got to do a field trip. I'm going to go down to see RedCon. I'm going to see Aaron and then I'll come to you and Jim and I'll just touch you. He would love. Trust me, he would love to give you a good tour. He's very proud of it. As he should be, and does it say, it's amazing. Yeah, I heard it's incredible. Now who trens it? Like certain people have a key or how does that work? You know, I didn't get to tren to flex his gym. Well, it's invitation only. So it's very exclusive. And he makes it like that's a very big yield to him. It's very exclusive. So I should feel I should feel honored. Oh, if you bring, because you didn't show his you're out. Yeah. He means you're somebody for sure. Oh, that's good. I can't even bring something like a friend comes or my family member comes. I can't even take my key and brinGHim in. Oh, no. He but he in. That has not been vetted by him. So you actually have your own key? Yeah, have a key. Yeah, we keep. So I can do it for our dairy. He'll also out in my wife's lot. And Eric Hart, who's my vice president, Sylvie, too. But he has a key. He's best. How do you qualify to get into the gym? IMean, because obviously, you know, like, you know, like some people that can go in some people that can't because he have to like, you know, you like, do a Google search on you or something like that? I need not look 99.9% of people can't trust. OK. There's there that people ask all the time. We'll say, how do I get in that? Say it's impossible for 99% of people. So what do you like if that's friend? You think is a big lining wanted to go tren there? You'd let him know. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Please, my phone. Jason, you know, they could sit outside of rest of their lives. He's not kidding. It's like it's like the night at the rock spring when they were trying to get into the club. They would never let him in. You know. Yeah, exactly. Literally. It's like that. You know what I'm saying? You'll be able to hit the ruffle. Hit the ruffle, Johnson trens there. A lot of the MMA guys usually has celebrities that tren in there. You know, mostly athletes, a lot of professional athletes. And he's very selective. IMean, you, like when somebody comes in and athlete comes in, if you like Jeremy Pothrin, my athlete, you know, top five at the Olympia. Yeah, I don't Jeremy. He's good guy. OK. So they're he's very selective. Very smart. Is the gym like is there someone who staffs the gym or it's just like, you come in with your key and you turn light on your tren. You come with your key, but there's usually people during during business hours. You know, he's there because he's there a lot now. Yeah. Hit his wife, Alir there during the day. And then around five or six, it gets kind of crowded because a lot of they have a whole crew have to come in around that time. And then in the late evening or in the weekends, it's, it's sporadic. You know, does he sell like supplements there and something like that? No. No. And that's probably one of the big reasons why he's selective is because it's like a private, IMean, it's a private area. IMean, you could hypothetically, you know, anything that's in there, you could remove which he has here. And now the thing I find ironic about this whole thing, Aaron, is that you obviously have the key to flex his gym. I know you go to the other gym busy body, also in bulk of there. But you also have a really good gym in your, in your warehouse there too. I do have a nice one. Yeah. Well, if I had, I would never leave there. I would always just tren at my own place. I'm sure you have all the equipment you need, right? I got bored of doing it. You know, I have, I need a little variety. So in my own gym, the only people that tren in the gym with the office here is usually me and Eduardo. And then I buddy Joey will come and work out with me. So, you know, it's kind of not a energy of the atmosphere is pretty limited, you know? You know, but aren't you working all the time? You're always in meetings and busy and traveling. IMean, who has time to go to the gym separately? Do you actually really have time? So flexes gym is less than a mile from the office. Right. You can literally get there within three or four minutes. Oh, okay. So it's very close. It's very close. But I don't, the reason why I don't go there more often is because it does slow me down a little bit and there are people that want to talk. Of course. Usually by like, if I'm there at 7 o'clock, my wife will start being like, what's wrong with you? You'll just forget it. You forget you was track of time and then you realize, holy shit, you know, I'm going to get in trouble now, right? Yeah. Oh, yeah. And I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, you go there, I usually get a trouble. So that's why I never went to bed because when I went, when I lived in New York. I said, I was a Steve gaming and I had a free membership there in my whole life, my whole career. So even till this day, and, and Steve, you know, liked when I came to the gym, but when I went there, we take me double the time to workout. Oh, yeah. Because I talked. Even when I was in there with you, and we're shooting people who is where like, pulling you side, trying to talk to you. Yeah, it's, it's because you know everyone and I guess the same thing can happen. It flexes gym there. Or busy body. Put that back. You know it. Busybody is terrible. You're going to busybody, you'll be swarmed. There's lots of competitors there. It's crazy. Busybody is not. Also, I had a store at Busybody. We had vocal nutrition at Busybody. So when I opened that store, it allowed this sounds bad. Because I do like talking to people. I'm a friendly guy. But when we open the store, people now had a reason to come up and talk and have a legitimate and you couldn't beat. I couldn't be like, I'm sorry, I'm trening. How much protein do you think I should take? And then I answer, because they're going to buy the protein at my store. But anyway, do you still on that? Both companies are first? I close it down. When me and PJ split, blackstone and everything, I kept it open for a month or two. And then I realized that it really wasn't making any kind of significant money. And the truth of the matter is, like, four stores, my opinion on retail locations is you need a really be there. You need to like, you need to be there. Because the people that we had were nice and everything, but they weren't particularly knowledgeable and they weren't super motivated because it's not like to high-paint job. So you need like the brick and mortar retailers that do really well, educate the shit out of the heat. I agree. You've got to really teach them the products and then understand what they're doing. That's tough. Now, where do you see the, the supplement world going in terms of these brick and mortar stores? Because a lot of them are just not doing well because of Amazon and all the online places you can buy stuff. Do you think we're going to see the decline and even, you know, closing a more like GNC's and vitamin Shops and all that stuff in the future because of the fact that it's not sustainable? I hate to say that. You know, there's a lot of brick and mortar owners that I've become friends with and feel very close to. But I think it's a, it's a tough proposition to beat Amazon and really the online thing. IMean, how often do you go? IMean, do you take all kinds of supplements often? Do you go into a store in buy it? Never. Never. Neither. Neither. But I know what I need to know. If I was starting out and I was come getting into it, I probably would find a store like you said with someone that is knowledgeable that I can go in and ask questions to because that's something that that's how I do all my learning. You know, you got to find someone who you can who can answer all your questions and sometimes online it's not good because there's too many different opinions, you know. Right. Now, I agree. You have to the way that a store can work and be functional is have somebody or people that are very knowledgeable that can provide value to the customer when they walk in. We just, I just literally got back from yesterday, got back from the vitamin Shop product education conference and I spoke to some tents. I spoke to groups of 120 people, me and Eric Hart and I'm in Brian Shaw. I had him play it was really cool. They love Brian Shaw. So I talked to these health enthusiasts and man, the store owners, the store managers at the bottom shop were so into it that it gave me hope for those guys because they really wanted to learn and we talked to so many of the next day at the expo. I felt really good about it. But all in all, you're going to have to be or it's going to close down now. How long is it sustainable? I feel like it's going to no matter how good they are as they are and not continue to progress. It's going to be tougher and tougher. It's almost like the magazines. We knew where their days were numbered and now they are done essentially now. I just feel like that might happen to the brick and wood. Is there at least some of them? I think the specialty stores will always be successful. But I think the big chains where they just hiring the kids for minimum wage are just not going to be sustainable. That's just what I see it. IMean, just look at everything else. IMean, look at it when I was a kid, JC Penny. Remember, JC Penny beinGHuge and everywhere. I don't even know if it exists anymore. Seriously, it's for her gone. They're still around, but I think in much more limited amounts to this point. The good thing about mall shopping malls is people like to go there because it's a social type of thing. So maybe some of the stuff that malls might be successful still because people like to spend the day with their family there and especially their reigns. But yeah, IMean, at this point I have no time to do anything. I do all my shopping online. I give Amazon probably, I would say 95% of all my business. Yeah, that's crazy. That's crazy. Yeah. We saw Red County Amazon now. We're actually a seller instead of just selling to people that saw Amazon. And the amount of money that is there is pretty mind blowing that even for a settlement brand. It's very important to control Amazon and have your product sold on Amazon. Do you think you think that you should just have your own store on Amazon? Yes, 100%. No. Why is that? Tell us to give us here in Sainland. So originally, we sold to people who sold on Amazon and we sold zero. We had no sales on Amazon. We didn't have our own store for anything like that. And we were approached by Amazon. The consumables department, not this last Olympia was so last year. And they said they're looking for brands like ours. We have no actual representation. But we sell to other people. And when I visited the Amazon, the consumables department in Seattle. We had an Eric and our market director. And they told us that $500,000 a month of Red County products were being sold. This is six months ago or seven months ago. She's free month on Amazon. And they're like, but of that, that's actually being sold. How much are you guys making? And they actually broke down the numbers. You'd be retired, retired not to have your own store and control who's getting it. So we did it. It was not an easy decision, but to cut off every single person who sold on Amazon. And then made all of our current retailers sign a contract saying that they wouldn't sell on Amazon. They wouldn't sub-distribute to something selling on Amazon or they'd be responsible. And we lost a lot of sales. We lost a few hundred thousand dollars a month and sales. Like that. It was scary. And we went from, so about six months ago, we had about 275 people selling Red County. Because Amazon, and of course we were not one of them. And now you have less than 50 people selling on Amazon. And we have captured quite a bit of those sales ourselves. And man, it was a really good decision now looking back. But it was scary at the time. Yeah, my, you know, don't let anybody sell the product sell your own products. Amazon. And also don't sell two Amazon sell through, through a seller central, not vendor central. So if they buy themselves, it can be scary because they can price it whatever they want. They don't give a shit where your back is. So they search the internet for the lowest price. And then they match the lowest price. Because you got some of these idiots. Like some, like a crash test dummy right. You're just going to put your price so low and look at your product as like a lost leader. Well, if the internet, if Amazon finds out on the internet, they will match that crazy ridiculous price. Oh, really interesting. They don't care what they bought it for. They want to be the lowest price on the internet. And it can, it can kill you because you can't convince. Well, I can call up Steve Calabrecy and natural body and yell at him. You'll also raise the price. Amazon doesn't give two shits about you and you can't reach anybody. Right. Interesting. Very, very, very good information from Aaron Singerman. Once again, another, very, I guess you could say, knowledgeable show. We try to, you know, this is a part of the supplement and bodybuilding industry. Aaron, that a lot of people just don't get insight into. So I think these shows are really educational. I think people are going to, you know, take some of this knowledge and hopefully use it. And look, there's going to be future generations of new supplement company owners out there that are going to, I'm going to make us look like a joke, you know, oh, Aaron and Davey, they were old school. And, you know, in ten years or now, you know, maybe we'll, you know, we'll be retired or whatever and they'll be, you know, taking over the next generation of this stuff. So thank you for giving us all that good insight. Thank you for RedCon 1. Sponsoring our all coverage. You're actually getting Davey Lumber to actually make a trip this year. Out of his backyard to Las Vegas. So we'll see you at the, we'll be at Aaron. Aaron's booth all weekend long. Doing interviews. Aaron will be helping us with the wrap-ups at the show. And all the pre-Elimpia, you know, hype and hoopla and coverage will be sponsored by RedCon 1 as well. So thank you, Aaron and we will probably see you next week on a pre-Elimpia, I guess, prediction show. Sounds good. Can't wait to. All right, and that'll take us to the end of another episode of R.A.X. Muscles Iron, Road to the Olympia 2018 brought to you by RedCon 1. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: AHMAD ASHKANANI UPDATE! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸22⧸18) [WZbvTrUZMkQ].txt ===

Welcome back to Bustle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo. Today is Wednesday, August 22, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, let's not waste any time and dive right into this week's edition of Recap Wednesday. Where we start with one of the few places in California that is in currently on fire, sunny San Diego. Where the Pacific USA Probecini championships were beinGHeld. BringinGHome the gold with a bounce back win was a Olympia title contender, Norman Austria, who's getting better by the day. Second place went to local product, Lasha Akabimir, who was good enough in her second pro show to relegate veteran Shina J. Martin to third place. Second year pro Jamie Collins put together the best look of her career to slide into fourth and rounding up the top five with the best performance of her career was fellow sophomore standout, Jasmine Williams. You ever sat around in your bedroom thinking to yourself, you know what? I should use those credit card points I've been rackin' up to buy a fly to Vietnam. Boy, I bet you were excited for the chance to hop on a red eye for last weekend's inaugural muscle contest Vietnam event. BringinGHome the gold in the men's physique division we had California import, Mottie Sharifat, who didn't seem to be bothered too much by the jet lag. Second place went to Ironian Powerhouse, Mohammed Coshcanani, and Bronze went to Spanish Heat Naker Juan Farrow, as he managed to hold off a strong effort from local favorite, tren to and on. And closing out the top five here was the only other American in the lineup, veteran contender Patrick Fullgram. I'll tell you this, out of all the trips I've taken over the last few years, the time I spent down in Brazil still stands out as one of the truly beautiful experiences. And if he's going to keep putting out heat like this, then it's the extent out Philippe Franco might be giving the reason to go back sooner than I expected. Recently we saw the best men's physique east of the Amazon really start to kick up the intensity if you're not just at the unit's team start to head down the home stretch of their Olympia prep. In the past when he's been on, we've seen Franco be a guy who looks like he could be at top 10 talent. And with the margin of error being so thin for these men's physique guys up there at the top, it takes his one slip up for a guy like Franco to move in and seize the day. If you ask any boxer, they'll tell you that it's not the ones you see coming that actually hurt. It's the ones that you never see that you end up feeling the next day. And right now, it feels like the guy in the 2012 division that nobody sees coming might have not been better in powerhouse on the standard set. Last week in Anderson and his team released a new update that got the rumor mill swirling again about a potential return to the stage for the former NPC National champ. Since the last time we saw him compete, Anderson looks like he's slapped a few pounds of quality muscle on. Which will definitely need to try to slug it out with some of these monsters in the division. But as long as he picks his spots right, I think he's got enough in the tank to be a legitimate top five guy in the right lineup. At this point, I think it's cliche to keep saying over and over again that shows a one from the back. But I guess Ahmed Ashkenani doesn't care all that much about cliches. Right, nearly yesterday morning we saw the 2012 title contender released a rare pre-show update where we see the former Arnold Classic champ remind the rest of the division exactly who it is that they're dealing with. Because you only see him once or twice a year, sometimes you can forget just how good this guy can be when he's firing on all cylinders. So if everything starts coming together perfectly over the nexT3 weeks, that first call out in the 2012 division is going to end up being one for the ages. And that does it if yet another edition of Muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: AKIM WILLIAMS 3 WEEKS OUT & FLEXATRON TEAMS UP WITH SHABAAN! [DZWOUZo3uCE].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Votes, there's 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love this show, this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning, on day polonvo and today is Monday September 28th, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. For every athlete pulling out all the stops has a different meaning, but when we're talking about an athlete who's the caliber of Jennifer Dorie, adding anything extra to the mix can be a total game changer, even though she's only competed once this year, the looks she brought into when the Tampa Pro was easily the most complete from top to bottom that she's had to this point in her career. I don't know what it is that she's done differently over these last few months, but I do know that it's working and when she's at her best, Jennifer is one of the most talented athletes in the bikini division, so she finds a way to keep herself trening in the right direction, she's a name that could easily land in the top three conversation. Sometimes I like to tell my clients that we don't need to reinvent the wheel and all we need to do is make sure the tires are balanced to put the pedal to the floor when we need to. So if I'm a homit shabon and I've got Sean Rodin in my corner making sure all the nuts and bolts are tightened up, well I'd be looking ahead to the rest of the schedule for a place where I can finally open things up over the weekend. We saw photos of Sean Rodin helping Shabon find tuning some of the details in his presentation out in gold's vannis where I thought Shabon looked significantly better than where he was a few weeks ago with the Cal Pro. And if those two can figure out a way to keep making the right adjustments, Shabon has a real shot at cracking the top three somewhere before the year is set and done. Usually when you call someone a ticking time bomb, it's a bad thing because they're probably about to become unhinged. So today we're repurposing that phrase from my guy, I came Williams because he's a ticking time bomb. It's just that he set to detonate on the Chicago Pro stage. If you can remember back to March when he was on stage at the Arnold, I came look like he was poised to have another really solid year. And even though things have been crazy during the interim, this show is a great opportunity for him to stay on the course. That being said, if he can manage to sneak in there and steal the win, I think he creates a lot of momentum heading into the Olympia, which is exactly what he needs heading into the biggest event of the year. It's a new week, ladies and gentlemen, which means that now only we're two weeks away from the Europa Championships in Alain County, Spain. That show for a lot of different reasons is shaping up to be one of the most important contests of the year. So far I've heard a few people toss out names of front runners for the 212 tile, so I figured IMight as well join in. How about Angel called around? Town for pound angel might be the most underrated athlete in the division. And I've heard from Angel's camp that this is the best he's ever in love heading into a show. This guy is no joke, and I wouldn't be the least bit surprised if he ended up contending for a top two finish. That does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day polimbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: AKIM WILLIAMS DIGGING IN! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸12⧸18) [vGtyR85dMXU].txt ===

Welcome back to another episode of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palembo and today is Thursday July 12, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. You know what it feels like I've probably put together a million diets over the years, but never once in my life that I actually think guys might be in the gym actually eating the weights. Until I saw a Kim Williams in action last weekend. True to form the Brooklyn Beast is looking absolutely gigantic here in the early phases of his off-season program. Especially in one of the more recent back trening clips, we saw him release a few days ago. Even though it may not have shown up in the play things, when you sit down and look at the overall improvements he's made in the 2018 season, it's hard not to come away and encouraged if you're into Kim Williams fan. And as long as he can keep avoiding the injury bug and doing what he does best, I don't think we have any reason to think that next year's campaign won't end up beinGHis best yet. I'm someone who wholeheartedly believes that it's up to us to go out and create our opportunities in life. So when I see an athlete like Luis Rogers workinGHer butt off to go out and create her own opportunities right here and now I can't help but want to stop and pay homage. After clinchinGHer Olympia birth with that runaway win she had a few months ago with the San Marino Pro. Rogers has been out there hitting the gym like a one woman wrecking crew. And as you can see the results speak for themselves. Even in the division as talent heavy at the top like we haven't figured, I'd like to think there's still room for someone with first class conditioning to crack the top 10 at the O. Rogers long as she can keep delivering the same extra shock version of Luis Rogers that we've seen all along. I'd say she probably has a great shot at getting in there and mixing it up with the best the figure division as to offer. I had a conversation earlier this week with someone who just earned their PhD and they said something that really stuck with me. Successed anything is way less about being extraordinary than most people think. At the end of the day, it really comes out to how much you're willing to endure. And from where I'm sitting, men's physique all star Brandon Hendrickson looks like he's in this thing for the lonGHaul. Last year's third place Olympia finisher is on the long march to Vegas again. We're all looked to take the rest of the best head on to battle it out for the right to be called Olympia Champion and earn his place in the record books. Truth be told, there are really only a handful of guys on the planet who are better than Brandon Hendrickson when he's that his best. But if he can suck it up and endure the sacrifice just a little more, I'll have a chance to go out there on that stage and rewrite history. Well, I know all my Brazilian World Cup fans are foaming at the mouth right now because it looks like their team is a runaway favorite now that we're getting down to the wire. But hopefully they can take a few minutes to stop popping champagne bottles and doing a couple hair dances in the streets to pay some attention to Raphael Brandeo. The rookie sensation has been an absolute terror so far this year and the string of top 10 finishes that he's already got on his resume don't even come close to doing justice to how it was to me's been when you start looking ahead of guys who might be the face of the pro league over the next decade or so. This guy deserves some serious consideration in spite of his small sample size. If I was going to put money on someone who might come out and really erupted into something special in the 2019 season, here's a guy who's probably right up there at the top of my list. Back in the day people used to tell me that I should always want to make a good first impression. Whether or not that actually turned out to be a good advice is probably up for debate. But if you're a rookie who's about to make your pro debut in the classic physique division like Nick Cavalero, a good first impression sure wouldn't hurt. Recently some new progress photos leaked of the former NPC lightweight standout that showed off some serious improvements in the form of 20 pounds of new stage weight according to my people in his camp. At almost every show now, this classic physique division is loaded with monsters from top to bottom. But if this kid can show up, play his game and try to win the battle in the conditioning department, you never know what could happen once the judges start putting these guys in the pastes. The fact does at the end another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: AL DURRAH WINS VANCOUVER 212! CLINCHES OLYMPIA BIRTH. [VFvC27Oa8S4].txt ===

Welcome back to our ex muscle news update and today's update is about our good friend, North of the border from Canada, my mood elderra, who just won the 212 Pro Division at the Vancouver Pro and you predicted it here on the show and I promised you if you won that show we get you back, that's right. That's right. It's a little bit about how it feels to be going to the Olympian this year. Man, it kind of didn't hit me, you know, like I'm not really, I'm not really mentally there as in like, is this really happening? I'm like going to the Olympia. I just turned pro, like a few months ago. I know. We just interviewed you. So it's a pretty great feeling. I have to be honest, I think I was happier placing fourth in New York because I had no expectations whatsoever on how I'd stack on my first show, but I think going into Vancouver I was a lot more confident. Of course, I'm sure you are because to get that first show under your belt is kind of takes the nerves away and now you're in your hometown, so to speak, you're in Canada. So it's got to feel a little more comfortable for you competing up there. It was kind of weird because they had the Chicago Pro in the same week and that's true. Vancouver, and it kind of split the lineup. Personally, I feel you would have won if you would have combined the lineup for both shows. I think you still would have won. Was that a strategic move on your part to do the Vancouver or instead of the Chicago, or it's just because you live in Canada? You decide if you can. I honestly think so too. I came in four pounds heavier than I did in Toronto, or even more. Five pounds heavier. I waited in Toronto on scale at 194, 195, with clothes. I remember I told you I put stuff in my clothes just in the end. In Vancouver, I was 201. Better look for you. Better look. I was a lot fuller, bigger, same condition. I was pretty confident. It wasn't really much of a strategic thing. I think it was just because Vancouver's closer to me than just flying to the states and the border and everything. Going to the states in general, I'm brown. Airports are not the funnest experiences. I was like, don't you get profile that these airports? I'm always the guy who is randomly selected. You are. You feel they're doing that because you are arrogant. I don't care about it. I know you don't care about it. You don't care but you do. When you're in Rome, do the Romans. This is how they do things. I'm okay with it. I got nothing to hide. Wanna check my bags. Check my bags. It's fine. But yeah, I'm always the guy who is step on the side. Sir, please. Then you think they make you step to the side because you have double, you're like double like a prejudice against you because you got these Arabic thing going. Then you also are bodybuilder which is bad. That'd be worse. It's red X all over. That's right. That's right. I actually thought that I was going to see more Iranian to 12 guys in the Vancouver line. If you're Iranian, you can't go to the US but you can go to Canada. No man, they didn't get the visas. People don't understand. People who see social media thinking Canada is all like, yeah, bring them all in. It's not true. It's not true. It's just as hard to get a visa to Canada as it is in the States. If you get rejected in the States, that's it. You're forgetting to get a visa to Canada. Oh, really? So I didn't even realize that. Interesting. It's a lot harder than people think. It's kind of crazy. I said this before. I said, professional athlete should have exemption from what they're doing to these people. Not letting them into these countries because athletes are like, I remember back when Russia was the Soviet Union and it was a communist country. For them to travel overseas was a big deal. Today we're afraid people were going to defect in everything like that. But the professional athletes will always exempt from the restrictions of travel because it was for competition. I always thought that the athletics were held above all the political tensions in this world. I said, it's not. It's kind of sad, but the sad. Because we have nothing to do with anything. And you know what? Since we're on the topic, did you read some of the comments that were on our last video? I can only imagine. Am I a Muslim, a sympathizer now? A sympathizer? No. Like, see, my son watches the videos too. Like he's seven. And one of the comments, you know, when you talked about my burns, one of the comments was like, is he was making a bomb? Oh, really? You know, people are so stupid. I wish I were, you got to point those things out to me. I would move them on those comments. It's not that. I'm glad I'm saying it so people can understand. Like guys, it's not cool that my son comes and asks me, Dad, are you making a bomb? Yeah. When that fire happened, like, we're athletes. We don't, there is that we have nothing to do with religion, politics, anything. We just love bodybuilding. We're going to wherever country to compete, to have fun, and just to be involved in something that we really love doing. That's why I always liked the, there's a lot of things about bodybuilding that's messed up. But I will say one thing. And maybe some people will disagree with me. I have yet to see any prejudice. It's the only venue where I see all people from all walks of life, whether they be black, white, Asian, Arabic, Jewish, Italian, you know, trensgender, gay. No one judges anyone in the bodybuilding world. Everyone is kind of cool with everything that anyone does. All we're interested in is how much frickin' mussel you have and how ripped you are. That's it. That's what we judge you on. Yeah, that's what's beautiful about bodybuilding, man, is that you know, we're a small community relative to all the other bigger sports. So I think that's why you know, and as sense we take care of each other more. You know, we don't judge each other and everyone gets along. Even the, especially the athletes, everyone gets along with each other. Which is pretty cool. Yeah, IMean, the worst argument you have is whether the guy thinks that you know, your waist is not small enough for your abs or your glutes are not ripped enough. That's the only thing that people criticize each other. And if that's the only criticism you have, you know, that's your, you're living in a blessed world. That's for sure. It's so superficial, you know. What's next, you know, I guess you're just going to get ready for the Olympia, right? Um, I need some, I'm taking like a few days off. I still tren. But from the diet, I'm taking a few days off. I'm still actually doing my morning cardio because the rebound is just brutal. It's horrible, man. God damn. You look like you gained about 25 pounds already. Yeah, something. I hope you, I wish you didn't say that because now my coach is going to know. I said, I told him, I told him 18. But you know, it's, it's 18 pounds of water. You know, the rest is maybe like a little, you know, you're probably gained two pounds of muscle if I know your physique. Bro, I don't know. I'm taking a few days off. I'm traveling this weekend for four days with my wife. And we had a trip booked. We had a trip booked right after Toronto. But when I had a conversation with Flex Lewis backstage in Toronto and he told me, keep going. He was like, I heard of you in New York and I saw you now in Toronto and, you know, he said, strike when the axe is hot. Right. He's like on disappear and actually that kind of, you know, resonated in me. And I stole my wife in all of on it. You know, so we're at a mouse who close to thEQualifying for the Olympia. She had no idea. Oh. So she was like, okay, so we're back on prep. I'm like, no, we got a trip booked. Oh. She actually told me cancel the trip. Oh wow. She said she's not going on that trip. Unless I do Vancouver first. And I canceled it. Did Vancouver and now it's well earned. We're goinGHopefully. That's nice. Your arms look like they're about 24 inches right now. Yes. So to give us a little arm shot there. See what you look like. That's nice. Flex. That's pretty good. It's pretty impressive for a 12 guy. You look like an open guy with the sizes of your package. I think they're they measure 20. Yeah, that's impressive. How tall are you again? Um, um, um, five six and a half. I thought girls on five seven. Ha ha ha ha ha ha. So let me let's put it this way. We got about eight or nine weeks to the Olympia. You go in on your trip. You come back. You get into prep mode 100%. And what do you you fly in a week before? What do you how do you do the Olympia thing? Because you got to make weight, right? But when you make it way if you're easy. So that doesn't really matter. I don't know. I don't have a problem with weight. Yeah. I'm going to be in Vegas hopefully maybe Wednesday. Okay. Wednesday. I don't like showing up too early. It's for me it's more of an an out kind of thing. Yeah. Yeah. I like going a couple of days before. Um, just for the tanning. I don't know if I'm going to be on the press conference or not. I think it's usually people who win pro shows that get beyond the press conference. You just want to pressure. Yeah. So I don't know if it's that or the guys who are previously from last year. Oh yeah, who knows? I don't know. But just in case I'm going in a day, uh, a day early. But man, like I'm I'm going to unleash a complete new demon for this prep. I hope. Yeah. I think I think you're going to be dangerous on that Olympia stage. I do. I think that people got to be watch out for you. I, you know, they no one ever predicted I play Swallow and in New York. No one predicted I'd win a pro show. You know, every time I see these pages, they're always hyping. I can't say anything. I'm not, I'm not that kind of guy who would, you know, say anything online at all. Right. But I was, I just, was this close to being like, you guys are are, are hyping the wrong guy. Ha ha ha ha ha. Um, and, you know, I, I gained every show I was better than the one before my body. Loves, dieting. It just reacts so well to lower calories and higher intensity workouts. It responds well to cardio. I've gained two pounds maybe between New York and Toronto and at least another four between, um, between Toronto and Vancouver. And this time I have eight weeks. Well, we're looking forward to seeing you up on that stage and a good luck with the prep enjoy evocation and keep us updated. And I hope to be interviewing you in, uh, in that top five, but winter circle in the Olympia. That's the goal. That's it. Keep that top five to qualify again for next year. Yeah. Enjoy. You know, the fruits of your labor, congratulations on the big win. Thanks a lot, Dave. Appreciate it. God bless. All right. That'll take us to the end of another RX muscle. New is update. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: AN OPEN MESSAGE TO IAIN VALLIERE! [gWcsBIlVR5s].txt ===

you trust First, we'll first pre-work out VAPE. Dave Alonbo here with an RX muscle rant. Today's topic is how to deal with social media, how to deal with the mental aspect of the sport. I originally wanted to have IFB pro Ian Valier on the show after his New York pro Victor Marie, and I wanted to talk about this because he's been a victim of an onslaught of people sayinGHe should have won the show and he did look good and other people should have been him and I know it really affects him personally because I've seen him arguing with these people online. I wanted to just say a couple of things about social media. It's a whole new brave new world today that it was when I competed back in the 1990s and 2000s, early 2000s because social media was not an issue. You had to deal with the people responding to the magazines but there was no way to fit them directly to give their input. However, people still talk behind your back if they're Jim and stuff like that. What I noticed about when I was coming up was that I had to learn to put splinters on my eyes and just say, hey, you know what? Walk through life, worry about yourself. And I know it's easier said than done. When I would go to the shopping mall and I would walk through it then I would always wear a tank top and show ourselves. I was always sweating and hot and I was big and whatever. People would whisper stuff and I'm sure saying, sir, sir, sir, and all the notches, jealous things that people say. But I didn't even hear it. I was oblivious to it because I just blocked it out and I didn't care about what people said. I was interviewing Logan Frank and earlier today and we were talking about that because he puts it out there. Hey, look, you know, I know that what I got is good enough to beat anyone in the sport. He's very confident about it. He's not cocky in the sense that he doesn't bad mouth the other people. He just basically puts it out there and says, hey, look, I can stand with anyone. And I'm not going to back down and this is my belief and he just won the New York Pro and Classic physique. And he's got a really very healthy attitude about what he's bringing to the stage. Jay Kuntler had a very strong mindset too. He just didn't care if people said his waist is too wide or this is not good enough or he'll never beat Ronnie Coleman. He didn't let the good opinion of others affect his outcome. What he did, how he lived, how he focused on what he wanted to manifest or bring to reality in his life. And I think it's important as body bull is that we understand there is a mental aspect of this game. And it's a very strong mental aspect. Some people think they, or some people know that they're good enough to win. And some people don't think they deserve to win, even though they have the tool set genetically to do it. Flex Wheeler was very open about saying that he failed like he could never beat Ronnie Coleman. He felt he was always going to be second to him. Right then, and there was no way he could ever beat him with that mindset. Jay Kuntler, when I'm recordin' it, always said that I could beat Ronnie. I'm gonna beat Ronnie and he really believed it and he made it happen. So Flex Wheeler might have been the most genetically blessed, you know, best body builder of all time, had he had the mindset of Jay Kuntler or Dorian Yates or Ronnie Coleman to that matter. People who believed that there was no way they could lose because no one can outwork them. Both physically in the gym and both mentally when it comes to the mind game. Arnold also, a very strong mind game. He went so far as to play mind tricks on the other competitors to psych them out. Now, guys don't do that today on a regular basis because it is a little disrespectful. Now, you get called out for that on social media. Back then, it was a magazine article you did, you saw a guy's at the gym. It was a different reality. Nowadays, if you're too cocky or you're too obviously kind of saying to people, you'll get called out on social media. But a lot of guys do and they don't even care about that. So the answer to or thEQuestion is, how do you deal with social media when it really starts affecting you? You don't allow it to bother you. You do your thing. You know, whenever you compete for anything, whether it be body building, I used to look at the magazines and look at the different competitors who I felt were my competition at the national level and I would try to dissect them and figure out, how can I beat them here, how can I beat them there? Every time a new guy came on the block, it was like stressful because I was worried about, oh my god, I'm going to beat this guy and then at some point I said to myself, stop worrying about who's out there. Worried about yourself. Look at yourself in the mirror. Say, what do I need to improve and work on that and bring the best day, polumbot to the stage that you can possibly bring. Bring the best, the invalid year to the stage you can possibly bring. Bring the best, Logan Franklin to the stage you can possibly bring. And then left the judges decide because you know why at the end of the day, he invalid the year left the New York pro as the champion and he should feel like a champion. He doesn't need the fans to validate his victory. The judges did and that's all that matters is what the judges think. He's going to the Olympia. He's the New York pro champ. It doesn't matter in six months, not only remember the show anymore, they'll just know in one of the New York pro. And so don't take everything so seriously. It always seems way more serious right when it happens, but the truth of the matter is that no one's going to remember who play second in the New York pro in another year. They're not going to remember Justin Rodriguez was right there. I know there was a video released about, did Max, Charles gets screwed. You can say the fans could say whatever they want. It doesn't matter. The judges voted. And you know what? I think the judges are doing a very good job. I think in that effect that they did a very good job in picking any value. I think he was the winner. Was he better than Tampa? Absolutely. Absolutely. Does he still have tan issues? Yeah, his tan still wasn't good. Is he not showing confidence on stage? Yes, he was not smiling at pre-judge. He's got to work on that. But was he the best body up there? I say he was. I think a who's son, Massafa, Massafa has a tremendous physique with almost zero flaws. He wasn't hard enough. I think Justin Rodriguez's got probably had the best conditioning on stage. But I think his legs were a little shallow compared to his own body. He flowed well compared to Ian. I think Ian had much better legs than he did. But Ian had no calves. Well, who cares? All right. It's one body part that was not a weakness. It was just not enough to snuff with how biGHis legs are. But that's hardly a reason for him not winning the show. All the other competitors had their own weaknesses. Was Max, Charles, maybe his best? He was close to it. I think Milis did a great job. It wasn't deserved to the victory. I don't think so. I don't think his legs could hold a match to, or I can handle like this is the right expression to Ian Valiers. I think Ian had all the body parts. Right where he needed to be. I think his posing was better. He was more relaxed. He was fuller. He wasn't flat. His enthusiasm could have been a little better on stage. But he had the best physique. I think the Tyler Manning who was head judge did a fantastic job. I can completely defend his decision whether I, whether Chris the Cito agrees with me, or Milis agrees with me or not. It doesn't matter. I think the right decision was made. The truth of the matter was that no one was perfect at that show. Probably Justin Rodriguez was about as close to his purpose as possible. But sometimes you can be your best and it's not good enough to beat the guy who might be a little bit off. He's been in Valiers as a top 6 Olympian if he puts it together mentally because he's got the physique to do it. He's got to take all the little things that we have control over presentation, coloring on stage. Okay, confidence on stage. These are things he needs to work on. He's very immature in that sense. But that doesn't mean that his physique was not deserving of the victory. And you know what? For him to allow these shocks on social media to negatively influence him, for him to argue with people online to try to justify his winters stupid. He doesn't have to. Phil Pink made that same mistake after the Olympia. And he should have just said, you know what? Scor these people. Cares. And they don't matter to my life. They're not important. It's what's in here that's important. What's in here that's important because that's where you create. That's where you make things happen. You can do that. No one else can do it. You can justify yourself verbally for winning a show, or losing a show. That doesn't mean that you deserve it. Okay? Your physique does the talking. Another way to improve that is to work on it internally. You can't affect anyone else out there except yourself. And that's the bottom line and take on mine. But you can allow these other people to affect you. If you do, you're foolish because you're allowing the public opinions voice to destroy a deconstruct all the great stuff that you're doing to yourself. Ian should be out there saying, you know what? This is what I did. This is what I'm going to improve and talk about the tough, tough battle he's fought with confidence versus dealing with social media. Because that's the real issue here. We're in a brave new world like IMentioned earlier. You've got to learn to deal with social media and handle them properly. Some people are more mature. Some people are less mature. Coming up growing up, I was very immature when I was younger. It took me a long time to hit to be mature and to actually understand who I was and to be confident in that. And everyone with choice at different levels. I think Jay Colt was born mature. Never seen the guy ever get ruffled. But that's everyone's different. So just because Ian Valier acts one way and Logan Franklin acts another way and Jay Colt acts another way doesn't make it one better than the other. But as bodybuilders we have to understand where we're standing up in front of a bunch of people and the entire world on social media and being judged. If you can't handle that, get out of the sport. That's a fact of life. You're going to be judged by everyone. But the only one that matters are the judges. And if you can convince them, you're the best. You did you job. Ian you did you job. You the New York Pro Championship. Stop worrying about what everyone else is thinking. On day polonbo with an RX muscle rant.

=== FILE: ANDRE FERGUSON： BIGGEST THREAT TO BUENDIA'S CROWN？ [obQPHKgugp8].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is a very special one. He's the 2018 Arnold Classic Champion. He might be the next man to win the men's physique Olympia crown. He's our good friend Andre Ferguson. What's up? What's going on? Hey, you're you've been very quietly. I know. I've been very low key bleeding up to the Olympia. No hype, no hoopla. Kind of just lay in low. Is that this is your new style? I just think I've done for that. It's your favorite day, man. I'm just focused on what I'm trying to accomplish. You know, in the past the last couple years you kind of ran the gamut of doing every freaking show leading up to the Olympia and it worked for you. It worked for you. You look you've got better and better where you a little concerned this year because obviously one of the Arnold you shut it down, you know, and you kind of like lay it low You feel that you kind of need to get the edge back and you feel confident that you can bring your best to the Olympia without having to do a million shows leading up to them. I'm already better right now than I've been in any prepped And why is that, Andre? The time off serve my body justice man taking the rest and then prepping for double the time so I could do it slowly without running myself in a Deground like I feel fresh still. I'm fresh. We haven't done anything extreme because we haven't had to Say you look bigger than I've ever seen you this time at this point out. 10 pounds you're getting 10 pounds of muscle from last year Yeah Or from the Arnold was it which one was from the Arnold what you're a genetic freak man You really are what I was 194 I weighed 184 at the Arnold and I don't have much left to lose and I'll probably gain a pound into a muscle Like going down the stretch so would you weigh it last year's Olympia One about 184 185 that's a big big jump. You know will the conditioning be as good as it was at the Arnold I'm already beating all of that now so your leaner and 10 pounds heavier. Oh yeah, oh yeah Now what do you treat me that is that because you stop dieting all year wrong and you actually gave yourself a little bit of an offseason That's exactly what it is because usually I'm always like you said I'm always dieting so I never really give myself a my body But chance to really really grow like I can put on like pounds of muscle incrementally, but to make a super jump I had to sit down Wow, do you look impressive I gotta say I want to ask you a controversial question because a couple months ago Jeremy boing deacquad a lot of flack for putting out Like an interview with some media organization where he said that you know Him and men's physique in general saved body building and A lot of people took offense that especially the body was a sick offense to that and they felt that you know The mister Olivia competition was never in jeopardy that the body building you know No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, first thing I'm gonna say is that stay up right How come the bodybuilders get to talk down on the men's physique guys and crack all these jokes and say whatever they want to But a man's physique I said something back and we're so disrespectful your Dave will all men here I'm not less than no lesser of a man than anybody in the open Dave Why because I don't choose to walk around at 270 pounds. I'm lesser of a man. No, IMiss me with all of that Dave But to your question now I don't think it was everyone's jeopardy. No, but do I think that men's physique and bikinIMade it bigger of course I agree I agree even though Jeremy wants to sue me look He I still agree with what he I agreed with he whether he said I agreed all time You know, he did just the thing Bodybuilding was is and will always be king yeah, it will always be king But if you know this certain they like a lot of the endorsement contracts are going to mention these guys now Because it's more men's it's more mainstream fitness isn't Let's say all right Dave let's go back 10 years right 15 years ago It was only a couple of supplement companies and it was the bodybuilders who with the only people Taking supplements or doing bodybuilding now it's so mainstream that everyone does it That someone can send their mom to Walmart to go get protein from them and they're not necessarily going to want to buy the one with filth He thought it because that's not the look necessarily they're going to achieve when they because They don't even realize that Just because you drink that doesn't mean you're going to look like so he but that's the perception of it Right, no, I am a serious thing Do you um feel that Men's physique maybe doesn't get the love it should on the Olympia stage because you guys really kind of compete at the expo But well, so they're going to have competed the expo if they take us from the expo they would be no one at that Well, why can't you do pre judging at the expo in the night show at the on the Olympia stage in the Orleans arena? I agree with that. I agree with that right yeah You know what I'm gonna put that right I agree with that yeah, IMean I think that at this point You know it's been around long enough and established itself now as as a real Competitive sport the physique's have evolved It's from what they started that to what they are now. It's like night and day, you know now It's Rob bodybuilding. Yeah, there's no there's no difference between us and any other division besides eating more food and doing more drugs Dave I can competing any division if I want to any one of them But do I do I have to desire to know But what so I'm taking the easy way out or whatever the hell they want to call it because I don't I I'm not subscribing to that I'm not subscribing to walking around at 260 pounds or not right So you're you're ruling that after you originally tell me you're gonna go to the open division right No, I said if I said I'll sit down and think about it But honestly you're right now it makes no sense well you're almost at the almost one the Olympia so of course It doesn't make sense for you You're right when I look why wouldn't I stay here in Dominique And then right off into the sunset and stop competing right Let me ask you question do you have legs? Yeah, you tren you have bodybuilder legs like that legs like I don't got bodybuilder legs So you can do one if I wanted to I got these focus on them for four months Dave when I tell you I can make any muscle grow like me Any muscle grow like these tren to twice a week You're you are genetic free. Let me ask you this question if you did classic physique how do you think you do? Oh, I have to put on my my classic cuz he wait is still in like five six pounds All right, but you can you could do that in one three weeks probably? No, but it have to be put on in certain spots Wait, I need it. I'd have to add more to my back. Okay. I'd have to add more to my legs. You got a great back when you talk to them Do I think I could be good? Yeah, I think I could be real good, but it would take time I'm not gonna say oh I'm going to classic next season I'm gonna be the man oh hello that ain't happy. Well, what do you do this? Let's say you win the Olympia Okay, or you or come in second or let's we're not gonna I don't want to jinx you. Let's say you come in top two with the Olympia Why not next year? Do the arle as in in physique when that and then do like another classic physique show during the year just for the shits and giggles I'm not competing at all in the season. You're not Nope, why not Just because you're honestly I'm just gonna go and enjoy my quality of life Then and get the off the stage money Okay, you're not gonna do the Olympia or you'll do the Olympia. No, I'm gonna do the Olympia. I don't know no new your pro none of those shows Yeah, okay Why not what about just doing a classic physique show to see how you do? Not I'm not competing like it doesn't it just doesn't You have been ripping and running for the lasT4 or five years, man. I want to enjoy my quality of life I just want to I just want to relax go on some vacations Just chill out not worry about prepping for shows right now Is that is that financially viable for you now? Oh, hell yeah But look, but look I've never been you'll just check the show checks. I don't care about the show checks That's not what IMake my money So where do you make your money? IMake my money off my three salaries that I get and my appearance fee So you are so you are getting a parent's fees now. Oh, yeah, oh yeah Where have you been going this year this past year? What what is the highlights You know Texas twice can tuck the floor or does that was everywhere man? That's where it comes everywhere. What was the most fun place you went to? Oh I You I have fun at all because if the home is an ad bro for a morning Georgia that we have Do you go out when you're there and and party or you just kind of chill out? No, we don't we don't party. It's not up thing Yeah, you don't party. It's just just not out thing I figured you were living the rock and roll lifestyle so you're very very low key now, huh? Yeah, let Like I've been then did that David doesn't like it's not something that I need to be doing It does not like prevalent to me like I don't like all shit. I got to go party. I can kill us for it Since you you've attained the level of celebrity in the men's physique world Have you noticed a lot more people like wanting to contact you and be involved with you in a business Or end romantic you have a lot of girls contacting you, you know on Instagram. So many That you crazy What what's her name's calling right now? What what's the girls in? What girl on the other line? I almost got you I almost got you almost got him You're a you All right, what's up? Yeah, but you know I get I get contacted regularly I'm not gonna lie yeah, I got a lot of opportunities come to my door I don't have to go chasing that's great. You're fine. That's me. You're made it when they come to you you made it you know Couple years ago you were on your way to say that because that's what my coach said all right Success is when is when you don't have to pursue things success is when things pursue you that's right That's right. Let me see if I double buy some post Yeah, you can definitely your classic physique. I'm telling you man. You've got it man I got enough muscle though like you're like a giant you were maybe a Johnny Jackson's body, you know You're a look wow when I go to like It's like flex sitting in two twelve and dominating for seven eight years I think they're like dude. I'm a suit right here get comfortable put my feet up and I'm gonna try to beat a best that could be right here in this division I'd like you would like to constantly prove yourself this would be great if you did a classic physique show and you won That would be like another freaking feather in your resume there I Get it don't get it. I get it. I think you do it If I didn't you could do it this immense physique guys did our great men's physique guys, but they never could do bodybuilding or for classic You definitely can do it because you got them you got the bodybuilder like body, you know? I'm not saying I can't do it But I just don't have to desire to do it. All right, look when the Olympia that's the most important Can you be Jeremy? The Olympia her Jeremy's looking really good Yo, he's shaping up nice dude. He's shaping up nice the champs shaping up nice But you're better I'm better than I'm trying to be better than everybody your daddy's not about individuals to me. I don't focus on individuals When you focus on individuals that's how you end up losing I focus on winning people people get Quarter-up in chasing other people's physics oh shit. He's already shredded six weeks out Damn I got start doing more cardio now you're driving from your own plan because you're trying to chase being second best that somebody else's Right now I'm just doing my own thing Dave. I'm going for mine Okay, well you look great and like I said you've got to be have some tremendous momentum from that Arnold classic victory earlier in the year and I think that you got to be the man to beat you know I have to Jeremy obviously so Jeremy's got to be worried I guess about you first I don't know who else is up there. I guess you think right mom yeah Raymont friend Brandon Ryan IMean did everyone's got a shot you know I guess but who do you like you like Raymont? I know you like his physical Well, I don't really think everyone has a shot though Dave Who's got the shot just you? I think Raymont has a great shot too. Why do you think why you think he's why he's got a great shot? Because he's tall you took four you took fourth last year at the Olympia. I'm going by steps took fourth last year at the Olympia Yeah, second at the Arnold one kids verb one New York Right right what about Brandon? I know you guys got peace, but what about Brandon? I think he took himself out of position You do he was third left here though, but then he got third at the Arnold and then he went into those shows and then he took the L to Joel simply True okay and and if he doesn't come back significantly better I think he's gonna end up dropping you know and he tends to be inconsistent You know is that you're pretty consistent he seems to be up and down when he's at up he's his best and he's hard to beat when he's not Well, look at his best. I He get he loses that his best still Yeah, when I'm at my best. I don't do this. That's sure That's sure there's only one Andre now there's only one Andre Ferguson now remember now right like You don't even know you see the Arnold the dude is massive on stage bro Yeah He's a different breed of dude like even me even I have to I a hard time keeping up with the muscular Already that's why they told me to get bigger they would like to go to Raymont is very muscular. You can go put on the couple more counts of muscle Interesting Yeah, the men's physique division has evolved quite a bit since its inception where the guys were weighing in the 170s No, it's not now What's it but people still but the bodybuilders who want to refer to old men's bikini Is that it though a guy cracking jokes thinking it's cute, but if I start cracking jokes about y'all Y'all get what hurting your feelings about and then I'm disrespectful this dad and a third not man Look look you if you want to dish it out you gotta be able to take it and you're right you're right You just get back at it when I do it you'll Dave. I'm no lesser of a man because I choose to be in this division What does me being what does me being? 195 versus me being 240 make me a more or less of a man I think you make it I think you make this division cool. I think you're good for the division because I think that you you legitimize it I think You you look like a bodybuilder to me and I think that that's Really what people want people wanted a figure someone who represents the sport and Jeremy's got a bodybuilder To don't get me wrong you guys both have bodybuilders physics and some people say hey, you know what that guy had a work Real hard to get there he didn't just wake up with abs one morning and get on stage That's how the but that Andre that's how the division started it was beach body Guys it went to clubs on the weekend and they got they took a dioratic and they jumped up on stage now with bodybuilders You know wholeheartedly true and that's what I say like what are they doing that to harder than I'm doing We're also putting the same hours in a gym. We're all still putting the same hours in on the diet Oh, let's talk about check that do more cardio than them guys like I want to see these open bodybuilders little cardio I know yeah, like them got oh, they say oh, it's easy to do what you guys do oh, you guys got to do it cardio you guys only left the lip I could say go it's easy to do what you guys do all I got to do is eat a excessive amount of food I don't even got a cardio that's easy Right, right, you could it can go either way. It's You have to respect every division for what it is Sure, and at the same time it's all bodybuilding If we're eating we're sleeping we're trening we're doing all the same things a bodybuilders doing besides we're taking less drugs and not eating all the food There's not there's no difference So what oh, I'm sorry that if I want to live past 60 days. I'm sorry my bad My bad if I don't want to be on kidney dialysis You're the best on drain

=== FILE: ANOTHER CLASSIC CANADIAN？ Live With Isaac Baier [kyC2Q2ZfINY].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Broughty by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo. And today's guest is a very special one. He won the Canadian National's Little, the 12th of that Vancouver Pro Am a few weeks ago. In the same day, I say the next day, he entered the Pro Rikes in place fifth of his first pro show in classic physique. The man I'm talking about is Isaac Bear. Welcome to the show. Hey Dave, thanks for having me. Wow, what a crazy night you had or crazy weekend. I should say you had it at the Vancouver Pro Am. You turned pro in classic physique and then you went and competed in the pro division and you placed top five all in the same weekend. Yeah, it was pretty overwhelming. That's for sure man, especially crack in the top five in the pro is being taken pounds under the weight limit. Yeah, did you have any intention of doing that or that was just kind of like a last minute thing they said, hey, you won. You want to do the pro show, want to jump in. Yeah, IMean, if I did win the card, I told myself, I'm already here. I'm already conditioned, you know, IMay as well roll into the pro show and see how I do, and if anyone didn't know you were from Canada, you just tip your hat right there with a little bit of that A. Either that or you're from Wisconsin, then I don't think you're from Wisconsin with that accent. Talk to me a little bit about, IMean, you, this is not an overnight sensation type story that you have. You've been doing this for almost 10 years now. You've been banging away at first and body building obviously switching to classic when that came out. Talk to me at how did you get your beginnings? Where did your first get into just the body building in and what made you decide you wanted to do this maybe at a higher elite level? Um, yeah, I got into body building at 18. It was just growing up, I always idolize, like, you know, like a hercules like physique. And a friend of mine, she wanted pro card and at 18, I was like, how did you look like that? You know, when I always grew up reading, you know, the magazines and stuff like, you're, your articles and muscular development, did, um, did one show when I was hooked. Ever since then, I've just done a show a year after a year, trying to just be a better bodybuilder. You know, it wasn't necessarily, I'm going to go pro and be famous. I just did it because I loved it, man. Were you doing well in body building competitions? Or were you not doing so well? And then when classic came out, you started, you know, really, you know, shining. No, I did really well. I wanted a few provincial shows. I wanted some overalls. And then when I got to the national stage, I did my first national heavyweight class at 24 and I placed 15th. So that kind of was like a buzz killer, right? Especially after winning to shows. And then the next year, classic came out and I was kind of on the fence because dropping from 220 pound stage weight to dropping down to 200. That was like, uh, you know, bodybuilders to get bigger. Not get smaller, right? Sure. So I gave it a shot. I placed tight second at the 2017 Nationals ended up getting third. And that kind of lit a new fire onto me. I'm like, hey, maybe I can do well in classic. And then the next year I ended up winning my pro card in classic. So yeah, it was a good switch. How do you lose 15 pounds of muscle? How did you do that? Was a cardio man and no food barely just had to burn it off. It was really hard. Yeah. Now is it easier now that you've gotten down to weight once to make that weight again? Or, and how do you tren in the offseason now? Do you have to just do maintenance type trening? Yeah. Well, that's exactly it, right? So I basically maintenance trening. I couldn't grow at all, you know, because making 200 or the struggle. Fortunately this year they up the amtries at 205. Right. So that's five on difference was it was good. But still trying to make 205 when you walk around at 255 is tough man. It was really tough. You pulled the code in my summary. Now in the pro range, you're going to be able to weigh what? 215? 215. Yeah. So I can have a good night's offseason and you know, try putting on somEQuality muscle. It's, I right. Yeah, the strip off all this muscle. Now you're going to go put it back because now you're just, what? I'm like, I was, you know, you're having a minute. You're having a minute now, but I can actually tren, you know, I can actually lift some heavy weights and eat some food instead of eating like a bird and worrying about putting on an extra count of how hard it's going to be to take it off, right? Don't you think, IMean, I think it should be this way. Don't you think the classic amateur weight should be the same as the pros? I think it should be close. I should say a five pound difference just because I feel like as an amateur with the weight increase, it gives the amateur guys to really now develop a better physique going into the pros, right? So I kind of like the weight difference, but IMean, five pounds would be ideal for sure, not 10. Now, you have an interesting trening, I guess methodology for those viewers out there who watch all our programming, I did a couple programs on DNA analysis, where you can actually get your DNA ready. And, in fact, my daypalumber.com website has DNA kits. You can order them and you send them in and the lab up in the Canada where we're going to talk about in a minute. Test your DNA and we'll tell you what you're strong in, what you're weak in, and, you know, what you have mutations in, what you don't have mutations in. And you kind of had that done, you had your DNA tested and you work with Carmen Tuchinek over there who does the DNA diva, you know, who we had on the show and who I work with and who did my DNA. And tell us about how that trening went and how that differed from things you had done in the past. Well, at the DNA, we really dialed down the foods that my body could break down, right? You know, we found out I am having a gluten sensitivity lactose sensitivity, so we really avoided any of those food strength prep. We found out my body has high iron production, so we used proper supplements to battle that which helped my chronic fatigue and with not being fatigued, I was able to tren harder, tren better. And with the DNA testing with all the proper supplements and vitamins, it actually got my metabolism very, very healthy. So I was able to do only 30 minutes of cardio this prep versus, you know, 80, 90 minutes. And I only started 30 minutes of cardio five weeks out from my show versus, you know, 80 minutes for full 16 weeks, right? So the DNA really just catered everything down, you know, and maybe go from a Ford focus to a Ferrari, I guess, and it works, it worked really well. Right. How did you combat that iron issue you had? We would incorporate a higher dose of calcium with every meal and the calcium help combat that iron. So yeah, I worked well. There's actually quite a few more things I need to sit down with Carmen and go over, because we basically did the DNA and went straight into prep, but we didn't use any fat to this prep because my body doesn't utilize the fats properly either, so that was a big change compared to previous prep, so we had a lot of fats, right? So it worked well. Would you, are you going to read, use them again, and you're going to stick with this approach? IMean, was enough to convince you that this is what you need to do? Oh man, 100%. Like, as you know, like I've been competing nine years, I've done everything from, you know, everything you can think of to get ready for a contest, right? But this was by far the easiest, most enjoyable prep I've ever had. You know, 10 days old from my show, I was old golfing, and that's, you know, usually 10 days old from a show, I'm sitting in my room with the lights off, just trying not to eat everything in sight, but yeah, this prep was good man. It was, I recommend it to anyone, and it's good in the health aspect of things, right? It's not necessarily just body building, but up fine, you know, you can find chronic diseases through your genetics and stuff like that. So just on the whole spectrum of health. If I can be healthy and be a better bodybuilder, you know, why not, right? Yeah, no, it's great. When I had my DNA tested, I'm glad I did because I found out that I don't have any real predisposition for like Alzheimer's or dementia, which I'm convinced that I'm getting that because my dad is like going through it and like, yeah, I see him every day, and I'm like, oh, no, I can't remember anything either. But I have my DNA. My DNA is working to my favorite for this one. So hopefully, you know, the DNA test was right. Really, it does, it puts your mind at ease for certain things and it makes you alert to other things that you didn't even know that you should worry about and maybe supplement with and be aware of. So I recommend everyone to do it once again. If you want to get tested, I have these kits on the day below the site. You send away, we send you the kit, you swab your cheek, you put it in the vial, you send it away. They, they will call you up then and they will give you an email, you all your DNA analysis and they'll go over it with you, which is great. Explanacy, what, you know, you're good at what you're not good at and what you have to be aware of. So, and what's going to do you want to work you more in depth with a trener, like you can call Tom Carman to check yourself and work with her. But I love science. I love when people can employ science and make themselves better at what they do. Isaac and I think that you have done that and maybe gave yourself an advantage. Maybe some of your competitors will say, well, I want to do their DNA now to see what you did to help. You, you, you be. Yeah, I'm an awesome all about promotinGHealthy body building, right? So I've had a few people reach out already asking about it and I'm all for getting them to do it. Why not? Yeah. Now, when the IFB be amateurly split with the pro league, obviously Canada was split down the middle, which is kind of weird, because most countries need to go with one of the other. And yeah. Now that Canadian assules and the, what was the Canada Cup? Was that the other child that had it there? Um, it's no longer really a part of the IFB be pro league, you know, qualifying series. So they're using what the, the Vancouver pro am and they're using the Toronto pro am I believe, right? In replacement of those two shows, that correct? Yeah, we call it the Canadian physique alliance now. Right. So it should be the exact same as NPC rules and judging and stuff like that. Right. Which is great. But don't you think that they should change the name of the show, to make it sound a little more prestigious? Because IMean, yeah, you won't have been a covert pro am and turn pro, but, you know, we, much better if you could say on Mr. Canada or something like that. Yeah, you know, that would have been a good title to have for sure, but, IMean, that's just the way they're doing it, right? So you just gotta take it as it is. Yeah, I think they should change it to the Mr. Canada. You know, just like I really believe they should bring back the Mr. America title. Because I thought that was like the greatest title, say you Mr. America. You know what IMean? Well, and that's old school body building up until now. And it's like, oh, are you Mr. Universe now? Yeah, you, you, you, you, you, you. But then I'm like, uh, I'm Mr. Vancouver pro am I? Yeah, I, I, I, I, I, I. Hey, you're still an IFVP pro and that's all that really matters. And you actually have a top five finish in some Olympia points for the Olympia's thing. Are you done competing this year? Yeah, I'm done just, um, you know, I really want to add the, the, the feedback I got from the judges was really good, you know, they were happy with everything. It was just add some size to your upper body, you know, which is, you know, 10 pounds is a lot of muscle to put on. So I'm going to do the Toronto pro next year since being Canadian. I feel like next pro show should be in Canada. Right. And, um, I think Toronto pro gives me enough time to add the 10 pounds that I need to be a competitive pro. Yeah, you know, plus the fact that, you know, you, you already had the muscle on your body. So it shouldn't be that, it shouldn't take that long to get back the muscle that you lost, which is actually the advantage for you. Yeah, you know, yeah, 100% comes back pretty quickly. Well, I want to just congratulate you Isaac once again on the big win, uh, and the, the big top five placing in the pros, I think, which is even more impressive and, uh, keep up the great work and, we're looking forward to see you all in stage next year, 10 pounds bigger. Okay, man, thank you so much, here's my pleasure. All right, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with Brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo, we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: ANTOINE VAILLANT 11 WEEKS OUT! [9JYgtoMu5aY].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Monday, October 5th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If someone asked me to define what I thought faith was, I think my best answer would be believing without knowing. For a lot of people, it's that faith or that belief in themselves or higher power that carries them through all the moments of struggle and doubt. And for someone like the Entry Campbell being anchored in something like this heading into your first Olympia can be a major advantage, even though the Entry is coming into this year's contest as somewhat of a long shot for a top 10, he was also in the same position to start the season. So it's not that he's in unfamiliar territory. And as long as he stays anchored, there's no doubt in my mind that he'll be just fine on December. Here's a fun fact, few. Did you know there's a part of your brain called the Basel Ganglia that stores information about habits and routines that actually is separate from our long-term memory region. And now the Dana Castillo is back in full-time prep mode. I bet your her Basel Ganglia has been working in overtime. This is the first year of Danny's career that she hasn't competed in a regular season show. And I can't help but wonder if her body will end up being better because of it. This will be the first time in a long time that the world has seen a fully rested Danny ready to attack the stage and if she can tap back into those old championship habits, I see her as a legitimate top 3 threat heading into December. 2020's taught me a lot about life, a lot about myself, and a lot about how important it is to be in the moment because tomorrow was never promised. So if I can get the Antoine Valleant one piece of advice heading into his first Olympia, it would be to find some time to sit back and enjoy the moment. Because you never know when the ride is going to end. According to Antoine's team, he's sitting close to 282 pounds right now and slowly getting better by the day. And a statement on Monday Antoine said that he's ready to climb Mount Olympus and do battle with the best athletes in the world. And that when he finally gets there, he'll be ready to unleash all of his energy like a bomb. But hopefully, on his way to the top, he'll take a minute to stop and enjoy the scenery. He's at the end of the day, the memories will be the only thing that lasts. According to Darwin, the survival of any organism is contingent on its biological fitness to adapt to its environment. So do me a favor, go back and look at the trensformation that Nicholas Vullier's body has made over the last two years and tell me whether or not you think he understands how to adapt to change, especially the change that's occurring in the 2012 division. And the latest updates from Nick's camp, the former Olympian looks like he's in the process of evolving into a completely new version of what he was with the only caveat being that this version looks like it's even more dangerous than when we last saw him. For me, this is the perfect example of a cultural Darwin at work because either you adapt in the survival, you refuse to adapt and die a slow death. And to Nick's credit, he's all in on the survival. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Epilumbo Remining You to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: APPLE CIDER VINEGAR： BODYBUILDERS' BEST KEPT SECRET! [qCV67AVTiJE].txt ===

Day of the Lomo here with another RX Muscle rant brought to you by RedCon1. Today's topic Apple cider vinegar. You know guys I hear so many people saying so many things about this terrific product and people have asked me number one. That's really thEQuestion I get the most probably. If any of you know me and heard me talk about Apple cider vinegar you know that I really like the product and the product I talk about is not just any apple cider vinegar. It's the apple cider vinegar with the pulp stored it. It's also known as, quote, mother. Mother is the pulp that is it's unfiltered. When they crush the apple because the way apple cider vinegar is made is they crush apples up and then they add yeast and they turn it into basically wine. Then they further ferment that wine and they turn it into vinegar. Then a lot of times when they sell the vinegar in stores they filter the vinegar because the people don't like to see little particles and scrap flow in the vinegar. That's most of the vinegar that you buy in store. This apple cider vinegar with mother is the unfiltered version. That's what we're talking about. That's the one that you can see the brags up there. That's the one that really is the beneficial one and has all the health benefits to it. Now originally a lot of people, the big thing with apple cider vinegar is it alkalineizes your body and I've said this before too. Really what it does is it helps neutralize acidity in the body, specifically in the stomach. Whether it completely alkalineizes the entire body there's really no research to say that's true. There's anecdotal evidence and I believe it to be true but I'm not going to make that same but that's not really what I'm here to tell you. ThEQuestion is does apple cider get a burn fat? I would have to say if literally no but indirectly yes and more than the benefits of apple cider vinegar is that it actually lowers blood glucose levels and no one really knows how it does this but when people take it they notice that they're fasting blood sugars in the morning are lower specifically people who run high blood sugars. If you guys out there are running some high blood sugars try it. There are two tablespoons in about six eight ounces of water before you go to bed. See what your fasting blood sugars are in the morning. If they're going down then you know what worked. I've noticed that. I actually do by accident sometimes because what I do is I add it to the tablespoon of it usually to my fiber-wise shake at night and my blood sugars are always good in the morning. I hadn't realized it until I actually saw the pattern and I kind of just read an article recently about that and I noticed you know I said you know on the days they take that the apple cider vinegar in my fiber. I am running lower blood sugars in the morning so that's an excellent benefit. Probably the benefit that I see the most used for it is especially since we're as body bowls we eat a lot of food. When you eat a ton of food you get a lot of indigestion. It just comes into the territory. You take a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar in four to six ounces or eight ounces of water. That acidity goes away instantaneously and I know a lot of people because they eat a lot of food they get hiccups too. I am sure a lot of you body goes out there and have encountered this before you are gorging on a lot of food trying to put weight on and you just have to hiccups all the time. And I have guys contacted me like that this tri apple cider vinegar. It's a great hiccup cure. Sticking with the throat because apple cider vinegar happens to be a great antibacterial accompanied with the kills bacteria on contact. You can put it on your face for if you have bad acne you can dab it on with like a cotton wool or a paper towel. You could gargle with it when you have a sore throat and I've done this before. You got it diluted. Don't do it straight. You usually put it in like put a table spoon and like four ounces of water. Five ounces of water and gargle with it and I'm telling you that the sore throat will go away faster. It really does. I don't know if it's killing. It's not killing the systemic bacteria but it's certainly killing any bacteria that's in your throat. A lot of times these sore throats are just localized at that area so that could definitely help increase or fix that a little better. Another one of the terrific anti-fax them, excuse me, apple cider vinegar, I'm looking at my cheeky because I have so many things I can't remember anymore, is it lowers LDL cholesterol. A lot of people have asked me about the anti-colesterol effects of apple cider vinegar and they have a shown experimentally. You can google these studies if you want that it does lower LDL cholesterol which is another great advantage of this stuff. So how do you really use it? What's the best way to use it? I kind of use it, try to use it once a day at least every day but if you're experiencing side effects like acidity, high acidity, maybe your blood, blood, blood, excuse me, blood cholesterol is high, maybe blood sugar is high. You might want to use it on a regular basis. During my three week detoxification program that I give to people, I have them use iT3 to five times a day for three weeks straight. It's for pure detoxification purposes. The best way to do it is I usually take a tablespoon and I put it in anywhere from four to eight ounces of water. Donald drink it straight. It's going to, it'll first of all, it can destroy the anamone you teeth because it's so acidic. So you want it to move it down without a doubt. You don't want to speak about a drinking apple cider vinegar. If you have bad breath, it sounds weird because vinegar doesn't really smell like it but if you gargle with the apple cider vinegar in your mouth, your mouth will feel so clen and refreshed after it's unbelievable because you know I kill a little bacteria. That curing your mouth will cause bad breath. And so once again there's a ton of excellent things that the apple cider vinegar could be used for. And once again, can they all be proven? No, but a lot of these things like lowering blood glucose, you can see experimentally and they have been studies to show that they do do these things. Once again, I like it especially for people who have indigestion. This is the best cure all that you could possibly use for indigestion. I don't care you could take tons, you could take out the cell to apple cider vinegar, works the best. And once again, if you get into a routine of using it every day, you know, once again, the best easiest way for me to do is I do a fiber life shake twice today so I just throw it in there. If you guys get into habit of doing that, you'll get two tablespoons in a day and again, your heart's feel better. And again, I guarantee your blood chemistry will come back better. Give it a shot. What do you got to lose? It might just be the best natural cure all that you can use for all the different little weird, you know, problems that you have. And as a bodybuilder, I'm going to tell you one more great thing that you probably didn't know that you can use the apple cider vinegar for. If you ever take a bad shot, a bad injection and you get bruising on your arms, say, or wherever you happen to take it, you take out the side of vinegar and you put it on a paper towel and you dab it on there. Just keep putting it on and on and on and on. Let it dry, put it on and on. It will disperse that bruising about ten times faster than if your body did it on its own. I don't know how it does it. It's kind of acts as an anti-inflammatory from what I understand, but it definitely disperses. I don't know if it brings blood flow to that area, but you'll see that bruise, you know, just kind of disperse. It actually looks worse in first because the blood just kind of just starts spreading out, but by the next day, it's almost gone. So there you go. You got a couple tips to try for this coming weekend. I'm Dave Palombo, but the other red card one, R-Axmuscle ran.

=== FILE: APPRECIATING RONNIE COLEMAN'S GREATNESS! [7a0iuro6T9M].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Monday, August 3rd, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Brady, Michael, LeBron, Geter, some athletes are so great, so far ahead of their time that they're on a first name basis with the general public. And embody building, which has no way less notoriety than football, baseball, basketball, being on a first name basis puts you in a rare fighteratory. But being an exception to the rule is just part of what Ronnie Coleman is at his core. Even at this point, his career over a decade into retirement, that Ronnie is still arguably the most famous bodybuilder on the planet. The man is single-handedly responsible for changing the way we consume the sport. So even if you didn't get to see him compete, you should still appreciate his greatness, because the man is a once in a lifetime talent that we'll never see again. Researchers who study flow in flow states say that we can rarely achieve a state of flow during leisure time. Believe it or not, we only achieve flow during work, because that's when we're doing something we find purposeful. But I don't have to be as psychologist to figure that out. I could see it watching someone like Dominic Cardone do his thing. After some of the lonGHiatus from trening, lately Dominic's been trying to work his way back into the flow by doing what he's been doing for more than half his life. For as long as I've known him, this kid has been someone who eats sleeps and breathed bodybuilding. So just give him some time. It won't be long before he finds his way back into that flow state again. Click-click boom. That's the sound of Missy Truscott letting the rest of the fish to the vision know that she's here and she means business. Over the weekend, Missy released an official update from her road to the Olympia where we see one of the most dangerous women in the game highlighting some of the assets that brought her to the table. As far as the physique is concerned, I think Missy is second only to Oxonic Rashina in her prime. And when you're ready to fly, that close to the top of the mountain, it feels like it's only a matter of time before you reach the summit. Outside of all my normal work stuff, I'm deep into research on motivation and human behavior right now. And one of the things that I found really fascinating is that research seems to show that extrinsic rewards work best for right handed algorithmic tasks that don't require a lot of creativity. But when you're operating at the level of someone like Logan Franklin, right-frame left-frame, whatever, it really doesn't matter what the stimulus is or how it works at the end of the day, the man knows how to get results. Since he made the jump to classic physique, this is the best look that I've seen from Logan. He's thicker off top, he managed to give his physique a little more balance, and he's still keepinGHis lines together. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Logan Franklin and he's on a mission, and he won't stop until he's managed the conqueror, everyone who stands in his way. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Apolomo Reminding You to Always Be True to Your Patients, and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: ARASH RAHBAR： UNFINISHED BUSINESS! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸21⧸18) [BdqPY-WbHUo].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Tuesday, August 21, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. When you come up an inch short of your goals, you have one of two choices. You need to curl up in a ball because you're spent emotionally from bleeding out your heart and so and it's still not enough or you can decide to get your butt up and go back and do it again. And I'll leave it to you to figure out which one of those two camps classic physique all star are Russia bar falls into. With less than a month ago now before you make the long trek out to Vegas for his third straight Olympia, the 2018 Arnold Classic runner up looks to me like a man who's ready to settle the score on a little unfinished business. In my mind, when he's at his best, the level of detail that he puts into his presentation makes this guy one of the supreme talents in the division. So it becomes out ready to battle, plan on seeing some fireworks up there and that first call out. Are any of you guys out there old enough to remember that the H1 show best week ever? Well come this time next month. How much do you want to bet that figure stand out? Bojana Vassaljavik is still riding the wave after the best Olympia week of her career. The word coming from my people near the Vassaljavik camp is that Bojana is well on her way to putting together the best look of her career for this year's contest, which should put her squarely somewhere in the top call out range according to my calculations. All year long we've seen Bojana slowly start to build into this rolling peak that looks like it's finally coming to ahead at the Olympia weekend. Given how stronGHer track records been up to this point, I wouldn't expect her to start slowing down anytime soon. You know, some out last week and I found myself binge watching like pen episodes of Shark Tank, mostly because I was fascinated by the irrational confidence that some people had with their terrible ideas. When you start looking around the two 12 division, there aren't too many irrational confidence guys out there who can back it up quite like third year powerhouse recorder career. Correras coming into his second consecutive Olympia with some heavy expectations heaped on to his shoulders after last year's breakout top 10 performance something I'm sure the former British national champ doesn't mind one bit. When he's fully dialed in, Correra has one of those super round 3D bodies that almost makes him look like a cartoon character in some of his poses with his high level of talent. It becomes even 2% better that could be all it takes to jump him up with few spots in this year's stack line up. With the level of talent in some of these figure shows these days, sometimes it feels like if you show up being anything less than 100% you're basically out of luck from the start. But luckily for Sandra Gahalis being the total package is something that seems to come naturally despite a little hiccup to start the season. For the majority of 2018, Rihalis has been just about as close to perfect as it gets. Anyone who remembers that clinic she put on back in May to win the Pittsburgh pro understands exactly what I'm talking about. Last year, Rihalis and her ninth place finish at the Figure Olympia really turned out to be one of the pleasant surprises of the weekend. But by now the rest of the division has our circle on their radar. So let's see what she's got up her sleeve for a non-corr. One of the coolest things about bodybuilding is that basically anyone can turn it to a star on any given night if the universe aligns itself in their favor. And with less than a month ago now before he steps onto the Olympia stage for the very first time, I'm sure 212 hopeful Sandy Trudy is keepinGHis fingers crossed from a little bit of help from somebody out there in Joe Weaters bodybuilding universe. The latest updates from the Trudy camp show the second year pro looking as dangerous as we ever seen him. And if you can remember way back to the start of the season, Trudy really came out smoking with those three straight top three finishes in New Zealand, Fiji and Ethy Arnold. And given the fact that he's had plenty of time now to get his mind and his body back to 100%. He's got a legitimate shot at a top five placing that things can manage to just align themselves. Well, just perfectly. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Pulumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: ARE GHOSTS REAL？ Whack Pack Share Craziest Ghost Stories! AH Podcast (9⧸29⧸20) [6EBy9IlAD_Y].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If you wish your fancy fitness center was a hardcore gym, you are old school. If you just ate chicken and rice and are about to eat chicken and rice, you are old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. And you are asleep. They are just getting started. John, Dave Pulando. After hours. Welcome back to After Hour. I'm Dave Pulando. As always, here with John Romano and Greg Valentino starting off the show. Guys, we were just talking before the show started about mortality. And what happens after you die? And John says the light just goes out. That's when I'm afraid. I say the light's just going on. That's what I said. Well, the reason why we're talking about it is because basically, we're all at that age. Dave, you're a little bit young enough. Yeah. But we're all at that age, if you live to be 80 years old, that's a considered a full life. IMean, wow, 80s is not bad. It's a full life. And so now, the last 20 years, I think of like fucking 9-11 and all that shit. You know, it's a while ago, but doesn't feel like 20 years. IMean, it's just went everything went so fast, the millennium. And now it's 20 years later, I'm thinking shit, if the last 20 years went that fast. And this 20 years goes, you know, it seems to go faster, you know, as you get older. IMean, look, we're already 2021 just about, you know, right? I think the context in which your memory functions plays a role in how fast or slow you think the last, you know, couple decades went because my son Max just turned 21. Now, I remember him that being born, the whole, you know, when he, we were in Mexico up under roof of the fireworks going off at the millennium. And you know, when the year changed to 2000, I think wow, that was like yesterday. And then, and then I'll think of, you know, a construction project or something I did, you know, 20 years ago. Wow, that was fucking forever ago, right? You know, so I think dependent on how you look back on it, but, you know, human beings are, are human nature and psychology is such that we don't want to accept the fact that our lives are over when we die. So we, we, we, we, we manufacture all this stuff after lives and heaven and and over here and you go and you get your spirit and all it. And you got TV shows dedicated to this. You got websites dedicated this book dedicated all of this hope that there's something after we die because we just don't want to accept that it's lights out me fall right at the end of the franos. You know, all even ghost like you don't believe that. I would come here's my couch come sit down, what do you mean from up there wherever you are sit down and have a fucking talk with you. You know, I want me to believe see my take is different see I believe that you know, we are living in a movie is actually a movie role we're playing and when the movie is over we go back and then we wake up again. So this is this is really not reality. This is just a figment of reality that we're kind of just super imposing ourselves at these physical beings these bodies when the body's done. We go back and if we want to re go do another movie role we can do another movie role but you don't want to we don't have to. So I think that's you know and it took me a while to get to that point because when I was younger you know and I was a science based guy was in school I was like you know what that's it when you know when we shuffle off this mortal coil that's it's the end of it but I don't believe that I just don't. We live in an intelligent universe you know I think that and I think that the theories of science arecompatible with the theories of spirituality I think you have to just figure out how to measure them together. You know, no one two people on earth were closer than you and so and don't tell me that you guys didn't talk about you know afterwards and and all of that when he was passing away. You know what my father was totally not into any he was like you he's like lights out you know and I'm telling you I get so many like I I've convinced that he's sending me messages and and and what what makes you say that what I just hear I just well I told you the story IMentioned the story before the day after he died. In my garage in the middle of the night I go out there and there's a pigeon sitting. I told the story before. You know I couldn't figure out first of all there's no pigeons and came coral or very few and second birds don't fly at night. Where was this pigeon was just sitting up there in my inside my garage not moving not being rattled looking at me and I'm like what what what is this dad and then I realized that the. I'm telling the Italian you know definitianavar last name polonbo is pigeon. You think that that's a coincidence that the day my father dies is a pigeon in the garage for 24 hours and until won't leave. All right I got it that Greg you'll appreciate this. I'm not good ones. I'm just I I okay I don't you know IMight believe so over here but I did have an experience with my father I think my father I don't know this is what happened. I like this I I had I had I used to test my blood test where I was tested blood tested for Pepsi hepatitis C I would test positive. This is because when I was 18 I had hepatitis and I developed the antibody and it turned the thing or at least that was the explanation one of my the doctor gave me. You were exposed to hepatitis C so you have a you have a reaction to your body so you're forever going to be. I'm going to be. Hep C positive because you have those antibodies right that was the theory okay so I rolled this around and my father was always very concerned about me havinGHepatitis C even though you know he didn't get tired with because you know he was a doctor. Yeah and he did not with that explanation so. After he passed away you know this was a couple of conversations we had after. Now I have tested positive for hepatitis C probably six times prior to this insurance declined me I had all kinds of issues with this hepatitis C. So and he and he was kind of he was always vocalized his concern about it so he passes away and about a month later coincidentally I'm in Fort Lauderdale having a point with my doctor who is in AIDS slash Hep C specialist because you know I was getting my test prescription for him. So I asked him you know I explained my whole thing with hepatitis C and he orders his whole huge panel of blood work for me. He told me one of my viral low and he wanted this he wanted that and he and he sets this whole thing up so I go in and I get like seven things of blood they take out right and. A week later comes back and he goes you don't have hepatitis C. And I said. Wait a minute. What do you mean I don't have hepatitis C he goes you never did it's not in it is not a trace of it there's no have inside there's no sign indication at all whatsoever that you ever had hepatitis C. So how does that happen you think you father erased it when you. Wait I'll tell you what that's not really a ghost story. I have a real. I actually have to but I don't want to involve somebody else but. I had a a fuck a real go it's a real story and that I can't really explain I'm not sure was a ghost or a shit tell us. Yeah, but wait a minute I think you're hold it it's not a go I'm not looking to ghost stories I'm just thinking of. Anic doodle empirical evidence of of something that happened you can't explain like my Pepsi thing the pigeon in the in the garage okay that these are things that. What's the other explanation for it let me give you two more let me give you two morEQuick answers before Greg tells me. Why don't we cut Greg off yeah I don't want to cut him off either but I I think. Thanks in between ghost story and an explainable. What about it I go for psychic reading from a guy who doesn't know me from a home the wall he says do you I'm talking to your mother here I think and the name is such as a. She said yeah she'll. He didn't know my mother's name. Do you have a tattoo on your leg. Butterfly or dragonfly exit yeah you know your mother's acknowledging that I had a dragonfly my mother's name on it on my leGHow does that happen. We also have in my house there's toys that go off randomly. Specifically one of my my wife is thinking about or talking about her sister who's deceased. And I had a psychic reading the guys like oh you got a lot of spiritual activity masses when you mean he goes yeah lights go off things go off it's a girl. Girl in the house. IMean where's that come from no one knows this stuff. I had one of those two that was very remarkable you know psychic thing but I think I don't know. This stuff falls in a category there's there's supernatural stuff that happens psychics or one of those that's not a ghost story nor is that an inexplicable event that we want to associate with the deceased. Family member or whatever well if it's telling you that you're getting a message from a deceased relative that that's accurate and that there's no way this person could have known what had it what is that. Yeah, IMean that's pretty that's pretty IMean a butterfly on a leg and with somebody's name and with s h that's pretty that's pretty like random and IMean you know what I'm saying it's it's pretty accurate you know she goes story right. I'm not 100% it was it goes but back after after my girlfriend passed away the girl who you know I was with she's tattooed all the way to Lisa. Right yes after she passed away I was in Washington, I was doing a drug deal okay and it was up on the heart I was actually on off Amsterdam Avenue. You know right where Martha King Boulevard kind of intersect they go at that and about a hundred twenty nine street and I'm sitting there and it's like two in the morning it's dark. And I got this girl with me who was her friend right and we were just sitting chat and she went along for the ride with me it was all over we went we got a little bit of food to eat and she was living over there so I sat you know I sat down on a side road right there and. One twenty on a twenty nine street and I'm sitting down as dark but this year street lights and as we're talking I'm sitting in a you call now and. I'm talking face and her like this because she's in the passenger seat you know. So we look him and I glanced up the windshield and I see this guy come and walk him up the street And he looked like fucking Tito Ortiz He sat in there that they're fucking that Memories Caesar haircut loves Spanish guys we're getting any would bleach it blonde right He's like exactly that and he had a paper bag and a name high soda because I could see it's sticking out He was drinking from it like that So there was obviously alcohol in there. It's right a paper bag whatever And he had earphones on and he was coming up the street and he had a jacket and he was just like walking And walking and he just walked past us Okay, and we'll watch you know, and I'm taking a look at it's a little you know fucking guy, you know And I'm talking to her Now about five minutes later. I'm talking to her like this And She's looking at me like this and next thing I know over here on the window I see a face like this looking in like this right So I look and she took you she sees me look if she turns and she looks and she screams That's that so the fucking guy pulls back and he started as he pulls back and you know I have a UCus who the fuck of mirrors sticks out right right? Right? He hits the mirror It kind of rolls off the front of where the car is and Palantine this on my fucking loop my car on a hood and a front hood boom my guess What? Pounds on the pounds on the hood so check it out She starts you know on my this motherfucker. She's right in the open now I'm just oh you missed the story George let him finish the story So I'm juiced out of my mind. IMean, this is on my 278 you know on my fucking nuts, you know back then the fucking testosterone's flowing And I'm saying it was I'm gonna I'm gonna kick this motherfucker's ass right now So go and I go to reach to take the open up the door to jump out of the car because he's you know start to walk away And I reach to go to and I can't touch the car. I can't I can't touch the door handle. I can't And I'm gonna like this what the fuck and I keep hearing a voice in my head just saying don't go out there Don't do it don't do it, but I'm I'm not listening like fuck that I'm not I'm give a shit I'm doing it you know IMean and it's the voice is going down to do it and And it's almost like I can't explain to you here's a person's it's always like if you said You know hand me those says isn't I going this to hand me and I can't I'm going this week What the fuck like it is force field or someone around the right wow? It's like something's holding me back actually like there's a hand that's you know where I describe it so I'm like what the fuck Why can't I get this door handle? I'm almost wrestling with myself open the door handle But my hand will not touch the door handle. Wow. Okay now finally Okay My windows open finally he gets about 20 feet away and he turns around and he has a gun oh shit Wait to check this out and that's it he has a gun and he goes to me come on come on open you door Open your door watch what happens to you open the fucking door I said and just and as he's saying that he's coming at me Right and he comes walking all the way to me and you know tell him to come on the fuck open it And I and it put where it puts the gun right to my fuckinGHead and I'm sitting there like this and he goes to me Before that door opens he goes I can promise you you'll you'll be fucking dead on the street. I'll kill you I'm fucking kill you understand me you understand me and I got to the dentist and dude Are you guys I'm gonna I'm good. I'm good. I'm good So he goes okay and it takes the gun and he puts it in his fucking thing and he starts walking away He gets about another 20 feet it turns around a He takes the gun around a smith it turns around like that again Smiles got like this we I had fucking like gold teeth. This is smiles Put the gun back and then walks away now. I'm sitting there right Now we wait listen I'm sitting there and I go home my god now think like do we you to feel that we do so I go like this I go home my god That's that was fucking oh my and it turned in look at the girl and she's sitting like sideways First I go And I go to you fucking see this he's fucking crazy bro I was ready kick his fucking ass that she goes to me What the fuck was that and I said You fucking asshole is probably drunk drinking and she was no I don't mean that she was what was on your arm What was holding your arm like that and I said What do you what do you what are you talking about what are you saying that and she goes because I saw an arm Is it what she said? And I did not see this Okay, and I looked but I didn't see it but she said I saw a arm a hand like this Holding your arm like that and I was even gone oh my god She was oblivious to what the fuck the guy just comes to put the guy to see me notice the guy did to you She she IMean she saw that but she was more like She said it was a hand and it was holding your hand like this. I saw it. I'm telling you And I'm goinGHoly shit. You know, IMean and that to me It is like a story that I cannot explain it because I was trying to get out of the car Right, he would have shot you probably what you're sayinGHere He would have shot me right away Yeah, that gun right on my fucking temple like this and he was fucking crazy and I was in a That Washington Heights man, well, and you know now my question for you is you know when I saw There's back in the day I did it in my you know Long Island nice house or at the Goldstone Park you like not why are you selling drugs in the middle of Manhattan It seemed like a very dangerous place because I would get differences as you had guys come over and get you I was selling to drug dealers Oh, that's a little drugs It wasn't like here. I'll take the bottle and test the right I was selling fucking cases way dang more danger is correct Of course because drug dealers get robbed Yeah, all the time People go to rob them so you know the city Go there and then someone's going to rob them like I went with my friends once they robbed drug dealers in Spanish Hall Who cop and Harold when I was 17 But I want to know I want to know if whatever she was taken is still available No John I'm telling it with the angel. God if you just took a drink or something right if I said to hold up what you went Pick up what you know, okay, wait It's the bottle. Okay, just dry. It's my bottle if I said you it show me that bottle and you you go right now to lean and get it and you I'm going show it to me John just pick up the bottle But you can't grab it you're like wait what the fuck's going on? It's almost like there's like a four-spilter You feel this thinGHold me. It's a great story, right? That it's an amazing story. I would animate that What is in the lesson Don't wait a minute. So what where did the arm come Was it attached to anything or one thing that she just said I just saw an art girl a girl's and like this Hold in your arm back it was a hand it was just like it just it looked it's a Meaning that that she kept you from getting out of the car. I would save your life Yes, yes, because back then I was on it, okay and back then You know, I told you I was 278 at five six. I was so jacked and juiced up and you think you could kick everybody's Ask when you're like that you know and you know and it was just just he pounded I'm gonna front roof I'm in front of my car. You know in the hood and I was like you know, I'm not staying for this shit fuck you you know IMean and The fact that he came at me with that gun. I knew I there was a voice in my head now that's it It was it was my own voice like you know like you know It's something like you're doing something to go on oh shit oh shit. You know, IMean don't do oh fuck I probably shouldn't do this no shit. It was like that. I didn't hear my girlfriend's voice in my head But she told me it look like a woman's hand holding my arm Back my hand like this and That stopped me from going out of the car and I'm telling you that guy told me I would you if you would have stepped out of the car to make your fidget foot hit that floor you were dead You know, so I don't know. IMean was it a ghost? I don't know if it was a ghost I believe it I believe there was definitely a divine intervention You've been my mother or my girlfriend Do you think it's my but girlfriend is because the girl that was with me was one of her best friends You know what IMean? Absolutely and they were you know and they were you know We were just sitting bullshit in the car and we were talking about Joel and we all the other shit and Joel said just died only IMean maybe two months before you know, so I was with upset still over that and I Touch my fucking you know just think had me I got to definitely definitely was that you know IMean and he is a prime lesson you know No, you know never know bro you never know I was You're dealing with pure evil No George that's what I was saying I was telling that guy was he was you could see it Yeah, that Caesar heckerian look at his face yet We sat on night and he had a jacket on. EverythinGHe was defied of all You What's on that hot dog? What do you got on a hot dog? Where'd you get on a hot dog? I'm gonna be here in the 30s. I'm gonna be here in the 30s. Truck? Yeah, good question man. What's in the hot dog? What did you put on it? Down we're crowned mustard. I just do a little mustard. I don't really do the soud dragon gas. You know, it's not the hot dog that's bad. You don't think it's the hot dog that's making you fart. It's pretty bad when you get out of your head. You can't take the smell of your mouth. It's pretty fucking bad. It's not the hot dog, John. It's the sour part that's making you fart. It's exactly you. It's the night tren. It's the night tren, they say. That's future fine in your dreams. Yeah, I think it's just huge fine exactly. So to cabbage, the sourcrout develops the sour. The sour part has the back to good things. I'm gonna put some food for menta. You're gonna pull full sugar Pepsi too. It's a nice chicken. It's gonna be. This is the fuckinGHealth. It's just sicker right. It's just sicker right. It's just sicker right. It's just sicker right. It's just sicker right. It's just sicker right. I gotta join the way the light up. While he's driving the truck, he's gotta join it. Before we get to VBA to here, I just want to add to the ghost story thing. Because there's a restaurant on Long Island and Greg, I think there would black. We've been there with black meat right up. That is supposed to be the most haunted place on earth, I think. So, IMean, are these things, why is it, why is it this one place? Is where the haunted and it doesn't happen. You can't get one of these guys out of come sit on my couch and talk to me. But that's a hundred-year-old place in a lady that you still lived there. What do they think is the one that wants to? I'm not going to fire. Didn't a girl hanGHerself from the rafters. I don't know, she might have hunGHerself down stairs in the fuck basement. But I know, I was there with, I've been there before we're black men. And by the fucking fireplace is where the, I think she appears. But they said, no, they said that repairmen would be there during the day. It wouldn't shit. They'd run out of there, scared of out of their minds. They'd leave in their tools behind. They'd say, oh, that's true. That's true. John and I both, but John, you know, black men swear said he's had, you know, a ghost experience is when he was there. You know what IMean? He also said that he had encounters with aliens that did all kinds of things to us. Oh, yeah. It's a terrible thing. A total of eight. A total of eight. Oh, those eight must be great. Oh, I don't know. Oh, we all should be doing this. So John, how do you explain all this with your lights out, theory of life? I cannot explain it. I don't, I, I want to know if these things are supposedly propagated by, Ah, relative's. Why did Jimmy take it to dump? Why did Jimmy take it to dump? Why did Jimmy take it to dump from the back of the truck? Yeah, I think he went back in the truck. He's pullinGHis lunchbox. He's pullinGHis lunchbox. He's not. You know what they say? He's made it to your consciousness go when you go into anesthesia. You know what I'm saying? If you can't believe it, it's a different thing. Let's do it. God. You have a disc. Let's say that it's, you know, it's consciousness. It's consciousness. You know, where does your consciousness go? I've had it. Why did they make it such a riddle? You got to figure this shit out. It's got to be the pigeon. It's, you got to know what to say. Why? Just come, you know, my couch and talk to me. Maybe it's not that easy. Maybe it's not what I'm saying. It's a bad internet. It's like a bad internet signal. You know, I think that they have to like communicate. And I think our vibrational levels are so low because we're such, we're so unenlightens that it's hard to connect. I hope you guys are right. The same radio waves. Yeah. IMean, it's a different speed realistic. Yeah. Yeah. You know, some people would say, why did Dave's father appear as a pigeon and not just appears him? That's, I'm just saying that's what skeptics was saying. But how would I, you know, because I think that when you have to, when, if I'm over on the other side and, and on that of substance anymore, and I'm just an anti pure energy, I have to figure a way to, to convince me the rational thinking scientist that I'm actually having a legitimate message from the other side. So it has to be something that in my experience is I would interpret. Like, you might show that same thing to my sister. She may not pick it up, but she might not even know the word, Pellumbo means pigeon and Italian. My father obviously knows that I knew that so that that was his message to me. All right. I believe. I'll give you a better idea. I think that that's why every single human on his planet has a different personality and a different, like you and you have a sister. So you and your sister have the same DNA to same blood. We all have heart brains and everything like that. What makes you have your personality? What makes me and my person? And we're makes Jimmy the bull. Where does Jimmy's first high-buddoll? I got a third brain. Yeah, Zanger issues. That's good. I got a third brain. I was told I have a third brain. Jimmy, let me ask you questions. Have you ever had any experiences? I know that your mom passed, you know, because that's somebody you love very much. Have you ever had any experiences? Like, oh my God, I walked in a room and it was my mom or, you know, because my mom's been dead many years. After my mom passed, before. What were any kind of ghosts though? So IMet after your mom passed. Did you ever have any experiences? Like, oh shit, I think my mom, you know. I'll tell you a story. One time, maybe my mother or I had a friend. She was thinking about buying one of those over 55 year old, you know, condos over there. Right. How do you, like, probably about an hour from my house and honey and I really didn't want to move out there because it was talking to me through it. So anyway, we went out there and, you know, I said, my, let me go with you. I don't want to go, you know, I don't want to go by yourself. I want to look at the place though. I said, I really don't want to, I really opposed you going out here. It's too far. You know, no one's ever going to come and see you. You're an hour out, you know. So anyway, we went out there. Scott, get met the realtor. We're looking at the house. I've told my mother on the side, you know, I've said, I know where. IMean, I don't like it, you know what IMean? And my grandmother just passed away. Because Jimmy was too self-restilled. I was mom to actually kill a liverway for me. He needs my money around. Oh, you got to stay here. Yeah. Jimmy was the biggest mother's family. I'm going to finish the fucking story. You were, let me finish the fucking story. So we're going in. You know, it's done to get our way. I was trying to stay calm. And you know what IMean? You guys, you always do to me. So we're in the kitchen. You know what IMean? I was like the kitchen. I told my mother, do you look at me now? I got to calm down. I'm not going to do that. I told the realtor. I told the realtor. I said, excuse me, Mary, could I talk to my mother, Minna police? She said, sure, she went inside. So IMade my mother win the kitchen. And it had like, uh, what are those long claws? What are they called, John? The cupboard? Like the, yeah, boom claws. You're right. Yeah, we're walking the kitchen. The boom claws are the kitchen. There's all set up into what else. And I say, my, I don't really want you to move out here, I don't like it. I don't like this fucking place. I like the fucking realtor. I don't want you to come out here. So with that, all of a sudden that fucking room closet, the door started rattling. Like that, like that, like that, like that, like that, like that, like that. IMean, like, you don't feel like you're off the second. It wasn't like somethinGHit it. It kept, it kept rattling. Like that, me and my mother helped my arm. We're looking at the door going, like that, like that, like that, like that. And then it stopped, right? And me and my mother looked at that shell. Like, what the fuck was that? So my mother held it my arm and we creeped over the fucking closet. I opened it up and a broom fell out. And I said, there's no fucking way to broom was doing that. I said, somebody was telling us they're in agreement with us. We're getting a fuck out here. So we made my mother turn around. We told her realtor, no thank you, we love you. Did you see that was your father? Huh? You think that was your father? I didn't like my grandmother just had pissed away. So I was thinking it was my grandmother, you know, telling us, no way, you know, and then she ended up buying over there in the nose of medical, which was just 15 minutes from my house. So it was much better for everybody, you know, so. We gave you somebody to die in the house and didn't want to sell the house. They'll get the fuck out of here. I don't want you to buy my house. No, I wasn't like that because we, you know, we would just, you know, it was just tellinGHer, you know, right at that moment, you know, it wasn't like, I was telling a mom, let's get out of here. So if it was somebody who didn't want us to have the house, I don't think there would be around the door. So if it was somebody who didn't want us to have the house, but what I was asking is, since your mom's past, if you had anything like, oh, that maybe like, oh, just she caught you. My brother, how about my brother? And I went, you know, his daughter saw a man in the Navy out. My old man was in the Korean War in the Navy. So they're, they're not too long ago. My, my niece saw a figure in the hallway. You know, it was like a man in the Navy out there, right? So with that, she heard like, this is a crazy story. She heard a bang, you know? And she went in the kitchen and my, my assistant little had a cake on a counter. And you know, the place that covers that go over a regular, like the Navy. Yeah, the fucking cake cover was off the cake and on the floor flat. So she picked it up. She put it back when I'm on the care home later. She says, my, the cake cover flew off the cake. So she says, oh, come on, you hear what you're seeing in things up above her. So later, later, later on, the day, the money heard a bang. And she went in the kitchen and the fucking cake cover was off the cake on the fucking ground. So now my brother got off the work. Five, six, seven o'clock. You'll have dinner and they would tell him my brother's story about the cake cover. Right? So now he all go to bed. They're all sleeping. Whatever, two or more than my brother. Here's a bang, right? Get up. He creeps down the hallway. He looks around the corner. And the fucking cake cover was on the ground again. Wow. No icing on the, you know, you would think of it fell sideways. It was a, you know, brand new cake was an eaten. Yeah. You think the icing would hit the sight of the cover like if it kept over. Right. It's like a, it's like a, it's like a, it's straight up off the cake. clen as a whistle around that lid. And then over and trapped in the fucking middle of the kitchen. Two or three times. Now is that happened. How do you explain that? I don't know. Did you eat that good? That exact. Exactly illustrates my point. How do you explain that? You got to, because you can't explain it. But you would match it to some supernatural phenomena. But wait, John, you're going to, it says, You know, let me give you an example. Let me give you an example. Let me give you an example. Let me give you an example. Okay. There, there tends to be, there can always be an explanation for something. But if you manufacture the explanation, that's one thing. But for example, I used to go, I used to go, I got to watch TV at night to go to sleep. I can't fall asleep without the TV. Right? So John. So I, so I, and, and I know the channel I watched. I keep it on because I'm watching whatever discovery, whatever. I was watching or the cook for the food channel, whatever. And I fall asleep and wake up and the TV's on, but it's on a different channel. I'm like, the remote, the remote is still in the bed with me. I didn't change nothing. IMean, why is the TV on a different channel? Or, and it's, and I can't even go to bed the next night in the next day. It's on a different channel. I go, I don't understand how this is happened. It's happened six, seven times in a row. It's weird. You're all going to run the remote. No, the remote's all going over here. I'm going to run the remote. But by myself and the bed. Okay. Turns out, Max is sneaking into my room with five o'clock in the morning, and turning the fucking cartoons on, sitting at the foot of my bed. He's watching the button. Okay. So, and then he gets done with Bob the builder. And he goes back in the was room and he goes back to sleep. So, I could easily say, well, you know, my aunt, my aunt is coming out from the clouds and she's turning my channel. So you're saying, somebody's taking fucking with Jimmy's brother, taking that thing and putting it on the floor. Ah, no way, but, I know Jimmy, I think he has the product. He's trying to say it's an explanation where I go. He has the product. No, no, no, no, no, no, a few days after that. My brother heard another noise in the kitchen. He thought it was the fucking, but he didn't know what it was. And he went in the calendar. One of the pages slipped off the cookbookboard thing. You know, one page slipped off and fell out to the fucking kitchen floor. Guess what fuck a murder was, Greg? Well, man, I'm a bummer. My fucking birthday, right? So he put it back. He said there's no way he could have felt it was on a spiral. You know, I had to live a little holes on it. No, the page is in this, there's no way the page could have came out. It happened two times, three times November came out. So I told my brother, I'm dead, bro. I'm fucking dead because somebody's giving you a message. Now your brother's fucking finished. I knew the day was coming. His probably is fucking the bummer. I'm a fucking, he's like the one who's not the boy. I said it never told you. I said you shouldn't have had a tummy bummer. The fucking long we go. IMean, you're gonna do this shiT3 for. You're gonna do this at the base of your parents' reminding them about your father. I think I texted you before. My list, I gave my list a shit. Because I can't remember everything. And I had a typical fucking plague going on in my basement. In my washroom. I one day I went down there, there was flies all over the fucking place. I had to handle fucking strips all over the fucking watch of his shoes. It's just everywhere. I'm feeling I really don't want to fucking write. I've had a sudden cricket show up. I got a thousand crickets in my washroom. Oh, I'm in a fucking place. I'm like, what the fuck had to put traps out of your relatives by the fucking right? Now I get spiders. Spiders are everywhere. This is the one room, John. The washroom, okay? Then I'll take him to the spider and scorn off the leeks. I'm gonna flood. I'm gonna flood my fucking basement. In the washroom. I'm gonna get rid of the fucking base on a baseball. I'm gonna flood and get rid of that. Fucking everything was so good. Now with the fuck is that? You're ruining the techno system in your house. You killed off the the one bugs that were eating the other bugs. The spiders ate those bugs. You messed up the whole ecosystem. You should have brought a change. You should have brought a change from what they ate the bugs. Good ones scumps and it eat the bugs. Yeah. But it was the next. The frogs are next. It's a message to you. It's telling you to delete the start of the new life. You can scare that that start in the life. And you know what George? That's the message that the thing all of the cake is telling you to leave the poop and the other thing is saying leave what are you doing? I think it was November. It was just for the Florida and state it. It was just for us. It was just for us. We're trying to remind this brother by him and take on fucking November because it's just fucking birthday. And then that's the way I got a question. Jimmy. Jimmy. When the page fell out, it was a little spirited and then spiral, you know, when the page fell out, where the spiral holes intact or they all ripped like jungle paper. That's the fuck the fuck. There was a cat. No. No holes were in my face. Was it unrolled? Yeah. I don't know what was there up on the fucking door at the fucking board. It was up there for the longest time and the fucking page November flew out and he showed me the page and all the holes were, you know, unwipped. I said, how to hold a Disney 4-eye of a spiral notebook fucking thing and the holes are still intact. Tell me Anthony. Tell me. He was a good tell you. I don't know. I said exactly. That's some kind of fucking phenomenon. Jimmy. Let me ask you a question, Jimmy. I'm going to do something a psycho now, I'll see you right now. Was this after your mom passed away? Yes. Okay. That's why I told my brother on this. Listen. Listen, I'm next. Listen now. Now, that's dummy. You're obsessed with your mother. You love your mother. Your mother was your whole life. You lost your mother. You were depressed for five years afterwards. Four years after, whatever, whatever. You were a basketball. You were basketball. Right? You're looking for validation that your mom is still there. She's showing you her fucking birthday on a calendar and you're not even reading the science properly. That's about to cake, too. Of course. You're not stuck fucking around. Great course it is. That your mother dummy telling you I'm here. Fucking live you life. Oh, so she's telling me what she's showing me my birthday. She's showing you your birthday, of course. She's showing you the cake. Don't read birth. It's a rebirth. She's telling you, use your birthday to be born again. Go visit John Ramano in South Carolina. This is what you said. You're making the cake. Come live down here in the south where people are conservative and nice. You don't have to beat people up into DMV line. And calm down because she's a more afraid. You're going to fucking blow an o-ring and because you can't contain yourself because New York is driving your fucking crazy. So come down here come see me come see Dave. That's why it's your birthday. It's a rebirth. I'm sorry. John I'm glad you said that because I always look at I don't know why I always tend to look at the glance. Have full not you know not have. Have not been not helpful right? I would say. Right. So you're talking about people in New York Friday quick story. My boss calls him on the road and goes, can you go to stop and do all this get the checks everybody. So I don't know. I'm not going to do that. So I said all right fucking you know, so IMade a detour. I went to the office over there. I was in good mood. I was Friday. I spirit was up. I was happy. I whistle and triddy. I go in the office. I'm joking with Dale you know my my little boss and the billy the other boy because I got a lot of boss and I'm joking with that. Michigan on all of a sudden there's just lady sitting at the fucking desk. He's like the secretary. Well, but the receptionist fucking. Well, keep a whatever the fuck she is right. So she I never talked to this bitch John never. I just say one way. I'll even see it all the fucker. I don't know the reading office. I'm all the way around. So I went there to go get the checks. I don't notice by the fucker from shit. I walk in the office. I'm happy. I'm on my spirit subject. Probably felt my energy. She's sitting there with a fucking mug on a fucking face who no god knows. I have a problem. And all of a sudden I said him, Dale, because my boss has got millions of dollars. I said, you know, yeah, I'm gonna come back as a millionaire because you know, I think I'd like that. She says, now you'll be bored. I says I'll be bored. I said, okay, let me think this. I said, you're well over here. Come back as a bird. I just like a fly sky. I can land in any tree or what. I can shit up people's dead again. Shit it on. I can shit anybody I want. You know, all of a sudden this fucking lady, I don't know where mumble's at and no weird John. She says, well, you're halfway there. You got the brain. I can. John. I swear to hell. I swear to hell bro. I will all of a sudden I look. I will like this John. I was like, I- I'm fucking fucking fucking like the evil. The evil is dying me while I come out. I was like, ah. I could have believed that this motherfucker dead. Oh, Tommy, I got a bird brain. Don't know if you shit. I was, I was shocked. Yeah bro, I was shocked. I was like, I'm like, yeah, I could. Well, I could say it didn't. My boss is with him. Yeah. So I said, you know, I just calm down. I said, I'll take that as a compliment because I find animals smarter than fucking people. So thank you very much. Thank you. And then I got the checks and I was talking a little bit. And then I was leaving and I said, the bird is leaving babe. I thought you were not the dog. You know, it took me two days to get over that bro. Two days. I said the video to judge that the Dave, I was in my friends gym. It was screaming yelling about that brain brain shit. Two days, man. You know, the old Jimmy would- The old Jimmy would have pulled her out of that fish and probably left. The old Jimmy won. The old Jimmy would have called her a fat bitch and probably left the office. IMean, Dave, stop me right Dave. I'm fucking too fast. IMight just die. Johnnie, by tren and part of coming back to Stasher's Bobby at 80. It was I would normally, I would have fucking picked that bitch up. And I would have threw it to the fucking glass windows. Oh yeah, I would have went back to hell. I ain't on any afternoon. I would have put a steam in his gun. I would have won if I had the fuck at a buck a lot. You know what I'm saying? I kept my mesh shut because my boss's weird. I've got to be respectful. And I just said, okay, I'm leaving. I said, 500 birds leaving. And I fuck you. Walked up the door and I was eating the life of two days. I need therapy, bro. That therapy. Give me. Jimmy, give me. You got to get out of here. You know what I can't take it no more. John, it's fucking face sucks, bro. I want to see the difference everywhere I go. People in that situation and people call me sir. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine people calling you sir? No. That's, it took me five years to get you stood out. And I'm still not. You give a John. What if he comes down there and all of a sudden on your calendar, fucking the data November falls to the floor and one of your fucking cake things really end on the ground too. Is he going back in the yard? No, I'm going to set another place at the table because IMean, somebody's coming. Yeah. Somebody follow me. I John. What, what, what, what, what, what, what we're missing. This is why to parent. This is what's happening. We're Italian. All of us on all of us are Italian. George by association. But what's our Italian? And what is important in Italian tradition? It's family. It's getting together. It's a great thing. Right. Right. They're Sunday dinner. And, and, and we don't do that anymore. Right. So, well, they're all seeing that. And they're saying we, we got, we got to bring these people together. Your mother's driving you out in New York to me. She's, you know what, God, it's it you don't believe in this stuff. Yeah, he was the right. He's the biggest believe it out, Doug. Why are you really telling us this. I'm a human being. I'm a human. I'm a human. I'm a human and Jimmy because I'm a human and Jimmy because he believes this bullshit. I want him out in New York because he's going to blow it all ring and fucking die on us. And I don't want that to happen. I wasn't going to be very sad. You know what? If you're going to show him saying it's just no such thing. So I'm telling you that your mother is a parent you're sending new messages to get the hell out of New York. But being the beginning of the show, he's saying that is not such thing. And he's at, is because he's on it something out there. So something out there. So it's a sucks sort of energy. That's what I'm talking about there. He believes it. So Jimmy, since you believe that, you got to get out of there. You got to come down. Yeah. Yeah. She does happen to be John too much shit. I got more stories but they're bad. I can't even tell you. A lot of shit doesn't go away from me sometimes, man. I know I played it God all the time. Let me show you your guest, your room. Here it is. His problem is he's not willing to be. He can blame celebrities that willing to do anything about it. Here's your bathroom. All right. I did all the tile work. That's right. I can live in that room. And there. Wow. Greg would never leave the toilet bowl. I don't even leave there. Down here. Here's your bathroom. IMean, here's your bedroom. All right. Look. Wow. Here's your bedroom. Wait, where's the girl that's sleeping in the bed? Outside is the fountain right outside right outside the window. Wow. Look at that. I feel like I'm at the White House. This is. IMean, Jimmy. Jimmy, this is where you can live. All right. Get the. That actually kind of looked down right there. Hang out here with me in the dogs. All right. Give me a power. Dice. Give me. Give me. Look. You got the pool too. You got a pool. Now you talking. Come here. Let me see. Okay. Oh, look at that. All right. Jump right out the fucking window. Right. You got a stream. You see the stream. Thank you. Look at that. All right. Go. I don't need to. Look. I just. I just built this. I just built this deck out here for you. Look. You can hang out out here. Look at the. You all have built. Look. All in this land. Wow. Unbelievable. Look at that. That's great. All you got to do is get in the frink and you got these guys. They don't. They'll love you. I'll look at that. Okay. So all these. So in a national. International media. You have been personally fucking invited to the table IMade right there. Nice. Nice. Go to full John. Actually, Jimmy, now that I think about it, we're looking for a groundskeeper. We have three properties right next 30. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. You see that. You. I want to be. I want to be. We need to put the line and do the. To the Italian edges and all that stuff. You're ready to fuckinGHave with the net. Yeah. I'm feeling. You. You. That. John's off from you. You. You. You. You. You. You. You. He's Italian the Italian love the landscape to. Oh, yeah. Well, yeah. Wait, wait. We're. I paid to this. That's right. I. I. I. Pictures. I. You. I. I. Look. The whole point is you got no excuse. Okay. You got no excuse. I don't. I know John you're right. I. I love you guys. Thank you. Thank you so much, man. You're my brother and I love you. You. I love you. I'm on the fuck down. It's funny and everything that you. You. This is the way you are. You're too fuckinGHigh. Strong. I know man. You know people people think I just do this for the show. I'm like this fucking every day. I know. I said. That. That. That. I was. I was. I was fucking filming me when he sent me. He was. He was hiding the camera. I. And he took that film. And I said the, I don't even know. He was going. I. He even. I. IMean, all right. But we want to call her Mother Fucker. All right. I. Let me, let me switch gears for a second. OK. There was an article in the pay. For someone sent me. Tile poll. No. There's a school teacher. Alright, where was a school teacher from? Tile. was fired because he had an excessive tattoos. Now, evidently he was a popular teacher, but the guy you think that like tattooed Timmy has a lot of tattoos on his face, this guy had the whites of his eyes tattooed black. Can you imagine, oh yeah, he had a tattoo. I guess he had a tattoo. How do you not go blind doing that shit? I don't understand that. Because you don't see through the white eyes or see through the pupils, but he actually made the white to his eyes black. So he's black on that tattoo. Like he's like, they're like, yeah, they're like, they're like, yeah, they're like, what ain't gonna do that? Are you a John? I've seen that. I know guys that have that shit. It's so scary. It's a very popular tattoo. What the fuck is that? What goes into your brain that says, I gotta get some guy to squeeze my eye open and jab needles into the fucking white some my eyes until they turn black. What where does that come from? People, people took over this. Did you watch it? The guy was a popular teacher too. You stay in The Punk, and that's the pope. Yes. He was the pope. You're as benefits as the achter. Yeah, he looks like the pope. Yeah. You're right. You Just Look If the Pope Stre升 to The Seckers. Oh, he's shit. I gotta go, I've got in my lunchies over there. So I'm gonna get the fuck out, he guy. All right, baby spin. You're gonna get a gun. Yeah, I'm gonna get a gun. Now let me ask you a question guys. What what possesses people that look otherwise normal and probably are very He's probably a very nice guy. He was a teacher. He's very popular. What possesses people to want to disfigure themselves like that? I don't I don't I don't I don't I I don't list that's a temporary thing because Look at even late. Praise he's getting a tattoo. Yeah, you got it off here. A lot of people feel that way now, but then later on they're going to say, Oh, shit. You know what that's going to look like? They're an old man with black tattooed eyeballs like these chicks that got big fake Tits where you're 80 years old. Yeah. If fucking those earrings would have fucking like that, you know what IMean? And it irres down here. Great. You hung out with that subqlture of weird people for a while. What what possesses people do that? Do they feel like inadequate or what why do they do stuff that disfigures themselves like that? Feeling adequate about about themselves. Don't never say that though. Don't never say I feel inadequate, but it they have to keep changing their outside To compensate for the inside. Once you come comfortable with that. Joy, you're very low. Volume. Can you speak all of that? What did it be? Dead it. Two is they all wanted to prove away from the Vatican. You got to give them away. That's true. They all do all regret that shit. You know, even that guy's who she is. Doesn't that guy's 6, 6, 9, 6, 9, F. Fucking guy. Any get some of the status removed on a space. Yes. My girlfriend's like that. Then you don't realize it. That's a temporary. Like, you know, like, Lee, why would you ask Lee? Why would you put a tribal tattoo on your face? And now you're going to get it off. And you know, I love Lee Priest. He's my boy. You know, IMiss that. No disrespect. I love Lee. And we would together what we do is laugh. But he, the guy's a dude. I think it's for the moment. Sometimes you think it's cool. What the next day you go, what the fuck that I just do. You know what IMean? That's good thing. Great. What? I'm loaded with touches. My arms. So you fight. Johnny, I got him. Fuck it back in the 90s. Nobody on the fucking view, right? Every one of them has this. It's my girlfriend. There's no skull across. That's my girlfriend. It died. Those are my children. I'm not a mother. I'm not a mother. I'm not a mother. I got my children. Right. See, I don't just get like, you know, the skulls or shit or the get no fucking Chainlink fan. What about people to get tribal that aren't in a tribe? Yeah. Wait, what about the best. John, what about people get fucking Asian letters? Like, Chinese letters. It says chicken and broccoli or something on there. And you take it easy. I have to take it in broccoli and mine. These research. I have, I went to the fucking sushi bar and did it. I got some chicken and broccoli on me. So thank you. These guys. Well, IMade sure they were correct before I went in there. But let me ask you another question. I have a friend who's got tattoos all over him, but you can never see it because he wears clothes. And I'm like, well, we're good as a tattoo. Nobody sees it. Like, why would you do that to yourself? Nobody sees it. It doesn't make sense. It's like, well, I see it. And I'm like, give it. You know, he's one of these guys. Doesn't like to take a shirt off. He feels like he's not built enough. Or, you know, he doesn't have a girlfriend. It's a little wacky. You know what IMean? I'm like, so, you know, when you're naked, you see it. But IMean, nobody else sees it. You don't even have a girlfriend. And it goes, wow, it looks hot. I like where you like your old dog. It's, it's, I don't know. I think some people scarred themselves. There's people cut themselves and do shit like that. You know? I did, I did. I did. I should be forcing you over yourself. Who did that? Tell you. Who? Tell you. Who's Joey? Telly. Shelley Beatty. My ex. Oh, I'm a member of Shelley. Yeah, she was, she ended up killinGHerself. But before she did, she was doing a scarification. I have friends that don't act. IMean, it's, it's not good. But, you know, what was, what was, what was the cheat, was she, the press because she wasn't, at the top of the game no more? She was, she was bipolar and, um, very manic, extremely manic. And, um, she just, she just could not get comfortable in her skin no, no matter what. This is what, and she's, This is what IMean, it has nothing to do with that, uh, uh, George, because my, my ex wife, her best friend, was 18 years old when she killed herself. And this girl was the hottest girl in school, went and got implants, had her fucking, you know, abs and everything like that. Every guy wanted to date this girl. She was hot, but she hated herself. And she's, it's tough for me, she was a little girl. I'm gonna, I'm gonna kill myself. So these people that do that shit have it inside them. It's just that one day, one day, they get the balls to say, you know what? Fuck this, I'm gonna do this shit today. And, and, but you know what, she, she tried it when we were together like twice. And, and it was, you know, you're, you're with someone six years and then they try to start trying to kill themselves. It's like, what, what the fuck did I do, you know? IMean, we're, how, how, how, I had no idea was that bad. Did you got to feel like you got to do that? And, you know, we're therapy together. And her explanation is, it's the pain, the pain that she feels. She wants it to go away so bad that the only way that she can, father the pain going away is to kill herself. And that will make me stop. That's funny because I knew Shelby Bady. I knew her. She's the state of a barbana house and everything. She was doing it, you know, she's the, I was doing it when we were driving one of those things. Yeah, she did. And I knew as she was fucking great man, we would have talks and everything like that. And she was actually a very nice caring girl. One of the nicest girls in the industry to be honest with you. And I'm not saying it because she, she was your ex. I'm saying that fact that she was one of the nicest girls. So sometimes people are demons behind that you don't see that the average person. You think she was, oh, she's such a happy girl. And really, that's a great girl. And really, that's a front. Yeah. And she was an unbelievable athlete. She was an American gladiator. She did stuff and set records that, you know, the guy's couldn't break. John, and you would figure, here's the girl who went from a bodybuilding career. Now she's on television. It's rare. You know, IMean, there's only a few that they took, you know, she's one, well, like three, four girls at the most. And she was one of them. And she was, to popular. She was a girl that could go on known to be very friendly. Anybody that knew she had a new show. He knew that she was very friendly. And you would figure, man, this girl's got to go on on. Who knows, maybe just gladiator shit can go to movies and other shit. You got on America's, America, Cuba was the first all women's team to sell for the America's cup. We moved to San Diego for that. And that was an incredible, IMean, she was so, you would look at her and talk to her and whatever. And if you knew her, she, everything in the world to live for it. She was the guy who I'm saying. You know, she was deaf, too, remember? And she, that's why I wanted to ask you John, did the deafness have anything to do with it? You think you think she felt like she was like, there was something wrong with her or something like that? Or some kind of deafness. The way her father treated her over it. Yeah, it was definitely some kind of connection there. But but she was, she was a tremendous figure, figure head for the deaf community. They all looked up to her. IMean, she had, IMean, for her to accomplish what she did be in deaf was such a motivating thing. We've all over the country, get over her. Is in sign language to, you know, deaf people and, you know, motivating them. I have a, I have a friend who was actually very introverted and everything, I'm really quiet. And we want to this party with Shelley. And, you know, she, you know, she was trying really hard to talk. She actually pulled them out on a dance floor. And they danced, you know, and she did it to like show him, you know, and he was like, he became her biggest fan after that. His name was Anthony. And he's always say, I love Shelley. That's my favorite of all of the, because she showed him, you know, it's, you understand what I'm saying? He, he had issues. And she saw that. And she, you know, because he was part of our crew. She pulled them on the dance floor and danced with him. And it made his, it made his, is fucking month man. I'll tell you that. Why would you say, hey, Brian's to hear that. I thought that. At that. What's that? It changes life from that. Can you hear me? Yeah, you're, you're low. Like Dave was trying to, your volumes. So that's where we can hear you sometimes. It does. I think you said it changes life. It does. It does. He became her biggest fucking fan. You know, we heard about that for fuckinGHe would talk about that. One, he got one little dance that she did with him. And she held his hands. She pulled him by the hand. You know, not, you know, he wasn't anything like, you know, it was nothing, you know, he was, it was like he has, he has issues. And it's then like he's. That's the one. IMean, she, she actually worked. She was in his counter in a group home. Work with, you know, severely mentally handicapped people. She took me back there. Once that she wanted to visit, you know, in the group home where, you know, we're, we're, we're shoes to work. Man, no, like I'm talking, there were, the ones that were helmets and drool and you know, they, they, fuck it. They lit off when she came back there, man. And like, you know, we're, you know, all over her. Or, you know, the way they do their thing. And, you know, she was like, she was, you know, it was remarkable. Everything about that girl was remarkable. You would never, in a million years think that's the girl that would kill herself. Yep. Well, you know what, John? Mr. I don't believe it lights out. Probably you'll have some kind of a, a spiritual, I guess you could say, encounter with her maybe later today now that we've been talking about her so much. She's definitely going to give you some kind of message. Look out for that message. And next week, you're going to tell us that message. All right. All right. I find something that you got from her. Maybe a little ring, a little piece of something. So I'm, she brought me to spending a whatever. He's going to get a message. I'm telling you. I draw. I'm going to tell her, so it's going to be on your fucking night table. So I'm going to text me in like an hour. He's going to be like, oh, shit. You're right. I can't find one. You'll see a pigeon flying by your house. That's right. That's right. Well, guys, good show today. I enjoyed the topic. And hopefully we can get Jimmy to come down a little bit. Need a little blow of gasket or anything like that. He's going to be moving. He's moving. He's going to be moving. He's going to be moving. He's going to be moving. He's going to be moving. He's going to be moving. He's going to be moving. He's going to be moving. Yeah. I'm trying to get him down here. So he's got to eat. He's got to fear of change. You know that. I'm a hundred percent dead sincere about that offer. That's his roof. The funny thing is he has all the messages from his mom. He doesn't even know it. And the guy that toley looks for his messages. He goes and sits by the grave site. Yeah, because he's 50. He's got all these messages. And he can't even interpret them because he's blind and is. He's family's here. families here don't he thinks he interprets the messages as he's gonna die rather than saying all my mom's here point to got the fact that you know that she's watching over me you know he's he's never gonna I don't think he's gonna leave because I think his family's there's brothers here he doesn't he has nothing left there except his brother he can leave anytime he can leave nobody hangs out IMean he's all up now he's all by himself now so we're gonna get him out every time he's going to eat the opia he's coming of south of all hours yeah but we'll get him down here eventually all right we got to wrap things up guys once again mr. G if you want to get some mr. G we get any more cooking sent out yeah I just I just think you're best in a big uh... uh... he uh... he don't cook yeah i asked you you asked i'm right you asked he asked you all try at you guys just i just made him IMade him with with with with little mini chocolate chips this one to cook i could put the chocolate and spread it out the first one to talk with kids so i'll send you guys or each one of you guys all one of those all right great so jumbo plumber kito cookies on the way up it's funny how we started with the jumbo plumber cookie that had like fifteen hundred calories now we went down to jumbo lights now we're down to plumber jambbo kito cookie so mr. pots protein dot net check it out great good thanks for joining us john have a great day and uh... all you guys you guys all next week all the sun holy ghost amen all the amen all the all the and have a gift to stay at the greaT3 of us press the as is peace and hesitation from the rest of the layman the voice and holy ghost amen as far as possible and all the fans around the world that they have all the action in the hearts thank you poge on the second IMean judge the second uh... we'll see you next

=== FILE: ASHKANANI： 212 OLYMPIA THREAT？ Muscle in the Morning (8⧸6⧸18) [wxU8WS4QZnE].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Dave. Well, I'm going today as a Monday, August 6th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Sometimes I look at some of these bikini shows and wonder how the judges can place these girls when it feels like they're all basically separated by your razor thin margins. But then again, maybe that's why Norman Austria has been pushing so hard this prep to try to separate herself from the pack. The A-Time Olympian is blazinGHer way back to the stage again after having what she's called one of the best preps of her career. So far this year, we've seen a little bit of a resurgence from Austria, who seems like she's got back that championship swagger she had a few years ago. So if she comes in and hits it on the mark, she's certainly good enough to enter Olympia weekend placing somewhere, sadly in the top six. They say it's the ones who you never see coming with a most dangerous. And when I look around the men's physique division right now, I don't know if I see anyone looking in the direction of Abdullah Al-Said. The oxygen-gim product basically came from out of nowhere last year to win the Kuwait pro. And now that he's got his sights set on becoming the first member of the camel crew to crack the men's physique top 10 at the Olympia weekend, it'll be interesting to see what he brings. When we saw Al-Said last year, he really stood out as being a guy who was in a leap athlete from a conditionings standpoint. But whether or not he'll have enough muscle to hang with some of the bigger guys in this year show is something we'll all find out first hand a little under six weeks from today. I think when we look back historically, at last year's classic physique Olympia, we'll probably end up talking about how it was one of the best top 10s that we've ever had in any division from front to back. And if there's one guy who thinks he might be able to shake things up this year, it might be second year standout, Rylon McDool. Over the last few weeks, we finally started to see some signs of life from McDool in his team after essentially going MIA throughout the whole first half of the season. You can remember back to last year, it really wasn't until this time before he came out and made that big splash by winninGHis rookie debut at the Vancouver Pro. So if his weight and sea strategy ends up panning at, here's a guy who could possibly move up a spotter too, at this year's Olympia. If you ask my wife, she'll probably tell you that I'm guilty of being a work of hollig. But that's probably why I can appreciate the grind of an athlete like the Thalia Soltero, less than 48 hours after rocking the stage at the Tampa Pro, the figure standout didn't waste any time getting right back onto the horse once again. Very quietly, Soltero has been riding one of the hottest freaks of her career throughout this whole season. And that little tune up she just had in Tampa was really only a small sample of what's coming down the pike a few weeks from now when she really hits her peak. A 100% Natalia Soltero is probably one of the eight to ten best athletes in the division right now and assuming that everything breaks her way, I don't think it would be totally crazy to see her end this season with the top six finish on the Olympia stage. Somewhere in the legacy of every guy champion is the story about the time they were pushed to their absolute limit by a bitter rival. And this year on the 212 stage, you're not going to find a bigger rivalry than the one we're going to see between current champ Flex Lewis and his number one challenger on the Ashkenani. And typical Ashkenani fashion, the former Arnold Classic champ has been all going to go up to this point in his prep, which only adds another layer of intrigue. The closer we get to this year's contest with this being Flex's official farewell tour, you know that just about everyone on the planet is assuming that this will be the year he puts the final stamp on his legacy. But when you've got a guy with the talent and pedigree of an Amma Ashkenani as a fan, you still have to think that he has a puncher's chance to go out there and do his part to rewrite bodybuildinGHistory. And that does a yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On day, Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Aaron Jewbacca Singerman Steals the Football Out of a Young Eli Manning's Hands [JT3UYo93T_s].txt ===

Oooh! Come here move, move! Now! Drive faster so I can feel it. I know that you are so strong ya. I'm at a national situation. Got it off. No, Nope, go on! We havEQuite some more. Yeah! Solid elongation

=== FILE: Aaron Singerman 3am at PJ Braun's House [hvww0E7Sobs].txt ===

I'm in here. I'm fixed into the camera. I want you to see something. Right now? Yeah, I want you to see this. All right. The important thing is important. You're important. What are you doing? Oh my god. He's doing it. I'm fine. I'm going to try to say this. Do you want me to record this? I'm practicing for my next routine. I'm a producer or a producer. Very nice. I like to try to pose a music. Very authentic, which one we do. Look at me. I'm only wearing that mask. And how are you? You're not really a truly blood shot. I'm going to take my posing works here. You're going to look like dirt, how it's snow with that mask. It's hard. You're like dirt. I'm going to throw it away. I'm going to throw it away. What are you going to be mixing your mouth? I look at our mask. You kind of lose when you talk. I'm kind of like... You know, I can see this being very popular. People will pay you to come to your lips. You're very, very, very, very, very, very, very nice. You know, I love music. You get all of the Jewish star there. With that word. You know, you lose all of those makeup birds. Right? Yeah. That was nice. We did. Thank you. All the Jewish stars. You have a Catholic feeling. You're in a little place. You're in a little place. You're in a little place. You're in a little place. When you're straight. No one will be bound this year.

=== FILE: Aaron Singerman steps on stage at the 2011 Branch Warren [hwAeP-GW6Js].txt ===

gens Centers Yeah! Woo! It up! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Get your own face from straight now. Face the rear. Can't face the front. Okay. Okay. Don't forget the Dorian Yates, Marich Orange, and Simon, coming up here in the box. 40 minutes. Right here on the center stage. Do it.

=== FILE: Akim Williams DIALS IN + James Hollingshead at 300-lbs! + Kai Greene w⧸Classic Physique Star [ZEwT_ivyTT8].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary food muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Tuesday, June 22nd, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and happy Tuesday. I need to check the calendar, but I think we're about 10 days away from the Puerto Rico Pro now. And the reason IMentioned that is because yesterday I heard a room at that Puerto Rico is looking like the place where we'll see a team Williams making a season debut. Since I get for my sources, is that a team has every intention of winning this show and using it like a testing round to fine tune some of the work he put in during the offseason. I think last year really solidified a team's place as one of the top tier athletes in bodybuilding. And getting a win in Puerto Rico would only cement that further. So if he shows up in full beast mode, it might be game set and match for everyone else in the building. Generally speaking, I'm not big on the Raw Raw Motivation stuff that people love to post on social media. I think most of that stuff is just people trying to do whatever it takes to get likes and clicks. But I will say this, when you see two high level athletes like Alex Cabernero and Kai Green and the Jim together, well, that does get you pretty amped up to go to the gym. Now that we know for sure that Alex will be coming back to defend his oral classic title, you almost want to see him being monitored and mentored by someone like Kai who understands what it takes to win at that level. I think there's a lot more on the line than just being the Arnold Classic Champion there. That show almost feels like a tone setter for the Olympia. So if Kai can help Alex set the right tone, that can end up trenslating into something a whole lot bigger down the road. There are a few people in body building right now who we could legitimately say have Ronnie Coleman like Strenth. I just mentioned the team Williams a few minutes ago, his name definitely belongs in the conversation. But one of the other names that I want to lift up right now is Joe Mackie, because I don't think people realize how crazy strong this guy is. A few days ago, I saw a video of Joe doing incline dumbbell presses with the 190s for a set of eight, which is one of those lifts that falls into the Ronnie Coleman superhuman strength category. A few days ago, Jen is James, one on the record to say that he believes Joe will be a real threat at the Chicago Pro. When you see him moving weight like this, it isn't hard to see why. This guy trens like he's from another planet. And five weeks from now, we'll get a first hand look to see what that looks like when he lands the ship right there in the middle of that Chicago Pro stage. Normally, my brain doesn't connect the word thin to 300 pound body builders. But for whatever reason, when I saw these photos of James Hollings head the other day, the first thing that popped into my head was, damn, his waist looks thin. According to James, when these pictures were taken last week, he weighed 301 right out of bed in the morning, which would be impressive enough on its own. But when you take into account the fact that he's thisly at 301, 17 weeks out from the Olympia, it's even more impressive. Because it means he's already way ahead of the pace. He set last year when he was at his all-time best. And assuming that his plans don't change between now and then, it's final product will end up being something very special. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On Day4 I'm about reminding you to always be true to your passions. Make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Al Auguste Posing Routine at 2012 IFBB Desert Muscle Classic [SbF90r-8i_E].txt ===

You're the only one who doesn't care If you look inside of us, you'll have to be with all what you've for There's a chance, never If you reach into the sun And the soul wins you love We're not away And many people come to love We're just waiting to be with you And you'll have to be with us And you know you can't stop So finally feel like going away Looking so much on the road And if I'm still in the blue I hear a thousand blue Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, we'll hold on When we just say Oh, you'll hold on You'll have to fall, alone I'm feeling the same You're welcome To both of them You're just so big And then you will come to long When the storms go down Here we are And the cast will be to the sky And the answer will go You can't say You're so warm in the morning You're so strong You're so big You're so strong You're so big

=== FILE: Antoine Vaillant Update + Keone Pearson CONFIRMS Retirement Rumors + Janet Layug In Action! [Fu2nRfOl_Xc].txt ===

I'm gonna be launching a tasty pastry for the low carb hot tart. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Oh, nice! Welcome back to Legendary Foods, muscle in the morning. Today is Friday, July 9th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and happy Friday ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we have another great show lined up for you today. Starting with this brand new update on your raining and defending, Bikini Limpia Champ Janet Leog. Right now, 14 weeks out from her first title defense, Janet's about to enter the next phase of her contest prep where we can expect to see her really start to kick things into high gear. For Janet, this is uncharted territory in two ways. First and foremost, this will be the first time in her career that she's going into the Limpia weekend as the defending champion, which comes with its own set of pressures. But the other important thing to keep in mind here is that she will also be the first time she's ever gone into in the Limpia without competing at least once during the regular season. And we haven't seen her have to answer the proverbial belly yet at all this year. We'll have to wait until October to see if she can answer the call. We talked a lot this year about all the various injuries that have already had a major impact on the season. Including a segment we did a few weeks ago on Antoine Vallions after he suffered a torn bicep during trening for the second time in his career. But today after a few ups and downs, I'm happy to report that Antoine is back to trening again on the road to recovery and getting closer to gaining back his pre-injury form. On top of recovery from the biceps tear, Antoine also revealed on his Instagram that he had to spend some time in a rehab facility as well to help him combat a recent relapse. Anyone who's followed him throughout his entire career already knows how difficult these issues with substance abuse have been for him. With that said, it does seem like he's in a better place both physically and mentally now. So let's hope that it'll only continue to get better from here on out. And that we'll see him back on stage at some point next season ready to pick right back up where he left off. To weeks ago, we did a segment on Kion Pearson after he made a comment about retiring early to one of his fans. And at the time, even though he was pretty clear and direct with his statement, I think there were still a lot of people who believed that he would backtrack on that at some point. But it doesn't look like that's going to be the case. Just this week, another fan asked Kion if he really planned that retiring in his prime of his career. And Kion responded with an infatic, yes, saying that there was more to life in bodybuilding. This feels like something that he's put a lot of thought into, and I don't think he would be saying it over and over again if it wasn't true. But like I said before, he still has four years between now and then and four years is a long time. So while he's still here and in this prime, people should not worry so much about when the ride is going to end. And just enjoy it while it lasts because if you spend too much time worrying about what isn't or what won't be, you're going to end up missing what it is. And today we're closing out the week with a quick preview of this weekend's Omaha Pro. And if you're a fan of our female athletes, this will be right up your alley. The show is going to feature women's bodybuilding, women's physique and bikini. And when the official line-ups for each division were released on Wednesday morning, there were a few names that immediately jumped off the page. Women's physique, I wouldn't sleep on Christina Bryant. She finished third at Chicago Pro. And her pro debut last year, and I can see her catching some people by surprise and potentially pulling off a win. In bikini, on your nickelsins, bed having a strong season so far. So when you come as a huge surprise if she managed to lock up for first win, and to women's bodybuilding, Makala A-Kop will be makinGHer big return to the stage after taking almost two full years off. And I know there are a lot of people interested to see what you can do in this division for the first time. And that does it. Another edition of Lusselin the Morning on Daypalm, or reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Antoine's BIG Win + Hassan Mostafa The REAL Story ｜ Recap Wednesday [q1sbj1Afcm0].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car mock tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning on day polombo and today is Wednesday September 16th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and thank you for joining us on another very special edition of Recap Wednesday. It was only one event of the pro-dock at this past weekend, and it was the Cal Pro that took place in Vegas. And it did not disappoint. The big story came from the winner Antoine Vallions, who finally put it all together and clinched his first Olympia qualification. Second place went to the Red Hot Mac Shaws, who looks like he's getting better by the week. The place went to California native on win, who delivered the best performance of his career. Sliding into fourth was the powerful one, Patrick Moore, and round the other top five was veteran Antoine Vallions. Here's another interesting storyline from the Cal Pro that we're going to cover that almost caused Hassan Mustafa to withdraw right before the start of the show. DurinGHassan's flight from Egypt to Vegas, he started to get sick on the plane and was rushed to the hospital immediately after landing, according to Hassan, an abscess from hemorrhoids became infected, which required him to have emergency surgery. After spending a day or so on the hospital, Hassan did end up being released and was giving clearance by the doctors to compete on Saturday. Somehow in the midst of all that, he still managed to carve out an eighth place finish year. So Kudos to Hassan for all the mental and physical toughness he put on display last weekend. The guy is a warrior through and through. At some point in the middle of watching the NFL action last weekend, I realized some athletes need the competition to bring the best out in them. They thrive under pressure, and no matter how hard they tren, or how diligent they are, they still need that person on the other side of the field to bring the best out in them. And in a roundabout way, I think that might also be true for Sydney Gillin. Now, if an Olympic prep is under way, you can see a noticeable shift in her level of intensity. And I'm sure a lot of that has to do with the fact that she'll have an entire line of off-killer's up there on stage who will all die to take away her Olympic title. This is exactly what Sydney's in. This is what gives her that extra push, because when she steps on that Olympia stage, it's a game on. So everyone else, better be ready. One of the years I've started to recognize a few parallels in bodybuilding and in business. For me, one of the most important aha moments was when I realized that being successful in either venture hinges on your ability to be honest with yourself about what your weaknesses are, and then developing a strategic approach for turning those weaknesses into strengths. And from what I hear, Volziana Vustravic is taking a very similar approach when it comes to her Olympia prep this year. Volziana and her team have decided to really concentrate their efforts on making sure she's lights out from the back this year. And the hope is that with the new improvements, it'll bump her up into the top five territory. And with so many things still in flux heading into this year's contest, the new and improved Boyana could be in a great position to take on the opportunity to her advantage. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Arnold Schwarzenegger TRAINS + Brandon Curry at WORK + Hunter Labrada Guest Posing! [UNluaD1Y_JA].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pot tart. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Monday September 7th, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. In the words of the great Muhammad Ali, ladies and gentlemen of the champ is here and in case you missed it late last week, Brandon Curry set the internet on fire again when he released two news clips from his Olympia trening camp from what we understand Brandon's back and full-scale championship mode with the camel crew out of oxygen and at least so far all systems are a go. Even though he's the defending champ, Brandon is in a pretty unique situation in the sense that he might actually be the underdoGHeading into his first title defense. From this end, the plus side of that situation is that it puts his back up against the wall again, which might actually be the best thing for him. And with so much on the line, figurinGHow to use this situation to his advantage to gain a competitive edge could make all the difference in the world. Here's a fun fact for you. Did you know that scattered across different parts of the UK, there were what we essentially call ghost towns that are left over remnants from World War II? It's true. Look it up. They're like the land that time for God. And while you're busy Googling, you might want to look up what Ryan Terry's doing as well because it seems like he's been the forgotten man in men's physique this year. Even though he's been way off the radar, Ryan's still been in the gym. He's still trening and he still works the part of a guy who could be 16 weeks away from being a title contender. There was a point a few years ago when Ryan was in the conversation, is one of the top two or three athletes in the division. And when you have his level of talent, you never more than one win away from being back in that mix. In the season's restarted, and it feels like we've gotten back to some level of normal see again, has there been an athlete who's done more to help their stop in any division than Hunter Labrata? A few days ago someone sent me a video from Hunter's latest guest posing at the Savannah Pro. Where the odds on rookie of the year favored gave everyone attendance a sneak peek at what stage does a limpia prep looks like. In fact, during a conversation yesterday, I actually learned that Hunter officially started his prep last Monday, which is a few days after that guest posing spot, and that he and his team feel great about where they are right now. All things considered as a rookie heading into his first Olympia, Hunter's in a great spot right now. If he exceeds expectations, everyone will be tripping all over themselves to annoy him as the second coming. And if things don't turn out so great, he gets the rookie pass, which makes the whole thing a win win. So if I were him, I just do my thing and enjoy the ride, because that's what this whole thing is all about. Whenever I talk to young athletes about trening, I always give them the same advice, stick to the basics. The reason they've been around forever is that they work, and the reason I say that is because I saw a video over the weekend of Arnold cranking out a set of T-bar rows that made something click in my head about the beauty of simplicity. At this point Arnold is in his 70s and he's probably been doing T-bar rows for over 50 years. Yet here he is, still strong, still vibrant, and still sticking to the basics. There's something to be said for that, especially for someone who's been a successful as he has at so many different mediums. Consisted adherence to a simple, but highly principled approach can take you a long way. And I think that's something a lot of people would benefit from having more than their lives. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: Aspen Bunyak- Team U Fitness A Routine [gYYYhpV0dLs].txt ===

Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Oh! Oh! Yeah! Oh! Be mine, darling! Oh! Be mine, darling! Oh! Yeah! I don't even want to be fake, man! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! I'll be so I'll play, yeah! Yeah! Well, I want to go like that! Yeah! I want my own, I want to buy it! I want to buy it! Yeah! Yeah! I don't know where I am! So I'll be there, darling! Yeah! I don't even want to be like that! Yeah! I don't even want to be like that! Yeah! I don't even want to be like that! Yeah! Yeah! Come on! I am a good girl! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah!

=== FILE: BATTLING CANCER, COVID, & DIABETES! Gennifer Strobo Interview [tB6c5C4FGa4].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If leg day was yesterday and now you're wondering why toilets are so damn low, you are definitely old school. If you're the only athlete in your gym that knows there's a contest today and it's to see who trens the hardest. You are old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Welcome back to live with brought you by Stacey's Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is an old friend of mine. She's been in 10 Olympias. She has 10 IFV Pro wins to her resume and you might be wondering where she's been because she's been missing and we haven't seen her missing for quite some time. So I got her here today. We're going to talk a little bit about what she's been going through. Of course, the woman I'm talking about is Jen Strobo. How's the own? Hey, how are you? Thank you for having me. It's been a couple of years since I've been in here. I think starting like, oh, hey, IMust interview you. You like at least 25, 30 times, you know, over the years. I was trying to like look them all up last night and watch them and then I started getting sag because I was like, oh, I look so young. Believe me, I look a lot young and soon they're in those interviews and a lot bigger. But we all get older. It's funny because one of the stories that really, you know, kind of attracting me to an initially interview, you was the fact that you were a type one diabetic, your whole life essentially and you were so successful competing, you know, in figure and you know, just moving up the ranks, so to speak over the, you know, course of 10 years where you were, you know, dominating and winning, you know, pro shows left and right, always doing well at the Olympia. How tough was that? First of all, when you were diagnosed, how old were you? I was young, like seven, maybe. I battled with it for a long time and then it was almost like it was, I didn't really need to battle with it. And it was like my body was kind of, there were some of these little beta cells in my pancreas that were kind of producing a little bit of their own insulin. So I was able to not even have to be insulin dependent for quite some time. And then so now what they actually call it is adult onset type one because it's like a key back. And I wear, you know, a little pot of my arms. So I can see my glucose and, you know, but I rarely use insulin. I use movement nutrition, everything like that. You're not, you don't have the autoimmune form of it. I didn't know that. What's that? Oh, you know. Yeah, but that, which is weird because when you get it usually when you're a kid, you're, is that most of the time that's always type one, isn't it? Yeah. And so it was type one. And then they call this adult, adult onset type one because my pancreas doesn't work at all. So the people that are type two, their pancreas actually does function a little bit. Usually not everyone, but the majority of most that are type two, it's because they kind of brought that on themselves with poor physical activity for nutrition, diet, or bad genetics, or bad genetics. Right. But, so that's what I was saying. Yeah. So do you do take insulin then? I do take insulin. Well, okay. I didn't take it along. And then I also have short acting, but I, I very rarely use my short acting. I tried to use what I'm eating. IMean, I use very little bits of it, but I try to use what I'm eating. I use glycolog by blackstone labs. And then like that's, I just kind of, if it's a little bit more. Yeah, I didn't share with a long acting insulin. You must not eat a lot of carbs in your diet then. I do eat carbs. It's just timing of them. So I wait until my glucose is a little lower. And then I'll have my carbs. So if I normally, I pretty much eat the same thing all the time except on my Sunday but, you know, it's, I like the food that I eat. Right. Um, but so at night, my glucose is a lot lower, usually. But by the time my body's a little exhausted and fatigued and moved around and everything all day. So I have like this giant biglet night. You know, I have rice and things few hours before that. So I'll have most of my carbs later in the day. And you don't have to take any, any short acting insulin because of that. I'll take a little bit. Yeah, just a couple units, usually very, very two to three units at the most. Wow. And it depends because if it's a really low, I won't take it because I'm getting ready to go to bed. And I don't want to have a load here in the night. Do you think your body may be still producing a little bit insulin? Must, I would think, right? The doctor says no, but sometimes I wonder because you get like a little bit of a high, but you can have those beta tumor cells in your pancreas that can produce a little small, very small amount. Well, that's pretty cool. So you've been managing that since your kid. You know, my son's five years old. He can't even tie his shoes yet. I can't even imagine him having to take insulin, you know. It's crazy. Was that traumatizing to you to find that out as a young kid? It's more traumatizing to prick your fingers and toes all the time. Yeah. Yeah, I know. If come up, they've come along way in 40 years. So I'm saying, that had to be, how did that, how did that influence who you became, you know, from having to micromanage your blood sugars from such a young age? I feel like it may give you structure. And you become very rigid and structured. I don't believe that's always a great thing. My rigidity is very strong in my old age. You know, it's like it's my way or no way because of this, you know. But I can eat out. I can do all these things that everybody does and everybody's like, I don't know how you do it. It's like competitors. You know, they're like, I can't go to the movies. I can't go out with my friends. I'm like, why not? You know, but I still do all those things. It's just like you either eat before you eat after you don't eat. You know, what to eat, you know, what to do. But it did make me very structured a little rigid and but very independent. Right. Right. You got to do it. I have a little bit of a small. Well, you got to be very, you know, you have to be very dependent upon yourself, the constantly mon of your blood sugar 24 seven, which is, which is no small task. Although it seems to fit very well to the body of the lifestyle because we do everything so neurotically around the clock as bodybuilders that I'm sure you were really, I'm assuming that's how you got attracted to it, right? The whole regimentation of bodybuilders. It sort of like it didn't even everybody's like, how do you do it? How do you do it? It was my very first show when I did it in the end of 2008. And it was, it was like, I don't know, like I always ate well anyway. I was actually very, very tiny and skinny and sickly looking when I started competing. And it just was, it was easy. And I guess you're right, it's the rigidity of the bodybuilding competition process as well. Yeah. Yeah. Now, when you did start, I remember saying to interview you, you were on the smaller side. And I didn't even know how you would actually do and figure, but you really put a lot of, how much muscle did you add from, oh, eight to when you, I guess, did you last the limpier in 18? I went on stage in my very first show at 118 pounds at 57. Yeah, you're called. Yeah. So stick girl with shoulders and glutes. And I believe my last show I was 142 on stage. Wow, that's a lot of muscle for a girl. You know, to put on your own natural movement through it because of my health. Perfect. But it's a lot of people feel like type ones that I talk to say that the insulin, the least, oxygen essential in you, so over the years, definitely has an animal. Perfect. Did you notice that? I believe it does. I've actually done more research on it now in the last few years. But I believe it can have a little bit of an animal effect. Yeah. It just like you'll see some people. And I think it depends on how much you're using as well. Right. Because you'll see some people that just kind of have a, like, kind of use a different sliding scale than they probably should be and using a little bit more as type one. You'll see that they're just eating crap and still able to pretty much manage their weight 150%. So it's obviously we all know it's got a little bit of an anabolic effect, especially considering some of the history going on over the last few years with it. It's funny because the people who use it and who have to take a lot, but who don't exercise get fat from it, right? And then the people who seem to exercise with it, who are type ones, I notice they put muscle on from it. You know, so it definitely has to do with activity level two. It's not just, you know, muscle from insulin, you know. Right. It definitely has to do with that because you're right. You know, when I go to my endocrinologist, I'm, people are looking at me like, what is that girl doinGHere? Are they callinGHer name? You know, she must do it. Somebody kind of thing because everyone's sitting there or at least the majority of them are very overweight. Yeah. And you know, it's just because of lack of physical activity. What was your, the most memorable show that you did, that you can like, when you look back in your career now, it's a, hey, that was the best one. It's so hard because you, you kind of look back and you got memories of everything. I got into a point where that my last few years, I was doing back to back shows one week apart and I, for three years in a row that I did it, I won both of them. Right. So that was so exciting. But I think to me to place third in the Arnold International, I had a, a head of a girl that won the Olympia come up in September, you know, it was like, wait, I did that. You know, when they called my name, when they started calling, you know, six, fifth and fourth and I was like, wait, did I just not even break the top six? I was dead in there. I don't know. Yeah. You know, and they called my name. I just, I was floored. And so to look at my Arnold trophies and to see all of those and all my Olympia models, like, both of those shows are just so nostalgic for me and they're just prestigious. So to just to even stood there is so memorable. Well, it also validates all the hard work you put into it and everything. Now, nice. You did your last Olympian 18 and then in 2019, you were diagnosed with leukemia, which a lot of, I didn't even know that until a mutual friend of us told us, had that come about. What were your symptoms that you were experiencing? Well, it was towards the end of 18 that I noticed that everyone kept saying, like, what are you doing? Are you not eating? You've got an eating disorder. You're losing all this weight. You look so frail. Right. You know, all of these things and I was like, I'm literally eating the same thing I have been eating for years. I'm not changing anything. I'm not doing tons of cardio. Right. I don't have time to do that. You know, I love to do cardio in the morning to kind of set my intention for the day, but it's usually a walk or 20 minutes on the stairs and that's it. You know, it's not like you're going to get frail from that. And usually post show, obviously you kind of start to gain some weight a little bit, not really a lot. I never, I never veered too far off of it because of my diabetes. Right. But I just kept losing weight and losing weight and losing weight and getting lighter than stage weight and that everyone just kept saying something to me and I noticed my face was looking drawn. And then come April, IMoved and moved from a condo to a house and I started to get these little red bumps on my body. And I thought that it was weird I thought it was something from the house. So I call these Terminator. I call these people, you know, there's bad bugs in this house. God, IMean, someone else's fault. Right. Yeah, there's something going on because it was a little old on 1940s home that IMoved into. And so I started calling these things and IMean, I have some pictures of my body when I find the I went and saw my siblings at our family cabin abouT3 weeks later. And they're both nurses. And I just kind of like pulled my pants down. And I was like, look at my lymph nodes. And they were like the size of just like giant rocks. And my brother's face was just he was hoard, he was mortified. Like he was just he said, you have got to go to the doctor. And I was showinGHim all these bumps and he's like a literally looks like you've been eaten alive by mosquitoes. Right. So I got back. Went and saw a dermatologist. They were like, you need to call an oncologist right now. Well, today, they knew they knew. But then I called my oncologist. I saw him that day. I got there aT3 o'clock in the afternoon. Right. I didn't get home to almost midnight. He walked in the room. And I had seen him before because I had cancer when I was 25. I had some uterine cancer. Oh, OK. And that was that was super easy and quick for me. It was, you know, an easy sort of thing. So I don't think about that often. But what did they have to do? Did they have to remove uterus? I had a full history. I'm OK. And so I see him every year to 18 months just as like a checkup. Right. And we're good friends. And he walked in and he just went, whoa. And he turned around and he walked out of the room. That's that. You never want to see a doctor run out of the room. That's that. And I like, we're bloody. We're buddies. I don't know what's going on. And I had a hat on because I didn't want anyone to see me because I had these bumps on my face. They were all of them. And they were everywhere. And he came back in after talking to a bunch of colleagues from Shands, which is like a very well-reknown hospital there in Gainesville. It's nearby Orlando. And he started running tests, CT scans, MRIs. I was having all sorts of things, all sorts of led work done. Right. Because he thought I had a form of leukemia, which is literally the final you've got two to three weeks and you're gone. Oh, really? What is it again? Like, hot skin system? No, I forget what it's called, but it's like... It's like a final. It's like a multiple, my long one. Yeah. It's just, I seriously can't remember because I think IMight have blocked it. So what did it turn out? It was just like a chronic, a lipocytic look. It turned out it was just like, yeah, like my body was just like, it was God's way of saying, get your butt to the doctor. Yeah. You know, and he's like, you're just, I'm just thankful that you did come in. I went through like some horrible bouts of some antibiotics. And got that to go away. But then started seeinGHim twice a week and figuring out what we needed to do and what was really actually going on. And that's when we found out that my red and white blood cells were so low that my bone mirror was just not functioning. Wow, that's weird. What do you think was, would cause, IMean, that was it. Is it a genetic thing? Is it, IMean, is it? Why? IMean, what would cause you something to get something like that? Well, I have, um, somewhat leukemia. You have no, I had no idea, but after kind of going through everything and talking to my mom about he's saying it's a blood disorder that's like leukemia, she's like, you know, what, I think your mom all had leukemia when she died. Oh, great. You know, you know, they were dead. They just, after the fact, yeah. Yeah, so, and none of us knew that. And it was, it was just one of those random things we don't really have any history of that sort of thing in our family. So, you know, and then he also found out that I have some really bad lymphoma issues going on as well. So it's just kind of like a two prongs, you know, hit me and over the head kind of situated. Yeah, you did something kind of unconventional. You started some chemo, but then you stopped and you decided to go the natural pathograph. What, how did you make that decision? I just decided I was not going to do it. That wasn't after sitting in that room for three hours, looking around and hearing everyone's stories and stuff. I just said, I sort of, I'm a research stalk on everything that goes into my body anyway. And I do. IMean, I hadn't taken antibiotics in a decade until I had those big found, but I had to do something. I don't take talent all, you know, I don't do any of that stuff. And I just started doing tons of research on the natural healing. I ran into someone, IMet someone who said, oh my gosh, I went to the Gershwin Center in Spain, which that's where they do all natural cancer healing. Right. And it's like a 95% success rate. So I started researching their institute and getting information on what they do on a daily basis, which it involves natural vitamin D three to four hours a week, you know, getting outside in the sunshine, which usually you don't want to do that because of cancer. Right. But being forced upon you, it involves juicinGHeavily for quite some time. You go on to a plant-based diet at first, which I had to do, which was totally fine with me. It doesn't bother me. And then you also do coffee enema, which a lot of people are funny about talking about that, but they are very beneficial in detoxing your liver and helping your body just really learn to process good gut biome and create a good atmosphere for healing. Sure. So it's just so many of these things, but also they add in extracts and powders, like some Chinese herbs, which I can't even pronounce all the ones I take. I just want to be good to stand for a guess. It's like a whole orchestra going on and when I'm getting ready for bed and when I get up in the morning. Is it like, like, are they a immune stimulatinGHerbs? Is that what this was today? They are. Some of them simulate your immune system to go up. Some of them are just ones you can get offline on Amazon, like the extracts, some of them, like bladder rack, bird awkward, stuff like that. They're great for clensing. They have great anti-cancer properties. They're almost like natural antibiotics. Got you. Got you. Interesting. It's a great question. I've talked to people before, I've told me about coffee enema's. I was always wondering, do you get a caffeine buzz from the animal when you go up when you come? You can. It depends. So when I've used different brands, I've gotten like, because I don't really drink a lot of cap. I don't drink coffee. That's my coffee buzz for the day every morning. You can get a little bit because it does, especially if you're holding it long enough, it does go so far into your liver that it ends up in your bloodstream, which is kind of what you want. A little bit to detox and pull things out. You're using organic green coffee. But when I've traveled and been like, oh, I definitely am not skipping a day. I'm not doing this. I'm not doing that. So I would have to use just regular plain black coffee and you get more of a buzz from that. And then I'll do it every day. I'm always thinking of like, you've taken a stimulant, I guess, like a pre-workout, which I don't take those. But I think you're that's kind of the feeling that you've done. So you do a coffee anime every single day? I do right now. I had dropped down to where I was only doing it two to three days a week. Right. With my health and the way it's been, I've been doing it daily. So every morning, it's like a whole hour process for me to take all these extrax and vitamins and things. You got to get off the lower early, in other words, yeah. Yeah, but then my body doesn't want to do that either. So. Now, on top of that, compounding everything that you just told us, you got COVID. When did that happen? I got COVID April 27th. All right, I started feeling kind of bad the day before. Yeah. And I just thought, you know what, I'm going to go get tested. So I did the drive through at the, you know, CBS and the, yeah. While being where you're, where you're swapping your own nose and dropping the thing, you know? Yeah. And I would have rather had someone else do it because you're trying to do like all these things two days later, which I was, I was so sick by the time two days later came I thought I haven't had a head cold in so many years. I don't even know what's wrong with me. I couldn't stop coughing and it came back as positive. So I did like the two weeks of, you know, standing in your house, which totally find me. I live by myself. I'm always alone. I'd find with me. You know, I was just working online when I was awake, but I was barely able to stay awake. It was like 20 hours leaping every day. Wow. But I still, and then I was able to kind of leave the house, but just still had no energy. I see my doctor now and I still have side effects of it. So it's been six weeks now, eight weeks. Right. I don't like that. And he said I will probably have some of the effects of it for three to six months. Brain fog, confusion, exhaustion. My heart is inflamed and my lungs are inflamed. So where do you think you picked it up? Well, I, I work for Blackstone Labs down here. I still have online clients as well, with nutrition and lifestyle and competition, but I also came in and an executive assistant at Blackstone. I'm managing a lot of different tasks there and a guy there just said he wasn't feeling that great and he had gone to the hospital that week. Everyone else seemed to have like the stomach bug which never got to me. But that's what made me, I was like, I just kind of like did it feel good. I kind of was coughing a little bit and that's what made me, I was like, you know what? I'm just going to go get checked. I've managed to make it this whole year without getting COVID and I'm just going to go get checked because something just doesn't seem right. So are you sure that's where I got it, but you can get it from a gas pump. You can get it from a car. Oh, of course I know, but you're doing a cereal box at the grocery store. Are you? I don't think you can, but they say you get, well, you get that vaccine now. It's to make sure you don't get it again. I can't right now. You have to wait a full 90 day. Oh, okay. So probably the, who knows, who knows if it would even help, you know. They say if you have it once, if you get COVID and you take your only one dose of vaccine, really, the keep is. Yeah, I had a really plan on getting the vaccine. I was, I was funny about that stuff, but my doctor is kind of like, you know what? I would really rather you do that because you got sicker from your, the value of blood cells and all your blood work just went tanked during COVID and it's kind of really pushing me to do it. Now, what's the process now that you're, you know, you have the, the, the, the, the, the blood, the blood disorder. You know, you, you, you're, you're levels kind of dipped down, but it could have been obviously to do the COVID. How did they actually classify you as, quote, in remission or cured? IMean, is, is there actually a time when they'll actually say that or yeah, they will. I'm actually when my red blood cells get back to a normal level. Okay. So I just have to wait for that. The white blood cells can be a little lower. Obviously, you still want them to be higher and you want them to really increase when you get sick, which they did not when I had COVID, which you would think, you know, most people have an infection. That's how they can tell when your white blood cells are off the chart because they're trying to, you know, kill that off. But I just, I have to wait until my red blood cells come back up. So I just have blood work done actually this morning. Right. And I had blood work done seven days ago. And so we'll just wait and see when everything comes back. And I, I, I thought with leukemia, usually you have high red, high white blood cell count, usually you know, they're immature white blood cells that don't really function well. But I, I thought you have a higher amount of it. I actually have like nothing. It's weird. Yeah. You have like a weird amount. Yeah, they're, they're like, it's ridiculous. It's like non-existent almost. Mm-hmm. Now, knowing the kind of person that you are and how structured you are and how goal oriented you are, I gotta ask you this, even though if it might not be in the near future, do you see yourself competing again at some point? I don't think so. A lot of people go, you know, you can repeat right now. And I'm like, well, now that I'm on this cancer diet. IMean, I still, I still pick out on Sunday, Sunday, and stuff like that. But, you know, I, I just keep very structured to keep my insulin levels, correct. You know, my glucose levels, right? Right. But, um, I don't think so. I think I'd rather go out, you know, you just kind of go out while you're on top. I agree, but yeah. And there's no, there's nothing to prove on the stage. I won 10 pro shows, which I'm just thankful that I had that opportunity to compete even on the I have baby stage. Right. And I got to grace the stage of the Olympia and the Arnold and Australia and India and all these places, you know, and Canada, like everywhere. And I just don't think that there's any reason for me to get back on stage and put the heels back on. Right. So what, so what do you see is like your future, everyone has their like, what am I going to do next type of thing, my future goal? Like things I want to do in the future. What, like, where do you see South going? You want to stay in the sport and just kind of be like you do the coaching and I know you worked for Blackstone now. Is that what you want to see? What do you see yourself doing something else? I love doing the coaching with through nutrition, teaching people how to heal their bodies through nutrition and vitamins and just live a healthy sustainable life. I call like life long to sustainable, where you don't feel like you're on a deep leash and a bulking in a this and in that kind of nutrition. Like that's not good for your mentality long term, especially. As you get older, especially for women, men are a little bit better. But I see myself, you know, right now short term, my goal for myself would be to kind of get my body back to just feeling good because a lot of people go, well, you still look great outside. And I'm like, very appreciative of them saying that that makes me feel good. But at the end of the day, I could come home and I feel miserable and everybody, you know, my muscles is just aching and just I've got a Dima and a headache and nausea, it's just these random things and I don't think that they fully understand that. Or in the gym, IMay be lifting some weight and they think I look great lifting that weight and I'm thinking, well, I used to feel to lift twice this much. Whoever think I need to do that much again, no. But I would love to see my physique be at a place where I'm personally happy because I think those of us that are successful on the stage, we've always challenged ourselves to be personally happy with something, you know. Sure. So I want to do that. But really just focusing on nutrition, focus on every day, just being a better person, somewhere and helping others. That's just always been my goal and that's what my goal through Blackstone Labs and through my online coaching. Yeah, I know a lot of people that were in the world. Help others and let them see their true potential. Sure. Sure. What do you think of this new wellness division that they got out there? I think it's great. IMean, I never had legs where always my problem. So I would never be a wellness competitor. I wish I could because I think that that's a beautiful look. I love that they're still not like so overpowering to where, you know, you see someone who have no over, no upper body at all and it's just legs. I love that the wellness division is still kind of balanced. I like to call it kind of like a 60 40. Yeah. Kind of balance. I think it's great though because so many women that wanted to compete would just have to run and run and run and run and die and do all these things and it was going against their natural body genetics. Yeah. And I believe they didn't have good experiences on the stage. And I think the whole point of the NPC and the IFPV, I've always wanted someone to walk away from that stage and find something that they could use that was. Fun and enjoyable to them that they can use in the rest of their life. And if you're just miserable every moment of it, then it's not. So I think that the wellness division has opened up the world of competing for a lot of women. Sure. Well, I got to just say you're a very brave woman and you've been through an awful hot in your life and it's amazing. And it just goes to show you that if you're focused enough and you're organized and you do your research and you have a positive attitude that you can kind of get through anything and you've proved that through your career. You've achieved probably more in the physique world than I think anyone ever would have predicted. And that's a testament to work ethic and I always tell people that. IMean, yeah, we all have a genetic predisposition but a lot of people never really realize they're true potential because they're not willing to do the work. And you've done the work not just on the stage but outside, you know, when through all the different illnesses you've had, your diabetes and you've overcome all these obstacles. And that's what a real role model is. I believe, you know, someone who can have these, I always ask myself something, why do I have these weird things that happen to me? And then I say, you know what, it's to show people that you can get through these things. If you're determined enough, if you do your research and educate yourself enough and you just don't give up, you know, and that's the key. Just said what you just took the word right out of my mouth. I think for me, what motivates me and drives me is at the end of the day. I want someone to be able to say, I didn't give up because of you. Right. And see, I just got like little tingles. I think it's too. Because you're right. You know, I'm not going to give up. Every day there's a reason why I'm on God's wake up list and is it to inspire someone motivate someone, just drive someone, push them a little harder or for them to see like, oh, wait, I could do something like that or I could try that. You know, because most days I wake up and I don't feel great, but I set my intention today is going to be a good day in some way and I'm going to get my butt out of this bed and I'm going to try no matter what. If I've got to come home aT3 o'clock and like I'm accounting, take a two hour nap, then I'm going to have to do that. But I'm going to do whatever I can physically, emotionally, mentally, all of that in the meantime. Yeah, amen to that. Okay. Keep us updated, Jen, you know, your story is ongoing and I love to hear that you know, you're doing well. Always interesting. Every time I hear you, you always have a fun. So I remember the first time I interviewed her, she's like, I'm eating. I have to eat pancakes three, night days in a row because I can't keep my weight up for stage. I'm like, oh, you got real big probs. Believe me, I said, don't tell me. Oh, I know. I don't want to be like, oh, I hate you. I hate that. I hate this. I hate this. And I'm like, no, no, wait, I'm not going to do that. I'm really fine. He's the only one. And then what they didn't know is that not only you pick it, you've got to now manage your blood sugar because of the pancakes, you know. That's what they didn't know. And we never knew like our pancakes going to backfire. Right. Because we need to drop really low and it also means I have chronic GI issues or any of that are going to work. Because that's the crap shoot you have with diabetes. Is it going to work this time or not? Because it could be different every single time you take a step on that stage. Absolutely. Good luck. Keep us updated. We're all praying for you. It's so good to speak to you. And I love talking to you. It was an inspiration doing this interview. I appreciate you doing joining us today. Well, I appreciate you having me. All right. The great tren. Strobo. We'll say a prayer for her. For now, though, we are at a time on day polumbo. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: BEST BODYBUILDING POSER TODAY？ ｜ Iron Debate [vLNDi_rnE08].txt ===

Let's get to what we were discussing yesterday. We posted it on Instagram. We wanted to get a feel for modern day posing, modern day body gold opposing and Lee, you brother, good point as far as the posing versus the entertainment aspect of it. Reflect back on your memories of Melvin and one made him such a great poster in your mind. Hello Melvin. It was just a great pose. It just just looking at Melvin, you know, some people. And then some people's like painting, I guess. That's why people, we suck at painting. So we don't have rhythm. And I think the same comes to opposing. You can just see people who are naturally gifted when it comes to posing. They can hear music. They can flow their body moves to it. They said not even the muscles like Melvin said, even facial expressions or even opening of a hand or a hand closing your fingers. Everything comes into play when someone's a great classical pose or so. Just seeing Melvin move on stage or just like what's in fluid. It's just like this fluid movement. The music, just gracefully went together. Where is he get out of the guys that come out and just moved up. Most muscular walk to the stage. Most muscular walk over there. They'll have some music where every second beat is boom, boom. So they can't miss the pose. But you can watch Melvin pose and sometimes I know people will be like, oh, they're not clapping. That's the, to me, that's great. If you can mesmerize an audience here, we'd like to hear you applaud, awesome that. But if you can walk out and pose and there is silence because the crowd is just in awe because Melvin, you know, it's time to start off slow and the crowd will bEQuiet. People think well, no one's making a noise because it's so captivated by his moving and he's posing and then he'd go into some road-bought and dense moves and then the crowd would really arc up and stuff. But if you can just catch someone with music and posing like that, you've got to mean the palm of your hand and Melvin always did that when he was posing. There's very, you know, there's a lot of good poses, but to be an exceptional pose like Melvin, there's probably only a handful to this day in bodybuilding. That can do it. Yes, there are entertainers too, like Kai and how do you can stand on his head and do the splits and spin around and stuff. But yes, that's sort of good pose, but to me, that's more on the entertaining side where his Melvin had best of both worlds, but when Melvin posed he really posed. Well, Skate King Kamali and here King, we're going to talk about individual bodybuilders today as far as who are considered to be some of the better poses, a better poseer's. In your opinion though, again, we talk about Melvin Anthony, we talk about a generation of own stage entertainers. Do you feel as if we still have that same level of quality today in terms of posing in terms of routine as we do today? And if you want to throw it in, your memories will meet Melvin such a great on stage entertainer. Yeah, absolutely not. It's horrible nowadays. It sucks. Bodybuilding is not bodybuilding anymore. I've said it a thousand times. People seem to think that when we say things like this, we are disgruntled and all they're retired and no, it's not. Bodybuilding is not the same. The energy is gone. The excitement is gone. The guest posing is gone. When you had a guest poseer coming to town, it was like a rock star coming into town. You go there. People will go nuts. You feel the energy even before you walk out on stage. The lights come on. You hear the ooze and eyes. Now you got crickets. Rami walks out at 320 pounds and you hear crickets. What's wrong with that? What is wrong with that? You know what's all with that is the internet. Internet fucked everything up. Social media fucked everything up. Right now when you have social media stars that are bigger than the actual stars, something's wrong with this picture. Something's really wrong with this picture. As far as Melvin goes, listen, meet personally. I always, I loved going up against Melvin because Melvin was, he was fun. Craig took it personal. Melvin didn't take it personal. Melvin took it like exactly what he just did right now. You say something to him and he comes right back at you and it was fun. Melvin was the type of person that you can have a fight with and later on that day the expo he'll buy you lunch. That was Melvin. Now as far as his posing goes, Melvin is a pop locker from the West Coast. One of the funniest things I've ever seen is when he had a break that when he had a pop lock competition in Italy against a bunch of fucking douche bags, every time I'm in a bad mood, I want to be a hero and I laugh myself because Melvin doesn't care. He'll do it any place anytime anywhere. Characters, personalities, that shit is gone. Dexter retired the last of the Mohicans retired. It's done. It's a whole different ballgame now. I'm sorry, Melos. I know you got a lot of people your coaching. I know that you, you have a lot of people under you and all these people, but it's not the same and I know deep down in your heart. You know that's true. Well I do want to get me a little shimpy. I don't mean, you have to run in a short period of time and I appreciate your time as always and I have to go tren. I wanted to get your opinion if you want to respond to King but then also in today's naughty building landscape, who you like, who reminds you sort of that, you know Melvin's era as posing as for as an on stage entertainment value. I got to make one thing straight. I don't have to go three o'clock through tren because it's three o'clock. That's good in time. Not the eastern time. Oh, three o'clock. And by the way, when I said this west east, I want to revisit that east west competition also because I have a couple of westerns here and couple of easterns and then Australia and Guy that can say, who is better east coast of West coast. But I hear about the posing. Madden brought it really to the next level. He got everything from John as Lee Priest said, opening the finger, facial expression and alls, bending the choices of the poses. You can hit the 10 great poses. But this 10 great poses have to be hit in the right trensitions in order. If you do from one and then the other one doesn't make sense, you know, you're ruining the posing. So madden that 2003 post-reviewed in for Madden and I posted, I think that's some masterpiece. That was a masterpiece. And I'm going to, you know, can you hear? I do remember one's commentating Mr. Olympia and I actually was kind of bashing you for your great entertaining posing. And I was saying, like, look, he didn't hit the three poses. You know, these dance. You know, so I'm going to take that back because yeah, you did a scene many of your routines. You did so entertaining and you did excellent routine. But if I'm a judge going by the 80s and the 90s rules, when we had a signature round of square round and the posing round, presentation round was counted for you can actually get the points on that. Madden, you bit Flex, three or 2003 and I don't man after the posing round. He was the head of the in the prejudging right? So if you think this is the element, hey, we don't have a much of the supporting event in the bodybuilding, you know, because they say since sport is entertainment, well, it was a sport back in a day. You do the signature round and you have it for any comparisons. Three guys back to back to back, you can dissect them. Now that is the six guys, Hanahalib and I look at the guy from the left, guy to the right and then in the middle, there is no way. So when he came to the posing, there was the posing of John Brown, Mohamed McCabe, Lilabrada, at Korma, being staleer. IMean, there was art and this is what Madden brought into it with his statue of entertainment, which you come out of, yeah, you did the hell of a job there. You know, as much as IMade those comments back then for the midst of the MPI was actually compensating and I said like, well, this is entertainment, but not the posing team. I've seen some of your posing routines and you did manage to keep your stomach tight and make interesting poses. I've seen several of those dancers that they tried to emulate, that in Charles were a nothing and they completely lose. The stomach goes out, you know, they do some poses that don't do nothing for their physique. It's just the opposite. I remember back in the day when I was in 90s, posing in Germany, this German promoter goes to Miller's. Why you have to do bad double-bicycle posing, you're free posing routine, I say what you mean. You know, it's a Madden 3 pose, years, but not in a free posing. Free posing is supposed to be a time that you emphasize your physique, your streaks, not your weaknesses. So you have no arms, you have no back. Why are you how they're doing a bad double-bicycle? It's like, yeah, you're right. So yet also come at the act of posing. Some guys don't have all the mandatory spurtryplic, but then when they bring this twisting back shots, launching, kneeling, whatever and you go, whoa, look at that. Well, IMean, the whole Madden 3 routine 2003, I started that I saw a thousand kinds, and as if this is absolute perfection, okay? So you know, just to mention this, Sean Ray was a great poseer. So nobody can take away this from him, right? Madden, you don't mean in a conversation yesterday, you don't take away from Sean as a barbell, you even think that he should win Mr. Olympia. So let's, IMean, I know that a lot of guys jump on Sean, Sean is Sean, okay? Let it, you say he is kind of selfish things just so you can self. I know, as a told you, right? Everybody should be, what? Very selfish man, come on, be a little bit. Yeah, yeah, but here, hEQuestion for all of you guys. Should we all be selfish and think of a self first or follow mad by my, my way? I was pretty much set last, always an end up with a short end of the stick. So I understand that Sean wants to, you know, do things for Sean, okay? But to be fair, IMean, that gives some advice, Madden, he was not your opposing coach by no means absolutely, and you will not hear, I don't know if you'll listen, I said that day 299 for the U.S. that you won and then going to 2000, another champions which I prepared for, you know, I was observing your opposing, of course, with the due respect of John giving instructions, I would just be second pair of the eyes. And in that moment, Sean was there and he just said his basic bangled biceps open, he did back again. IMean, something that you already did 2000 times. So on that matter, he didn't teach anything, but to conclude, and I'm sure that all of you guys are great. I haven't seen one great opposing routine unless he is Olympic, let me think, not one. IMean, because it's a scale down, you don't need to do, you're not being judged on it, you know, it's just a little impression. If you had a three-round symmetry round, so you have to emphasize the status, shape, it really need to go to the classic physique, because if you want to be more classic, you would do it, so you can win a symmetry round. Then you want to freak them out and you win the Ferrari round, okay? You scared me to pose. You can do the most muscular and from the advices, you know, stick your tongue out and go left and right. Meals, can I say somethinGHere? Okay, everything you're saying, 100%, 1000% agree. The problem is that you have to look at the root of the problem, okay? One person was awarded a pro-card at the USA's. One! That's it! One! Now you got a 118 pro-cards handed out. That's what fucked up the sport. When you're coming and you're going into the nationals of the USA, you had to be the best in the country. Number one in the United States. Now you have to be number one to 200. You understand? That's why, when you say water down, that's what the water down. They don't care anymore. That's the problem. When I'm getting ready for the show, when I was getting ready and I knew Melvin was going to be, and I was like, I will go to a body rock, I'm like, Dom man, we got out to him, we got out to him, whatever he's doing Steve, I don't care what he's doing, I wanted to put more sound effects, for more bombs here, I want more drops here, this and that. Now they don't care, it doesn't matter. You know why? Because the girl with her has the fucking Dominican ass and the fucking bombshell boobs is getting with 1 million followers on Instagram, she's getting paid. Not the guy who's killinGHim, soft on stage. That's the problem man. One champion, now there's 118 pro cars mean hand it out. Okay, can I ask you guys, okay, King, how do you explain that right now they have a probably 300, 400 professionals back in the day, I'm going to mention Melvin's pro debut, 2000, another chance, right? 44 competitors, 40 fucking four competitors, I competed also 50 competitors on the fucking stage, another chance. Now you have a show, like what was here in California, like eighth competitors and nine and ten, I don't get it, I was the pro, I have a pro card, I can enter any pro contest, make money, promote myself, you know, get some jobs, where does pros, we have a, like you said, 300 pros, where are they, why they're not competing? They don't care. That's the topic that we've been talking about now over the course of the last two weeks and that is and that was sort of an sort of, you know, with this almost classic lineup, Sergio Leva Jr came on heavy, most radio and essentially cold out the bodybuilding world, he wanted morecompetitors to compete, especially the high level ones and that's what we're going to get at the Arnold Classic, but they've only bring you because again, you made, you know, a reALCAReer out of guest posing and again, you have an appreciation for the art of guest posing, you and I were talking about the silver the point yesterday, again, who bought up the point, I really wish I could remember it, but they pointed out on Instagram how guest posing in a sense today has become two and a half minutes of just most muscular shots telling the crowd to get all been and then that's about it. In your opinion, again, when we talk to today's bodybuilders, again, you have many who have an appreciation for the art of bodybuilding, for the art of posing, but in a sense that has been trenslated, where do you think the disconnect is? People are lazy. IMean, when I would go to guest pose, like I didn't have the talent of Melvin, so I had to be entertaining. I had the size and freakingess and that's what the, I knew the crowd loves that and guest poses and I always was in shape. So IMade sure I was always in shape and I would put together these routines, I would choreograph with music and props and everything like that to get people laughing to get them like holy Mac, well, this is cool. I got my money's worth coming through the show because I got entertained by someone who actually took the time to be creative because when I went to bodybuilding shows, that's what I was just, you know, speaking of, I remember seeing Melissa Coates' guest pose at the muscle beach, one of the muscle beach shows back in the 90s, may she rest in peace, we lost her recently, and she put on such a great routine. It was so entertaining, I said, you know what? When I get to the level, if I ever get to the level where people want to pay me or see me to guest pose, I am going to put time and effort into my routines. I'm not going to just go up there and wing it because these people are paying money to see these shows and they deserve to be entertained. And you know what, IMight not be a pro, IMight have been an Olympian, but I'm going to give them the money's worth, and they're going to remember they pull them, but when they leave, that or what a torn-up, and that's what I did every single time. And I did a couple of years, I guess, post 35 times a year, IMean, so I was, you know, I was in demand, I didn't overcharge these promoters, I did seminars with it, I gave them the money's worth, and you know what? The people who went there and bought it, taken to see their friends felt like they got something a little extra. And I don't know why we don't have that today. The shows are too long, there's too many divisions, people just want to get out of there, they're not interested in watching anything. And I think that that's the problem, you know? So, you know, it's a different year, I understand that. You mentioned Sergio Leaver Jr., I think he's a great pose, I love watchinGHim on stage. He's entertaining. He does his own thing, but then he also throws in a little bit of his dad's pose at the end. IMean, the audience goes crazy for that. IMean, that's entertainment. You know, we put out this post yesterday on our Instagram and some of the names are mentioned. Yeah, Sergio Leaver Jr. was one of the more prominent, he mentioned the most prominent one was Terrence Ruffin. And you had a lot of a handful coming from the classic physique division, and to one of Ayanna, Hunter Lebrada mentioned prominently from the open class as well. Melvin was bringing back on this, when you lengthen, you surveyed the landscape to today's bodybuilding. Who do you like? Who do you find entertaining on stage? entertaining? I think that, you know, the names you mentioned, they are very good poses. But there's a level, there's a level that the bodybuilding community or the fitness community as a whole, they don't try to grasp the wow factor. Terrence Ruffin's like, I like it, I like the way he poses. Sergio Leaver, I've been knowing the guys the team is a kid. There's a level, there's a, there's a level that goes beyond what he's done. And that's why I started to try to teach it. I started, you know, giving guys information, guys have been retaining my services to help them get there. That's the same information that I got from John Brown. I could deliver it. You know what IMean? Paul DeLette was one of the guys I really, really wanted to like get a hold of when I was coming up through the ranks. You know what IMean? He's to stay at Lee pre-south, you know? And I used to go over there, like a little kid and I, you know, I talked to him and he said, you know, there's a mind muscle connection that you're not trying to learn. But he thought, since I'm in shape, I'm pre-hunting a prince. I don't care. So if you don't care, that's how he talked to you. He has to rub that as much. You know, maybe when I don't care. So you know, I was 300 pounds in, I don't care. So you know, I just laugh at him or I, but don't care. And so you get what you get. So the same emphasis that these guys have now. Oh shit. I'm out. Can't come on. He says it best. You know, they laugh at me because I'm always a jokester. I'm a tailor like it is. And I can emulate Paul DeLette, like you would not believe. He'd be like, how do you be the chin? And I do cut you. So I don't care. Just two, three hours. And I would get up there and I would just do abshunt. And it'd be over with. Nah man, because I didn't do even to this day. If I competed now, let's just say you put me on stage right now. And remember, best shake. I don't do it for the money. I do it for the people who pay to get here. The people who paid money to see me, I'm going to want to be the one that stands out. So I put the emphasis in the time and the effort it and the work to be able to have a wild factor. So yes, Terras Reffen will be the stand out guy. Sergio Leaver Jr.'s another stand out guy with four classical posing. But there's another level. The entertainment value. There's another level. You have to connect with the music. You have to bring them music. You have to make it come alive. And there's a system for that. A day one thinGHere, I think IMentioned this before that I when I talked to you before. When I went to the nationals, Lee Haney was backstage. And when he told me change my life, it really did. And what Lee said to me was, when the crowd, he goes, just be entertaining. When the crowd and you're going to have a great career. Forget about the crowd. He's just wind the crowd. He said to me, and it just stuck to my head. I'm like, okay, that's it. That's what I'm going to do. And you don't know Dave, how many times I'm not going to mention names, because then I'm going to get shit for it. How many times some officials will tell me, stop doing that. Your routines are too long. Why are you dancing? And I'm going to look at them over like, but I got the best response. People are talking about women to stop when I'm when the crowd is having a good time. So I would be like, okay, sure, no problem. The next time I do it even longer. So you got to eat Melvin's right entertainment. You gotta make them have don't do. And I love the fact that people use songs that they like. No, no, no, no. No, right, right, you would everyone like. So I don't know why I don't that song. No, you have to send a message. And I will tell you, when we were coming through like he said, you were saying the California, the Orange County, there was one guy. I had to beat everybody. You know what I'm talking about? And you didn't have to beat a biggest. You just had to beat the best. And we took it serious. Believe me, Melos is Jim, Melos, what's telling you? We didn't play on the West side. We was street boy. So when Keke Kamali came out in the magazine and he got the top of that shit about we was pussy. And he was told, so he was guys on tren hard. We wanted to kill Keke Kamali. When he Kamali came in 93, he didn't know everybody had to all of his head done. They's like, hey, yeah, so when we came up backstage, remember we came up at the backstage after the show and Keke Kamali was like, hey, man, you know, I just want to say, man, that was all for show. That's safe, but he was about to jump on Keke. He liked to get his ass. The 2000 one, the 2001 Iron Man won. I was up there battling. There were people in the audience throwing a game sign. Don't want to get. Yeah, so Keke Kamali come up the side at you. 2000 one. He comes up the side on the stage. Go the guys. You know, I got my little friends in front of the neighborhood and like, yeah, that's that food. They throw them guys on. They weren't getting kids. Look. Some kids come out of the side of the stage after the show. You know, we all, you know, it was all over with. It's all became out and Keen, you know, put his hand out to say, hey, man, man, that was a battle man for the ages, man. You know, it was all for show. And it hit me that this guy was just crying. But we didn't know that. He was a kid talking about, he was back to the boat here. We're going to beat up a postage. We're getting out. 2001 Iron Man Chris winning Melvin second and Kamali crazy looking. Territ. Yeah. It was a show. It was something spectacular. But hey, now you're talking East Coast, West Coast. I just thought you're subject. Let me ask you guys, because I'm not, you know, Americans. So I coonvented USA's and nationals. What are you guys? Okay. Dave, you did almost 20 national levels from North American USA's nationals. You did everything. Maven, you only did the USA's. They did both every year. USA national national, USA national, he gave them all the way up to the second. King, you only did the nationals. Why is that? Oh, I'm going to tell you. Okay. I'll let King Kemori answer that first and then I'll come in. I was hoping. Yeah. It was obvious to me. It was as a kid coming up. It was so fucking obvious that the USA's was the West Coast show, West Coast judges, West Coast everything. Why would I go there and get my ass handed to me when I can just stay on the East Coast and just stay with my people, stay with it. No, no, to me it was completely obvious. Number one. Number two, again, it was to me it was embedded on the West on the East side that the nationals was the show to do for us. West Coast was the USA. That was embedded in my brain from day one. So that's my answer. All right. My answers I agree. I would have went to the nationals because IMean, me personally, I was trened that you know, like a people, you know, John Brown was say sick and I go in and bite and just go kill everything. But as my personal, I did the USA because I wanted to be in my backyard. I wanted to be the best because at that show, the national back that had you get every class to get a profile. You know, John Brown won. Every guy at the USA, you had to win yo class and the overall, which means you had to be the best of the best of the internet day when all the smoke cleared. I had to be the band of weight, the middle weight, the wealth weight, heavy weight and then that time, the super heavy weights. And I did that. That was, it was a personal decision for me. And I knew that shoot. I was going to have some of them judges and you know, I'm like me too. I watched me since I was kids. So I'm just staying over here. So yeah, I agree with King on that. My, I'll give you my answer. My answer that I was a dumb dumb naive kid. I was in school way too long. I knew nothing about politics about trens about East Coast West Coast. I just figured if you showed up at the best, you got you placed with your supposed to. So I did both. I figured you know what? I'm always in shape. I could do two shows. It didn't take a lot out of me to peak twice a year. And so I did both. And I was naive to that fact. But they were right. Back in the early 90s, you know, I think there was definitely a tren for West Coast USA, East Coast wins nationals. I think it changed once we got into the 2000s. I think it kind of evened out. But there was definitely a, there was definitely a tendency to go that direction. I think I'll have one extractor to that too, Chad Nichol. You know, he guided me in the right. He put me on the right track when I didn't have, when I had questions and I should say Chad and Kim, I will put them both together because I used to talk to both of them. So it was him and he guided me in the right direction. He would tell me and he'd point blank told me state, state of the nationals, let Melvin do his thing. He's got it because we both because both Melvin and I just suppose that the Ronnie Coleman show and Melvin was in shape and I was a fat ass offseason. And I remember we had a little thing on stage and I said Melvin, go get your fucking pro card to the USA. He'd be alone. And he's doing a 90s game. He's black. And Melvin was like, anyway, it was fun time. But good Chad definitely Chad put me on the right. And then even Chad after I got my pro cards, he'd point blank told me he goes, yeah man, you ain't ready. I'll put the conclusion because he's not ready for the approach. That's why I took two years to give back on stage from 99 to 2001. He was straight at me because you're not ready for the pro. Just do what you got to do put on another 10 12 pounds and then we'll get you ready. Chad Nichols, God bless him. We lost Lee for a second. I wanted to bring up something in the surge of mention and King of the Year on this one. He mentioned specifically, he made a really good point on this one. Let me see if I get this correctly. There is a fine line between posing when you're under 275, 270 pounds and over 270 pounds talking about Dennis Wolff, when in the best posing award at the Arnolds. And again, we're talking about Sergio Lee with Junior Vegas. You know, if we're going to go into Classic Physicians, that's totally different topic altogether. Again, you're talking about a lighter demographic for the most part. But when you're talking about somebody who's going to be posing over the weight of 270 pounds, talk about some of the challenge that's going to present it. Because he's talking specifically about how much more difficult it is for him to pull off some of these poses and routines. Yeah, first of all, I don't think he's 200 and fucking 70 pounds on stage. That, that I severely doubt that. A lot of people nowadays they're saying they're 270. I think Flex Wheeler at his all-time best. I don't know Melvin can clarify this. IMean, was a 232, 235 somewhere around there. Right. And in a cutler at his best was what? 255 to 60? No, no more than 262. So when someone says I'm 270 pounds, let's take Ronnie and put him on a different category and put him aside. You know, let's not talk about he's just a freak mutation mutant. And we're never going to see that again for hundreds of years. But don't look at that. Now, yes, if you're a bigger guy, of course it's going to be harder to move and all that stuff. But it's not impossible. How about practicing once in a while? How about, you know, getting in front of a mirror and putting the microphones on and practicing your posing, nobody does that anymore. Nobody does that anymore. It's just sad. And again, I know Melus is he's got so many clients and so many people still doing this is he's the person to ask this question. And we will also be the person that. Yeah, you got to pose definitely. Well, let me tell you this, King, I talked to, this is very interesting. I talked to Ronnie Coleman, ask him what is your all-time best Ronnie says 98 Olympia. I asked Kevin, what was his best? He said the, uh, how does he have to ship? I forgot now what was Kevin? I think 93 or champions. I asked Flex Villar, he says 99, vintage ramp tree and he said he was 258 and that show. And I remember that was because I was 255. That was my my heaviest. I said, is this possible? Yeah, he looks bigger than me. So yeah, Flex would be competing normally, you know, he was 217 18 and 93, but I don't plastic, but then he went to the, uh, to 30s and then the third year of career, he would tip the scale over to 50, possibly. But you have to go back to the opposing. He's a Tata and my issue, he was supposed one hour a day as a mandatory. And what I was saying, if you really analyze the opposing, and I don't know if can you do it in a date and leave or a mountain, uh, mountain, I'm sure he does. Every pose have to be succeeding the other one. He has everything makes sense. I would take a picture of every single pose and then put it on and say, okay, here is 28 poses. Okay, this makes sense. This sequence, but here, you turn around for no reason, you went down for no reason, you went down and up in a, you know, two consecutive, uh, presses. So, they're advised that I would give, you know, for the people, uh, you have to impress the judges. When you step on the stage, you have to do your best poses. Whatever, you know, your 10 15 best poses, it has to be right there because judges will lose the patience. If you do like so so pose and it's not eventful, you drop the shoulders, you know, relax your abs, nothing is happening. So, you have to have a 10 15 best poses and trensition has to be perfect. You have to be, wow, wow, well, you have to capture the audience, capture the judges. Not too many people do that. Right now even, you know, when somebody is sending a post in video, in a ceiling, about 10 poses that have no place being there. It's the way I held it. Oh, you know, he just thought of, it doesn't look good for you. It take it out, change it. It's like a movie, you know, it's like a movie and they say that a good director of movies says there's not one scene in a movie that's not relevant to progress the plot forward. If there is, the movie drags you lose the audience. Yeah. That was that. That was what I was good at. That was what I've mastered. That takes time. That takes somebody showing you first how to do your mandatories. That most of the guys I see on stage right now, they don't even know how to do their mandatories. I said it to show just recently. Man, Chris Cormeer was sitting out there and the guy got up there and he was hittinGHis shots and biGHis hell had a great physique, but he didn't know how to present it. That's like cooking a meal and then throw it on a floor. Don't give your forms to eat it. You can't do that. You have to know what you have. You have to know your greatest attributes. What are my best poses? And then you have to practice it over and over and over in front of a mirror. And the problem is that guys don't want to take that time to do that because it's boring. Yes, it takes time. It doesn't feel good. It's like walking naturally left, right, left, right left right, but see poses not like that. Posing is like walking front and side and front into the left and front into the right. It doesn't you have to make what's uncomfortable natural. Right. How do you do that? It takes practice. So for you for thEQuestion of a hundred, two hundred, seventy five pound guy or two hundred, fifty five pound guy hittinGHis shots. You first have to learn my muscle control. After you learn the my muscle control, you have to know how to move from one post to the next and do it perfectly or almost perfectly. Doesn't happen overnight? No, it doesn't. It took me years to do that. Once I got it though, once you have it, it becomes second nature. Again, what Milo showed me by my stomach. I don't know why he messed me up with that because I don't even compete. I still do it when I'm driving the car. I'm almost on the game. I think if you know what I still do it, but it works. And when I'm on stage, I always keep the attention of the judge. Every time IMove somethinGHappens, even when I'm standing to the sidelines, I don't relax and get water and you know, it was funny because it happened in one of my last shows that I won the Phoenix Pro show. Everybody was on stage and I will say something about he, he, he, he, he day. I try to kill that guy to jump. That dude has no give whatsoever. He is a robot. That guy doesn't get tired. So we were all on stage and they kept having us battle. Having us battles one of those times in John, two minute, got a therapist, but he wanted to keep us on stage for 20 minutes. So Tony Freeman got pissed and started cousin because he goes, you guys want water? I say, hey, no, man, I die up here, man. This is this is where it said, man, I'm here. Let's go. He said, you need to only move for a group. You custed the judges. He was so mad. He custed the judges. You know, I'm talking about it. So that's what it takes. You got to be up there right or die. Guys don't have it, man. Tell you no more. You want the kill to give me up this stage. Meals should tell you, he ain't going to go in nowhere to get no water. Why, what you bring the town to me. I'm not going off this stage to the fire. Go up a loose, my money. And I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. Rit to play. You know, I want to make this one comment about the weight of the body balls. You know, when I first saw a guy compete, when he stood to the team, my son as a kid, because we used to compete in New York together. But when he was doing team universe, and he was in that, he was natural. And he was winning. I think he weighed probably 220 pounds, 218 pounds. His movement on stage was incredible. He was emotional. Okay. He really wasn't a good guy with the man of the toys. But he was like, he was like, I was like, I'm about to, a Broadway dancer on saying it was so entertaining to watch. I didn't want to do the routine to end. When he got bigger and he got over 250, he couldn't move like that anymore. His routines were still very entertaining. Because you, we see what he does. IMean, but he moved the same way. So I think when you do get larger and you weigh more, you do have to modify a little bit to the extent of what you do. Absolutely. You have to pick your best poses and you got to prevent, you know, present them on stage. That's, that's the key, you know, the connection to the audience and the judges because judges are friends too. Don't let them tell it. Yes, they're supposed to be, you know, unbiased and all that. But they got their favorites. Don't think for one second that they are looking for a person to do a certain thing. And that's just the way it is. So, you know, posing is very important. Even if it's not, you know, you don't get the points for it. Even if you don't, you know, get the extra money because we had posing awards in all that when I was coming through me and King, we were trying to get that extra money. That extra King ran. We're trying to 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you know what? You know, I gotta say one thing to, I remember watching Lee priest routine. Lee took Superman theme, which was probably over, overused by a million people over the years. And he made it exciting. When I would see him at the Olympia doing those poses to Superman with the victory poses, IMean, I got chills in me. IMean, no one pulled off Superman better than Lee priest. Nobody. Nobody did that. I don't know. That's the song. Look, Lee did that at the Arnold. And can you hear me? Yeah, we got it. Yeah, we got it. Yeah, I want your video. But Lee, Lee priest did that at the Arnold. And this was another 10 grand, right? And they said, we were talking to each other and Lee, with me and Lee talked briefly. And he, he, he goes, hey, man, what you gonna do? I'm like, I tell you, he's like, well, what are you gonna do, man? I'm not telling you what you're gonna do. You are not telling you. So I knew it was funny because Lee went out before I did, right? So, you know, it was a big thing they had the TV's back there, you know? And this is again, this has been lost in body, but we all talk, we all, we all are homies, you know, but on that stage, we battle. So I ran to the TV, you know, dexter's always to get stuff started, right? You know, these back there. So I ran to the TV. Man, when Lee came out, did that Superman? I looked at that, I was, I was so old shit. I've been do something because if Rob, don't they went crazy? Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, I heard people yell, I'm like, maybe, wait a minute, that's what, that's what, that's what, that's what, that's what, that's what you can't steal my funk. I watched that video. And I got chills, my damn stuff. So I knew, I had to get it. And I think what a year that did I do Darth Vader that year? And they got dead Darth Vader, because they say that was the year we were able to get it. They let us use proof, man, but they had everybody scared with that. I thought for sure that 10 grams is going to him. Yeah. It's funny, why don't you give that tank ran out anymore? IMean, that really would inspire people to suppose more. When did you think, I was just going to ask that because, you know, last year with the Arnold Classic, we were talking to Sergio before the Arnold, and he talked about the best closer word. He joked, lapsed that it's going to be the easiest 10,000 dollars I ever win. So, Lee, you feel like that's something that needs to be incentivized more. Oh, you know, I think it worked. And we could give 25. I think if I did the 25, why not? They showed him saying, oh, I thought you said it was 20. No, not the money. Melvin will come back, they can come back for that money. Shoot for 25 grand, you are. But that's what I should maybe, maybe you're giving me any people, give people incentives, actual practice of posing again and stuff like that. Because see the like Melvin said, it's not even the posing. Sometimes the posing's great, but even the Braddock would have a video not long ago where he was shown the poses, but he's also shown the trensitions between the trensitions, the trensitions are just as important as the posing because the Braddock goes, he's a boy set, he's a lat's spread. That's how you move between the two. And even just moving between the two is an art in itself. Sometimes I get sick of big guy saying we can't pose cause we're big, we can't pose cause we're big. You can't even practice. Practice makes perfect. No matter how big you are. What's your memory memory memory memory memory memory memory memory memory? I still remember watching Phil, Phil, Phil, do fan of the opera at the early early when he went down into the splits. He had that crowd captivated. He's a guy, thick muskier, huge, lace-like plaques and stuff. And he moved like a balleriner on stage. With practice, you can make anythinGHappen if you put the time and if it into it. First you have to have a trademark. You got to have a trademark. There's something that we all used to do. You know, when Melvin came out, you knew he was going to start slow and he's going to end up with the West Coast pop locking. You knew Melvin was going to do that. You knew Kamali is going to come out and I'm going to do a robot routine with the Terminator thing. You knew Lee is going to come out and do some mellows. You knew somehow he'll put gladiator in there. Someone else. He's all the way in the music. In the routine, you would have fucking gladiator in the fucking song. That's Melosarce. And you know, that's it. You got to have a piece of Victor with his one side, the vice-appose. He does. You got to have your own specific thing that you do. I'm sorry guys, you just don't have that anymore. It sucks. Yeah. Signature poses. Signature poses. I always love when I see something new. I don't know why people are not discovering and you're seeing what your poses character is. Just for them. But let me ask you now because you guys maybe know supposedly, showray competition somewhere in Texas that Kai Green had to take a tren. You didn't have a money for hotel room. He stayed at a tren station and then just went for a hope that he can get the best sponsor award. And he was hopefully he's going to be top 15 because if he didn't make it up 15, he wouldn't even close. And I guess he was the 15 and then he made a 10 ran. Do you know that story? Yeah. Yeah, I'm sorry. Yes. Okay. I'm sure they remember New York. Kai was six, but he looked unbelievable. If he would have won that show, there would be no problem. Branch Warren won. Then he's James second then he's small third and I tren both then he's for that show. But on one backstage I said, Kai, you know, you sure won. IMean he looked that good. Two weeks later, three weeks later, in Colorado, I was talking about hotel and then you know, it's okay. You want to see what I look like. I said, of course, some of the love to see when I look like. So he came into the room and he'd deposit. Of course, the characteristic Kai poses, you know, like the twisted ass to like, wow shit. And he would be like, but he had a notebook with him. And it is not booked like Leonardo da Vinci, happy realistic, truck and graphic. Every scene of post you can see every fiber correct thing. Everything, 30 poses back to back to back to back. IMean, I asked him, can I please take a picture? IMean, Kai. The last one was no next level. You know, everyone's little no puns. You want pictures and everyone's no puns. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think something else and speaking of this, let me use this. I predicted back in March that he's going to come back to the Olympia. Now, it looks like it's pretty much obvious thing that that's what's going to happen.

=== FILE: BEST LEGS IN BODYBUILDING HISTORY？ #askDave [nuf74V7JWWw].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. I'm Dave Palomso, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Rotter 30 year in a row. What we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry for the Ocar Pocktart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Alright, tell others not, alrightsmuscle.com. This is astute, better known as Hackspag. Astute, you're 30 minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Lumball all your questions. Dying, spraying, supplementation. I can pros, news, whatever's on your mind. It is all on the table. Iron debate makes it for turn. I'm not going to tell you exactly who we're going to have on the panel because whenever we do that, we guess. They fit and what we do have a very, very star-studded panel promised for you in some interesting, interesting topics. So excited for that iron debate makes it for turn this week. But Dave, this upcoming weekend, you have your virtual secret to become a diet group class. Yes, I am an interrible and promoting it. However, some of you mentioned on here, it will be this Saturday 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. we take an hour for lunch break. It's online. So anyone anywhere in the world can take it. Obviously it's going to be Eastern Standard Time 9 a.m. You can go to mydapelombo.com website. There's a link to sign up there at the Dave Polamo University, the Pumble University website. And once you do your it and you'll get a username password you'll create. Once you sign in a lot of people ask this, you'll get to be able to download the manual. I will upload the manual, the hunter page manual, I'll give you guys. You'll download it and then we'll file along. I'll have it up on the screen. It's interactive. You can talk to me. You can typEQuestions and people really enjoy this experience. And once again, I'm going to go over everything you could possibly want to know about how to be a diet coach. Everything really decides. It doesn't matter what your level of education is. It doesn't matter what you know or don't know if you know nothing. You're going to learn a lot. Okay, because I I I I build up everything very gradually so that everyone can understand what's going on. And it reinforces a lot of science and people's heads had a diet, had a gain weight. Drogs and that's a very popular part of the course. Obviously, you've performed some enhancing drugs and something about steroids and insulin and G.E.H. and all that usage. Do you talk to the case and we do contest prep last week had a peak people, dioretics. You know, it goes over anything you could possibly imagine and people come away from this course feeling like they took four year college education on this stuff. And this the the sad part is there's nothing else out there like this and that's why I do it really I do it because I feel like I'm giving back and I'm educating the next generation of coaches. So guys sign up and I'll see you on Saturday. Let's go to our question. Again, the first two questions on the day of the lungo experience. The first question day by the started recently cycling after 15 years and now calling some supplements I used into question, especially caffeine. Do you think people at one medium dose cycles will better off any lung cavity than if they were to use the various high caffeine pre-workouts, etc.? You know, I was just having this discussion with my wife yesterday and I told her, I don't think she believed me. And I used to be and when I was in medical school and I was in college, I never used aromasingle stimulant. I never drank a couple of coffee and she said, well, how did you study and had you when I would do is I would take an abs. Okay, and I'm serious about this. When I was bodybuilding I did this. The only time I ever had coffee was when I was dieting. I would drink coffee just to curb my appetite a little bit. But when I needed energy, okay, I went and took an abs. Now if you have a full-time job obviously, you can't sleep at work. It's a different story. But if you're working, when you have the ability to have some breaks, try taking a mid-afternoon nap. I'm telling you, sleep doesn't an amazing thing. I used to come home from medical school. I would go to the gym right after med school. I would come home. I would eat dinner. I would do a bunch of guys. We would cook dinner. And then they would start studying. I was exhausted at that point. I went into my bedroom. I was slept for about 45 minutes. I got up. I washed my face, took a shower, and you know what? I was so awake. I would study four hours. It was like they would have to study 18 hours to be equipped with thaT4 hours of studying because I was so focused. So good nap goes a long way. Can't do that. You know, a good cup of coffee can certainly help. Now, if you're using a pre-workout, there's nothing wrong with that. However, if you're using a pre-workout and drinking two energy drinks with it, that's excessive. And when you excessively over-stimulate your body, it stresses out the adrenal glands. The adrenal glands are always pumping out more and more and more at the naphenethrane. When they pump out at the naphenethrane, they pump out cortisol, which is a stress hormone. We know the cortisol can definitely catabolize muscle tissue. Because cortisol's job is to convert amino acids into glucose to raise blood glucose. So you don't want a lot of cortisol. I was also talking to George Tulliotis this morning about how cortisol can ravage your body. You can get fat from it and lose muscle. Nothing, okay? Which is weird. Because people think, oh, well, all the calorie guys will tell you, oh, it's all about calories and calories that know it's not. Because hormones will influence how your body utilizes calories. And cortisol, in high amounts, wreaks havoc on the body. We don't want to suppress the immune system. It breaks down a muscle tissue. It causes fat deposition in the abdominal area in the visceral organs. Not good. So you don't want to over-stimulate your body. But you could do a little bit, okay? It's a all-bout moderation. So if you like that pre-workout, you know, that you take and it helps get you three work out, then fine. But you shouldn't be drinking four or five energy drinks throughout the day. Also, in addition to that, because that's too much, okay? So, and also, what I do is, I drink cup of coffee like on the days we film here because we do a lot of filming in a row and I need to be awake. And sometimes I don't sleep that much because I got key on kids. So if that is the case, on the days I don't record, I don't drink coffee. So I let my body recover so that my central nervous system is very sensitive to caffeine. If I were to drink coffee every single day, large amounts eventually, it doesn't even do anything. I remember when I used to diet, I would drink Starbucks, you know, iced americanoes, and after, you know, three weeks of drinking every day, I could drink them and I could go right to sleep afterwards. It didn't even keep me awake. So, if you want to keep yourself sensitive to caffeine, don't do it. If you can get away with doing it every day or do very small amounts on the days that you really don't need it, you're going to get much better results for it. Second question again from the deep plumbo experience, I would get it cry, I don't want to drink high days. When Smith-Machine Squats be effective as barbell squats, I have it and I'm going to be very careful when I say this. Bulging disc, I love it. And to many times, I struggle after squatting. Yeah. Every N.A.S. didn't squat. The latter part of his career, because he had to hit an issue or something like that. His legs look great, okay? So, some people can do Smith-Machine Squats. I find that when you do Smith-Machine Squats, the Smith-Machine balance is the bar for you basically. So you're taking out a component of the squat that helps with full development. Just like Smith-Machine bench press is not quite as good as good a development as a freeway bar or free bar bench press. However, having said that, if you have an injury that makes it to that you can't squat the way you need to with a free bar, because you're injuring your back more and more, then you can't do it. You've got to work around the injury. Now, you should also check out, if you should try to get a pair of custom orthotics made for your shoes. That's going to certainly help the bile mechanics of your back and how your body is aligned. That could be causing the problem with irritating that disc as well. If the orthotics don't help and the only thing you can use is a Smith-Machine and that's going to help and you do the Smith-Machine, that's the best you can do. It's better than being laid up injured, right? IMean, at least you're trening. So, sometimes we have injuries, we've got to walk around, we'll see we work around. And sometimes we're just making excuses. If you're just making an excuse, it doesn't seem like you are, then that's a problem. But if you have a legitimate reason why you're not doing it and you've tried all the suggestions of other people like I'm asking you telling you right now, get a pair of custom orthotics, then you go and you do your Smith-Machine. Let's go to our Instagram questions again. If you're not already following us, our handle is official underscore RX muscle. If you're watching us for the first time on YouTube, hit the subscribe button below, hit the notification bell. If you're not going to miss any of our show's segments or updates, if you like what you're watching, hit the like button comment below. Obviously, that helps. And as always, we thank you for your support. It's going to ask Susie Blaylock, a friend of the show. People are telling you, Bonnie Blaylockers are using a metformin to cut, but doesn't it impair muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or is that not an issue for short-term use? You know, the study show, I'm a big life extension magazine guy, I like it because they do a lot of research there and they always support everything they say with research. And one of the reasons why metformin, which is that helps with blood sugar control, reduces glucose output from the liver and it does a couple of other things. The reason why they've shown that it actually helps with longevity or they think it helps with longevity is because it reduces IGF-1 output. IGF-1, obviously, is an anabolic hormone that will help build and repair muscle. And by reducing it, it reduces the rates of cancer and people's body. And by doing that, obviously, that won't increase longevity. So we know that high IGF-1 levels are not good for living a long time. And for, you know, possibly if you do have cancer in your body, for cancer's recovery, because it stimulates their growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, obviously, you know, how cancer in your body, IGF-1 is not an anabolic hormone. So it goes back to the old, what's good for body billing is sometimes not good for your health and what's good for your health is sometimes not good for body billing. So if I was a competitive body builder, I would not be taking metformin right now. Maybe after I retired, if I felt like it was something I wanted to take, I would do it. I don't use it now because I don't think I need it. I don't think, I don't like the gastric or the GIFX of metformin. I'm not against people who use it. I don't think there's anything wrong with it. But if you have a blood sugar issue and you're taking metformin for that, I think you'd better off taking a long act of insulin to manage it and then taking metformin. But if I'm a body builder who's looking to maximize muscle, I would not take metformin. No. I'll go to heartache, bro, Chancho, can you give more of a thorough explanation on why bridging is not ideal to gain size. I've seen really big physiques that were achieved with cruising glass cycles and don't even want. I hate the word cruising and blasting and I don't know. Maybe I'm just a shell on my age here. It's almost annoying. It's like people make up cool sounding, you know, I guess you could say, colloquialism to make it cool to do what you shouldn't be doing. Look, if you're doing a cycle for six months, okay, to grow. And it worked and you put on 20 pounds, whatever, whether it may be 12 of that as muscle, the rest is water, whatever the case may be, and it worked. And you did a had a nice cycle and you're not going to compete this year, okay. If you go off to clen your body out, why would you stay on anivar or bridge it with anivar or even like a little bit of testosterone? Why? Why not just go off everything? clen your body out. Number one, you're going to detox perfectly. Now the anabolic receptors, the energy and receptors that are weak, we know are not, they're found on the nucleus of the cell itself. So inside the cell is a little brain. The DNA is in there. And these receptors are on the nuclear membrane. Come on, these energy and bind to this, it tells the body, obviously, build more muscle, okay. But these receptor numbers, the more they're over-stimulated or over-saturated with testosterone, another anabolic state, they downgrade themselves. Just like anything would, okay. It doesn't want to be overwhelmed. That's why they steroids don't work as well as when you first take them the firsT4 and six weeks. They still work, but they downgrade, okay. In women, women don't produce very much testosterone, with talking small small amounts. So their energy and receptor density is very high. Meaning they have a lot of receptors so that those receptors can recognize the small amount of testosterone that's floating around their blood. When you take a large amount of steroids, over what your body naturally produces, what we call a pharmacological amount, okay. The receptors will downgrade. Now when you go off a cycle, okay, if you stay on some steroid, those receptor numbers are not going to come back to the degree that they should or that you would want them to. However, if you take away everything and you know what's going to happen, after four weeks of off all of these steroids, you're going to go down to almost zero, okay. Because your body's not going to even with HCG in clom, but it's not going to turn itself back on initially, very high amounts. You'll get a little bit production. So the body now, these receptors, okay, on this, these energy receptors are being exposed in very low levels of energy now. For whether it be six to eight weeks however long you're going to go off. That's usually I recommend eight weeks off. And what they're going to do is these receptors now, we're going to think that there's not enough receptor. It's not going to understand that your testosterone level is super low. So it's going to start producing more and more and more and more energy receptors. After six to eight weeks, you're going to have maximum amount of the energy receptors back. Now you're going to go back on cycle. Oh, cookie monster. He agrees with me. Oh, oh. You're going to have maximum energy receptors now at the six to eight weeks. When you go back on cycle, you're going to get a very, very big antibody boost. I think the mistake people make is they don't go off. They stay on some testosterone. Their engine receptor is really don't regenerate much. Although they do detox their body because they're off of most of the stuff that they were on. And then they go back on and they grow a little bit, but they don't really get the maximum results. And over, you do this year, a year, a year, after three to five years, your body shot, you're not growing anymore. Trust me, you're not going to lose anything in six to eight weeks. Every year of my career, I went off for eight to ten weeks. Except one year, and that was the year I had terrible results from 97 to 98. I was doing a lot of gasposing, and I just kind of stayed on a little testosterone. I bridged and it didn't work well. And I didn't, I had an entire look to my physique. Trust me, go off for six to eight weeks. I promise you, you would not lose any muscle. And when you come back on, you're going to see amazing results. But abroad, Rogers, Dave, have you ever mixed? trens, T-T and tren, and they together, just to get the tren into your system faster? I have not. Not tried that myself. Back in my day, there was, there was parable, which was long acting tren alone. And, you know, the second half of my career, there was trenable and acetate, that people were making for you. And I used usually one or the other. I didn't usually use both at the same time, because it was really the same compound. I preferred tren acetate over the, um, the parable, because I found like, I felt like it worked better during contests prep. Offseason, sometimes when I used parable, that became not available anymore. I was using tren alone, acetate, both offseason and pre-contest, you know, I would obviously cycle a lot in off. I personally think that the tren acetate works better. However, people get more side effects with that, because it seems to over-stimulate the nervous system more so than the tren, the long acting trens do. And then when you over-stimulate the nervous system, you, some people have, you know, digestive problems, some people get chronic hiccups from it, some people have trouble sleeping and that's usually the sub one of the main side effects you can't fall asleep in it. Once you fall asleep, you go be as very hard to fall asleep. Anger aggression, obviously all those other things. And of course, high blood pressure. Try and acetate really can spike your blood pressure pretty high and you got to be careful of that, because that could damage your kidneys. So these are things you want to side one and often these are things you want to take into account. Probably retrospectively, if I was looking back, I probably would do the long acting tren on the offseason, save the tren acetate for the, you know, the last six to eight weeks before our show. Those good at piney, the destroyer day we've heard you mentioned how any see and milk this look in altar, your blood work. Can you go into a little detail on what it changes and how much of a change it can make? Yeah, I've talked about this before. I feel like I'm being repetitive, but maybe it won't repeating. Milk vessel or silamaring, which is the chemical, it's in milk vessel, that does something, is a dilator to the bile ducts inside the liver. Okay, so the liver produces bile, it dumps the bile into the, it globular, the globular, and then squirts it into the small intestine when you're eating a fatty food meal. Okay, these bile ducts that drain the liver however, also the ducts that deliver uses to detoxify itself. So, when the liver is detoxifying chemicals in the body, whether they be animal oxsteroids or alcohol, whatever, it dumps all the gunk through the bile ducts into the globular, and then that's how you body gets rid of this stuff. However, when the liver is overstressed, it can get inflamed. When the liver gets inflamed, these little bile ducts get pinched off, and now that the gunk can't get out of the liver, it backs up, and you get inflammation, and then over time, you can get fibrodic tissue or scar tissue being laid down essentially, and that will scar the liver over, and that's permanently damaging the liver. So, milk vessel, okay, opens up or dilates these bile ducts and enables the gunk to go through at a much higher rate. It's like, if you have a kinking your hose, it opens up the kinking the hose that the hose can lift the water flow. And so, it's a good thing to use, especially when you're on a cycle, or even when you're trying to detox after a cycle, because you're constantly allowing the liver to push stuff out at maximum amounts without that backup occurring. Anacidal system is a precursor to glutify on which is the main antioxidant of the liver uses for also helping to detoxify these chemicals coming into the liver, while the antioxidant, IMean, all the free radicals that are there that are being produced. So, it's a nice one-two tandem to have together. The milk vessel is the most important component, however, and I really recommend highly. I can make my own, but I recommend Bill Lewellin's Molecular Labs, Liver Stable. I actually sell it at datelumbo.com. I think it's a really good product, and so I've just always backed it rather than try to make my own, which I could. But, you know, when I see good other products out there, I don't mind selling those other products if I think that they're the best out there, and I think he did a good job of it. So, it's something if, you know, when I'm competing or if I was on a cycle, I would be taking it all the time, through an just 65 days year. In the very least, you should certainly take it when you go off-cycle to clen yourself out. Time for two, three morEQuestions, Lavonne, Eugene, Kelhoun, should I stop taking creatine before a show? I tell people to stop it two weeks out, because I think it does cost some fluid retention that sometimes it's hard to get rid of. Plus, when you're dehydrating the last week or so that last couple days before a show, you definitely don't want to be on creatine because the kidneys need fluid, you know, proper hydration to flush the creatine out of the body. So, two weeks before stop it. Bill, you want to be 20. How many calories do you recommend to add weight or size to maintain and to be deficient? I heard John Meadows talking about a 16, 12, 10 approach, 16 to gain, 12 to maintain, and 10 to lose these are calories per body weight. You know what? I do not believe in calories. Obviously, calories are important. You know, you got eating a food, enough energy you need, but I don't believe in calculating things by calories. We're not machines. We know that these calculations do not work, okay? Because depending on whether you're eating protein fat or carbs, your body is going to respond completely different. So, you can't just say increase calories because people will just eat junk food, okay? Or the leek carbs. I would. If you just said, hey, increase your calories, 100, I'm going to eat carbs. That's what I'm going to do. It's not going to, that's like I'm doing it for me. You know, the rate, the rate, the rate, proof on the fact that what you eat doesn't always dictate how you look is by and we just mentioned this before. If you have a high high cortisol level in your body, okay, or you're taking a drug like prednisone, it's going to make you store fat without eating any extra calories whatsoever. Any extra food, your body will just get fat or why? Because this druGHas a nutrient partitioning effect that changes, okay, how your body processes food. Likewise, certain people are very carbs sensitive and if you increase their carbon take, they're going to get fat or they're not going to get more muscular. Other people, you add carbs to their diet and guess what? They grow muscle, not because the carbs are building muskers, we know carbs don't build muscle, but because they need more fuel available so that their bodies don't use the protein and fat as a fuel source so they can build muscle. So in every situation it's different. So I don't, there's no formula that works. Mathematically, because we're not machines and everyone is a different type of organism and responds differently. I can eat a lot of different, I can eat McDonald's and I'm going to get lean and I'm going to grow muscle. The next guy eats McDonald's, he's going to turn to a fat slob. So you got to figure out what your body needs and I, you know, as a coach, I ascertained that by how I see your body responding. So if I think that you look really flat and I'm trying to put weight on you, you're probably not eating enough carbs that are producing glycogen in the muscles, so I'm going to increase your carbon take. If you're full and as a house and you're still not getting weight, I'm going to assume you're probably not eating enough protein to add new muscle and I'm going to add proteins to your diet. If that doesn't work, okay, you might not be getting enough essential or enough even just fats in general and then I'll try to increase fats. So it's a trial and error type of thing and each person is a little different. You can't calculate calories because calories tell you nothing quitEQualitatively about what you're consuming. Last question from Taylor Vation David, your opinion the best legs in bodybuildinGHistory. Tom Platt's. No, no questions asked. I like to believe that mine were but they were not even close to Tom Platt's. Tom Platt's had the sickest look in legs, the shape of them, the striations. IMean, they were just, IMean, if you, from a purity standpoint, those were perfection. Unfortunately, his upper body didn't match his legs. I don't know if anyone's upper body can match those legs, but I thought that that's the perfect set of legs. That's going to do for this episode of As Dave reminder, new all new iron debate coming up tomorrow and Friday. We're going to have two episodes for you of iron debate. So the show after a hiatus is back again, we can't, we can't tell you who's going to be on the show because that's kind of beaten us in the past before, but we promise you's going to be worth your time. It's going to be worth your watch and it's going to be really, really compelling and compelling to beat compelling compelling topics. For Tyler Schoen-Dapetal and Bolt, I'm so the for review, we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: BEST POST-WORKOUT MEAL？ #askDave [gfz_Dw9vyvY].txt ===

guideline留下 来 Majesty Då Trying MondayYeahAfter workinGHard at the gym,you need a mattress that works as hard as you doSpanel and has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyleDon't compromise your recovery within fear your sleep or do your spinaline mattress todayD-Rush VanceWords first pre-workout V-Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro330-0 and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastryThe Low Car Cocktart goT3 and four grams in that car and we love to show this is our best place to be in LAray Aur profits daway OrX嘲廃 pro傚厉政crosstalk到他,搖叉追叉大厚你可以和哈驗这些浪贏和他们在爱隔巷会要做的是元素金便应远利的做回厂驗中国转带中国心里谢铁铁铁所有热扎并应远 غ不需要总讲饭都开得到如何一流及必为西酒进行舌冠肚鸣而是非常容易安全带旨南海里 toi奔cher带投資上下真實於S Kickstarter漲不潛透過達延伸時我用養不了其實從我們上廷上伸了所讓我來吃但是在加坦巴加義了會��將 карт有更多富費的こう是降食物真的 對不對可以全天下降有沒有乾媽肋蛙條多謝可是洗 expensive疯你你的時候真的許新活動那麼我們想眼神還未比 這…綠角也比較我是不是面出路之後但這支 Rao算是其實很熟悉的水哥氣載傷到外門就開幕了這腦叫《燃炸雪泥》最多的跌下魚卡大粒是理會來做的很棒的是和阿亂了格拉 prestigious通過大歌跟曲工作上限令你的笑哉本來要來自要申請在頹市籍 μια關鍵的民運傳承網友我已經有很多人說過了很多人的貨幣的貨幣應該是想說要去看貨幣的貨幣就算是很大就是在家裡的貨幣或者是在家裡的貨幣如果是不貨幣如果是不貨幣的貨幣你不想說要有很多貨幣因為你應該不想說所以看來看貨幣看來看貨幣如果是貨幣的貨幣他在貨幣貨幣貨幣應該是如何感受的平常是花幣的貨幣但貨幣是很貨幣很貨幣貨幣是非常貨幣你可能會有很多貨幣你覺得貨幣還在貨幣嗎你都覺得貨幣貨幣前面我已經不問貨幣我都不是貨幣但我貨幣貨幣是貨幣因為貨幣貨幣貨幣哇,來試看我的 creams我穩定 aprender我 uns,但這一在用上辦事俺對學是可以扣清手 footage人家還我有或容易認識阿貝跟三組友情 succ crave我跟静者 gamer人合 kahkaha對男師兄玩一條湯壹 Ship只有快速樂我也需要多一個寂寞的暗夜連鎖無大因爲為甚麼要倚壹學錯誤然後一直在止胺定太重一會在息解溟出來我以你andy我以你算有一個 variar樱查數怎遍你都死了叫heiten餓餓獄略我今年份冰時很好的的她我很喜歡大家在開台你打唱查顧我要打那輩£發生的所以很有趣自然臨造如果自己有上 INFD啊5看我是不是illing my crib賣說了,呢至少當然我們比這個量準其實如果我是啊這個量準我們再移民孩子師沒有資產可能會掉io以幹股注十分很多豉魚皮毛使命因為其實自財倫 Ne€但是我要我沒有了這是尺寸的對的所以我也譶 Date knowledge of white互倫強重出傷而蠟色的 在多德国位国民传iate未到美清中视隐微的年龄日员的对Model是来颜金型还有的然後我們還有一個很好的雖然但是然後每一次它是全部q所以它只 steal它還可以用從 來規模式的℃℃igner為何我願意會做更好用 pouco燈它在上面就是黑暴一堆內裝但是因為最主要的想掌握還是個抽票以前都是如果你想賺錢的實質力量我們應該頂次也沒有錢用 Tuscan是好被逼税法怒住面我們一點一點下去像是針對甜點分析唄如何就因為因為這些則素並不是逼廠也菠島這邊沒蠻好的因為這個實況要做成祖所以東西大家可以就像是從這年的政治人的是amiento Cooking Master for Toast from Recepters Lock事務 their company豬説的一種,他的失忆還是分成的樂觀不是一種勝利的這肉很棒對方如何提供給你就是從文化去黃碟油另一種快失忆因為他們那種宮者士一門 semaine是由vl� fins獲抑之一的日清好像對於你要不覺得禁止船子夥定中大大人 esc seeing究竟ok 例如一家要能免竅又會適合 elas與此 tofu玩繞併子內遊戲玩繞併其不好即使說叫省爭änd子騁而砧軍但繞得可這麼快光飾龍在爹上別模擬已 用中 illness這花emie你揹定,你更喜歡墊讓大家更得興趣但覺得這非常好似乎鍋除資金我如果那麽買喘高下病裡中又沒有失去發生病 strategy這是聽到的耿津免體改良 fully可以在單心上略片很少經常停能受和不 permis它但它還有許多從一人的至10?16?18?20?20?20?20?30?成年兩者是一個大小,聞到了打開了所以陽性漁體伸在靠蠻地伸接電爲大臭影 cosmetic所以如果你當然可以把 общем多其他明顯用動手來休息的明顯百士的那將陽性漁體都透明到最先執法很有趣但對疫苗的粒像不要樣的又開起來更新的祖軍的很多人知道魔物不好閒著 ello會開始的我們要請問外收到是否會夠我有地方的答案時間是非常邏輯的上次,我有 mudar Verbal garlicайте今天封印很有趣的人從在自己上 referred但是過去幾年火 requested中國軟槽的但是換拭自己的因此結果確實只是來我的活動情況上重重重重重按照所有店目 按照I以中傳報的想明年未來的話開程行兩個月放删就會再玩安安要不再上 위해我帶去用風車就可以換 axis什麼是非常危害因為那種問題就是家具的周圍因為 있지만倫敦線丱DER其中一種問題是,這個枝瀩我們是在覺得不 SB些注意這作為在深飛的而且不是在深飛的無法 liability這個是合定性物當初的一個扣臥只是無法折臥可是擱受這個地方第二星的人60.sapuration, mask thing,teenth rated,soeven though嗯,有個地方可能還是最起隔會的所以沒有那些ND而你有有一個小業成 pressured所以我可以怎麼併他們覺得自己們可以可以因為既然他們不做專注他們覺得自己們人出得不對但終於是當生他的孩子他們 tiene自己自己著目找到他們又不會說過不到我在這兒一定應該持下之處那他還沒有可能是多少肥職員人家多了一定打成有要受傷也 publicly做事才能超兴 MUELLER是很多事情其實士鄭連輔好了有得來說可以抓我就要到双去截是一場 luminszOfr守漂亮在用在多這些經過 화�aire就好像有假設另外我們再說說這裡下面都有如何就是我想出來我們去更多有些服務那度比較好我們有一天談 ça說現在我面對Coco做過這麼簡單所以我們這都是個春九月我的女孩當然 extending因為黃雞倫和蓓葕也不算她弄壞你不想打,你有看到的是那種對的經過你履充學生的意思這也叫我是我告訴你用小儉arning我想這是性的願意所以是這種當我們參與黨委的表演所以五 人不過這兩個都是撼破的話被寧 Tet.他們看到以執政的無法斷買仍然變得進入責任因為它還是粉絡維可是在那些國家人類有些人也有關電政府但我是希望大家搭做他們可以用來把食物代表都放寧因為它說會不會更多一些人允許的外出他們其實用來調我的衣服比較好但是我已經攻略了對於 Cin nev friend但是啊而是去同一個不壞因為ндav for a visit因為hovah's Witness以前有很多唱片和我們不想麥戀生當頭像素一樣想笪伴拍拖像素一樣兜品一樣現在也 system路上進入觀看錯誤的很多年之前我還想把我的 banter的英國芳文 της隊安送入可能認為她們準備做回看正行的能把他們去換餐餐因為第二題她們們們已經知道到底說好時間應該覺得如何說什麼當下的弟弟她也是吃不得她說照照我覺得民會在生日舉個工具現在我們談施可是還有一種件我想所有設�孔淮不修我們覺得你的蟹子算到這邊整個打算你 對啊 tule得 compens啊對太穿要向他待會沒有羨慧你都在物壏 因為 planter跟不合作被打算到對啊回去 Mosc腦公類的富富然後來醬汁 whopping你一過一過 都在跟佢ziu放滿大的長大 sanding plate Tilambi做的是同時點點點對今天點你會看到這一點路上就是因為整個靜希聲香港港式大家都聽到要看電影的BHD並沒有變像要再為 agradeтора的用文我們一樣玩幫忙拿下cas입니다就是退利的是換單軌的FT如果每次發生還有些他們S管金的BG經過系列中你接上來這樣變成不要迫用电影误的却在利大了以外拿着过最深淡疙瘤所以说你只以为在 places behind the action有些冷凉瘤叫可能详理开动房间的间属因为你缓成锅具所以付出以上 creep广的它 fuel装的叫做把缓匙炒净净的空间毕丑制作贺塎 exercises不凯冠犹而且這個是一個5outer的 rock takes inhibitor因此它們如此興趣的狹頂接一次HT形容而略作為官功能做非常好的眼ary George Jeremiah Z Stick有255 L doubled as per står我在9%》第236,176mon甲代製作為提奏和杨太少 ayudarYesjson卡豪類的員工只要經常帶起因為我終於對方簡 fi在等我時間我展 scientific看一下我覺得我有一個說說一個 200云而且又是一會有、不公認因為為甚麼就可以按革項如果是一會場放在地上呢位置我命令獎勢ук給 imprint中的我們還要帶這裡村子共三人政府有帶在香港所以走得遠現在第一集孩子所以要從產品講如果我 leaving the placegov資urally就是你的關係我自己是不是是來 tasty自己有人跟人狠都订固的但子身都有踢上我爬了一会上的免这样的我将派收好化味新鲚鲍我现在进中国祝福 innolvation可日果和荈下去我自用上 lessons法制海埂和海埂海埂我是克日寻室但我通节令你担心我被他们讲我觉得关注我的演誉是恚恚一个明天 Pourquoi但是當場的 phase才是不是一起脫掉還是不是完整的因為 essayer成為您的同時很完整的怎麼樣開始密技術知道很多都是一對旗品也藏的戀章單體手起出手用頂上動處怎樣是散調好如果是一些想法中是沒ματα你覺得比較不好,會打很高這樣繼續她嗎?不過如果渴家about要又讓她oid的短期圖形中要瞧跳過這種短期如果是告訴人,你肯定是沒慢一點你如何點錢zelf你可以點幾血躲過很可憐這是另外一個消息工作了 這點生氣識試 page誰當初考慮會成半年繁忙吃 bibliothstrokes中我是為非常辛苦的這幾登大早都能夠量日本的對峽那開始也在真沒眼性非常突破那段生意應該不會需要因爲怎麼那麼化癫但 наконец可能會有低次能夠健Down易戰隊壓開 Толькоampoo也怎麼靠你看人類現在都會成本的任何人能夠不相信當然會已兇理沒錯我總是中Spin第二個之作如何到這一次來說,的illi產品叫做這次 chart 輪戶相要抖到大家看下來說,如果 Fore殊彘女的話大家可說有相機節看外有的是只有以後的哪裡乾肇非常緊張他們有一邊通止看到天空獨體太干所以剛才提拖的是但當時亦是比今生之下一亦必 belangrijk你是需要問一下者主要輪ür服劇的有提供掂議者 Janeiro甚麽有信寨這個保證令人怎會因為 Thailand不是受債的我早上買了一個班s作為問題不可確定駕駛是否有因為他如今就差點可以讓你一點點 glycointonic的那麼可能要在於雙頭頭層要導致你能度土壞那天為止如何能投降だけ的交流但是這個就是你本來算這樣子剛才你全部進行墊時使計最珍 Catalan因此 myself你頭頭�とう第三個你拿完基本上你最終記得我英國明國若干itchens和 commands詩曲以後如果不抱歉中安慰還是要準備蒸清idd這個算是蒸清你目前把事情同時有地不失督也被留意的我會留意我們兩個超冷州要看到問題ardo voice or部的冒險如果是 кос月或者連疫苗的空間對事後 前平才了到說說鑼絲我的制打 只有咱娛總之你不失去會覺得就算是野生創造的創造讓小蒙正如之後已經連證了為何不能算一個與手轉這要是說要是要該做ocide說要真絲現在我想此刻國 Felipe會不會不會恥關不知道為何一定會不會擦坡擦对方方便现在合作 stora性的くらい的句子 然后把它形成它现在好看到刚才您可以挑釁一下送什么醬料要送个通过咎期的朋友慢慢来ила这个ée手執位土壯摸录装底下会幸福可是它真的保ented这种 parachint中很具处理 Теперь讓它挖擦的 BETHKe,而他們沒有副 energetic,因dy nez,讓它推出 pursuing牛包或者做得完成再割材的更 Poddramatic每一款 frick,所以如果要�氣化,他是合照scene,做結了的如果你對牌對案件人衣梓的源頭,不可調法雖然我不可調法啊但不可調法也不可調法前面我的Ah啦很 loved的她把拆弬好看切岁了剛剛或者練不了可以在明天把拆弬了立刻 Eagles那一個動動我知道我做錯啦胖口開部我再必須不要nyt所以我覺得太高你再立刻繼續大聲 啊即刻但我會繼續所以呢拜託 echt我想知一下你其實那個時候是什麼什麼什麼什麼什麼一些什麼那切怎樣有台灣等等什麼 milieu覺得什麼想跟這個什麼今日 personas真的不知道私的在LINGRRRRRRRRRRRRRR????是我在弄我病惹因為터� Risiken也是很便宜很便宜通常我用電車上回來即使我做到,我只做到中午3時也這樣我救我 apartment我自己就沒抲事但是我做一個時間 如果我要我做一個段到三天上次就算到了我覺得導致我太多 不要去做什麼如果我覺得做得好但是我真的都會一個更多我也很高興我來幾幾間跟大家說兩間過程還是十多呢未更快就是要 Nein給別人捏我不知道1 tall cuffojoYou see a lot of guys who have taken gear the past talking about maintaining most of their gains on work conservative TRT dosesDo you think they could have reached that level of muscularity if they'd only ever taken the TRT doses or is there an advantage to blasting and maintaining that muscularger with the TRT? Yeah, you can grow that big just on like 200 million euros as his social media is not going to happen but once you have that, when I decided I wasn't going to compete anymore and I went on to TRT I just went away from my site and I went on to 200 million euros testosterone weight I didn't lose anything I was saying about 260 270 I had to cut back my food intake I had to stop trening as heavy It took a long time for me to lose that weight and it wasn't until I went off the TRT completely that I was able to actually bring my weight down to where I wanted to which was under 200 pounds so it's not so easy to lose muscle once you had it it's hard to get the muscle but once you have it if you lift heavy and you eat right you can maintain it really easily Let's go to end my co-init It's a question about toxicity What is the solution for NMR or a superdolchanticity on the body? He said he tried apples out of vinegar is just not helpful anymore What was the toxicity in the toenailment? for NMR or a superdolchanticity? NMR and comparing NMR and a superdolchanticity comparing Sianai and Tiktak There's no comparison NMR has very little toxicity superdolchanticity superdolchanticity can deliver to big difference you could take NMR or probably you're around even though it's 17th of South-19th it's not a toxic compound where a superdolchanticity can take it for six weeks and you can be joined and some people who are prone to it My advice and I've said it a million times you don't have to agree with me there's no reason to be taking these toxic superdolchanticity or all this compounds like anodrol if you're a bodybuilder the strength guys like it because it gives them and they don't take it for a long period the time they like the strength that it gives them but for bodybuilders it kills your head these harsh orals kill your appetite like superdrol like anodrol like methyl testosterone there's no reason to take them the hardest oral I ever took early in my career was dianibal because for some reason dianibal it must not be as strong because it doesn't kill your appetite anything that blunts your appetite you don't want to eat you have to believe that it's doing something to deliver that the liver does not enjoy it's overstressing the liver to the point where the liver doesn't want to send out the right signals when I would take anodrol I felt terrible on it and I didn't want to eat I was strong but I didn't want to eat and if you can't eat enough protein and fat and carbs you're not going to grow obviously so this is ridiculous and then I realized you know what this so many great injectable antibiotics why am I even worried about these orals we become from a pill pop culture people like the pop pills they think it works better so that's why guys take the orals but in reality you don't need them it's good to get strong and they do believe there is a limit of how much the body can absorb from injectables I've seen some research that 125 mg is the limit or compound while injecting and anything more and that's just because waste and bile in the liver of his liver that's like saying that you know you can only absorb 30 grams of protein per meal obviously that's not the case because the more muscle you have and you're better than the more protein you can absorb because your body is only going to absorb protein wise what it means to use so if you're 2,300 pounds and you're breaking down a lot of muscle you're better than you need to a lot more protein it's going to absorb more if you're 120 pounds and you're eating 350 grams of protein the body just needs to know that protein it's probably going to get rid of a lot of it or won't absorb it so it's the same thing with drugs you know not everyone needs the same amount of a box you know to say that you only can absorb 125 mg in a shot who made up that rule you know you could anything you inject into your body you know storightly speaking you're going to absorb what your body does with it is another story is it going to convert to estrogen or DHT is it going to just break it down and eliminate it like I said earlier there's only so many engine receptors so if you're taking too much drug that's getting into your bloodstream your body's going to inactivate the drug because there's nothing for the drug to bind to anymore and that's how you know you're wasting your time and usually when you start taking and more than your body needs you start to get like symptoms like almost like a flu-like symptom because your immune system is starting to hyper respond to all this drug this foreign body that's there it's too much so when you start feeling like that you know you're taking too much you got to back it down first I'm certainly though we've had I guess this type of question on this show mushroom any of your clients have been quiet about this but it is irrelevant one especially when the times are living in now is from muscle machine now his question is if you test positive to COVID can you start your cycle or is it better to wait so I'll take it to set further in your Indian or I guess what you discussed research what would be the correlation between COVID taking anything short-term long-term is there relationship positive-negative aware you know if anything I think that anabolic star is probably helping if you had COVID with recovery but the truth is that if you feel like I have a client who said who tested positive for two he feels absolutely fine he has no symptoms he I don't know what he was the doctor they said I will just test you he's like sure no symptoms hey should I work out that day if you don't find it go work out we don't even know if a positive test result means anything we don't even know if it means you have an active case or not or you had it already no one really knows or from what I'm reading everyone carries little strens of this DNA that you can find that in this virus so we might actually have the virus particles in us or segments of DNA that they're testing so they're really not testing for a virus testing when they do this polymerase test the testing for segments of DNA and a lot of people just had those in their body anyway so you could test positive and not have an active case of the virus that's been established already so if you feel good and you feel strong even if you test it positive and you want to tren especially your gym I don't know if I would go and expose anyone else just in case you are at you know contagious do it not can self-att if you feel terrible don't push yourself obviously because you could make yourself worse so if you feel sick lay in bed do it you got to do the recover take your multi-vitaminate you know immune system and get over the thing and then you can go back to the gym but if you feel great and just because you got a positive test not can self-attach go tren if you want that's going to do for this episode of ass-day reminder right now on speciesentrition.com the link is below right now in the bio so caramel makiato ice-lice 44 surveys 449 NAS practically 50% off while supplies last as species nutrition dot com for producer Tyler Shortdate lumbop I'm sitting for a few weeks I want to show off my amazing legendary food shirt they sent me you know I've been eating these I've been pushing these pop charts these virtually net card free pop charts there I think they only have three neck Rams of carbs nine grams of protein there amazing these things so I the only of two flavors right now but I guess these must be all the new flavors that IMean I saw pump and spice and they're really excited about it Tyler which one did you like again he liked marshmallow and high-challenge so this was a really cool shirt I don't know whose idea it was but they put all the I guess the future pop charts are going to be making it and it was really cool pop charts the cool pasty pasties or pasty pasties pasty pasty sorry guys you can get these legendary foods website because and I think they're on Amazon as well these things are so good my kids the Valorities and I'm so happy that they're eating these and not the real pop charts because I really don't want to get my kids all that sugar it's unnecessary these things are have virtually known net carbs and they're high in protein it's a great treat and I feel comfortable with the meeting it they're delicious they really are if you guys haven't tried it you got to check it out legendary foods I think we have a coupon code in the description right said for people to use we have a link it's well we generally post it on the muscle in the morning episode but what we'll do for this episode is we'll post that right underneath these species nutritionally so the first two lines of the description of the bio first one is going to be for these species nutrition caramel macciato ice-lice sale and then right underneath that for the legendary foods what is it it's not the pop chart it's a tasty pastry I don't know where these are the shirts I know everyone's jealous that I have the shirt on but I don't know if this shirts are a bit I haven't looked at the website I just got these literally before we started the show I got this one and I got this one this one's a little weird looking but it's kind of cool I guess my kids are like it but it's a little dinosaur eating the pastry pastry pastry it's a tongue twister so anyway thank you legendary foods for supporting the show and sending me all your great stuff I love all your products I also love their I don't have the peanut butter but they make some great almond butters and peanut butters too with protein as well and all that is available at their website So now for this episode of assay see you next week

=== FILE: BEST RED MEAT SOURCE FOR BODYBUILDERS？ #askDave [kWUqWKb2HBE].txt ===

If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the species nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Bot, there's 30-year-in-a-row. What we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-carve hot-tart. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Alright, still a vision on RSMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave Betternode as hashtag as Dave. Your 30-minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Palombo. All your questions, diet, trening, supplementation. I believe you pros, news, whatever's on your mind, it is all on the table. I'm going on right now on the RSMuscle channel. If you go to the channel right now, episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. After hours from last night, Dave doinGHis reaction video on the big news, Dave and that's what we'll start with the Arnold Classic. We also touched on Flex Loomis who made his announcement of a leave late last week about why he was not going to be competing at this upcoming Olympia, but speaking of the Olympia and the upcoming Arnold Classic, who was reported, I don't know if an official announcement has been made yet, but it's been reported that this 2021 Arnold Classic will in fact be a qualifier for the 2021 Mr. Olympia previously. It was a qualifier for the 2022 Mr. Olympia. Yeah, what I found that was a little weird was that I reached out to Bob Lormo, who usually always texted me back pretty quickly and he didn't confirm anything. I haven't seen anything announced on the Arnold page, who were going on secondhand information that other people have been reporting on other sites. It doesn't matter. I really don't even think it matters. I think it should be a qualifier for this here. It just makes sense. I don't know why. If there was a show a weekend before the Olympia, it was a qualifier for the Olympia. If it happened a weekend after the Olympia, then it was a qualifier for the next year. I don't know why they started doing this one month out type of cutoff. I thought maybe they did because they wanted to book flights more easily and have everything set up. How many extra people really qualified that last week or two? Not netty. I don't know why they do that. But if they look, if they do do or they do make the Arnold this year or qualifier for the Olympia, I think that's a great idea. Probably most of the people will bEQualified. I think the only person in that list would be probably a really winkler. I know Sergio is competing before that. I'm sure it's not depending on the Arnold or qualifier, especially with that line up there. It would be a really winkler qualifier really is what it would amount to. We might see him before the Arnold anyway. Maybe now he's going to ask it. If you think he's going to be competing before the Olympia class? Maybe now he won't. I would still be nervous because what if he doesn't qualify to the Arnold? What if he has an offer show or something like that? There's no other opportunity. He couldn't compete last year. It would be really rolling the dice to the bank on that one show. The second biggest show that you're going to be mistaken is part of. Well, it is going to up the stage a little bit. It's going to up the entertainment aspect of the event. Of course, we're talking about September 25th. It is July 14th now. So before you know, we're going to be starting our coverage of the Arnold classic hour road to the 2021 Arnold classic. A lot of exciting things on that front. Then it's going to be the 2021 Olympia. So it's going to be a lot of breaking a gaction between August, September and October. Let's go to thEQuestions. The first two questions from the Dave Lumbo experience. I have the first question. Dave, I'm on your pre-contest diet with little cards before trening 30 grams. But I'm losing weight so fast and the competition still for months. What can I do? Increase carbs in another meal or take one day full on carbs with all meals with carbs. You know, when I see a guy losing too fast or a woman losing too fast. But I usually said to do a throw a couple of cheat meals in there. Rather than start messing with the diet right away. Because sometimes people lose really quick in the beginning because they're getting their bodies get rid of junk weight very fast. So what I'll do is like rather than just do a once a week cheat meal, IMight say in the words if someone sends me an update today, I losT3 pounds from yesterday. I'm going to be like tonight. I want you to have a doublEQuarter pound or with fries, you know, an update in the morning. If they're weight stabilizes, then I know they're good for a couple of days. If it doesn't stabilize, then IMight do it again. If it still doesn't stabilize that, then I know all you have to cut back their cardio or it needs to increase their food intake at every meal. Because they're just not eating enough. Most of the time the cheat meal will stall a little bit and fill them up and get their body right. At some point, usually that massive weight drop stops. What I find is usually the first two to three weeks, you'll see big jumps in weight loss because they're losing, because remember when you'd deplete glycogen out of your muscle, water goes too. That's a lot of weight. You can lose when I was 315 pounds, I think I went down to 285 and like two weeks. So that's, IMean that's thinking about a 30 pounds I lost. Because the bigger you are, the more water you hold, that's just the way it goes. And I did, and to 315, I didn't look like I was holding a lot of fat. I was a little bloated though in the face and my tissues were a little full. Once the glycogen came out of the muscles with the water, then obviously I dropped some weight. So I wouldn't panic right away, but I would definitely, you know, if you need to throw those cheat meals in there to kind of, you know, balance off your metabolism a little bit, there's nothing wrong with that. Second question again from the D.F. Lumbo Experience app. How large of a role do you think hormones play in fat storage? I think they have a huge role. IMean, the perfect example and Dr. Scott Conley loves to give this example. You know, you know, you have a person on a diet that's like icicle or, you know, isomate and insuffusion on a call. And there was whatever they're eating is being used to repair muscle and fuel their body, but they're not gaining or losing weight. And you throw give them prednisome because maybe they had some kind of neuromune issue, chronic inflammatory type disease like Crohn disease, and all of a sudden they start getting fat. And they might even lose some muscle. And think about it, they're doing nothing different. They're trening the same, they're eating the same. They're just adding this hormone because certain hormones are what we call positive partition, nutrient partitioning agents, and some hormones are negative partitioning agents. And the negative partitioning agents make you gain fat. The positive partitioning agents will make you build muscle and use stored body fat as a fuel source. And a ball of steroids will do that. At a ball of steroids like prednisone are negative partitioning agents. They actually just make your body store fat because they raise blood sugar. So yes, hormones dictate a lot of about what's going on. Obviously, if you thyroid hormone is often, that's a huge problem that a lot of people have because they're running their little hypo thyroid. They're metabolic processes are not moving into the right rate. It's almost like having a factory that doesn't have enough power for the factory. And because the factory can generate a tremendous amount of output, but if you don't have enough energy to run the factory, then it doesn't work. And the thyroid hormone is kind of like the thermostat there that will keep the factory running its ideal temperatures. So yes, hormones absolutely without a doubt will influence how you look. Let's go to our Instagram questions again. If you're not already following us, our handle is official underscore RX muscle. If you're watching us for the first time on YouTube, hit the subscribe button below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss any of our show segments or updates. We talked about the Arnold Classic coming up in September. We're going to be starting up our preview segments for the Arnold Classic. And then subsequently two weeks later for the Olympia. We talked about what's on this channel right now. We have on only episodes of the after-hour podcast heavy muscle radio. And then a topic that we talked about on the after-hour podcast about the INFBB bikini pro originally from Turkey who is traveling from Dallas to Miami. For a photo shoot, as you got ejected from the flight flight attendant saying that her clothe or two, I guess inappropriate, we just had her on the channel. She gave her side of the story so that's right now live right now on the channel. So again, if you haven't already subscribed, hit the subscribe button. Love you. Like what you're watching, hit the like button comment below. That helps. And as always, year round, we appreciate your support. Let's go to Joseph Lashar or Lashay. Once some open-class bodybuilders who retire use, sometimes your quote, I got too big and ruined my waistline. Couldn't those guys just have died and cut some of the drugs out of their waistline or to get their waistline back? What am IMissing? So if you want to talk about, I guess, you know, blowing out those lines and I guess what they could have done to avoid that. You know, I thought a lot about this, too. I used to, I ate a lot of food back in the day, but you know what? I'm almost of the belief that I don't necessarily know if the drugs and the food ruin their waistline as much as Father Time did and genetics, because, you know, in order to get that big, okay, let's, IMight use myself as an example, because I wasn't a pro. Let's use Ronnie Coleman as an example. Ronnie was eating an enormous amount of food and trening with enormously heavy weights and his waistline was great, his body looked great, okay? And people don't realize that he won his first Olympi, he was in his early 30s, you know, he wasn't young. So by the time he got to the end of his reign, he was already in the 40s, you know, and when you get to that late 30s, 40s, things start to, you know, you lose the elasticity of the, of the fashion around your abdominal area, whether you eat a lot of food or whether you tren really heavy or not, okay? Looking flex wheeler, he saw his really tiny waist, he always ate a lot of food and trened heavy, he was big, you know, he was, his frame, he was huge, he was like 260 on stage. So, to the end of his career, he, any term pro at 218. So, and his waistline didn't look work bad for him to me. So, I think what happens is your genetic structure is your genetic structure and as you get older, it deteriorates and breaks down a little bit and you lose the elasticity of your skin and the fashion sheets that surround the muscles stretch out and I don't necessarily think it's a drug issue because I see when guys go off drugs, it kind of reverses. Like, you know, I had a lot of problems with distension, I'm like, I had a very short torso in my midsection and my waist is small now and it's my stomach flat, you know, so I reversed it somehow and I don't have loose skin on my abdominal area. So, I don't, I don't buy into it. I think it's just genetics at at a certain level, you know, your body can only handle, you know, I wouldn't say, you know, my body, I don't have the tightness of the skin that I had when I was younger and I don't have the kind of like that fresh looking muscle that you see on like a Nick Walker, but age is what ravages us really and some guys, age better than others, Dexter did a pretty good job aging, you know, although his midsection also wasn't what it was. Phil heat wasn't and I don't think Phil doesn't look at the kind of guy that was abusing a lot of performance enhancing drugs. He wasn't a he, I'm super heavy trener. He didn't, he wasn't an over eater. So, you know, why would happen to his waist? He just got older, you know, and that's what happens, I think. And so, you know, I think people just, you know, they get carried away with the fact they want to blame something. Oh, yeah, he was a good champion, but he ruined himself. No, I think, you know, the guy won fucking seven Olympias, Ronnie won eight Olympias, you know, they obviously had a lot of time during that rain that they looked amazing. That's why people don't last forever, you know, body building is a very short live sport. You can only have that peak look to your body with a good quality muscle before you start tearing things and things start, you lose elasticity in your skin and things just go wrong. IMean, that's just what happens, especially when you walk around in 300 pounds, you know, all the time. It's a big stren on your body. So, I think thEQuestion, the answer to thEQuestion is that, you know, I don't think that it's the drugs necessarily in the overeating and the food that did it as much as it is the person's genetics and old age. Let's go to G, more of Gano, your opinion on taking a test e while on ketosis, your recommendation. Yeah, you know, I always say that, you know, drugs, excuse me, the diet, supplementation, and trening is very standard. Okay, whether you're a natural body, builder or you're an enhanced athlete, it's very important. I think sometimes the natural athlete have their diets down and their supplementation better because they don't really can't depend on drugs. So, they're really like almost like OCD at researching what they need to eat and how they have to tren properly. That's why a lot of those guys when they do switch on to using PEDs, they make amazing, amazing games because they have well trened muscle, they had a supplement, they had a tren and that's something that a lot of people just take for granted that that's really important. So, when you add tests, whatever, an athlete in or any kind of drugs into a regimen, whether you're on a ketogenic diet or you're in a non-ketogenic diet, all drugs do as make things work better. So, to answer your question, adding, you know, test an athlete or whatever he wants to add into his ketogenic diet, it's just going to make it work better. That's all. Magnificent, marvelous Maria, if you were happy to go against Lonnie Coleman in the challenge round for anyone, O's, which pose it to be. Side try, sir. Gustavo Badell showed that right off the bat and that was Ronnie's worst pose. That was Gustavo's best pose. I don't think it was my best pose, but it was a good pose. But I wouldn't want to go against Ronnie in any pose, that's how good running ones. But yeah, that was Ronnie's worst pose, everyone knew it. You know, the funny thing was another really bad pose for Ronnie was the front last bread and it wasn't because it was a bad pose because he had a huge lat and huge legs. He just didn't have to hit the pose. He hit it like a most musco, like he was like flexing into it. But his side try said, I don't know why he had problems and I think he just Ronnie wasn't the greatest poseer and I don't know if it had anything to do with the fact that he was so big or the fact that maybe he just, you know, he just didn't have the mind muscle connection because I'm sure he practiced because Ronnie was a consummate professional. He just wasn't that good at hitting the mandatory. And I think it's hard to tell someone who's an eight-time Mr. Olympia, you don't know how to hit the mandatory poses. I don't think anyone ever really worked with him to the degree that a deconstructing what he was doing and then buildinGHim up again because I think a lot of his poses could have been better. But he was pretty, but he knew at it. What the poses he was good at, he was so dominant and didn't even matter, you know. Taktu by Tony and I'm sure you're going to be talking about this over the course of the next six months or so. If really comes in at his all-time best condition, do you think he could beat Ronnie if he comes in with the same shape as last year? I think if Kevin LeRoni could get back to his best that he ever could beat big revenue. IMean it's a hypothetical situation you're asking. I don't know. IMean I've been seeing pictures on Instagram of really recently. He looks like when the Olympia right now. I don't know. I don't know if he's a recent. He's crazy looking. I think the exciting thing about bodybuilding is that in any given day, anyone can beat anyone because you never know who's going to show up in shape. Rulia has had a couple of bat, a run of a couple of bat shows and I think because of that people are kind of this countenium, but that's dangerous because Rulia's got a lot of firepower in his arsenal. He's got more muscle than all these guys. Higher better density muscle, you know, grainy, you know, mature muscle that he's developed over 20 years. Randy doesn't have that. So can he beat Randy? He absolutely can beat Randy but Randy has pretty good structure for a big massive guy and you know Randy's more impressive standing in a lineup and Rulia seems to have trouble peaking from behind. So a problem Randy had too. So if Rulia can pull it all together he absolutely can win the Olympia. But you know what? To beat Mr. Olympia you've got to knock them off and Randy's a pretty big looking guy. You know, you see Phil Heath up there he's not that big but Randy's huge. You're going to knock Randy off. Randy's going to have to be off a little bit because they're not going to take the Olympia away from Randy if he comes in better than he was last year. Also going to Alex Williamson lamb versus beef as a red meat source for body builders. You know, it's interesting because I don't really have too much access to lamb but I I actually like it, you know, if it's prepared properly. I was a big beef eater in the sense that I used to do for a while I went through a period where I was eating a lot of flares, flaming on, stakes out of guy with my butcher with chopping up into like half pound pieces for me and I would have like one a day or something like that back in the day just for the red meat component. Of course I ate a lot of McDonald's too which was red or just red meat. But I actually had it I don't know if I guess lamb would be I guess you'd get I guess the most the place where I usually would get lamb would be one of those Brazilian meat places where they cut the stuff in front of you there and they come around to the tables and they slice it. That's the the only place I really liked lamb the way they cooked it because it was kind of like that free but lamb could be a little gainy too and it could be a little fatty. So I don't I know a lot of people like that taste I don't really like that gristly taste in my mouth. So for me I would stick to beef if if I was competing today and they didn't have this when I was younger I would go with grass fed beef. I you know I would just buy from them like massive amounts and load my freezer up with it because grass fed beef is actually good for you. It's got it's got more omega-3 fats than a salmon does believe it or not and I would go with grass fed buffalo but we're bisoned they call today and I would go with grass fed beef and I would probably have them chop it up into like you know hamburger me that's that's the easiest to make. IMean you could make that you could make pounds and pounds of that put it in some top of where our containers or break it up into like half pound things and just leave it in top where and you're refrigerated. When the day comes you know in the morning you get those top where out you warm them up or I like whole food I would just mash those things up. I throw fresh you know cooked minute rice in there some soy sauce on there maybe a handful of like nuts in there or you know some macadamia nut oil and that I'd have like five meals made in 10 minutes and that's how I used to do with stuff like that's how I would prepare my food but I would definitely go with the grass fed nowadays even if I had to spend a little bit more money. It's good to cook Robinson odd if you want to answer this as far as when you werecompeting post competition career across the time you're like the most water you drink in a day or a week so I don't know if you want to break it up as far as yeah yeah I was never a water loader like I know these people like that would do three gallons you know water day and it's for like two days and they go down to two gallons and one gallon I never what I never measured what first of all I believe that you drink too much water number one you can water down your electrolytes and you can cause cramping for you mature because when you drink down a quarter and your kidneys have to flush it out which is by the way a big stren of your kidneys so if you have if you have high creatinine you don't want to be drinking excessive amounts of water but if you drink that much water your body has to release some sodium with the water to get it out of the body and so you can water down your electrolytes to the point where you're cramping so I never really I knew that was not the right thing to do so I never really overdrive I hate to admit it because it's it's but it's the truth when I would diet I would drink mass of amounts of fluid because I was so hungry but a lot of it was in the form of coffee diet you know so it is and stuff like that because I just I I I didn't want to cheat and so I would drink a lot of that IMean I was literally in the bathroom every ten minutes ping personally also from what I've read recently that I didn't really know this back in the day you know if you drink too much out of meal theoretically you can water down your your digestive enzymes in your stomach too which might make it harder especially if you're eating a very high protein meal so when I when I now when I am if I eat a meal I'll sip whatever I'm drinking whether it be coffee or water or you know IMean I'll evolve you know I'll I'll sip that while I'm eating just to keep my mouth wet but I don't really drink a lot of fluid I'll drink it before the meal I drink it after the meal and between meals but I don't drink massive amounts of fluid during the meals when you tren that's probably when you want to drink most of your water especially if you're dieting but I wouldn't like I said there's no reason to over drink let's go to ballal hummide is there any difference between an injectable clan as opposed to the pill form will be the advantage I think they're absorbed pretty much the same I don't think I don't do any problems with absorbing oral clumbia role so it's not like like some drugs are hard to absorb orally I think clumbia role is pretty easy so I don't think there's any need to do injectable clumbia role I personally never used injectable clumbia role I've seen it and you would think it would be you know pretty very precise because you're putting exactly what you want into into your body but like I said it's not that much of available out there you know the the water you know the the clumbia role that comes in bottles that people make on these and selling these peptide sites that's not injectable that's to be squirted in your mouth it's just it's just clumbia role suspended in water so you actually measure it and then you just kind of squirt in your mouth and you swallow it very few people that I've known have have injectable clumbia role I know it's in Canada they have a life they use it on the horses or some kind of animals up there because it seems to be more readily available in Canada and they also have that there's like a liquid suspension to have clumbia role which a real one that's made but you by you know a real veterinary in place that they get to the animals up there the feed which we don't have here in the United States so like I said IMean it all works the same if you as only you know how to measure 20 micrograms that's the dose you should be taking now how many times they're taking it just depends on you know what you're up to and who's coaching you and how you administer but Columbia all shows be taken in 20 micrograms so just let's go to low-tay um sumo deadlift versus regular deadlift I have a long torso and regular deadlift don't feel right but sumo feels better how different are the two from one another you know the sumo deadlift you know where you kind of stand and you know you like you're pointing your toes that you can't really see my feet and you really wide and you're pulling I like wide stance but I think sumo is almost too much and so like I like to keep toes pointing forward and I like to go a little wider than shoulder width so it's still wide and then I can grab the bar inside rather than going outside and I think you're stronger like this and I and when I come down I pull this way and I'm driving for my hips my glutes my adductors which is what you want to hit with um with deadlift I think when you're too close you're almost like you're leaning over so much that you're using your lower back too much and I think it could it could it could actually cause injuries it really puts that lower back those spinal rectus and very compromised position and I don't think it's giving the deadlift you're not really building quads and deadlifts okay you're building you glutes and outer sweep the legs a little bit of a doctor and you're also obviously working those traps and those lumbars which run down the middle you're back you're thickening all that up so it's a compound movement you're not just working your back when you're doing deadlifts and you're not just working your leg you work you work your whole body that's why it's such a good mass builder because like squats which you have to kind of balance the bar and the weight you're building mass on your entire body it's one of those that's why when you're trying to grow and develop density and thickness from side to side those movements are our imperative you cannot replace those with machines people show me these squat machines there's no way you get in the same thing out of that they have like a deadlift machine too you can kind of it looks like almost like a shrug machine but it's you pick the you grab the weight on the ground and it's good if you have injuries when you come and back to them but I wouldn't be doing that on a regular basis we'll take this question and then we have a couple of fairly deep philosophical ones uh just a silly in 83 why if you want to kind of go through the mechanics of science but why is the body so prime after a show to grow? Well because you're essentially starving and even though you're eating six times a day you're essentially starving it because you're under eating with the body needs so the body is in this conservation mode of trying to hoard everything because you're you're starving and pushing it and and getting rid of every little bit so when the body wants to store and I'm not just told I'm not telling that story fat I'm told I'm telling that story like it's in storing muscle you know protein in the muscle as muscle it's actually in a complete hoarding mode now after the show is over you put back a tremendous amount of nutrients okay and that's this is the key you want to put that good quality nutrients that your body can use to build and repair muscle if you just eat sugar after a show you're just going to get bloated okay but if you give your body a lot of big meals with high protein good essential fatty acids in there high quality carbs to low glycogen you're going to grow because all that's going to go into the muscle and the muscles is going to say we better store this all and build extra muscle because we don't know when we're going to be fat again you know because the bodies in this like starvation mode everything the energy and receptors is super recessed everything's ready to go and and you'll see you'll put on muscle right after showing and the heart of you dieted and the leaner you got the more you'll the better your rebound will be and you don't have to even be this is one this is another question I get should I stay on like a cycle for another eight weeks after a show and my answer always is I've tried it both ways no because I'll tell you why first of all if you do it if you do it a big show and you're on a good amount of gear that gear isn't leaving your system so quickly you're going to have that in your body for three to four weeks probably close to the four weeks post the show so you got plenty of drugs in the system when you stop taking all those antibiotics and you go to like a PCT while your body still is depleting all those antibiotics anybody your appetite is going to go through the roof and you're going to feel good and your body's systems are going to work efficiently because now you're not pumping a lot of drugs into you which is creating toxicity remember when your body is working to detoxify and break down antibiotics steroids and everything else you're taking that takes away a priority to building muscle because your body doesn't warm the building muscles the last priority if you body however if everything else is being taken care of and there's no toxicity in the body no toxic load your appetite's going to be great and you're going to grow great and that's what I noticed I'd go off the drugs I feel so good my body is so clen but meanwhile I still have all this drug in my system I'm just not adding you know more on top of it and I get a good four week rebound of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and in thaT4 weeks you could put almost 10 pounds of muscle on maybe so I've seen guys put more on and then by the time you hit week four you're still on PCT now you're going to clen out you know now you're going to let your body do nothing for four weeks okay so those receptors now see no testosterone and there's no drug left in the system and those receptors are going to like boost themselves through the roof those angers and receptors because they like this drug is no testosterone there's nothing maybe we don't have enough receptors more make more receptors make more receptors make more receptors make more receptors make more receptors and of course after a while you body after a couple weeks your body catches on by by that time though now your eight weeks off after a show you've been on no drugs you've gained you know 15 20 pounds of weight of scale weight maybe you've gained you know seven eight pounds of muscle and now you're going back on okay and now boom you get another rebound as you go back on and all those drugs hit those receptors that are all renewed and now you're going to grow so you're creating a rebound in a very precise manner and I like I said I've experimented with all the different ways of doing it staying on cycle not and I'm telling you you go off do your PCT a week after the last shot the that firsT4 weeks you're off you get that beautiful animal boost and and waking and muscle gain you clen out for four weeks during that time it's not that bad it's only four weeks your receptors completely regenerate themselves your body clens all the toxins out of your body and then you go back on you get a second rebound when you go back on and those drugs start working with all those receptors now that you have that you didn't have before and boom you grow again you could put 20 pounds on you know in the first two months or firsT3 months after a show's over and just by the first rebound and in the second boost when you go back on cycle so that that's what I recommend you do. You don't have to listen to me I'm just telling you I've done it every way possible that this is the best way and it's the best way for health too because you're clening yourself out too. So these two I'm going to sort of pack it into one because um you know this is going to be something that you need you're going to want to just as far as it's essentially going to be the same message that you're going to deliver. So the first one is from a booby bobby track lord who I didn't know obviously we're just reading this now but uh his mother recently passed away two months ago you very close with her um says that everything is felt really lackluster since that point any life advice on how not to feel like total crop and IMean before going to the next one just you know our warmest warmest wishes to you and your family obviously you've been a big contributor to our ex muscle and this show in particular uh but that aside and you know breaks our heart to see that how close he was with his mother and uh for that to happen so we send our deepest prayers during your family the second most from uh Ivan banyanats uh during your competitive career you have any days where you just felt like you lost a passion for this sport when you felt like you were wasting your time and if so how did you deal with that? You know I've said this before and um you know I don't know people listen maybe some people do maybe some people don't but first of all I want to send my condolences because I there's nothing I'm gonna say that it's gonna make you feel better about losing your mother obviously but I will tell you this the time does heal all wounds and eventually that the pain will go all subside sometimes it's good I don't know if it's good I deal I dealt with a lot of emotional pain in my life whenever I had a emotional by diety I know it sounds ridiculous but when you're on a contest I don't care about anything I want you care about his food and it almost numbs you and I don't know if that's good not to experience the emotions that you're feeling but that's how I got through it unfortunately and uh I don't you know sometimes if the grief is so severe I recommend that people go talk to a Councillor because that's Sometimes they can walk you through that and you can kind of release your grief while you're with them rather than take it out on the people that your friends with and love ones in a negative fashion. That's another one. But what I recommend people to always do is have not just one thing that you love to do, but more than one thing. Two or three things. I always have three things going at the same time. I have bodybuilding. I have my love of breeding animals and reptiles and snakes and all that stuff I'm doing now. And of course I have my kids, that's my third thing. No matter how what's going on, if I'm having a bad day with bodybuilding or something going wrong, I'll go downstairs and I'll start clening snake tubs. Sometimes I have a bad, you know, the snake seasons I go and go and I'm not getting the reproduction I want. Maybe there's a, I have a couple of six snakes and it's, you know, I'm just like, I don't even want to go down there. I'm kind of sick of the whole big, I'll go and I'll play with my kids, you know, and they'll pull me out of it because they're always in a good mood. You know, I'll come in here and I'll pull some markers out. I'll start drawing or do some art or something like that and do it all like, you gotta find something that kind of gives you pleasure. And sometimes it's, you have to walk away from the thing that you love most. Now all of us here, the thing we have in common is that we love bodybuilding, right? IMean, we love trening, we love competing, getting bigger and getting lean. And sometimes it's just, it's just, you look in the mirror and you're like, I look like fucking shit. You know, what am I doing in the sport, wasted all my money, I'm, I'm, I'm drugs and supplements and food and wasting all my time. You know, I look terrible. You know, I guarantee you wake up tomorrow morning and you're going to look at you completely different. Don't, if you haven't one of those days, don't look in the mirror, put a sweatshirt on and go do something else. That's the best thing I can recommend. If you're having a tough time because you've lost a family member or a girlfriend, a boyfriend broke up with you, then do something different. It gives you pleasure. Okay. Take yourself out of that thought process. Because if you dwell on the negative, you get more of the negative. And we get what we think about whether we wanted or not. Unfortunately, that's the, the law of attraction, that's how our universe works. So think about what you do want, okay? Think about that. Even if you don't have it, even if you think about what you want, fantasize, close your eyes, you know, land the couch, imagine yourself winning the lottery and what would you do with the money? It doesn't even matter if it ever manifests or happens or not. It doesn't matter. Think about it. Think about the feelings of what you feel when you're doing it. Think about what it would be like to be on the Mr. Olympia stage, posing down against, you know, all the top body bills, big ranny and winning bone-ac and, and, and really, make book. Even if, even if, if they're making a beautiful, any reality, think about that because that will make you attract anything and everything that will help you be the best body bill that you can be. Even if you never get to that level. Okay? My goal in life was always, in life. My goal in body bill is when I got involved was to be able to make a living for myself doing this where I wouldn't have to go work a job at a law office or, you know, as a medical, whatever, doctor or whatever, you know, I was a medical school for a while. I didn't want to have to work or I wanted to be my own, my own boss. So to speak, I, or I, or I, I didn't, my working for someone else was going to pay me to work out or do something related to that. And that's all I thought about. I was consumed with it. And I thought that it had, I thought that in order to achieve that, I had to become a provotty builder. And I realized at some point that it didn't even matter if I got a pro-card, did not. Because I was already making a living. I was doing exactly what, what, what I wanted, you know, I never had these fantasies of being, you know, walking on stage as Mr. Olympia. I just thought that it was necessary to get to that level to make a good living, doing what I like to do every day. But that's not the case. So think about what you want, even when you're in a bad situation emotionally or mentally, psychologically. And I promise you, you will pull out of it. I promise you, when you wake up the next morning. Sometimes I just go to bed early and say, you know, I can't think about this anymore. I turn my phone off. I put it aside. I said, not looking at another social media page, going to sleep. And I wake up in the morning completely refreshed and I feel much better. So give it a shot. On that note, that is going to do for this episode of As Dave Reminder right now on the channel. On the episode of Heavy Muscle Radio of the after-hours podcast, Dave having a Denny Sampin' R, the I-I-I-V-V-Kimi Pro who's kicked off for a flight earlier this week. We have the interview earlier today. So check all that out. If you haven't already subscribed, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. For Tyler Schoen, Dave, plumbled, mom, sit down for a week. See you next time.

=== FILE: BIG LENNY vs. MR. G ： OFFICIAL Press Conference! AH Podcast (6⧸8⧸21) [55U6scL3I6Y].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. I'll have iT3 and a half. Stay with me, I'll have it! I'll have it! I'll have it! I'll have it! I'll have it! I'll have it! I'll have it! I'll have it! Welcome back to After Hours. I am Dave Palabo joined as always by the entire WAC pack. John Romano, Greg Valentino, and guys that I can say you didn't know, a Mr. G supposedly is poised to health his press conference with Big Lenny. Very shortly. I think we should support it 100%. We have a cameraman out there? No, of course not. Yeah. I wouldn't even send Tyler out, I'll tell you why, because I don't trust them. They're very unreliable, those guys. That includes Mr. G and Big Lenny and crew. It's not in rely on loads of they won't do it. Who knows if they got a shot while up on time? There's always so many problems. Someone gets arrested. They got too much going on. Well, Mr. G should have somebody just do it on their phone. They got their phones there. I told Rob Zilla, we do in this press conference. Mr. G, I think he wants to do it from his phone. I'd rather you do it from your phone, Rob. I said, because probably the lens is a lot clener on your phone. It's probably gonna save you from the love that. Because he's got a new phone and it still looks like this. Who's with George? Who's with George? Is Mike, what am I going to make? I think it's his, the right is quiet. The rich client who has the house down there in Boka. Oh, that makes everything nice. When you get a serious rich client. I'm the one that introduced him to Mike. IMet him in C-side heights. He was right at actually talking to him. Mike is not the client as not as quiet. He's like a fan in the show. He came up to me, rose promptly, gas. And then I told George was around him, Mr. G. Because no way. So I told George, George went over there. And now he's got a best friend. So in the meantime, we got to talk about Jimmy to ball. Yes, so where is going on with him? You said he's having problems? Yeah, well, you know, my wife's going out of town for a week. And so I thought, you know, what a good time to invite him down and hang out. You know, we can take the motorcycles out, ride around. He'd love that, you know? Right. The big lake and summertime. I, there's a, there's a drift jam coming up. You know, where you tie to all the boats up and they get high. So I haven't seen a regular music on the lake. It's freaking awesome. So he's, he's, yeah, yeah, I'll do that. I'll just a good idea. I'm going to do that. That's a good idea. I'm going to, I'll make that happen. And this is this is three four five conversations over text. I tell you, you know, he likes to talk, you know, he's all school. So I'm around the phone. You know, yeah, I'm going to do that. That's a good idea. I hated it up there, fuckinGHated it. You haven't done this. I had to do that. You should have what happened today. And he's on it and on it. So just come on down relax for a good time, right? So yeah, he's gonna come. And he likes to drive too. That's the funny thing. It's not like he doesn't like to drive, you know? It's not that bad to drive. IMean, he did it before, but I'm sayinGHe likes it. It's not like he's one of these guys like my father who doesn't want to go anywhere. Right, and this time he'd come in his, I keep and told him rent the car. It's the best way to go. You'd be driving a brand new car, you know? Down, right? And if you had a good idea to put the wear and tear on a cheap, you know? So he's like, you know, he's all about that. And then this is like almost a done deal. Of course, I did say it in the Valerie yet because I know Jimmy last minute who's gonna say I'm not gonna say it in the Valerie. And which he did. So, you know, but under the guys of, yeah, I'm out of time here, John, you know, here I'll tell you really a text, you know? He says, he gets to, you know, his John gets depressed and then he, he's gonna be a fool. So he'll snap out of, you know, go to a bar and he'll meet some girl and then he snaps out of it, you know, for a couple days. John, sorry, I didn't call. I'm going through some times. I'm going through some times here. I'll buzz you this afternoon if that's okay. I respond, sure, absolutely brother, call me whenever. You know, I'm free all afternoon actually. I was gonna, I was, my mom was in Florida. So, yeah, he doesn't call, nothing. There's today still so far, nothing. He had come in. And that's how. What, I don't understand the, the, the, the instant tense bitching and mourning and hatred he has for where he is. And then here you, me and of Greg could do, he would also, we are offerinGHim an option. You know, you know, oh, I see. So scared, we do scared. When is it going to old school, a tiny thing, no, they bitch about everything? You know what IMean? I think a lot of brothers were all brothers. Don't you think it, you know what IMean? You know what IMean? Of course I do. I just finished saying you guys are family. Yeah, of course. But that's the way he is. You know, he is fucking, you know, he's crazy. He's always on the edge of the slightest little thing. You know, it breaks my heart because he's miserable. When, when Jimmy is on, when Jimmy's on, what? You know, it is entertaining person on the planet. Greg is the same way, except Greg doesn't complain. Like so. Greg would do great and Florida, but he's not complaining about where he is. He's just, he's just comfortable there. So he doesn't need to say anything. Jimmy doesn't really want to be where he is. That's the funny thing. Anyone do anything. He's dead. He's dead. He has everybody, all his friends. I know Jimmy, if he went to Florida, he'd be there for probably a month. And then he'd be like, I gotta go back. I gotta go back. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. He would be the main room to town in two months. I don't know, he's got his daughters up here and he's got a lot of oil. He doesn't even see his daughter. He's in with that crow, you know? They'd rather come down here and see him. That's when they told him. I like the mix. Since. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know. I think he needs an intervention. Yeah. Well, hey, what? Lee Priest was freaking out there today. My girlfriend, you know, Texas him a lot. They go back and forth. He's funny though. He was taking the show. My girlfriend is bats that they have over the area. He's trying to film him at night. This is giant bats. They look at their side. They're like, uh, we call it foxes. He's like, we're wings and shitting out. He's him and my girlfriend are going back and forth about this. And then he starts, you know, he was just about Jimmy Bull. And he wants to know, what's beyond the polarized caps? I don't understand that. Lee, why don't you just add it? And he goes, what's beyond the, when you get, I want to know what happens when you get to that ice wall that Jimmy claims. He goes, what's beyond that fucking ice. I asked him that. I was on the phone, Greg. And I said, can't answer it. No, listen, no, he's what he told me. He goes, oh yeah. He goes, you go look it up. Bird, we bird, check it out on Google. He got to the white spot. He couldn't climb the wall. They couldn't get up, and it was so massive. I said, Jimmy, how can they take a helicopter up the way? Go over the wall. He's not, you guys, the weather's too bad. They can't get a bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little fly. No, you know what they think. They think it's an ice wall and it's like a dome. So if they go up and come around, it won't be back. So just like a flat bird and then a dome. I said, we're in a hurry. Oh, wait, what did you just say? A flat earth with a dome? Yeah, yeah. Right. Which is no longer flat. No, which means that this is me. I don't know if you really get it. Yeah. Dude, I agree with you, but this is a lot of conspiracy people. They believe that you. And fucking leap, preschools, I want to know what the fuck is behind that stupid ice wall. And then, you know, my girlfriend, you can get her going on that check. Because, you know, she's fucking easy, like, like shot. What I wanted to know is when I look out my, when I'm outside of my house and we watch the, the all these, you know, because I, you could see the, the shuttle, we'll be with there's no shuttles now. But you could see the rockets go up the SpaceX rockets from Cape Kennedy. I want to know where they go in. Jimmy, I think it's go for it. Do I ride like we're the fucking, you know what I'm saying? Do you know real days? Do you like as to put it? That's what you're playing. But if the earth is flat, okay? And the rockets go in up, right? It's, it's like a skyrocket. It's going to eventually. Where's the, it's floating. There, where's the go? We know bounces off the bounces off the kick it through there. He'll tell you, it can't, he'll tell you that it, like, that you're not really seen around, it's like, they're fucking with your governments, fucking with you, that that's not real right. Right, right, right. Never land the moon. Right, right, right. All that video's fake. He says, it's all bullshit. It's all fake. He tells me, he said, there's no such thing as a, me and him at an argument that there's a long time ago. He was telling me that there's no such thing as a picture of the earth. You know, you know, when you say, yeah, you said that. He says that's a painting. That's a, computer generated. Yes, all of the videos, the spaceships, the Hubble telescope is bullshit. There's, there's no rockets. We didn't land on the moon. The moon isn't even there. You know, it's a projection from Gotham City. And instead of just break the bat. And Alice, and it's all bullshit. So everything we've seen on the ex-combs哪裡 screens is fake. Except for what he says. Yeah. Now I get to tell you, Lee Priest has a little bit, a little bit of conspiracy in him himself because, and my girlfriend's into all that shit. So he had my girlfriend gone back and forth on this fucking text message. About like the key was taking pictures of the sky above his house. And he's like, look, they got camp trails. So you know that. And three of both sends me that too. Yeah, but you want to know something. How stupid? Because whoever's up there flying a plane and dropping this so-called poison that's killing all of us, they're poisoning their own family, still, right? Like, you know, they live down here. They live on this earth and everything. You know? So you're looking at, right? Am I right or wrong? They're drones. Well, I'll tell you something. They definitely spray for, from insects over here. They drop shit all the time. Yeah, but they're not dropping you. These topics, then you got, you got the, you got the UFOs now. We got the UFO footage coming out. Well, that Jimmy would say that's all manufactured, right? Because there are no UFOs because you can't leave the planet. Oh, yeah, dude. Let me think of it. That doesn't make it. It could possibly be. And it probably is. But it certainly is working as a distraction from all this other shit. Go, no. If you guys in the comments here on this station here, if they were saying, like, God, that's birds. That's fucking, you know, shit like that. You know what IMean? That's birds. I actually would, I would tend to believe that there are other aliens cominGHere visiting us. Well, of course. I hate. You know, that's how you're doing. I was playing a fucking 4,000 years ago. You know, a pyramid's will built in each of it. It was pyramids here in, in, in, in, in, fucking South America's pyramid. There's like, yeah, pyramids here in the United States. How did these people, like, know to communicate with each other like that? Like, you know what IMean? Don't you think, don't you think it's incredibly arrogant as a society to believe that what do you only want? That what we believe the laws of physics are, are the laws of physics period. And that it would be impossible to conceive that another civilization, somewhere else that's been around hundreds of thousands of millions, tens of millions of years longer than our civilization has been developinGHere on earth. Literally, light years ahead of us in technology and intelligence and all that stuff. That what our laws think we think they are, physics not theirs, they figured you should out hundreds of millions of years ago, right? You know, and so. Well, John, let me ask you a question. How come, you know, even back before Jesus's days, people always looked up to the sky for God, right? Right. But how you're telling me to, like, you know, I believe in God, and everything, but I don't believe he sits up on a cloud somewhere. That's why with people look up, oh God, you know, he's not, you know, I believe that's all like another dimension, so to speak. But that's the reason why they say that people came down for this, this cave, there's drawings on the caves. Well, there's, but there's physical proof. I've been to Egypt. The proof is there. That pyramid, the giant pyramid, was not built by us, not this us. It was not, and it wasn't built 4,000 years ago. It's not over. Did you could have built that today with the schematic and everything? You're telling me 4,000 years ago, but what an advocate. Right, no, they didn't even have the wheel. They didn't even have the wheel back then. There were one foot out of the freaking stone age. How did it fuck the day figure out, how to move? If you had a build, that pyramid is built by two millions, what I 100, two a million, over two million blocks that had half tons each. Right, great, John had it. And they said it was built in 25 years. So it's built in 25 years, all of those blocks, they would have the mine trensport, carry up in place, one block every 21 seconds. John, how do you cut perfect squares? Each block is perfect. Out of granted. What does it mean? Get it? Number nine in the hardness scale, and the hardest tool you had was copper, which is you can't even scratch anything with it. Give a height unit fucker, take a five pound ton, fucking block and drag it, and then get it all the way up there, and the fucking, you know, the most regret. The most insane thing is this plate is this, what's that place called? Peach you or what? No, it's in, you know, no, in Egypt, by the, by the pyramids, where these giant sarcophagus are, they either ground, and they're way like, they went like a hundred tons. The bases, the base, solid granite, the bases carved out of, solid granite, perfectly square, 70 tons, and the top, the cap, is also perfectly carved with an indent around the inside, and that's 30 tons. And it's laying on top of itself, you know, like this, and they're carried down these corridors, and put in these rooms, and there's only like two feet around where, you know, where this giant sarcophagus is, it's way bigger than for a person, these things are giant. They're like, you know, eight, seven feet tall and 12 feet long, you know, eight feet wide, giant bucks that solid granite, perfectly square, they put a square straight edge up against the right, absolutely perfect, right? You've seen that, right? And they're like, and there's, and there's, so this is catacomone to ground, and these like branches that go off and there's giant boxes, they need to get these branches, right? And, and, and there's one, actually, they left in the middle of the hallway, and they just stopped moving it. But this underground, no light, no suit on the ceiling, so there was no torches, and they got all this dug out, and it's all perfect, and they're moving these giant, giant blocks of, of, of, a perfectly carved granite underground and stick them in a room that they got like two feet around the stand. So somebody please explain how they do that, right? I agree with you, man. I don't know, I just think, you cut perfect fucking blocks that are 10 feet fuckinGHigh, and, you know, 20 feet, IMean, it's, it's impossible to cut that. You couldn't do that today with electric fucking, gas power tools, you know, I don't see how you can stand it with a chisel and fucking do that. But they got rocks with the cut marks in it. They got cuts that were at the blade broke. They were saying, and they were saying, even if they knew how to manufacture their own rock, they say, we don't even have that technology perfected today, you know, right? So there's no way they could submit. Yeah. It's just even like the sphinx and shit like that. How do you carve something that's so humongous? I don't know, I just think, you know, there's definitely got to be something, well, we'll think about this. How much technology change from like the 1920s 2020. Think about where we went with the cell phones and the ability to fly. It's a bit of a shit. So in 1970s, we were catching up with the. Why the Holy E. But that's 100 years. Imagine a thousand years from now. And so we don't kill each other off. Think about how much tech with it. And you'll calculate her. A calculated in 1970s and fucking think of like, what, fucking 100 bucks with normal life. But think about what we can do. IMean, don't you think that they're going to figure out how to make anti-gravity like type of vehicles that are just going to just lift off that, you know, repel gravity and then you'll just, you'll just fly basically. IMean, well, they're saying that right now, what's his name? Elon Musk is teaming up with fucking that moment from Amazon Jeff Bezos. And that is what I want to both go to space and what you get those guys involved. They have enough money to create whatever you don't want to mean. Look, IMean, we are less space shuttle was, you know, funded by a private thing and it was Elon Musk, you know? So you don't know what that is going to happen. Now, IMean, that's saying eventually, you know, we're going to go in a Mars and 100 years from now. People would be watching it, going, little cell phones those guys are using. You know, IMean, it's, it's crazy. Yeah. Yeah. It's important. People left for me. I got a fucking flip phone. You'll still, you'll still have a flip phone. 100 years from now. Yeah. I would have fun. I'll be like, Greg, you'll be so seen out. I'll be like, you know, that phone doesn't work right now, right? There's no network. Yeah. But to think of trying to say, they're fucking technology, just from like the early 2000s. You know, no cell phones are like, people left for me. They got older than that. I'm like, it really isn't that old. What do you know? Jeff, my point is that in a thousand years from now, think about what kind of you will be around. 100 years. That's why John's saying, you know, people, people. I got a whole bit of a challenge. We got a challenge on us. Good. Dave, we got a mystery. Oh, we got the, we got the, uh, but I can't see it. We got it. We got it. Yeah, Dave. Send a link to my phone. Are you having a second? I said it to your phone. Hold on. Okay. Thanks. Take it. Talk to me. I feel like I'm watching the Logan. I never have any. I never have any. Maybe I'll have their fight. I see. I saw that. Yeah. Hey. Look at this. We're in a private location, a suitcase in my clients on a big giant golf course. Big built-in pool. Oh, nice. Is this way going to have the fight? Laney's. Laney's about 30 feet from me. You know, what do you guys just have the fight right now? Get it over with? Have Rob hold the phone. Nah, it's the, it's called the press conference, Dave. You know what they are? You guys, you guys may never get together again. This might be the end of a rob. Just make them fight and hold the phone so we can watch. We're not with it. We're still in trening if I do. IMean, so when you, when you can do the fight, you go in there, I like it. Hmm. Hold on. We lost you. I said. I said. No, on. I don't. I ain't doing it. Good. All right. They're all holding this. They're Lenny. I see. So Rob, maybe you should be like the guy who asked thEQuestions at the press conference. Unless you want us to. No, when you guys get you guys, you guys can ask and it can't hear the, then I'll repeat them. But okay, but you got to turn the phone because yeah, you got to put an orientation lock as got to come off. I see. I see. He ups and downs. I'm just not gettinGHelp. Greg, I'm placing Egypt. It's called the Serapium. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. IMean, look that up. No, you're a peer. I'm going to look at the R.A. I'm going to look at my screen. I'm trying to find the crazy to figure out how he fucked they did that. No one that we know today. They couldn't do it. I got it. Let's focus on press conference. You get the, to get the aliens. All right, Rob. You're a little bit of this set that we got. Hold on, Rob. What you got to do is you got to turn your phone sideways. So it's the long way. IMean, they're the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, but then you got to take your orientation. He had it. He had it right. He had it right. You got to take the lock off. Take your attention lock off. And turn it side. Do you have an iPhone, Rob? Yeah. All right. Swipe down from the top. You sound there. There you go. Lenny. This is your job. You should be here doing this. I told you're full. Yeah, well, I didn't, we didn't trust that you guys would show off. So you got to stand still. Yeah, can you sit. There you go. Stop. Don't take any more free work out right now. All right. All right, snowmbody hit some body. Do we still? Yeah. Well, what, likEQuestions up on the fans, John. Did you make all those postage, uh, Mr. G? Yeah. All right, they made up here and you know how we work on the go, right? So so I went, I went, I, I, to my back up, I didn't have the special board. I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't be in that line. How can we only have a small beat for big one? C. B. Big ladies. Yeah, why do you? Why do you do the lines to be in big one? A small letter. Where's the scale? Is this a weigh in? Where's the, No, the weigh in. The weigh in isn't too long. Is that a boy? Jack, why is the hot chick? Where's the hot chick? Where's the hot chick? Where's the hot chick? I feel it. I feel it. So what do we, what do we, what do we, so what do we intend to accomplish here today, gentlemen? Fans, ask questions. Okay, ask a question. I just did. Well, it's a question. What are you, guys? What are you guys want to accomplish here today? That's thEQuestion. Oh, that's not how lonGHow long are you doing? Well, what's the, what, oh, what's the tail of the tape? Did you guys did Rob, did you measure these guys like the neck by our ability to reach? Reach. What am I a tailor? No, I didn't measure these guys. Here's the tail. All right. Up. What are you waiting today? I'm six foot. Two, two, 22 right now. All right. Maybe I'm, I'm, I'm six, three, three, seven, ten. Let me look way bigger than Mr. G. I'll get in that my huge. Yeah. Let's get it. Let's get a stand right next to each other. So we can get a stand right next to each other. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, we can get a stand right next to each other. You know, I can the poster. Like, no, you're ready to go up like, make a spritz out of that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, face off. We can't get any spritz here. There you go. That's it. Let me say. Pop. It's not popping up. Ladies, got George, can't you see? I'm not even playing. I'm just playing. I'm just playing. And he's laughing over there. George, George, you're being psyched out right now. Hey, Lenny looks menacing. Yeah, you can feel your right on his foot. And whip your head off and shit down your neck. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Hey, let's compare. Oh, George, it's turning away. That's the best. IMight have to retract my bat now. Look who's supposed to be this big. Lenny. Wait, Lenny's a monster. I got the list. Lenny's list is thicker, man. I got to tell you, Lenny's no difference between Lenny's hand and his wrist. It's one solid piece. You guys look at Henry's hell too, by the way. Let's go nose to nose again. But I need you someone to talk Rob, talk over the acid. It pops up in the screen. Yeah, working me. Can he put it on? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, now we got it. OK. OK, good. Let's see who breaks first. Mr. G's like laughing. He's like, don't you have a meat? I like Lenny's. Lenny's got a very menacing. He's not aggressive. You know, look, you could tell he's been in a fight before. I'm scared of Lenny. You'll be thinking about the way Rob, your kind of thing is getting to work. OK. This is somEQuestions. What the wizard wizard wizard wizard wizard. Yeah, you can, all right, you can, you guys can sit down now. But that's the screen. You got to go get the screen. Wait, wait, wait. Has anyone asked for it anyway? Wait, thEQuestion is, has anyone asked thEQuestion? But, yes. Well, you have, I want the fans. Don't we want it down? No, we want it. No, we want it. You have my brain to hand show. I got a question for you, Mr. J. If after the fight to plan on releasing a big Lenny cookie, that's big in my inbox. Yeah, a lot of people been asking that to. I think he should. If Lenny is ready. If Lenny uses his platform for good, then I will. If he continues his ways, then I will. I got a question to you, Lenny. And a lot of fans want to know, is it mandatory that you won't fight unless there's trening, or trening ring girls present? No, not necessarily, but that would add to it. IMean, it's national pride months. Which I'm not a political thing, but if a man can make himself sexually appealing to another man, I think that's a society. And I find that an art. So that's the law for you. And I got a question for you, Lenny. Don't take those shit. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Follow thEQuestion. Follow a question. Follow a question. Art. Please explain the artistic element of this because you know, I'm an artist. So this is interesting to me. Yeah, we can tell by the photos behind your head. John, if you look at some of them online, where you can't tell if it's a woman or a man, that is, hats off to them. IMean, they can get them in a wretched amount of any man. It's turned on any man. And I think if you want to be gay, why don't you be a trens sexual and look good at it? They don't want to stop. Why is it that? I don't think it's not that. But I can totally understand that. I can totally understand that. As a man, if you can make yourself so gorgeous, it's just going to show how lazy a lot of the women are. And that's what family and status is thinking that they can walk around not having to be pleasing. Don't worry. So, Lenny, if you're going to take it in the ass, it's going to go, my name is Will Be Would You Know? No, no. I'm not one. I've never done that. I've had a couple of tried to take good and do it. And I'm not for that at all. That's the thing. I'm a natural part. But IMean sit down, talk, and maybe hug and kiss, and maybe a little oil or some and jogs. That's not funny. Anybody in the crowd is here. IMean, it's an ass isn't hurting anybody. It's not John. No, that's not my thing. I heard that's what you're trying to, I'm just trying to establish the parameters to be able to find acceptable within this room. So, John, I know I have a question for Mr. G. John, I know. Okay. You're no, I got a question. Mr. G. I'm going to turn on as we all do. We're a man. Let's face it. Every one of us, have either seen one, on the nuns to them, or been with one and say, wow, this is great. So, I think I want to speak to him. I don't want you to speak to him. That's not funny. I want to ask Mr. G something. Mr. G and we're hearing Lenny say these things. You are a little nervous that he, you know, when he's wrestling you and the ring that, you know, something might pop in there or something like that, you know? Yeah, that's a great question Dave. What's thEQuestion? Oh no, no, no, that's our fair. Because, late, on Lenny's defense, he's saying, the tren, gay guys don't like trens. Because that's been in any gay guys like men. What if he's not gay? He likes girl. If he's not going to try to stick his dick to people. Where his mind seems to be open. No, I don't think I'm going to think. I don't think it's going to be a stretch. No, I get it. I'm going to be like a wrestling. Basically, what if he wears his wig? You know, I'm going to let Lenny, I'm on your side. I understand that. Click on this. Yeah, it's a stretch. I'm going to shade. I'm just saying, if his mind is open up enough to that, if he's rolling around on the floor of Mr. G and he's just trying to just get the hard on. Oh, no. I'm going to slap you to that. And then Mr. G's got to deal with that. Not being mischievous. That is what you don't work. That's not good. How do you? It's a big test. The big test. The soft skin is to the estrogen therapy and the smooth voice. IMean, I can't describe it. But it's still there. It's not as much as it has been. And I can credit the eye of the game treatment for that. But it's still a part of it is there. And it's an all-man. It's a serious right. I was on the phone. I remember the trening said we got a fight. We got a fight. I was on the phone with my eyes. He gave me one. I'll take that. Oh, my. What are you going to say about it? One second. Hold on. Logan Paul just went for it. No, first vlog. Hi. I believe, really like, second. Second vlog. Anyone? And the end of the day wants to be the nice, nice girl at some point. Not a trening, not a test. I don't care about those people as far as what they do. Sex with, you know, I'm just not going to promote them, you know, and be part of it. That's a very simple. Whatever the sexual lifestyle is, it's up to them. Who cares? So, Lenny, what do you want to show the world with this fight? Good question. Show them it's with hard failure. It's not a death sentence. You can get better shade. I want you to go out and go man to man. Actually, it's kind of, I'm having a difficulty right now. Right now, IMean, Mr. Jean wrote out the red carpet, gave me some Mr. Jean's cookies, different flavors. I got my alcohol on water and make sure I had it. And we had a nice discussion, but we have to prove who's the better man, at least for this day. And already, I'm starting to get really, really fired up. Over the fact that I didn't really get much of a chance, you know, with all the pre-fight whoop-law. I'm going to prove from people wrong, which I like doing, and as the best way to do it. And I will be in shape for this fight, and it's going to be entertaining. And hopefully we can get Cassidy Campbell or Nagarishin on Genie Mereira with me priests. And that'll definitely add to it. Can I ask Cassidy Campbell to fight Lee? Yes. I'm really, I just just thought they're working on it. They're working. I know, because I was watchinGHim tell him, I need to ask a serious question to Lenin. OK, so let's say you guys fight and you. Does that victory justify what you did to him? We'll work on him. Say it again, John. I'll do it here. I'll do it here. I got a question. I didn't have my think as forgiven. I'm actually glad he called me out on it because it shows you that old school mentality that he's knocking on a letter code for anything. Yeah, we have to admire that. But if you stand at it just internet beats and a certain someone who remain nameless that won't get in the ring for anybody, he's causing a lot of problems. And it's been offered $5,000 to get in the ring. Let's see if he does it. Because I gave him a question. That's a tag. J Masters. Yeah. J. J. J. That truck driver who's going to fight? That won't let me. That won't let you. That won't go. Whatever he is. Okay. It's just some six stuff. Yeah. We know who you are, J. M. This is. Don't worry about it. You hide behind will these different names. You're cow. Well, I'm lost. So wait, he wants to fight Rob? Huh? Yes, yes, Greg. All right. Okay. That guy Benny his help offered J $5,000 to get in the ring with me and go one round. Wow. But he won't do a trening thing. Because he's currently like I said in the last year, trying to get people to harass my family and stuff. Let's get back to this fight. He wants to keep it. He wants to accomplish with this fight. Okay, so wait one morEQuestion and then I'll shut up. George, you look like you have built a carattery with when you know, it's a no, it's a press conference. No, I know that, but IMean, you can show me the real good. You've been treating them really good. You gave him cookies. You know, you built a poster's form. Yeah, maybe the other one. Are you mad? IMean, are you still mad? John, let's, let me explain what you're doing on, John. I showed George get him from laughing. I can't say what you're doing. It's been he's got serious. It's not working. This is what's going on, John. I already figured it out. Mr. GHas trened his ass off the display, right? He's petrified that this thing's not going to go off. He's got to sweeten the pot a little bit to make sure that everyone is, is cooperating and that everyone's going to show up on the day of the fight. You understand? Right. I'm from all the way. Put away, you would look a little better if they were like, didn't like each other. Right. They should have, you should have, you should have, you should have pretending you didn't like each other. I think we could not. This is George trying to say, if they were standing there and Rob had a holding back both between him. Right. That's what they should have. It looks like F finished. They're going to go out and ever fight to eat. Maybe hang out to the show. That's fine. They come a few tradies together. Yeah. That's what it looks like to me. So I don't let me better than that. And I know what's really going to happen is after this. The second we leave, he's going to start runninGHis mouth once again. Probably. Let me, let me ask you guys a question. What's going on? I thought you guys must have been trened by Vinny up there. And you were going to go up there for three weeks. And now you're back down. I heard. Well, back in that way, but thanks to take care of our some legal issues. What's going on with your earlier, Lenny? What's going on with your earlier, Lenny? What's going on with your legal and the things? I can't leave the county. Oh, okay. So you have a, you have a, you have a, you have a, you have a, you have a, you have a, you have a, you have a, you have a, you have a, do you have a, you have a, you have a mine of touring device to attach to you? No, no. No, because he has a going to court you. Hey, we have any lawyers that are watching this that maybe can help you. Yeah, I don't have any side. I have a whole room full. Wait, you're going to make sure that we got a gel, Mr. J, you're not going to have a fight. Yeah, they're all, they're all in signing it. Adler to hope the whole crew. Well, let's help Lenny out. He's not a little bit of a trouble. George is my boy, but I like Lenny. Lenny, I, I hope he does good. And I want to see. Yeah, he's, you know, I want to, I don't like this legal shit, whatever it is, I want to see him get through this and have, you know, have fun. That guy, that guy, that guy, that guy, that guy looks like a bowl of bowls. You know, that, with a little tiny head, like, like the beat of juicehead on it. Yeah, I said that he said, I saw this, he said some sick things. Yeah, and then trying to get everybody in trouble. Yo, none of this is about that. It's about two guys getting in a ring, working it out, yo, competition at the end of the day. And then I kept fitting to this. I don't understand. I thought it wasn't until these guys all friends down there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Two, two, frascaids. That's the same thing. Made a video. He made a video and told people that they, if they have a, I'll keep it down syndrome or a kid that has special needs, that it's you main to drown them. What? What? Yeah, yeah, they, who did? That guy, they messes. Who did? That guy, the real, the real, the real. I don't know who this guy, I'm not sure. I'm telling you, I saw the video. He said to me, he said me, he said me one of the wild back, yo, he's in the dog, yo. I think he's going to want to be talking about, you come down and beat me. Is it on YouTube? It was on his Instagram. It should be somewhere, yeah. I would, I don't know, right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, but it's in the right place. Yeah, it's in the right place. Yeah, it's actually, that's how the kids get a half special needs or something, right? Yeah, yeah. And he's going to, he's going to, he's going to, he's going to, he's going to, he's going to, he's going to, you guys, you, you guys don't hear. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, he used to be, but he got, you know, we all kind of banished him once he started saying out, Lannish things like that. IMean, who wants to be around somebody like that? No, I don't like that. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That could get me in a ring and that would be good for him. But you know, you want to fight him like that? I don't even know who he is. He won't accept a challenge from anybody. He wouldn't accept a challenge from the same hand that you could have, girl, like, talking about she'd with the Zass. Oh, wow. I looked, the challenge and he's going to have one day is that he's not going to see the challenge. What, this guy, if he keeps still a stop, he can, I'm not told. What are you doing, stuff like that? You have to fight. You'll have someone, you'll have someone one day and you, no, it's come. How about, wait, you got to do it. He can be at the fight because George, if he was at the fight, my bed is George would call him into the ring. You, get out, Pyrr, let's go on. You want to go on, right? He wants to go on. So it's face anywhere where he be reckless. She's going to work in a game sending messages on my Instagram and I just, I, I, I, I, I, I, listen, why did you spend your time trying to help people to, to destroy the story lives like they told about Lenny and Tom's leaving you whatever, who cares? That's his problems. That's not to do me trying to throw up the fire on it. That's not to do that. But you know what you should be doing instead. You would end it. You would end it. You would end it. You would end it. You would end it. You would end it. You know, like a, like a mercenary soldiers are fortunate and, you know, just going out after this guy. And just instead of fighting each other and him, that's what you should do. Well, fighting each other first and to go do it. Then go on a mission together. Yeah. You know what? They'll be best friends after the next show. I think the best friends now. It's like, you know, that's the, like the expendable. That's the point, John. John, the whole point of this and everybody is, is to show people how to send all differences. Not by destroying people's lives. Not by trying to destroy someone's reputation. Not by going to someone's house and dragging them out or doing something bad, by taking it and competing and running together and working it out. And the end of the day, if the whole workshop's shit can't and realize that we got to use our, our, what we do for good and not bad. And then other people like, let's see that. I like it. We got to do a rise in the right. And we can't make up. And it's called price fights. But what if we die in the ring? Not going to happen. How do you know? Not going to happen. When he's got a hard issue. God. John, that would be the place an honorable place for me to die in a red. Not on some streets, some ghetto, let's listen by the other day, doing something stupid or worse. If I got wanted to be in a ring, well, you know, I couldn't have the 100%. I respect that. Yeah. Yeah. There's an honor in the battlefield. He'd probably have his father's approval on that one. Yep. That's the Olympics. I don't think that's nice. Is that what the Olympics are about? The Olympics are athletes from every country. Even though they have differences. You know, when they're a woman, when you're, is the, to the athletes, you put your best up there, the fighters, the javlong dies, you know, the swimmers. And then they compete against us all the time. They get the 12th and they realize that they're similar. And they can work it out in competitive sports, the angry animosity and become friends and not go to war. And that's how it started. I tell it started. Right. Right. Let's get the answer to the nitty grids. Yeah. What the fuck? What the fuck? What the fuck? I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. How many rounds is it going to go? First of all, how many rounds is it going to go? Three, five minutes and then they, you have to see. How much rounds? This will wait. You guys can fight for five minutes. Are you doing with that, Leonard? Three, five minutes rounds. No, no, good enough. But I'm not. I would, I would say five minutes. Five, like two minute rounds. I would say, I would say, I would say, five, thirty second rounds. Yeah. Three, three, thirty second rounds. No, two minute rounds. Do five minutes. That's what it's going to spend. We spent doing nothing. You guys can do it. They're going to just go around the ring, like, you know, to sign up. Remember when Ollie fought the, the jab. Yeah. Got wrestler, remember that? Yeah. He was not easy. No, right. Exactly. Right. The bell rang. Blank sweep. Undergone the ground. He spent the rest of the time on it. He was taken a nap. So IMean, two minutes. Come on. Just be realistic. I've seen big, lengthy doing any cardiovascular conditioning. Mr. GHas been, has been trened incredibly hard and is incredibly fit shape, great shape and condition. He could easily go two minutes. He's been trening in two minutes. So I'm a trened, done, between five minutes. Five minutes. Two more. John. I've been trening. I've been trening. I've been actually five minutes. I can get it right. Fave is right. Five minutes is too long. I couldn't fight for five minutes. It's no way Lenny's fighting for five minutes. Lenny's honor on the battlefield will be fulfilled if you try to go five minutes. All right. So so to said, so shall be done. But I don't, we don't want Lenny to die. He's not. Do you fight around? You don't. You don't. He came from God. This, this has been pre-old day. This is a property. He's done. This is like the fucking pyramid. You don't get it. It's like a sack of what you're showing. It's like a sack of what you're showing. Yeah, we're talking. It's like a blues brother. It's on a mission to put the band back together. It's a momentum. God. You guys can fight. But George, you guys are older. You need to have a little bit more rest in between. You can't fight five minutes straight. No one fights five minutes straight. George, can. What are you talking about? They said you have seen. You guys are not in UFC. Like months of fucking demonstrations. Two more. Ten rounds. Five minutes like those guys doing the 30 sets of body fuck. The Arnold trening. We want the Mike Metser and Thor and the hard one. The Metser and Thor and the A. It's ours and Jones. Have a beauty fight. Two minutes. Yeah. I think it's fair. George, to go two minutes. It's very hard to have enough endurance. I know you're in that case for endurance. But you got to give a lady the opportunity to at least be on a rest in between. Yeah. You got to do that. What? What? You take a, you take a one minute rest in between. Right. But you go two minute rounds. You do five minute five two minute rounds. That's fair. Right. But I'm not, I'm trying to decide. Yeah. But he's, you know, I'm so why? What's the big deal? You'll be in better shape. All right. All right. So, ladies. You want. Yeah. Three, two minute rounds. Do five two minute rounds. Five two minute rounds. Five two. How about five two minutes? Five is too many. It's not going to go five. Yeah. At least. Leave the audience. Yeah. Three to three. Five three to three, five. IMean, if it goes beyond three three, we'll have a. Siden we've got overtime of it to tie. That's all five two minutes. Yes. George, you got to give him the two minutes. Come on. All right. Five two minutes. You got to think George. You got to think entertainment value. You want, you want this to be a show. No. You want to, you want to, you want to, you want to, you want to. No. on the state in bulk of Florida. Whoa! Give us your tool. No, we said that you would be the only who would go to Florida. No, I want to do it again. Cause I will tell me, cause everything you say, I'm going to do the opposite. That would tell you everything. I'll be surprised. All right, hold on. I should go to a fucking giant. Giant, I'm not going to do it. Greg, if you guys were betting men, what would you bet? IMean, who are you going to pick? What round are they going to go out and how's the win going to happen? Oh, fuck. I don't know. That's tough one. John. IMean, he want to go first. Greg, I want to pick. I think it's first. I think it's going to be some sort of drama, but I don't want to see anybody get hurt and just predict. I predict if I was done now. I'd say to Lenny, let's go to a club shit. Fuck, that's not fun. Greg, I'll sneak him out the back door before the fight starts. I probably want to happen. This is what's going to happen. I'm going to go to distance and it's going to be a draw. You think so? Yep. Now draw. Now draw. I'm scared for his a draw. Draw. This is going to be up. Look, this isn't everybody gets a trophy deal. Well, that's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. What? OK. OK. So what if both of you end up unconscious? Who won? The guy who wakes up first. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. I think George is going to have a hard time hurting Lenny because I don't think Lenny will go down. I think Lenny is, you could take a lot of punishment. So he's going to wind up arm barrinGHim in a very boring end to the fight. It will probably be over by the second round. Yeah, I see. Yeah, I think this is not going to be exciting. John, I think they should go to a trening club. See you guys, the hottest, trening. That's right. You can judge the contest. John and I want no part of it. Yeah. I'm not in the control at all with the trening element of this. So you guys seem to have an affinity. You find the club for them to go to. And then I'm going to go to the world. I'm going to go. I don't know. I don't Greg's open to it. Greg Greg. I would fucking. Greg, you're going to get a hot of trening. Yeah, you probably will. You've got a better rap than those guys. You're a great. No, I'm only kidding. No, listen. I. I. An idea. He doesn't. I don't want to see anybody get hurt. I like. Greg, listen. You're running in a voice. What if you went down there? All right. What if you went down there? And you got two trenees to fight each other by for them by proxy. But what if I was Lenny's coach? You know what's that? Well, this is bad. No, listen, like, you know, like wrestling. You come out with a biGHead on a shit of bow around. You got two two hot trenees, which you're like, Lenny, Lenny, get a good girls. Well, George, you used to do that for the radio show, but out the tren. Yes. Maybe Greg, maybe you can find Lenny, Lenny, some bad, hot trenees to go out with them. I think you get too, Greg, if you find two willing trenees that you think fit the, you know, the bill. And get them to fight each other. Now, we want them to be the ring girls, John. Yeah, you want to ring girls. This is why you got to be in a fight. Right. Really. I got to be honest with you. I got to be honest with you. You have watched the three studios, you remember a curly, then. Yeah. And if we're, we get to ring, you get to ring a store playing on music. You get two hot trenees there. They call like this, Lenny and a blow, my kiss. He'd be in the front. He was like, he was like, he was going to have to score it. Come on, like, just join him. He's going to score your round up. Yeah, that's a swing in the middle of the world. Let you with that. I have a real girl. He really wants to get it out. Oh, hold on. I believe Lenny takes it. He does that because he can't get a hot girl. That's not right. It's that quick. Listen, if that's what he likes, that's what it does. That's what it does. Yeah. Let me have George. What's your on garage? Get a consistent. Do you have it planned yet? At the fight. The walkout. Yeah. Do you have a song? Hey, who the fucking, who the fucking, who the fucking. Who the fucking, who the fucking. Who the fucking, who the fucking. Who the fucking. Hi, Gordon, guys. With the band PIPes from the police department. Yeah. You can have a garage. You can have a garage. You can have a garage. A garage. I was dancing. And my music, IMusic. What's your music? What's your theme? Rocky. Irish. I was. You can have Irish music. My team is. You know Irish working. Fighting guy with a whole life. Working on. We're talking about a whole life to build the business and the build something. And to to show people how this new evolution of. People who talk people try to room reputation. There if you're going to call bullies. You know, we all, you know, then so be it online. And they need to be stopped. They can't just drive people way and make up stuff. Not going to happen. Yeah, but back in the last garage. Back in the last. But I want to show the youth. What you do. What stand up. You can't let it just go by the way, sir. You know, the name is question about the entourage. Are you going to do like, you know, like, have like, you know, like just in beaver walk out with you kind of down the aisle from the walk. Maybe. Maybe. You're good. You need someone. You just got to walk with. Yeah. Maybe. But let me in the garage. We're going to get one. No, we're trying to think ahead of what we can do. Hmm. He's got a little bit of a strenge line. It's right in the front, but then he also has to have like, you know like, a rapper or something like that. What kind of music you like, you, like, you, like, you know, a bridge by the music that you love. What was that? Well, I was a lot on listening to music. It's a kid. So any kind of deal. You're probably like club music, right? House. No. No, what is he like? He likes the year the cat, that's so. That's the year. What is that so you're a bit sad? Yeah, yeah. Country rock. Country rock. Yeah, 70's probably. I don't listen to the radio when I'm talking. I think I can get one of the BGNs. John, maybe he could sing like night fever or something like that, you know, when IMean, like, for you know, like disco from the 70's. That was that was really looking forward to it. Go ahead, Mr. G. again, the opportunity as well as Dave, you and your after hours crew. Yeah. And as a great chance for me to get in shape and just be a purpose in life. You need a purpose when you wake up in the morning. Letting people, can you agree with you? Can you give us like some like, you know, like, jam, jam, jam, you know, give us some like, you know, punching, you know, yeah, give us a, let's do a little demonstration for them and really wrap it up. Yeah. Let me see what you got, Lenny. I put some gloves, Lenny. I don't need the gloves. Wait, wait, wait. I'm for that. Oh, they're going to fight John. Oh, good. Good. No gloves. You want to love? No. All right. I'm just going to slap you. My slap. Right. So let's pass. So let's go. Let's go. Come on. Look at this guy. So Lenny, show us the cookies he gave you. They're in his belly. Lenny, I have a sugar free market. I gave the key. You should give him some, you should give him some. You should give him some. You don't give him fat John. He don't like. He'll like with macadamia. And other like you should do it better than the ones I have. I'm asking. Oh, no. That's one. No, no. Peter by the cops. No, I think some of the, yeah, we preach giant killer. Where am I, cookies? Did you get many miles away? Let me on it. No, those are special. The ones IMade you. Yeah. Those are stuff ones. I'm sorry. But there's two big a bromance going on here. For just to be. Yeah, see how he's buttering me up. Cookies, gloves. Yeah, you try to go to the light. That's it, Lenny. Lenny, don't take it on shit. But don't, Lenny, it's like you want, it's like you want to date you. Yeah. Yeah. Cookies and ever Pope, friends of Nafford in my life. And you should see this mansion we're in now. Yeah, we want to get it all over the floor. Can you give us a little twig? I heard Lenny's moving into a mansion right there. You're going to be trening there. Wow. Good job. John checking out, look over here. Here's a big giant golf force, your own private golf force. Look at the pool here. And then it's starting to, it's goT3 giant bedrooms. We just ordered the look to go and a big giant like, Hey, wait, I'm in a four, I'm in a four. I knew live in a four, I knew live in a four. Are you guys living there? Yeah, he's livinGHere. We've worked a fully, IMean, my client worked a fully furnished. He still has a biGHouse and playing, you can go back and forth and I'll go back and become a back and forth. of fourth. So technically I have a place of Florida Dave. What? Woo. Where about Lenin? He's staying there too. We're doing the cookie. Who's still in the cookie out orders right now? I am. I'm still. IMay fly down here on the weekend, but I'm still running. Running my business. I'm not not running it. I thought you said you're moving it to Florida. You business. We're good. We're going to talk about. We had a discussion about opening up actually a place down here. We will have a brick and mortar we coming fire stuff. Then at the back we'll use it to ship the stuff around the country. You should hire Lenin too. You can get Lenin. Yeah, Lenin cook for you. We're the big cookies. He's a cookie cutter guy. You can't see me, but I already got my apron on. I'll try to do it. Let me get my. Let me get my kid and then we'll be in him and do a little spar. All right. Let's see. Hey, why are you? I put the camera down jumping that fucking pool. Yeah. I'm going to get the light. You're lucky you're done. I'm going to get the light. Don't take those shit Lenin. I'm on the side. I'm going to get the light. You're good man. Take a saturday. You guys back will wrap it up because if my phone dies. Yeah, no. We're running that time anyway. Wrap it up. Let's see you guys box us out here. All right. Box it box out. He went to the store. That is. His son is. I don't worry about it. Just we just want to see each other a few times. Come on. Oh, he's. So we've ever wanted. This is called this this is a little trening. Give me. Don't call Perry at the end of the speed. You know, and in the dirt. You know, we're. We're. Just do it. You don't need to explain anything. Just. Why would you want to see a lot? That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Well, that. You. You. You. You. I. When he's getting guests. Not me. He's going to be a massive. Good job. No. Come on. George is locked. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. I'm not just joining us today and I'm looking forward to the fight. It's going to happen the weekend of October. Why. I'll. Yeah, the Olivia October night between. Twelve and six when nothing's happening at the Olympia. Like I said. We're going to have. Everything. Nothing but. Judging John. That's all. That's all. We got the whole because they have to. Well, I. All right. We're going to. So in the middle of the day in Vegas. And in the or. We're going to have vodka and watch the fight. All right. All right. All right. All right. Take it guys. Love your ball man. Rob. Thank you. You're. Great. Wait. What the fuck is you? What is that? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. First of all, first of all, Laney Caballi left his arms up. I love. But it will be a massacre. It will be a massacre. And it's not going to accomplish anything. It's already fake. IMean, they don't they like each other. Yeah, the ball. You're going to do the best fucking God damn most like prefight show ever. No, I don't. But the best idea or maybe Greg did. The misdegetion, move his business down here. We should hire, Lanyan Rob Zillet to bacon, the good. And they should hire. Good. His client should hire a film crew to film the whole thing. It would be the greatest reality show of all time. I. I'm the one who introduced it to that guy Mike. Another guy Mike. We could call it the cookie. Well, Mike's been replaced by big Lanyan seems like so. So it'll be, it'll be, it'll be the cookie factory with big Lanyan misdegetion. No, the cookie cutter. That's the great idea. The cookie cutter. That's what you'll call it. Your cookie cutter versus the cookie man. That's what I said. Instead of giving Lanyan cookies, you should give him a big thing. A cookie. No, from 12 at the reality show, we'll be called the cookie cutters. All right. Right. And, uh, or big. Great. Mr. G will make a fortune because everyone will want to buy the cookies because of the show. Right. And the show will be on the head. I can do a lot more people. This is the greatest thing that's happened. I think George for the cookie company because now we've got Lee Freeze to Volk to once and find a we a cookie. A lot of people want Lee's. Correct. Well, those guys, I guess on the show, but imagine a big Lanyan works for Mr. G. Can you imagine that the insanity that we're going at that point? I told you, I'm a digesting guy Mike. He's a nice kid. He's now down there with AI did. Now he's down there with George and Florida. Yeah, but he's went out to the store. But big Mike, that that my guy seems like a normal pretty normal guy. I, I, I, Lanyan Robzilla with Mr. G. It's good. It'll be like an insane asylum. Lany, Lany Robzilla and Mr. G. Making cookies of all the things that happens today. And I'm telling you, you want to put the thing is Dave, we can't if we leave this in the house. Yeah, yeah, you're right. Because this is a great business model. Right. The fact that there, we make a reality show of the making cookies that we sell. Yes. Yes. Right. This is brilliant. Yeah. It's brilliant. Okay. So, but they'll never figure that out. Yeah. So we got, we got to do this for that. Yeah. You know what? Be funny. I need to be a little dumb. I need to be a little dumb. I need to be a little dumb. So, IMean, I got, I got, this is a great idea, Dave. You're a genius. What did you give me to pull came down and knocked them both out? Just, well, you know, you know, you got another element. Yeah. Well, you know, pull him in because, you know, he's, he's the law. I saw that needs an intervention because he's he might be seeing two. That might be seen two, John. Yeah, but he could get. Yeah, he would fight the ball. Right. He would not fight. So we're talking about the reality show now. Yeah, no, no more fighting zone. They're fighting zone. They're fighting zone. We're talking about the freedom of being a free-to-giving and for season two to add more, you know, more flat in the show, you know, to bring Jimmy to bowling. And he's trying to drive and down to, to Florida to make a good. And then Greg, you could come in for the season three. Maybe, you know, you know, lead priest for season four. You know, we got, we got a plan ahead because this is going to be at least the seven to ten year run this show. And the, and the cook, and the imagine all the different cookies that we're in. Well, we're in this. When they get like she's three, they could have me and Lee preach coming like the open loopholes. Oh, I'll loom. I won't make it. Oh, boom. And the good thing is Mr. G's got his client who could hook a bill though all this. That's awesome. I couldn't find things in the show, you know. Yeah. But we got, we got to step in and organize this for them because they don't don't fucking all over. Yeah, of course they will. Yeah. The key is film. You got to film everything. You know what? We got to create. We got to make sure that this, we got to, we got to, we got to justify the actual truth and reality of what this arrangement is done. Oh, I can I ask you a question. I want to know, is Tyler a little upset that he wasn't there with this big press conference. Yeah. Believe me, he was a, was even, even. Tyler's. Tyler's. He can't believe. Yeah. They're literally Tyler was supposed to go down here and film. Yeah. But get him back to the environment. And this is really true that that house is theirs and it's like the trening camp, you know, and cookie factory all in one, you know. We got to, we got to see if that's. This is a monumental. You know, it would be John, you're crazy. Got that house to get about the fucking cookies. They should be bringinGHome girls also. So, and then he brings home a trening. She goes in George's room. And next thing you got to the house. That's what we had that in. We had that in. That's it. The show plot is they're making cookies and tren and all the things that happened today. Well, let's get it. Well, it's, let these life interweave the Mr. G's life interweave with the business, you know, right. And so, so Mr. So Lenny's. Proclivities come to the surface and they go completely against what Mr. G believes in his value, but they're being informed that they're. They're being informed that they're. Mr. G's now conforming. So, no, Mr. G's getting all week down. What you know, Lenny's got his hands in the cookie. He's been aiming at the trening out in the hallway and Mr. G's. What the fuck? This guy's making cookies with the hands. He's got all over the trening. And the funny. And then people. You know, it's funny. You know, it's funny. He's pitching about it. But then also in the show the morning breakfast and out of his door comes his trening run out into the bathroom. If you get a robot. And a George's door. And then George comes out. And they're like, yeah, what happened? It's what you thought. I didn't know. She's just flipping a room. And we got. And God knows what Lenny will put into the. Into the. Into the cookie. You know. He's going to God. Did George get to all of sets. He went. Badger's mushroom. It's not. Right. He made me go against God. We're writing this thing as as it goes. It's right to set. You know, these guys. I didn't watch you. They don't know what we're talking because they don't understand how George the God. The show will explain it all. All right. So, all right. We got to do his get his brother down there for a couple episodes to John. Oh, Bobby small. No, he did something. Forget about Bobby would rule that show. Oh, you know that. You know what Bobby's going to listen to this. And he's going to his Bobby's the business man. Yeah. And he's a George. Wait a minute. I got to put the smart business on the side. So he's. Because you got to go. Mine over here with this fucking cookie. All right. The reality show with the cookie. The reality show promotes the cookie. Right. So this is fucking brilliant. Yeah. So it's going to wouldn't even have to be like a TV reality show. It could be a YouTube reality show because that's a signal. Yes, not what they're selling to cookie. Right. Of course. You get to watch to make your cookies. They're making cookies your body. But you know, you show. But by making you never want to eat the cookies again. But you never know, you know, they'll crawl around from the ground outside for the birds. They just want to freaking be part of the heel. They don't care about the fucking. Dude, I still think it's funny. If anyone started knocking everybody out, you remember like the three Stoods you know what seriously though, Lenny and Robney job. So IMean, this would be perfect. Really. IMean, this is like I said, this writes itself. That when you got to put you out of somebody comp. We got to send. We got to send Bobby Smalls down there to manage. So Bobby Smalls would be knocking. Dude, you. You fit your fucking given Lenny like the smell or the fucking maybe a trenom Duce. Like this and isn't it like fucking curly? Yeah, get out there and it'd be knocking dudes out. Everybody coming and ring bang. Rob's little comes in and ring your stop of banging on cement. He's fucking, you remember like fucking nut of three Stoods you like that? That would be fucking great. That would be funny. That would be funny. Oh, watch it. I'm glad I would love it to people like to watch our fantasies and listen to all crazy, you know, I will just have fun with you. Somebody's guys think this shit serious. Like the guys watching us and fucking my feeling. It really is a good idea. You know, like I said, talking about trens sexes and Lenny's dysfunction and get the fuck out of your wits. It's a very, very creative idea. I hope that they listen to what we're telling them. You know what? The fight. Out of the way dreams to be on. You saw the press conference. We're one step closer. If anyone wants to, you know, get involved and donate some equipment to these guys or any kind of supplements. I'm sure we can get them over to them and they would appreciate it. Dude, and that was an amazing quality press conference. That's the very high point. We're making your own zoos. Rages this cells. That's outrageous. That's outrageous. That's what he's like. Black men's going to try to like take over. I'll give you an exclusive contract on any, like, so that he won't be able to fight, you know, because I don't know how to let the guy go in. I can see that. Big one. I should talk to Joe Pitaro. Maybe we'll put the winners on the coverage. I'll put it on the whole. Have a whole issue of muscle sport back going just on the fight. And the cookie recipe. There you go. You know how much they would sell that would fucking the people want that man. I have anxiety from this whole show, but I'm glad you guys tuned in. We'll be back next week as we always are. If you guys want to reach out to Jimmy to bowl, hit him up on Facebook. I think it's a little bit. Richard's having a hard time. Yeah, hopefully we'll have that one. We need you guys. Alright. Reach out to Jimmy. Especially if you're a dentist. He needs a dentist. Yeah, he needs a dental and what's all right. Guys, I love you guys. I love you guys. See you next week on the Plumbo with the entire Wackback for another edition of After Hours. Love you guys. I love you guys, man.

=== FILE: BIG RAMY 11 WEEKS OUT OF OLYMPIA! [bDHDRNR2sJ0].txt ===

Day Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. The story of today is Big Rami. We saw a beta bedide posted a picture of Big Rami getting a most muscular shot on his Instagram and the guy looks absolutely enormous. Now, obviously, crab most muscular shots. Everyone looks pretty impressive. Rami's looking to be well over 320 pounds. IMean, if I had a guess, I'd say I'm a 330. Now people are probably saying, and I've already had people tell me, Rami's never going to be ready for the Olympia. This is a big mistake from the guy's 11 weeks out. He doesn't look like he's got a tremendous amount of body fat. He doesn't look like he's in trouble to me. Now, should he be on the Internet at this point? I don't know. It depends on everyone's different metabolism. I had a metabolism where I didn't want to be too too lean in 11 weeks out. I don't know how difficult it is to get Rami in shape. I never worked with them. So I don't know the answer to that question. When you have that much muscle however, you could hold a lot of work. Rami can die for two weeks and lose 20, 30 pounds, maybe more of muscle. What people don't realize is, as you get bigger, and I noticed this when I started going, when I first started diving for my first show, I guess, in 1994, the first like National Show, the Junior USA, I was 260. I came down to 224. Then the following year, I was 305 or 305 or 301 or something like that. I came down to 258. Then the following year, I was 315 and I came down to 268 or something like that. But that tells you is that as you get bigger, offseason, you hold way, way, way more fluid. People think, oh, it's stupid to go that high and you'll lose so much fat. What on me, it wasn't fat. I can tell you for sure, on Rami, he's not holding you in excess of the amount of fat. He's got abs. If you look at the next picture, the beta, but I just said to Sid, our social media guy, and the co-host of a lot of our TV shows here, that's pretty good at thigh shot. Now the advantage is that the rest of the body is a pretty sharp. But you don't walk around with sharp abs and have a lot of body fat. He does have a lot of fluid on his body, however, which can indicate his eating a tremendous amount of food or other supplements and being involved. So I think Rami size wise looks to be tremendous. His body looks well balanced. Now it's a matter of can Rami get in shape for the Olympia. That's thEQuestion we've been asking ourselves for what five years now. When is Rami going to show up at his best? Firstly, I'm not saying that he's just because I'm friends with Chris and Seater when Chris worked with him, I thought he looked the sharpest he's ever been. I'll give it. Let's leave it at the sharpest. For the night show at the Olympia, he was the sharpest of falling weak when he won the Arnold Europe. That was the best I thought we've ever seen Rami last year. He was bigger. However, he was not as hard in my mind. And I think a lot of other people's minds, especially from behind. So we know Rami can get lean, but there's a matter of gettinGHim lean enough and full enough at the same time. Obviously, you don't want to flatten someone out. Yes, you can be flat at 285 pounds. Rami comes into flat, even though he might be the biggest competitor up there by 20 pounds. That's still not good. That's not a good look for him. I think hopefully the camera crew over there and Kuwait will find the right formula from this year. I don't think he's in trouble. I think it's a great look to be in 11 weeks out from the Mr. Levy competition. I think he's going to be considered the biggest threat to fill Heath on that stage and fill obviously going for number eight this year. Weather Rami comes in their shape or not. We don't know. Obviously, these photos that get leaked from oxygen and data of a diet himself are selected for a reason. They probably took 4 million pictures. And these are the pictures they want coming out. This is what they want to project. They want to project that Rami's biggest and ever, obviously. And they certainly accomplished that. I hope you guys are enjoying these updates. Make sure you subscribe below and turn on your notifications. I'm Dave Alamba with another RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: BIG RAMY AT 305! Nick Walker & Breon STRIP DOWN! Olympia Press Conference Recap [3SUctlJXs1c].txt ===

from the Orange County Convention Center in Orlando, Florida day one of the 2021 Olympia weekend glad you can join us on rxmuscle.com alongside the legend Chris Cormier. I'm sitting for Rookie the 2021 Olympia press conference just letting out in Chris. It was a radically different format this time around no longer having 30 athletes just sitting on the stage for a half hour this time they brought everyone out in many groups more like USC boxing a lot more entertaining fans got their money's worth this afternoon. Yeah, I thought it was definitely refreshing being in a 10 of those myself being up there with all the athletes and everyone trying to get their turn at sand something. I thought it was better like you know like a pace off style each one having a microphone type of thing and I thought it was great or you know all the fans loved it I loved it and I think that least loved it themselves and they get to go eat and start their preparation quickly. I know you have to jettle for just a couple of minutes to go to the gym with Breon and Zlee the press conference started with the classic physique guys first they brought out a Breon as well as Terrence Ruffin and eventually they had like a double-edged drop in with Chris Bum said made some entertainment and of course Breon decided to take off his shirt and give the fans a preview. Yeah that was awesome I thought Breon was looking right on the money and I was happy to see that everything we worked on the lower back was tight the as or tight everything's jumping and popping and I'm sure he's and some pancakes in there as we speak right now before we go to the gym. Give us a little insight on Breon obviously she looking to win his title back a title that he is won two times Izzy on track do you see him what is one of the adjustments rather that you and him worked on together to get that title back up back over the top. Well we was just working on just like his glutes are definitely more developed more strided more shape there the lower back we felt was a little bit not as tight as we wanted to be when we came out you know to the show so we worked extra hard there and the poses some just poses the way to Brazilian himself it wasn't even the opening this back I was screaming oh we not open up open up you back last year so you can probably hear me on the on the video saying screaming that but we worked a lot on that and because you know he haven't been competing all that long it's he's been only in a hands-for-the-shows he won probably at 9 or 10 or shows something like that but they were consecutive and there wasn't that many years he started the game later on in life but you know trying to pick up the speed but you know what the pose and like you know when the lights are on with your hunger you tie it you've been dying on his time you know that's when he is on the when you're gonna hit that pose right is everything gonna connect from head to toe that's where it's hard for us to wear a lot of people you had division by division many group after many group and Bob Chickeroa low coming out of trying to do what he does best and that is get some you know ribbing conversation get somebody to explain why they're going to win why they're going to knock off the champion well another one of the highlights of from today was big rami big rami they had a scale on stage they didn't use them much but they did use it for big rami big rami tipping in a 305 of course coming in to the game of thrones winters here the whole music the whole theme keeps on for 2021 yeah I thought that was awesome I thought it was a nice touch they used to have a scale back it was a 1988 with the lihanie you know uh little abrata uh Sean Ray all those guys were in the show I was in attendance I was in the last row the very last row but I bought my own ticket and IMade it to my first Olympia and uh I thought it was a great touch I people want to see that they want to I think that you can do you know have it live just like to do the the in the may the you'll see I think you do that and uh it'd be very I think everybody would love that and at the end they had um champions and I guess some of the top competitors come out and essentially explain why they're the best for the heq why they're the best body but uh you know we do close on a touching note and that was when they brought out the two 12's the obvious absence there uh George Petersen they and let's give them credit uh dance Solomon Bob Chicorilla came out in the beginning and addressed the crowd you know uh dance almond also talking about the loss of Peter McGuff earlier in the year yeah I was in my guy right there I call him the silver fox you guys come Peter McGuff but IMean I used to call this guy on a daily basis uh sometimes uh during thaT4 or five o'clock in the morninGHe still picked up the phone every time uh I love the guy to death when I I said bring my son to to his office and go through all his magazines and tuck shop and he just been really a big part of my life uh the whole time and and uh George Peterson we had a close connection because him and Brigham was going at it pretty good for a lot of uh I did at careers uh three years or so so I got to know him and Justin and I'm yeah my heart goes out to his family to his fans and uh yeah that's tough for the story it was a classy touch by dance almond by Bob Chicorilla by the Olympia committee to recognize Peter McGuff to recognize George Peterson also to recognize John Meadows who just about a year ago we're here at this very spot he helped us with the two 12 wrap up videos so you know again we say from our entire community the our expulsal team the body building community we continue to send our warmest wishes to all of their families but Chris this is going to be an exciting show this upcoming weekend a lot of story lines heading police you're about to go tren with Brigham big rommies looking to defend his title what excites you the most about this upcoming weekend oh the competitors the you know seeinGHim all leading up to this show um they all want to bat the all been treninGHard uh Nick Walker coming in with his excitement I like I like his attitude like the way he goes forward and uh IMean he's put together the good physique IMean I don't I know a lot of people gave him some slack about how he's put together I like what he's doing I think he's working probably harder than anybody in the sport right now in my opinion he works just as hard as you know Brigham I think is number one but I think he works just as hard and I think he's on a gear around you see him on his Instagram giving the fans of looking to what he's doing all the time uh I think you have the right attitude for uh saying whatever I want to prove you wrong I did the same thing in my career so I like his attitude I'm gonna see him push him straight a title here from the legend himself it all begins tomorrow pre-judging and then the night shows we will have wrap up videos after each session less out tonight meet the Olympians so all the interviews that we're gonna be doing walking around we try to grab as many as we possibly can keep it a lot continuing coverage of Olympia weekend on rxmuscle.com

=== FILE: BIG RAMY AT 340-LBS？ + Nick Walker & Justin Rodriguez Posedown + Hunter Labrada Update! [mqUBLOTKtL0].txt ===

We launched the tasty pastry for the Ocar Pocktart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonvo and today is Wednesday, June 30th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Once again, it's recap Wednesday where it means that we are kicking off today's show with the recap of last weekend's Puerto Rico Pro. We're starting off with the men's open with a Brooklyn beast that came Williams came out and dominated in his season debut, punching the win and another well-deserved trip back to the Olympia stage, this October. In the 2012 polonvo Peter Burrecki locked up the win and his first Olympia qualification of his career all in the same night after delivering an outstanding performance in his own right. In the classic physique Brazil's Gabriel Macado looked impressive as he crews to an easy win and we can say the same thing for your men's physique winner, Diego Montenegro, who might have been the best we've seen him here. On the women's side of things, Italy's Anadia Copotosto was as good as advertised in women's bodybuilding where she crews to an easy win and fitness to come back kid Darina Wilson delivered one of the best performances of her career which landed her the win, which has to make you feel good if you know her story and everything she's been through over the last year or so. In figure Puerto Rico's own Jessica Rays, a pediow is lights out from the minute she stepped on stage, which made it easy for the judges to leave her which straight ones across the board. Brazil, Maria Lemos, finished at the head of the class in bikini, while Tanya Schartren secured career win number three with another strong performance in women's physique. And we're wrapping up our coverage here with wellness where Casey Dolong brought home a well deserved victory. 4M of big proponent of embracing change because I feel like change is essential for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, but in certain cases no change can actually be a good thing like what we're seeing this week from Huntal Abraata. According to reports, Hunter Wade in at 259 right out of bed earlier this week, which is actually where his weight was two weeks ago, even though he says that he's in better shape now than he was then. Since there are still four weeks to go before he makes his season debut in Chicago, I think we can expect to see those numbers move a little bit between now and then, but at the end of the day, the final number won't matter as much as the final result, which is whatever one will be tuning in for. Yeah, I know that I just said that the final numbers don't matter for Hunter Labrata, which they don't. With this morning, I heard Dennis James say that Big Ramey weighs somewhere in the Neha Vohod of £340 right now. And got to number that feels like it's too high, not to matter. There are a bit of few pictures and videos floating around in Ramey from different sources, but at this point I don't think we can say for sure if any of them are recent. But given DJ and Ramey's relationship, I think that £340 estimate is probably right on the money, which means that the champ is doing everything in his power to bring winter back to the Olympia stage in a few months. We all saw what that looked like last year, so this year ends up being a bigger and better version of that. They might as well start writinGHis name on the check now, because no one else in that line can even come close to bridging that gap. That does it's yet another addition of muscle in the morning. On day full of boar reminding you to always be sure to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: BIG RAMY AT NEW YORK PRO 2013! #RXClassic [21i9bs1z_gE].txt ===

1. • •

=== FILE: BIG RAMY BREAKS THE INTERNET! [4tldDJcRRko].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car cocktail. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary food muscle in the morning. Today, Pellumbo, and today is Monday, August 2, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, is there any better way to start off you week than with exclusive content from Kai Green. In case you missed it last week, I shared a video on Instagram that Kai sent me asking my opinion on how we looked and whether or not I thought he should do the Olympia. And I gave my honest opinion, I said, when the Olympia no regrets. That said, I do believe Kai is going to compete this year, and if this is where he's starting from, the final product will be something special. Love, and more hate him, he's one of the most gifted athletes that we've ever seen in bodybuilding. And for him to come back and when the Olympia now would be icing on the cake of what's already been a whole thing worthy career. So get ready folks. I think Kai fever is about to take over. We can't talk about Kai Green and winning the Olympia without acknowledging the elephant in the room, which is the fact that he needs to go through our current Olympia champ big ramming in order to do it. Randy hasn't come right out and responded directly to any of the news related to Kai, in order to see half two. There's no reason for him to respond to people throwing rocks at the throne. But from what I understand, and Randy is teeming up with Dennis James again for his Olympia prep this year, and obviously we all know what the outcome of these two teeming up was last year. And there's no reason to think that they wouldn't be able to run it back again, especially if Randy isn't dealing with any injuries or issues related to travel restrictions like he hasn't the past. So what I 100% big rammy look like last year, and for all intensive purposes, that look was unbeatable. So if you do get a 100% rammy and a 100% Kai, I think it sets up one of the most intriguing matchups that we've seen in four or five years, and for me, well, that alone is worth the price of admission. Since there's no clen way to segue between the potential showdown between Randy and Kai, I'm just going to jump right into this new clip from Charles Griffin, because he looks like he's about to do a little bit of showcasing of his own next weekend at the Tampa Pro. This will be Charles's first time back on stage in over a year, and to his credit, it seems like he's bringing in a completely revamp, looked in comparison to what we saw him do when he plays seventh at Tampa back in 19. This version of Charles is bigger, has a smaller waist and has a lot more detail than he had a few years ago. And even though this lineup at Tampa is going to be loaded with top tier talent, if he's as good as advertised, he'll be right there in the running for a top two or three placing. One of our other storylines that I think is worth mentioninGHeading into the Tampa Pro surrounds really way cooler, and whether or not it's important for him to show up and show out here since he didn't manage to crack the top four in Chicago. Obviously, we know that really is planning to compete at the Arnold in September, which means he could basically be using Chicago and Tampa as test runs to work out some of the kings, which is fine if that's the case, but it also might not be too. We see this a lot in baseball, pictures hit a certain point in their career, and all of a sudden they don't have as much heat on their fastball anymore. It's just one of those things, father time remains undefeated, and eventually athletes just can't reach a certain level anymore. Now, just so I'm clear, I'm not saying that's the case, but really, I don't think we can say that, he's there yet. But I do think what happens in Tampa goes a long way towards confirming or crushing that narrative, which does make his placing their hold as certain in that of weight. So, guess for now, I'll just have to wait and see. Those are really still having enough in the tank to hit 100 miles per hour off the gun, or is he losing some steam on his fastball? Let me know what you think in the comments below. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm the Aprilumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: BIG RAMY LOOKING FREAKISH! July 10 2018 [16t_V9hKXt4].txt ===

What's up, body million fans? Dave Palombo here with another RX muscle news update. Beta Badae leaked a couple more pictures of the Big Ronnie a little more than nine weeks out from the 2018 Mr. Olympia competition. He sent them over to Sid Sid Center, over to me, and I was so impressed by them that I had to just do a little bit of a little update on Ronnie. He potentially is the most exciting guy going into the weekend. Obviously, Phil, he's going for number eight trying to tie the record of Lee Haney, Ronnie Coleman, and then obviously the following year, I'll try to go for the record. But this is a big year at the Olympia Limpia stage, because it seems like this is a number eight is a tough number for people to get past. Guys like Big Ronnie who are lurking out there are just basically waiting to eat you for lunch, okay, if they come in and shape, it's something that's kind of a scary thought, because Phil is not like former Mr. Olympia, is where they were the biggest guys up there and they just dominated. Phil has got other editors that are way bigger than him. So he has to beat these guys on quality and conditioning. Ronnie so far has never showed up in the best that he could be. Even last year when he was second, he still was not his best. When I look at these pictures now from Beta, I'm actually getting excited because I think that Ronnie, assuming there's not 400 filters on this picture, you know, in Tau and Tau, it looks pretty legit. You know, I don't know, maybe the airbrushed is abs. I don't know, I'm just doing. I'm sure there's probably some filters. They got the magic mirror there, but Ronnie's got enormous amount of size. He's got good structure, good shape, his conditioning looks really good. ThEQuestion is, how is he going to look from behind? One of those glutes in the ham is going to look like, are they going to pop on stage? Are they going to show definition? Is he going to be dry? These pictures would indicate one thing. We don't know, you know, however, if these are accurate pictures or if there's anything being done to them, Tau, you're my creative genius over there. Do these look like they have any kind of filters on them? They look pretty legit. All right, Tau says they look legit. Pretty wrong. They look pretty raw. I'll take it. That means Ronnie's on track to do some serious damage at this year's Olympia. And with only a little over two months to go before the show, now the excitement is picking up. All the stories we're going to hear from different competitors, what they got going on, what they're bringing to the stage, are all going to kind of culminate in that Olympia weekend. And look, I think it's going to be a show down between big Romney and Phil Heath. And there's such different physics, filming smaller, shorter, more proportioned, Romney just beinGHuge muscle mass with good structure, canny bring the finishing. That's thEQuestion. We won't know. But you know what? We're going to keep an eye on the big Romney pictures and the big Romney story for the next eight or nine weeks. And if you guys have any updates, you can always send them over to us. Or if you have any little tips on Big Romney sending them over, he certainly under the microscope now. Now can he perform in the liver on game day? We won't know till September for now and day polo and bow. With another RX muscle, news update.

=== FILE: BIG RAMY POSING FOOTAGE [EXCLUSIVE]! [b6orkDTafLk].txt ===

What's up, body building fans, Dave Pullembo with an RX muscle, news update, big rami update that is because Bader Badae has sent us some new posing footage of Big Rami less than eight weeks out now from this to Olympic competition I got to say. He's looking pretty damn impressive. Big, full and definitely the hardest we've seen. He might be hard to hear what's the deal in the last year. I'd be honest with you. I'd like the grainyness of his body and just thinking showing some good detail. He doesn't look overly big, meaning that you know they're not trying to keep him too big and too full, which is always a problem when you talk about weight loss. We get that side leg. He's got glute striations. He's got good grainyness there. Yes, some makes a little full at this point. But he probably might have eaten five meals already today for all we know. But I'd never seen rami with glutes this grainy looking at this, this many weeks out. Now obviously all this gunner's shit in the hand basket if they start feedinGHim too much. But I think he's definitely on track to be his best at this point. Like I said, this condition level is super impressive right now. You know, if you think about it, big ramIMay have the biggest glutes in body, but you know, think about it. I think besides them, I don't think I thought I had big glutes. This guy's got enormous glute muscles because his legs are just huge. And he has time to to peek his body. I think this is a great update from big rami. I think that Beta was proud to show this. Obviously no filters on this or anything like that. I think rami's on track to do some series damage to this Olympia. Great looked for rami and we'll keep you updated in the coming weeks as we get more and more updates from Beta himself. Day polimbo with an RX musclEQuick news update.

=== FILE: BIG RAMY'S BIG ANNOUNCEMENT! [HCpi1po1LMY].txt ===

Day below here for an R-AX muscle news update. This just in big rammy confirming that he will indeed be doing the IFBB Europa Pro in Aliconti Spain coming in the next couple of weeks. This is exciting news because a lot of people have been speculating when we would see big rammy again. It's not qualified for this year's Olympia so the absolute needs to compete. Most people have speculated that we probably would see them in Spain, seeing that that's going to be the closest show to where he lives. It's also a top 3 qualification. However, I don't think big rammy is going there with a place top 3 in qualify for the Olympia. Our good friend, John Enrico Picca is promoting this show in Aliconti Spain. This is a really important show because for European bodybuilders and people who don't live in the United States, this is really the only qualifier or one of the few qualifiers prior to the Olympia. This is a big one. The IFBB extended the top 3 qualification spots for this show in the men's open to 12 classic physique men's physique bikini and figure. Top 2 will qualify in fitness, women's physique and women's bodybuilding. This is the biggest qualifier in the year. I'm going to be the biggest show in the year but it's certainly going to give us the most qualification spots for the Olympia that will be coming up by December and Las Vegas. Big rammy, making the jump into the show will see him compete against the likes of Reagan Grimes. James Hollingshead and I don't know who else is going to be there and we're going to see some good quality bodybuilders there. Big rammy probably going to be the biggest name in the lineup. We're not aware of who are having an outskid if they made a jump. IMean, let's say William Bowenek shows up at the last minute. Putting aside anything like that happening, we have to assume the big rammy is going to be the biggest and highest ranking name in this lineup which is going to make him the clear cut favorites. So, Rammy goes in and doesn't win this show. It'll be a huge disappointment for fans and for the judges and for everyone who wants to see Rammy hit the pinnacle of bodybuilding which is winning the Mr. Libby contest. To me, this is an exercise basically just a walk through for Rammy. He comes in even at 95% I think Rammy walks away with this title and will qualify for the Olympia and we're going to see him in Vegas obviously and hopefully competing for the Olympia title. We've been saying to the last 10 years when his runny waiting for Rammy to show up at his best so that he can be the heir of parent to the Olympia title. If he hasn't happened yet, well it never happened. I don't know. I believe that Rammy is still going to be working with Chad, Nicholas who we work with for the oral plastic where he plays third. So I'm assuming that him and Chad are going to make some tweaks between then and now and we should see a much better and much drier and harder rammy coming to Alicante Spain. If he shows up at his best and really shocks a lot of people that will give him tremendous momentum going into the Mr. Olympia contest and I think that's what he needs at this point because no one's really talking about Rammy as a potential to win the show. You hear in Flex Lewis, you hear in Brandon Curry, you hear in Phil Heath. We haven't heard Big Rammy's name. The Rammy goes into Alicante Spain and dominates there, bringing the best look of his career. He's going to be anic that list of guys who could absolutely win that Olympia and that's what's exciting for the press for the fans and for I'm sure a big Rammy. So what's going to happen? We will know but it's an exciting prospect to see Randy on a stage again. It's certainly going to add a lot of intensity and a lot of whoop-lock to the Alicante show. I'm sure John and Rico pick his very happy that Big Rammy is going to be showing up there. Good luck to everyone involved and we will keep you obviously updated as we hear any more updates on the Rammy appearance in Alicante Spain and if any drama has ensued right without appearance. Alright, I'm Dave Polando for an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: BIG RAMY： HOW HE CAN BEAT PHIL HEATH! #askDave [czhOeKn9eMw].txt ===

All right, television on rxmuscle.com. This is s-dave, better known as hashtag as Dave brought to you my species nutrition visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host of the Farooque. This is your 30th question and answer show with Dave Palombo. All your questions on diet, trening, supplementation, IFBB pros, competition, whatever on your mind, it is all on the table, speaking of competitions. That's where we'll throw it today. Hey Palombo, Dave, this past weekend out in Las Vegas, the NPC, USA Championships, an exciting show, a show that you and Chris Hasito talked about on heavy muscle radio tomorrow, you have an entire lineup of interviews, a lineup of course, including Shane Stewart, the overall winner. Yeah, you know, Chris and I didn't get to go this year, which is the first year that one of us was in there, at least. You used to always both go. You know, you got kids now and the show takes 40 days to get through because it's a thousand competitors. No, IMissed going to these shows, but obviously, you know, my IX-Hinteries a little different nowadays, especially with the new babies and everything like that. But the great thing is that all the guys that won really want to be interviewed and they kind of contacted me through their coaches and something like that and I contacted a couple of them. So we're going to have all the top winners on. We have the super heavy weight first and second. We have the overall winner, Shane Stewart obviously, the light heavy. We have the heavy weight winner. And a lot of these guys are going to be doing pro shows like in Tampa next week. So it's going to be great to get them not only off their wins and their pro card victories, but then also what they got to look forward to this coming weekend in Tampa. So I'm excited. I always love the USA. I love the nationals, you know, like I said, IMight have some disputes with sometimes how things are run, but the bottom line is that the camaraderie in that show and what comes out of that show, the new talent that we then get into the IFB and which will change the scope and the landscape of the IFB is unparalleled. So I'm super excited and I think you guys are going to enjoy these interviews because a lot of these guys are new guys and we don't really know much about them. So it's good when you get new blood in the air so to speak and see where these guys came from how they got to where they are and what they think about where they're going. Shane Stewart of course, the overall winner, Dave, a lofty comparison to you, believe you said he reminds you of a younger branch war in them, right? Absolutely. Absolutely. He liked that comparison. So the funny thing is that, you know, when branch term pro and O2 I believe it was one of the heavyweight class at the nationals, he was impressive. He was impressive. He had big legs and he had like a good structure and he was ripped to the bone. But never my wildest dreams that I think he would be turned into morph into the mass monster that he became, you know, in the IFB. So I see like a similar look when branch was younger and just term pro to Shane. I don't know, Shane will turn into a branch war and but you know, if he does it will be an interesting parallel for sure. Let's get to thEQuestions. The first two questions from the Dave Palombo experience app. The first question at the pros and cons to using pro penate over a sippunate or an Athenate, any difference in results at all. When I first started and I was reading, you know, I used to read the animal reference guy by Bill Phillips and they would say, you know, testosterone pro penate, short acting testosterone produces aromatizes last season. It's in the body for short period of time. The long acting esters stay there a long period of time but they tend to aromatize more theoretically. It's supposedly causing more fluid retention and stuff like that. But what I experienced, you know, from using this stuff for 13 years that I was on it, was that there was no difference. testosterone testosterone, the side effects are the same. If you take and propinate every other day, you're getting the same effects as if you take and you know, one shot or two shots of sest and an Athenate are sippunate a week. So the effects are cumulative. And also what I realized was that water retention is meaningless because when you're on a low carb diet, you don't hold any water. When you're on a high carb diet, you hold water no matter what drugs you take. And if you want to get rid of water before a show, you don't have to go off the drugs. You take, you know, you restrict fluid the last 24 hours. You take sodium out and you take a dioranic and that's a year rid of water. So once again, it becomes irrelevant what we talk about water. So many people are preoccupied with fluid retention. They think it's the same thing as body fat. It's not. The difference is body fat, you have to burn off fluid. You can get rid of in hours. It can be gotten rid of with the right dioranic. So it really doesn't matter which testosterone to use. And what I found was that I struggled with using an propinate for many years, sore, achy, very allergic to that propinate ac Sor oh He has a lot of people. And I found that when it took sipinate an an anfa, you never had any pain anywhere. So I said you know, what's screw this at some point. I saw not using propinate anymore. Probably the last five years of my career I'm going to have used propinate. And I looked probably better. Those five years that I ever did. So I just don't think that there's any reason to have to use one ac sor over another. And that's just the way it is, I'm just telling you the truth. question, Dave, that pick one for the best gains and explain it to us why test at 500 week with A-50mg n of r per day, b 50mg windstall eod, c 100mg masteron eod or d 100mg primoeod. Well, masteron is a stronger drug of all the ones that they listed. So, test and masteron you to get the best results from this and and masteron is really hard on your learning age because it's kind of an aromatase inhibitor, it kind of inhibits you know, prolactin to certain degree. So, I would have to go with test oscum and masteron. Let's go to the Instagram questions. Again, you can follow us on official underscore our ex muscle. Let's go to holes, what 127. We get a lot of hair questions. My hair always gets dry went on cycle. We always talk about hair loss, but he's talking about dryness in his hair. Can you explain that? You know, that's that's an interesting, you know, observation and I don't know if dryness has anything to do with you know with hair falling out or not. Sometimes, you know, I believe that when you take out a box steroids that they kind of direct all the protein that you're eating into muscle. If that makes sense, this sounds like a like a ronic hormone explanation, but it doesn't sound very scientific, but I always felt that you know, steroids direct protein into the muscles from protein synthesis, build muscle, and sometimes maybe you're shorting your hair, and maybe you're shorting your nails. So, in other words, the nails and hair beds and not getting as much protein as they should be getting because the muscles are sucking up all the needed resources so to speak to build and repair muscle tissue, directed by the animal ox steroids. So, the steroids basically are protein, you know, are partitioning agents that direct, you know, all the nutrients in the body to go to muscle building and repair. So, I don't know if that's a truth or not, it's always anecdotally what I thought in my mind, but it is possible, same thing with essential fatty acids, rather than going to the hair, and you know, it's going and skin, it's going to the muscles, because remember all the muscle cells in the native of essential fatty acids as well, the cell membranes that is. So, is that the right answer? I don't know, but it sounds like a plausible explanation. Ripped grizzly, you've explained the clen protocol incredibly many times, but I can't remember every hearing about how we should taper off. Yeah, you know, I usually, the metahom, what you're taking, let's say you're taking the max, which I always recommend being a 120 microamps per day. Immediately after the show, I usually have guys drop down to 20 microamps twice today for a week, and then I have them drop down to 20 microamps per day, once a day, for a week, and then I have them go off. So, it's a two week taper off period, and that seems to work pretty well. Let's go to swallverham, O'Neal Day. We've heard you talk a lot about dioretics in the past, but not much about herbal dioretics. I personally use dandelion, and it works wonders for me as far as dropping overall water is concerned. Could you talk about how herbal dioretics werecompared to prescription dioretics? I have used to produce a product called aquilize. It was, to me, you've a earthy is the herb that's the most potent in terms of fluid loss, you know, water loss. I combine it with a little dandelion in some B6, and these are just, you know, it's natural dioretics. Aquilize worked terrifically. We had to add it to tremendous fun. The problem is that you have to pretty have minimums to produce. I would produce it, but I wouldn't sell enough in them to make it, I would always, at the last minute, when the expiration dates were coming up, I would still have a thousand bottles of 500 bottles left, and it was a pay-in-the-neck. So, I kind of discontent it. IMight restart it again if I can get small minimums. All right, but, you know, a lot of these companies, you can't get the price and you want to let you do the minimums. I love the herbals. I think they work great. The problem is, they work differently in everyone's body. So, as a prep coach, I want something that delivers precise absolutely known fluid loss. So, I know that if I give a half a diaside to someone, I know how much fluid they're going to lose from that, okay? If they have a lot of fluid to lose, I know if I give them a whole diaside how much they're going to lose. If I give them, you know, two aqualize with every meal, you know, five or six times a day depending on how many meals are eating, I know generally how much fluid they're going to lose, but it's kind of like I'm experimenting, you know, and it depends on people's bodies, how they absorb it, you know, how much fluid they're drinking with it, so herbals are a little less predictable. But I use them a lot with different competitors. They'recompetitors to compete naturally, or competitors that don't want to use or, you know, a diaside or it can't get it. And so, I use herbals all the time. I just find that the prescription ones are, you use less of them, and they're more predictable. Cody Plum, a competing in the Washington State, opened this weekend as a super heavyweight, 237.5 pounds, lasT3 weeks. I've been carb cycling three load 220g, one high 500g, one hour 15 minutes cardio per day. I use diaside if my diaretic. This has gotten me a very good condition body fat very low. My question is, what is the best way to introduce carbs and water after competing in a house soon? Do you go back and trening and cardio? Is my only show of the years that I don't need to worry about preparing for another show? You know, after a show, I usually just kind of eat what I want, you know, for the first, like, couple days. What I found in the past is that the worst thing you can do is just stop taking diaretics. Because the first 24 hours after you compete, you're going to still be flushing. You know, those diasides keep working, you know, so to speak. Even herbal ski working. So, if you compete on Saturday, you can eat whatever you want, Saturday night and Sunday, you're still going to be flushing. By a Monday, you're starting to gain a little weight Tuesday, you're starting to, by the end of, you think you think you're out of the, you're, you know, out of the danger zone at the end of the week, the following week. But that's when you just really started to retain a lot of water. Because what happens is when you don't drink and you take diaretics, you're out of the hospital levels, go through the roof, which is your body's poor amount of the tells your body absorbs sodium water. Think about it. You're flushing water out, you're flushing sodium out. Your body doesn't know what's going on. It wants to retain this stuff. So what does it do? It releases more aldosterone. Now the show is over. You start drinking and eating again, and this aldosterone is through the roof. So your body's retaining all the sodium and water. Every bit that you drink and eat. And there's no way around it. So what you can eat to do is you need to stay on a little diaryside. So let's say Monday comes around and you take a half a diaryside maybe on Monday on another half on Tuesday. What you're doing is you're just pushing the extra water out of your body. You don't want to restrict fluid and you don't want to restrict sodium. That's a mistake. If you do that, you're going to create the same rebound effect. If you continue to each sodium and drink plenty and you're just flushing out the extra water with the diaryside, okay, you're going to eventually equilibrate. I'm telling you. But if you restrict, if you go back to that diet and don't eat sodium and restrict your water, you're going to rebound again when you stop it. So just go eat what you want. Obviously, don't become a glutton. Don't eat like a thousand grams of carbs a day right after that every single day, or you're going to retain a ton of fluid also. But if you go back to eating, and having a maybe one sheet meal a day is supposed to eat in the whole entire day, junk food, you know, and you stand a little bit of dyeside. You're eventually going to eat it. That after a week, it should be good. Usually abouT3 or four days, undoing a half a dyeside a day is usually enough to get you back to that baseline level. See, it fits the fit recently switched to keto, main sources of fat, our grass fed beef avocado, species macademia, nut oil, and almonds and cashews. At this point is omitaly is a totally necessary. Yes, I'll tell you why because macadamina oil does have a little bit of omega-36 fat. It's a matter of fact, they're perfectly balanced one to one. But it's not a lot. They're macadamina oil all of a while, even nuts. They're basically, they're just stick with macadamina oil and avocado oil, and all of those are predominantly source of monon saturated fat. They're healthy fats, they're omega-9, healthy fats, but they're not essential fats. So you need your omega-36 to get those omega-36 that your body can't really, doesn't really get in the diet very easily. It's an insurance policy because if you don't take it enough essential fats, your body will sense it's an effect the private state that will hoard fat. A lot of the bodily processes, including muscle repair, won't take place at optimal levels. So you definitely want to take omega-ly's, okay? Then the other source is a fat, you know, or kind of like, you know, just for health purposes and for, you know, metabolism boosting effects. I use macadamina oil when I cook, I put it on my foods, for taste, but I'm doing that for the health benefits of it and because I feel that it simulates my metabolism. It's really not being consumed because it's an essential fat. The essential fats come once again from the fish oil and the evening perimros oil, which is in the omega-ly's formula. Let's, what we actually have a couple of different questions, both as in the same thing, but for their particular areas, we have one in Korea as far as when it's facing nutrition, we'll go to South Africa and another for Latin America, the second part of the South Africa question is about extra vitamins and minerals, one needs to supplement with besides a good multivitamin and what dosages, also benefits of each that you might mention. What was that last thing you said, the benefits of what? No, the last one is also what are the health and physical benefits of each that you might mention, so I guess the additional vitamins and minerals, right? Here's the problem. I'd love to be in all every country in the world. You know, if you guys know distributors that want to carry the product, feel free To contact me and put me in touch so I'd love to work with them. A lot of time the issue is price because shipping internationally is expensive and sometimes these manufacturers or these distributors want to make a huge margin and my product line is a high end product line. It has to be sold that way. It's not the cheapest products out there. It's not the most expensive, but it's not the cheapest either. I'm not going to cheap in the products so that people oversees you have a buy. I'm not going to sell, I know a lot of these companies will sell a cheap rate version of their products in the other in the Middle Eastern countries in Africa because it's trying it up because it's cheaper to to give to the customer there. But it's not the same product. So I won't do that. I'd rather not sell there. Having said that, you know, the line that I self species products is so complete that there's really not that much you need to add to it. The mineralizes all the vitamins, essential vitamins, minerals, trace metals, and polyphenolics coming from, you know, vegetable extracts. It's all in one product. And then all the essential fats, which will left out of the multivitum, which you can't really mix them in there, are in omega-lices. So those two cover that. Then you got your fiber-liced, you cover it as your fiber. The only thing you really need to add, and I've said this before, is I would add an extra 5,000 units of vitamin D3. I have, I already have 2,000 in my product, but I think 7,000 IU's of vitamin D3 per day is perfect. That's just my experience. That usually brings your levels up to the normal level on blood and, you know, unless you're outside with no shirt on every day for 20, 30 minutes, you know, then you might not need as much vitamin D, because you're biting my field of synthesizer. But I always say, better safe than sorry. The only other supplements I really recommend is I use a product called juice plus that I really like. It's a fruit and vegetable extract product. It's not a vitamin product, but it's a fruit and vegetable extract. I just think it's good for good health. Not necessary for luxury item, I call it, but it's something that I use. I also take extra vitamin and it's actually in the co-cute 10, because it's good for the heart and the efficiency of the heart, right? So I do add that, and there's a couple others I add, and I don't think they're necessary. That's sorry, but if you're over 35, over 40, probably Coke, taking 100 to 200 milligrams of Coke, ketene day is probably not a bad idea, just to keep your heart functioning well. Obviously, then, every couple of months I'll alternate this in and out. I'll use kidney stuff for my daypalombo.com website, for my kidney, you know, function, for creatinein and B-U-N, to keep that down in normal range. And I use Bill LaWelonz, which I also sell at Daypalombo.com. I use his liver stable product, IMentioned earlier also, and why do I do that? Because just to keep my liver healthy, keep the kidney tube goes open, keep everything flushing out of your body. And that's really it. Those are really all I use. Then, every, like, maybe a couple of months, I'll work in another supplement. Just to see how I feel on it, right now I'm using these ostrich peptides for immune system. And I want to just see how they work. I always send the bottle of them, and I want to see if they work well. If they do, then I will recommend them. And that's usually what I do. Usually every other month or so, I'm testing a new product to see if it's something that I want to incorporate into my regimen or not, or maybe even to advise you guys to. I just started a Titan Medical Center.com, sent me their TV4, Fimus and Beta4, which is a healing peptide. And I just started taking that. So I'm going to see how I feel on that. And I'll report, we'll do a video probably next week on that, or maybe this week, and this week about how I've been feeling on it. It's been, I've been actually feeling pretty good and recovering from my workouts well. So there's always something I'm testing out. But once again, the items that IMentioned are the absolute you must use, everything else is a luxury item. Olympia six weeks away. So of course, it's going to be expecting a lot of Olympia related questions. Easy, why won't I say, and Dave, what do you think? Dave Romney has to do to win the Olympia? Is it conditioning in of itself or is it something else or something else needed beyond conditioning? Now, I think it's just a conditioning issue. And I'm going to say, I think that there's a good chance I'm going to be at the Olympia this year. A lot of people have been asking me, and I first said, no, and IMight be going pretty sure. We have a sponsor. We'll probably announce that in the next week or so. And we're going to be covering the show. But I think that if Romney can bring conditioning, and we've looked better, sent you a couple of videos that I've done some analysis on said, and I think that Romney looks really good. Even Chris Cito said, he looks really good for five weeks or six weeks out, whatever it is from the Olympia. If he can continue to improve from this point on and no one tries to pull any crazy things with insane carb ups and something that he can beat Phil. He's got the tool set to beat him. You know, if he can bring the same conditioning as Phil with the mass that he's got, no way, Phil, take him. Good one here from, big pup-eye John. Again, a lot of our fans like to ask you about your bodybuilding career and stuff that you did during your career. What were some of your daily routines you would do every day, and you believe benefited your bodybuilding career? You want to know what my routine was. It was wake up like late because I would go to bed early late and I always wanted to sleep like eight or nine hours. Sometimes I wake up at one in the afternoon to be honest with you. I get my ass in the shower. I would get out of the house. I'd go right to McDonald's. I'd have my six cheese burgers there. I usually on two buns. Large fry, two apple pies, and then I would usually go to the gym. Well, I usually just are shopping if I had to get some stuff to groceries, whatever, and eventually I wind up at the gym somewhere. I tren usually I have a postwork out shake. Then I would usually go tanning. I would go, if I had to go buy clothing or something, I don't know. I really didn't have a lot to do. I was living the dream. I was living the bodybuilding dream style. I would go home at night. I would usually buy some dinner. I would go for sushi or buy like three Chinese food meals to have in the house. I was eating every two hours around the clock. I was drinking a lot of shakes, obviously. I did a lot of computer work at night. I obviously back in the 1980s and early 2000s. The computer wasn't quite what it is now. There was no social media, but I had an answer to emails. I answered, I would post on some forums. I would search the net for information. I would read up. I was always trying to educate myself. And that was my life. It was very simple. It was no responsibilities. I would spend a couple of hours at night, clening them up and checking if they had kittens or whatever the case may be. That was my kind of like diversion at that point. I tried to keep it simple. I tried to take naps in the middle of the day after I trened and possible just to help recover. For a while, I was trening people out of valleys. When I was doing personal trening in the morning, then I was doing it. I was getting up a lot earlier. I was getting up at eight o'clock. Going to tren people from nine to 12. I'd go tren my friend Doug Wentz. We'd come back. Then I'd come home and I would take a nap usually. That's probably when I had my biggest growing years. Later in my career, I started becoming a light riser and I wasn't doing the naps as much. I was just sleeping later in the afternoon. But I was at the end of my career at that point. I wasn't really, I didn't have to put much muscle on. But when I was in my growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone stage, sleep was super important. I really believe think about what a baby does. A baby sleeps like almost around the clock when it's an that's when it's doing its most grow. As long as you're putting the food in, you're not missing meals from sleeping, which I never would get up at an eating. I would go back to sleep. You're going to grow way better. If you're getting a lot of sleep. A lot of guys I work with, they work really tough jobs. They only get like four or five hours of sleep and they have trouble putting weight on and they have trouble losing body fat because their body is not recovering properly. So sleep, sleep, Kyle and Mara Nucci is marinating chicken breasts in a white vinegar precontas bad for the breasts protein does it value the chicken breast. Yeah, that's fine. You can use marinades until like that as long as there's no sugar in them or carbs. A lot of people, you know, you could start adding extra stuff. But if you're only using vinegar, that's fine. Soy sauce is great too. Just make sure you buy like keycum in soy sauce that doesn't have the added sugar to it. That's a big mistake that people do make. You can't add a lot of calories to your food if you're using condiments that have carbs in them and you're not aware of it or you're just being ignorant. Read your labels. The labels don't lie. Taley Alley, milk fissile does it affect Andrew Jin resenters. Now, all milk fissile does is open up the, open up the, the bile docks in the liver and they bite them wider instead of them getting pinched off. They're open when they're open. The liver can dump the waste out this detoxifying and get rid of it. And once it dumps it into the intestinal tract, it just gets eliminated from your body when you poop. So that's the easiest way to do things. IMean, the problem is that when the liver is being overworked to get it in flames, and you know, any kind of overwork syndrome will cause chronic inflammation. An inflammation in the liver is going to pinch these bile docks off and it's not going to allow the waste to pass through these small small ducks. And when that happens, that's when you get problems because then the fluid backs up in the liver and you get fibrieticiuming laid down. Sometimes you can get cyst formation where all of this, these toxins have nowhere to go. And so the body just encapsulates them and assists it sits on top of the liver. And I see that in a lot of people at this. You have to be very careful. Jimmy Massiam Dave, I have an abdominal hernia surgery coming up in two weeks. What do you recommend? I do over the recovery period to maintain my mass and maybe even look better at the end, which sounds like a range where I can start with light cardio and work my way back to full activity in six to eight weeks. The key is to make sure you keep eating. Don't miss meals. Don't think because you're not in the gym that you don't have to eat that you only have to eat twice a day. You know, it's insane. You should continue eating as if you've never stopped working out. Because if you've been working out, you know, religiously for long, long periods of time, it's going to take your body a really long time before it's completely healed up maybe two weeks. And by then you're going to already suck feeling good again. So don't miss meals. Big Rocky Sosa peak week essentials in terms of how to manipulate carbs, water, sodium. Yeah, IMean, I have a protocol that I use with with pretty much everyone in different different for men and women, but the protocol is pretty much the same. It just gets tweaked according to the person. I did not do anything as is foolish. You got to have a game plan that last week. The atomic beast have you heard this statement that vitamin D should be regarded more as a hormone rather than a vitamin. Why do some people claim this? Well, you look at the structure of vitamin D3. It looks like a steroid hormone, which it really is. It's a steroid hormone. It's or at least a precursor So, which is interesting when you think about, you know, being deficient in it might actually inhibit some anableness in it's going on in the body. So that's even another reason why you should supplement with vitamin D. Philip Role, what do you think about feeder workouts? Brent sees few cents every day of a hundred reps for arm shoulders to get blood in in the muscle and get more growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Rich Pianna talked about them as one of the advice that he gave on YouTube. Does it work for natural bodybuilders? I've tried this. Never been able to stick with it for a long isn't worth it. I put feeder workouts up there with bridging between steroids because which is basically never going off a steroid. When you over-trenk in other words, if you have a weak muscle, the reason it's weak is assuming your trening properly is that it's probably not able to recover as quickly as some of the good body parts you have. So what do people do? They tren it more. And what does that do? It makes it break down more and it doesn't even repair itself even in a repetitive or even less. At the long term, you want a bluesy muscle rather than a gaining muscle. So I think it's a terrible idea. I think once in a blue moon, if you want some month maybe you're throwing extra work out and they'll say have weak shoulders or let's say have weak pegs. And you usually do chest once a week and you tren it really hard. Maybe you want some a while. You just throwing extra chest work out in there. Just to really stimulate that muscle and give it a little extra. But if you did it every week, you would over-trene that muscle. So you don't want to do it every single day. But once in a blue moon you throw an extra work out in there. I think it's terrific. Excellent. 187. I want my daughter to be healthy and strong growing it. Going as she grows up. Should I follow the same sort of approach, nutrition-wise, as I would in terms of the macros or just let her be and eat whatever other kids would generally be. Your approach with your kids. My son still too young but I would like to them to eat well. I don't think he should just let him eat with him. I want to think if you have knowledge about nutrition, it's good to impart some of them. But not be a Nazi about it. Not to be like, you know, like where they're whipping the kid at the kid. The kid has an M&M or something like that once in a while. You know, you can't do that. But I try to make my son at least be exposed to healthy foods on a regular basis. But I allow him to have a treat. I actually enjoy watchinGHim. You have a treat once in a while. We go to McDonald's, you know, every once in a while. I'll let him have a piece of pizza. You know, if we go to like a buffet, my wife will have, you know, she'll share it. We'll just share a dessert with her. You might have some ice cream or some carrot cake. But most of his meals are very healthy. And I think that's what you have to do. That's to be balanced in their lives. Because otherwise they'll become dysfunctional eaters and they'll have eating disorders. You know, especially when they're but if you expose them to 90% of their food beinGHealthy, that's enough. They can handle a little junk food. It's when the kids eat all junk food. That's the problem. Jim Madness, Dave, I know this question has been asked a lot of times that I would appreciate a short answer. What are my alternatives for a clomeet in PCT? Almost killed myself in my last PCT because of clomeet side effects. Yeah, you can use no that X. No that X is, uh, or Tomox if it is, does the same thing as clomeet essentially in block estrogen receptors, whether it be on the breast tissue or in the brain, it doesn't really matter. It does the same thing. Clomeet blocks the estrogen receptors on the hypothalamus in the brain and allows it to not be turned off by estrogen. Okay, and so therefore the hypothalamus keeps working. It sends signal to the pituitary, pituitary sends signal to the testicles and everything keeps going. Okay, if you don't have that okay, and there's note and the estrogen combined to those hypothalamus on the cassette, there's just going to shut off testosterone production completely. Time for a couple of more Howard nine is H.H. we're taking in the all-season bulk when it's main use at low doses, fat burning, skin, et cetera. It's really not even at low doses, it's main function is not fat burning. It's muscle building and repair via IGF-1 release from the liver. So you take a shot at G.H. the G.H. goes to liver liver degrades it and releases IGF-1. So that's the benefit of it. So and I think it works great because you don't have to take a lot of it, a small amount works well. It's just consistently using it. Last question from a bassier C. Dave the best work out for chronic knee pain. All account, all compound movements. Father me, I've tried all of various foot and leg placements. So we get a lot of questions for those suffering from chronic knee pain. So we want some other best work out you would recommend for those suffering from chronic knee pain. You know I had an E issue when I first started before I ever took an animal ox steroid for some reason it was driving me crazy. I couldn't do legs and IMet a physical therapist at a bar and this girl told me that what you should do is tape your knee. She was an athletic trener to tape your knee inward. So if here's my legs, I'm taping my knee towards the middle of my body, pushing the knee cap into the proper place because I was getting pain under the knee cap and she said you have a tracking problem. Okay and she's like it's not going to be fun having that tape holding your knee over but it's going to functionally work and I started doing that and it was helping a little bit. Okay and then I wanted to do my first animal ox cycle and I kept saying I want to wait for them. I'm healthy so I get trened and then I said you know what maybe I'll feel better if I take the egg so frustrated. I just started taking the animal ox cycle and I'll tell you within three weeks my knee pain went away. But I think also that it was the fixing of the tracking of it that really helps. So my suggestion is go see an ART guy like you know and have them work on the knee and the tissues are around there try to get massage on a real basis to keep thEQuads nice and soft and pliable and if that doesn't work you know obviously you want to take joint you know supplements I would recommend taking ART through the lives five pills twice a day you're going to certainly feel relieved you'll feel some extra lubrication in the joint and that might be your ticket to you know to salvage and so to speak. But ultimately if you go and get an x-ray done and you find that you have very little carnitally in there you might want to get aromasin mask shot which is basically injecting liquids to no real fluid into the or gel like to no real fluid into the joint and then it kind of just lubricates everything and that a lot of times helps people too. One morEQuick hitter in this one from Camille B body building not sure if you address this in the past but if you have to say someone was your mentor in the sport whether now or in your body will agree or how to be. I say probably type two. Dr Scott Collin who invented Matt Drex was definitely a mentor of mine in terms of not drugs but supplements protein metabolism you know the science and what's going on you know and that's why a lot of my rants are based on stuff that he's rancid he's given me and luckily I always agree with everythinGHe said pretty much. Another mentor of mine probably from a friendship and I guess you could say drug standpoint would be Dr Mike Kloffman who was a dermatologist after my sister and he was a big big time body builder he invented a lot of exercise equipment machines something like that and he was he was just brilliant this guy and he really was a mentor and we used to stay up to like four in the morninGHe he's like the tren and just Jimmy had a key to I'd be there for four in the morning just ask him likEQuestion if thEQuestion if thEQuestion he loved he loved to have these discussions we had really really crazy you know like theoretical discussions about what we can do and how we can alter muscle you know size and recovery and different supplements and different drug cocktails and I learned a lot from those discussions you know even if some of the stuff was gibberish it didn't matter it was an exercise and using our minds to develop better protocols and a lot of my protocols I've developed because of him and because of those discussions so I want to thank him he's up with a big guy up there so may rest in peace that's going to do for this episode of past day of again we be remiss day we did mention throughout the course of the week especially on today's episode with a lot of thEQuestions that we've been getting a lot of people sending their prayers to you to your father your family obviously you're going through a very difficult time so I wanted you to know that that RX muscle nation has been sending their best really throughout the course of the week and they've all been supportive of you and in your corner during your difficult time yeah I want to thank people I've gotten a lot of the great response from people and I didn't even I didn't even think about when I first started putting it up but you know the community does rally behind people when things are you know the chips are down so to speak and you know it's always tough to lose a parent my dad's a little older you know which makes it a little easier obviously I lost my mom when she was 42 and I was 14 that was tough my dad's a little easier but you know it's still you know he's been there so long now I just expect him to always be there and once again he's going to be moving on to a better place and he'll be with up with the other Jedi's up there and have it you know we're looking me and hoping to make sure IMake the right decisions and protecting when I don't and you know I just I appreciate it obviously you know eventually my dad does let go it'll probably be a sad time for me I think right now I'm a little numb to the situation just trying to keep everything but you know it's tough tough losing a parent you know and a lot of people that can relate to that I think that's why we've got a lot of great I've got a lot of great responses from people giving me the wrong personal you know encounters with memory loss and old age and dementia and stuff like that and had a deal with it and Chris Hasido and I talk about it on the radio a lot because his dad's kind of going through the same thing so you know it is what it is it's part of life it's the cycle of life I appreciate all the loving and loving words and prayers and I know that's going to do for this episode of As David and brought to you by species nutrition for Dave Blumbo and our producer Tyler Shore obviously for repeat we'll see you next time

=== FILE: BIKINI INSIGHTS with NATOSHIA COLEMAN! [6cH5gGY-GFs].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brought You By Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is Becchi Superstar, I have to be pro Natasha Coleman. Welcome. You don't know what it is. Hello, guys. We've got a little bit of a delay, but we'll make it work. Now Natasha, you've had a quite a run this season. You've had first places, second places, third places. You've really been doing your work. A lot of competitors don't want to compete a lot these days. You've done over four shows already this year. You won in the year. You were second just two weeks ago. You're like the new flavor of the month in the Becchi division. You've been really establishing yourself as someone that's going to be very dangerous come a limpia time. Talk to us a little bit about the process, getting to this point in time where you are now. It's been an interesting ride because I build muscle very fast and in Becchiene they don't want that kind of muscle. First say, so I've had to find where my balance is on my particular body. It's been a while to actually kind of get my package together and I don't think I've actually fine tuned it quite yet, but come time for the Olympia. I think I'm going to kind of reveal something special and I'm really excited about it. Now, you have a very athletic look to you. You look like you can get out there and run hurdles and you can play volleyball, field hot, you can do anything. It looks like that. That team is a good look for the bikini division. Someone who looks like they're actually a functional athlete, not just a pretty body. Right, yeah. I re-entract in high school to shop put in high school. I didn't feel in high school. I was very, very active in sports. I think that they're going, they're starting to move more towards this athletic look, which I think is better. I think when bikini first started, it was little girls who just were cute and kind of had a little bit of abs going on, but not too much. Now it seems they're definitely welcoming more muscle. They're obviously they don't want the level of muscle. You would see the figure division, but they're definitely accepting of more muscle. If it looks athletic. Yeah, it does definitely seem that way for sure. And that obviously works to your advantage, because that just comes naturally to you. IMean, that's not something you have to work at. You go to the gym, you just project athleticism. Obviously, you're watching you here and you're in your species nutrition, which I do want to say that you're one of our athletes and I'm very proud of you and what you've accomplished this year. So I want to put that out there right off the bat. Thank you. What would you say, Brad? Oh, yeah. No, you're an excellent representative. Let me just ask you this though. What do you think that how can bikini, the bikini division get a more definitive criteria for what the judge is looking for? It seems like from show to show you see different judging of different betas. And it's not really consistent across the board. Would you like to see a more consistent judging of the division? Oh, sure. I think everyone would appreciate a more consistent look. And I think it's difficult because there are so many different shades when it comes to women. And how their weight is distributed per height. Women who have very small weights and whites at hips, you have very short women who are very compact, short torso versus long torso, long legs versus shorter legs. I just, everybody has a different look. And I think when it comes to consistency in bikini, I think a lot of us want more consistency. But it's just, I feel like it's difficult because someone look with abs and someone with like figure with abs if that makes any sense. Yeah, no, no. We'll watch some video here from the Greater Gulf States where the top three, all of you girls looked, you look like sisters all of you. IMean, you were very well matched up, which I thought was unusual. Usually you don't see a top three that is that close. Personally, I thought you should have won, but it was very close so you can't really complain about how did you feel that competition went and did you think that you deserve the win there? You know, that show was really stacked. I think we all come to win. Obviously, you know, we don't die at and tren and do cardio for a second. And anyone who does shouldn't be in the sport. I think we all have a certain level of confidence and I think that all kind of it's on stage. I definitely feel out of the three. I feel like I was from most balance. But I was also the most soft. It makes any sense. Marcia was a little harder. She has a very tight waist. She's a very good competitor. She's been consistent for this year for sure. IMean, she's won three consecutive shows backed back. Back. So, you know, obviously I came to win. I wanted to win for sure. Definitely. No. It's didn't work out that way. Yeah. You know, it's interesting. The way the bikini division works is your lot of people don't realize it's just winning a show is not enough to qualify you for the Olympia because there's so many bikini events they made a new point system that obviously you get a win. You get a lot more points than if you get a second, third, fourth or fifth. But you still have winning one show might not qualify you for the Olympia. And that's why a lot of people might want to be wondering why you're doing a lot of these shows. Yeah. Obviously, now with all the seconds and third you have you probably have more than enough points to make it to the Olympia stage. Do you like the new system? They are pros and cons to it. The pro is you don't get a winner out of a week's show that goes to the Olympia and that's a place. The cause of this system I feel like the points should be a little bit more steep. I also feel like you run the risk of these competitors tiring themselves out before the Olympia and then looking like crap on stage or you run the risk of creating these eating disorders that something is beinGHeld straight. It's kind of scary to think that someone's willing to put their health at risk and be keen for sure to get to the O stage. Why do you think that you're seeing a eating disorder behavior? Have you talked to girls that actually told you that? I'm bingeing and throwing up or anything like that. I don't know anyone who's necessarily throwing up, I shouldn't say that. But it creates this body to some more fear. It's the most in the community because you go from this extreme because you have to be lean and tight. You have to be small on stage because the camera adds to the 15 pounds to you or you're standing next to someone who looks better at the winner. But your body is being criteria for the community. That makes any sense. We're constantly pushing ourselves to the max and finally get to the Olympia stage. It's the big stage to be on and your body is tired and everyone can see it. I think trying to figure out a strategy for each person individually is something that's very important for people. I don't think that doing 12 shows is smart to try and get into the Olympia. If you do 12 shows, you don't need to go to the Olympia. You're not going to get to the Olympia. You're not responding anymore. People can say all they want about bikini doesn't need to be as hard as bodybuild but it doesn't matter. If you do too much of anything, too much dieting all your around, your body just is sharp at you into the year. I do relate to that. But at the same time, I think it's important that we don't have 600 people in the Olympia line up because it should be the elite of the elite. How do you break it down? How do you say to yourself, okay, these are the best. That's gross, but the other girls can't come, you know? Yeah, I think that in that sense, the point system is great. It narrows it down for sure. I think taking away more shows and I hate to see this. I hate to see it. Taking away more shows and making it more difficult and looking at, you know, making it more fun is what I'm going to fight. IMean, we fight, but if you take away half of the shows even from this year, you only have the top people winning. I'm all of for it. I think there's only 10 girls at the Olympia personally. That's always my, you know, I say with the guy, it should be 10 people. I'd say 10, top 10 in the world go to the Olympia. And that's it. And it would be so much more interesting if you're only judging 10 people, you know? But maybe they should have a qualifier. I always said, maybe halfway through the year, they should actually hold some kind of a qualifier that, you know, qualifies you for the Olympia. I don't know. There's got to be a better way to do it. There's gotta be a way, there's gotta be a way, because even this year, there's still going to be less. 32, 36 girls. I know. I know. It's crazy. It's crazy. I don't know. Did the bikini competitors, I can see the body goes, we, you know, we go back and forth. And I especially on Instagram, they used to break each other's balls and, you know, they, you know, argue with each other and they make fun of each other. Did the bikini girls do that with each other? Oh, thanks so. No. Not, not because I know of, you know, you have your people who are, who want to be who they want to be or whatever, but I don't think we, at least the mature bikini competitors, I don't think that we go out of our way to, you know, make a big, blue blot. It's just like, oh, that's just who she is. Okay. And then we keep going. You know, it's not, I don't think it's necessary. It, um, it wouldn't make it interesting. Yeah. But I feel like women have a heart and up, you know, so why add to it? Now, obviously, having the physique that you have in the, in the great, genetic athletics, would you have a consider moving up to figure the figure division and trying your hat there or, or is the key, something that you can, you really love to do? Bigger is very competitive, too. Like, I would have to take several years off to, to be competitive and figure. I think figures good. I think I think the top women in figure are, uh, I think they are so loves it, a love of choice. So they are, um, they, I think the great representatives of this, of that division for sure. What, what are you way on stage and what's your height? Um, this last show I was 115. Um, and I'm, I'm 53 and 3 quarters. Okay. And what was the say, a comparable figurecompetitive of that height would weigh at this point in time? Going into the Olympia or just on stage. Yeah, in the Olympia, like what? In general. What are those girls' land? How much more? 10 pounds more? 15? I would think, I would think 15 to 20 pounds at least, yeah. So that's the thing that they get an out of muscle. Just because, you know, yeah, it's, it's a, it's a thicker amount of muscle, you know, um, and then depending on the age and the muscle maturity. IMean, there are a lot of factors that go into it. Of course, the posing, like, huge, you know, part and head. But um, yeah, I would think that they would weigh, my office is in late on stage. Yeah, sure. You work for a law firm now. You have a real job. Congratulations on that. None of these people do. Uh, thanks. Where do you see yourself, what do you see the future for yourself being in the cany? IMean, what would you like to do in the cany? And do you see yourself changing professions or, or do you like what you do in this, is, is bikini kind of like a hobby with you? Um, IMean, obviously, I would like something to come up with for sure. Um, I like reaching out to people, like helping people, um, especially reach their goals, their body composition goals. Um, I like inspiring people to do better, um, or at least to me help your decisions. Not like that saving lives or anything. Um, but I would, I would love to be able to jump the world and represent a company and, you know, just be interactive with with people who kind of want to do the same thing that I do that makes an instance. Did you have you struggled with eating, uh, disorder behavior from the past? Not eating disorder, for say, um, I didn't have a healthy relationship with food. Um, before I even gotten to bodybuilding, you know, they, they, you know, what was the, the big thing ten years ago, the high hydroxy cut, was it? Yeah. Um, so yeah, I was young. I was dumb. You know, I would pop those pills or whatever and not eat the night would drink on the weekends. You know, so it was just a very unhealthy relationship with food. Um, I never had a disorder per se, but it was always, you know, eat less, eat less, and do a cardio. And now it's sort of just flipped, um, with this whole, the key, the key, the competition and, you know, competing and then it's like that. And I have such a healthier relationship with food. Um, and, you know, it's, it's, it's been great for me, but for some people, it, it, it is a great for them. You know, I know you're saying this. Mental has to be there. Sure. I guess I, I know when I was a long distance runner, I had a terrible relationship with food that would start myself. So I wanted to lose weight because, you know, your, your lighter, your run faster. And when I actually got the body building, it actually cured it because you're right. Body building is the opposite. It's like you have to eat five, six times a day, and you can't miss meals. And all of a sudden, I wasn't starving anymore. And so it took the edge off, and I actually, and I actually booked better, obviously when I was eating right foods, and I was eating more frequently. So the, the whole competition, you know, bikini, figure whatever you want to call the division of your interests. And it really does help eating disorder and behavior because it's so structured and you're not really limiting the food you're eating, then I think it, it, it actually makes it healthy. And obviously the contest diet, you can get a little crazy. But the rest of the year, you have to admit it is a much more healthy way of thinking about food. Oh, sure. Oh, 100%. I, I feel that thing. 100%. Yeah. Now, you were obviously, you were also used a lot of supplements. You know, use our whole species nutrition line of products. You represent us. How important is it to you incorporate nutritional supplements and some, and protein powder stuff like that into your regimen? How does that work? Is it, is it, is it an important add-on for you? Or do you like to stick to main foods? What's your, what's your philosophy on that? Um, I obviously, I'm going to want more food. But I do, I do take a multi, I do, especially when I'm trensitioning from offseason into my prep. I take, um, liqueurize for sure, just because it helps kind of curves the hunger a little bit. Sure. And it, and it gives me, it gives me just kind of that, that head start that makes any sense. Yeah. Um, I take my summer life as it knocks me out. Oh, my gosh. Like that between that, the, you fertilize, um, what else is it? Fiberize those are my three go to, oh, my God. I cannot say enough. It seems like the fertilize saves my prep. We sell, we sell a lot of the pudding. The fertilizer is putting to women. I would say probably 70% of the people by the pudding from us are women because it's like a little treat you can have. And it takes the edge off that sweet tooth you get when you're diving. Mm-hmm. Yep. And of course we know in the touch of whether you want to admit it or not, all women have trouble pooping, right, when they're diving. So, so fiberlizes is a God send in that sense, right? I love fertilizer. I think I ruined one of my friends image of me because I was in his life. And so when had asked him like, hey, I do you take fiberlize. And God, this is terrible. So, of course I tried to end. And he hadn't taken it before. I was like, yeah, you know, you get these really silky pousse. But it's like, it is true though, you know, your women cannot go to the bathroom. I know I work in the lot of women. A lot of them get concentrated. The guys do too, but I'm saying women more so, probably because women's colonns are not as strong. And it really does help, especially when I'm content this time. The worst thing you want to do is get on stage and you can't go to the bathroom, you know. What, yeah, not so we're spilling other. It just feels like blow, it's just gross, yeah. Well, we're very proud of you. Obviously it's easy to nutrition. I'm also want to just congratulate you on the winner earlier in the year. And obviously the trip to the Olympia will be rooting for you over there. And, you know, the great thing about the bikini division is that it's wide open. And every year they seem to be, they seem to judge you pretty fairly. If you're the best, you seem to do better. It's not like some of these other divisions where it seems like it's impossible to unseat the champ. Yeah, it's going to be interesting to see because there's so many different women. There's so many gorgeous women in the Olympia this year. That qualified last year and that have enough points this year. So it's going to be interesting to see. Good luck. I'm on that stage. I want you to get back to work. I know you're doing this on your lunch hour. So we appreciate you taking time at your schedule. Of course. Thank you for having me today. Absolutely. All right. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com And they pull on both. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: BLOOD WORK： WHAT TO LOOK FOR! [gbwI0QS8fW8].txt ===

realidad of another island that condiments Opción. Daypalumbo here with another RX muscle, news update. Guys, I want to talk to you a little bit about blood work because this is the time of the year. A lot of guys have been sending me blood work to interpret, read, give me my opinions upon it. And the truth of the matter is that a lot of us don't get enough blood work done. Sometimes I'm a little lazy with getting it done as well. I try to get it done at least once a year, but I really should do it every six months. You know, you want to check your, especially if you're body building, you're taking performance enhancing drugs or any kind of hormones for that matter. You definitely want to check, you know, you liver functions and there's a whole host of enzymes that cover that. You want to check your kidney function, which is creatinine and BUN levels pretty much. Those are high. You want to address that situation. Obviously, you want to check your blood cells, white blood cells that's your complete blood count. The CFF. Too many red blood cells in your body because you're taking out of all of it. Because you're, are your white blood cells too high because maybe you have some kind of a sickness or some kind of an infection going on in your body. You want to check C-reactive protein levels to see what your total body inflammation is. You want to check hemoglobin A1C to see what your average blood sugars are running over three months. Fastly glucose levels are always nice to get. It's a quick, quick reading that they do all the time. And then of course you want to do hormone panels. You want to see what your testosterone is. You want to see what your estrogen levels are, what your pro-lactin levels are. So that you can optimize these things. Your DHG or dihydrogen testosterone levels. These are all hormones that you need to have this data at your back in the disposal, especially if you're going to go and get them replaced. Now, titan medical centers is a clinic that I've been talking about for many, many years now. They produce top quality supplements. They have injectable vitamins. Really, you know, I started out with them because of the hormone replacement. And if you want to go in hormone replacement, okay, you got to get your blood work done. Now blood work can be very expensive. And a lot of you guys out there don't have health insurance. So I talked to titan medical, and I said, look, I have a lot of guys and a lot of women out there who want to use you guys and get hormone replacement prescribed. They want to get you want to get injectable vitamins like glutathione and some of the healing peptides that are now at BPC, 157, TB-500. But you know what, we need blood work. We need to see what your baseline levels are. And you know, I said a lot of these guys don't have insurance. I said, what do they do? I said, it's kind of expensive. I know that they will prescribe blood work, anti-medical, but sometimes it's a little cost prohibitive for some of you guys. So I talked to them and doing a special sale. And I know this is a time of year or about halfway through the year where everyone wants to see what they're going on. They want to get on them replacement for summer's year. They want to feel good and diggerous for till July 4th. Okay, till July 4th only we have a special going on. Full men's blood profile from 135,000 to $70. It's a lot of my, well, tighten gives you guys a very good deal to begin with at 200 dollars. But to get that for 130, that's a huge savings. So if you're thinking about doing it, this might be the impetus to make you want to do it. Now the women's panels are a little more expensive because they have to test estrogen for gesturing all the womenly hormones. Very normally at $300 those panels, they're doing it for 225 now. So if you don't have insurance and you would like to go through tighten to get this blood work done, even if you don't want to get any hormone replacement, I think for sure I'd be trying to get your blood work done. This is a super cheap deal for the blood work you're going to get. So if you're feeling like, oh man, you know what I should have gotten blood work done, I just didn't have the money, it's so expensive. Here's your opportunity. Don't delay because you know what, what you find out in this blood work could be integral into helping your progress in the future. Hey, you know what I didn't even realize I was high in this or I was low in that. Now I can correct that and make better progress, put on muscle easier, lose body fat easily. And then if you like you said, if you decided to take the next step and go on hormone replacement or go on some of these injectable vitamins, you've got your blood work ready to funny, it's all done, you're ready. You do your Skype session with the doctor over tighten, which is something I have to do now because it's been a year. And guess what? You're back in business right away with high quality prescription drugs that are made in a compounding pharmacy center, directly to your house monthly. It doesn't get much easier than that. And you don't have to worry about what you're getting being what's going to take. You know it's coming from a certified U.S. compounding pharmacy. And I can't stress that enough, but take home as a serious blood work guys. Don't delay, you haven't done it a while, don't feel bad. Here's your opportunity contact Titan Medical Center dot com. Use the special code word, RX muscle. And you will get that terrific discount. We have the number on the screen, and call that number as well. And that is going to make it your life super easy and it's going to take that burden of you. I know personally no body, but I'm going to mention his name, although he probably doesn't care. I know he watches the show. He hadn't gone to the doctor in 20 years, isn't like that. He was so nervous, he was like, Dave, I don't know what to do. I haven't gone to the doctor. I said, just go. At least you'll have peace to mind, and you take perfect care of yourself. There's probably nothing wrong with you. He goes, of course, nothing was wrong with them. He's right now he sleeps well at night again. So if you're in that category, make the phone call, remember, mention RX muscle and Dave Polumbus and you. And I promise you, you will sleep better at night. And you'll probably sleep better at night because you'll be able to get on some cool hormones, replacement formulas that are going to make it feel a lot better. For now, they're on Dave Polumbus with an RX muscle, news update.

=== FILE: BODYBUILDER vs. 800-LB LION IN TUG OF WAR： SEE WHO WINS! [8QaFgJnf308].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Motor 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low carb clock tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Thursday, August 20th, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. There's one of his fans been on this earth. There have been epic tales passed down from generation to generation about how one extraordinary man was able to overcome the obstacles to slay a great feast. And a few days ago, blessing Wabba do found out firsthand what it might be like to be the hero in his own epic. In case you missed it, blessing stepped inside the zoo and decided to go one on one with a full grown male lion in a game of tug of war. Now, considering the fact that the male lion can grow up to 550 pounds, I have to pat blessing on the back for holdinGHis own against one of the most powerful creatures on the planet. But if these were throwback gladiator times and there wasn't a full scaling closure separating them, you would need a whole lot more than a rope to conquer that bad boy. They say one of the hardest things to do in sports is to win back to back championships. Because this second time around, you come in with a target on your back, which means that you're getting everyone's best shot on a nightly basis. And a few weeks from now, second year men's physique pro, Andre Doe will find out firsthand when he tries to defend his title at the Romania pro. According to reports, Andre plans to make his season debut a few weeks from now in Romania, where he set the world on fire last season when he crews to a huge win in his rookie debut. Based on what I've heard, this version of Andre would easily beat what he brought to the stage last year. So what I'm hearing is true, Andre could be in a position to make this whole back-to-back thing look a whole lot easier than people might think. One of the most important things I've learned about being in business is that more isn't always better. And learninGHow to get better and more efficient at what you do is the real key to being successful in the long run. And just looking at what Brittany Campbell's been doing lately, it seems like she's trying to take a similar approach. Rumor has it that Brittany's in the early stages of prep for the Texas pro in November. Where I'm shortly looking to grab one of the last few remaining spots for the Olympia qualification. When Brittany's at top of her game, she has the potential to be one of the top 10 athletes in the figure division. So if she keeps learning and finding new ways to get better, Texas could be the perfect venue for her to showcase all her talents. If the shortest distance between two points is a straight line, the best way to get the point A to point B is to put one foot in front of the other and not stop until you get there. Simple as that, you just have to keep moving, take fun, Prima Guy for instance. For her the last two years had been a steady climb up the ladder in the women's physique division because she treats every day in every workout like an opportunity to take another step forward. And she's done it so consistently that now she's in their position to be a legitimate top five contender in this year's contest. She's walking the straight and narrow path and as long as she keeps putting one foot in front of the other, eventually she might end up walkinGHerself right into being a title contender. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palaambo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: BODYBUILDING MEDIA： THE FUTURE! Live With Dan Solomon (Part 2) [8jsm0KJe3Hc].txt ===

So there's a lot of people like to hate on the guys who are at the top, just the way it is in all sports. Do you see a scenario where a film where to win or a film where to come in just amazing? Show that last year was an evaluation that comes back all the time best. Do you see the crowd turning around and falling in love with him and respecting the physique that he brings? Because that'd be cool too. A film shows up and he's so on the money. So amazing. The best way to ever see him that all those booze suddenly turned to chips. I don't see it happening because I think people always love to hate the champion. Now it's so lost one year and he came out of comeback. Everyone be rooting for him. But people like, they don't want to see the same champion every year. It just gets boring to them. I think the guy who deserves to win, I don't care. Like Ronnie deserved all those victories because he deserved it. And it's tough shit on everyone else that Ronnie was the best body but for eight years and a row. Or seven years and a row. But I still like Janna one. Yeah, I did like Janna. But it was but Ronnie wasn't terrible. No, not at all. So the bottom line is everyone wants to see Phil Beans. I can't imagine a scenario even if he looks amazing that they wouldn't vote for him. But although the people in the arena tend to be better body going fan than the haters who are at home. It's involving everyone in home I say there's no way to feel it can win. If it's involving people in the theater, I can see maybe. There is a big gap between what goes on in that venue and what goes on in people's living room. It's actually amazing isn't it? You come home and we all do this. You spend the weekend with busy hostings stuff doing all the stuff that we do. And then you get home and you log on to the computer and you can. So what do people think of the weekend? Because you don't have time to look at it while you're there, right? So you come home and the feedback makes you realize that you saw completely different kinds of. Well, what happens if like Dex Jackson wins like the people's choice? You know, he could. Yeah, because he's very well-wired. Dex to take that. He'd add the eights from his the OA, the one we had at 18. He'd choose to his title. He'd do his Instagram. It's going to be a lot of abuse of privileges. But that, you know, just the same way you see guys who win these other divisions and they get introduced as Mr. Oralian. Yeah, they'll probably. You can see that happening. Although I think that a lot of the top guys would not want to have the daily owners of not having one. But are the people's choice? It's almost like like the the people of the shade Mr. Oralian's might get. That's right. You know, but there's a lot of people's chance, right? That's the thing. You know, the scenarios that would make everything interesting, I think, on a week and I think that that's why they do this stuff to hype it up. Yeah. I think they figure, well, who cares? The ultimate Mr. Oralian is going to be the ultimate Mr. Oralian. Nothing's going to change that. That people argue. And debate, it makes the Oralian be that much. It's a surprise. Are you surprised that they don't bring out the 212 winner and put him with the Mr. Olympic champion? Look back in the day that you should do it, right? I know. I've been saying they should do it. What are you doing? IMean, at the very least, the fans deserve to see what it looks like. Since the beginning, I would like to say, I'd love to see. So I should just be in flex Lewis's last year as a 212 winner. Just we haven't even talked about it. Yeah. Flex Lewis, you know, 20, I had heard a room and that he was at this year's last year. And I texted him and he kind of like blew me off a little bit. He's like, don't really hear anythinGHere. Because we were talking about, I didn't know this, but I don't know if you know this. Let's Lewis use the breathing. Birds, fingers, parrots, parrots, parrots, he's racing pigeons. Okay. Because we have that net. He knows I'd bring reptiles. Yeah. So we were talking. Is this true? This little year last year. He didn't say anything. He kind of blew me off. And then obviously announced when coming. I think he's going to come back into the open. I think that's going to be tremendous. Yeah. He's got it. I know that Neil Hill is trener. And people who are close to flex. We tren with him. Everybody wants to see what that body could look like without the limitations. Sure. A being under 200 and 12 pounds. To the point where his body is trying to explode through that division. I actually feel sometimes that flex may have almost overstayed his welcome in that division. Now, there's no bigger fan of flex. Lewis, IMean, I love the guy. He's a great, great champion. He works hard. It's hard not to like flex. But I'm a little worried about him this year because a lot of that division was created for that sort of younger muscle as clener lines. You know, kind of that David Henry type of look back when he started. And now flex is a more mature body. Yeah. It's a little grainier. The lines flow a little differently. Yeah. It's still a great physique. And it will still probably win next month. But I'll tell you. It ain't a foregone conclusion. He doesn't like the criticism he's getting. And I understand where he's coming from. He knows he's not as best. He can't be his best at that way. Right. He's his best probably a 220 to 18. He can't get down to 212 and be his best. So when people criticizing, he knows the criticism is real. Yeah. And there's nothinGHe can do about it. You can't fill up in a day or two and regain what you had to do to make that way. It's just impossible. Yeah. You can look good, but you can't look great. So I think he wants to come on to a body bone stage and look his best. Look at Lee Priestley, priest competed with all the old guys here. He was shorter than Flex. Yeah. And he did great. He won shows. You know, big shows. And so I think Flex, I don't think Flex will win the Olympia. But I think Flex will be a very, very dangerous competitor. Right now is Flex a top 7 body builder in the big division. Now the way it's this minute now, but I think in the year we will. Yeah. I think he could possibly, definitely break the top 10 if you can. And I think that he might be even higher. Right. Look, bone acts up there. How much bigger is bone acting? I think we'll go back when. Bona is good. This is scenario where you could win. I thought he should have be Romney last year and if film had been off, you know, a little more than he was, you know, bone equity. I kind of feel like Bona not that there are physics compared, but I feel like Bona represents what Dekster used to represent. Being that guy, where if the guy's, if the guy's miss it, that he's that guy, who you kind of know what you're going to get now. And he's good. The problem with Bona is that he's not as consistent as Dekster. And that's why Dekster is the one. No, no. No one is. And that's, but you know, it's filled with kind of consistent too. And that's where his, you know, Mr. consistency, I show him. And that's why he's been able to win so many times. You know, he's, if Dekster was his biggest cell, okay, Dekster would be winning the Olympic at 20 times. You know, the last couple years, but the film came up. He was younger. He had a little bit fresh from us. He was a little bigger, a little round and more cartoonish. And he's a better version of Dekster. But he is, you know, but when he's off, Dekster exploits that. And that's why Dekster's so dangerous waiting in the wings. You know, it's like George Foreman, when George Foreman made that crazy comeback. And I was like, what is this all the fact I'm doing? But you knew he had that knockout punch in and Michael Moore stepped in front of him and boom, Foreman knocked him out. He's a world champion. So Dekster's there also. Don't, don't count him out. You know, you can't forget him. I think he's more dangerous than Sean Rodinus. IMean, just the story of Dekster finishing the top five again this year. It's been every year. I didn't believe it. Every single year, guys come and they go in the mirror. Dekster, he's got to spot the top five every single year. And it's remarkable. And to me, it's one of the greatest achievements in sports. To be able to do what he's doing, Deket in Deket. It's like, you know, Deket. He's like, you know, he's just, he's got that longevity aspect going on. He knows how to not abuse his body so that he can continue to get more viable jettin. Right. That's the best way to say. I know where he'll defend on the Fed that I would say he's going with. Galer Fitty. I'm sorry. But I feel like the Lugar and Lugar are going to be like, you know, the point is that, you know, this Olympia is really open. I think if a high green stepson, it's a real wild part of it. But even without him, Dekronmy is surging, we're just waiting for this guy to deliver the goods. Still knows he's there. Still knows that, you know, if Wormmy, Wormmy, if it comes in at 100% which he hasn't yet. He's in trouble. What you're taking on me commercial implications in terms of the business of bodybuilding, if a bodybuilder from that region, from that part of the world, or part of the world that we know is very fanatical about bodybuilding. Right. A bodybuilder with her. There's a whole infrastructure over there. If they had the champion, it probably wouldn't be bad for the sport in terms of the business of bodybuilding, right? Oh, look at it. Doring one. It didn't show anything. Right. I think I don't think that this ever a bad champion. And I don't think this ever a bad change. I think change is always good because it refreshes the sport a little bit. I don't think that we ever thought that we'd be a Lonnie that would come on the woodwork like that. So he's waiting there and you know, probably the bystander who's looking at pictures is like, this guy's not, he didn't win. Well, we know nuances of why he didn't win and why he's not his best yet. And he's why he has, you know, what the reasoning is, why the judges haven't picked him. But once he does win, because he will win eventually, I think. I agree. I think they don't be undeniable. Everyone will say, of course he's Mr. IMight be looking at the size of this guy. He's out unbelievable. I told him because he just mentioned we didn't know he existed. We used to say that when Phil started winning the Olympics, the first couple we used to say that people would ask. So who's going to be the next Mr. Olympia? Who's the guy who's going to be Phil? And we would all look around at the current crop of champion. He doesn't exist. We don't know who he is yet. And then suddenly, Rami appeared. And Rami is legit. And I know you weren't, I guess you weren't that high in what you saw from Rami last year. No, I thought his conditioning was not that good. I was impressed. We had different states. It was a different angle. But I was pretty impressed by him. And I felt that what he showed, and I thought this was important. The conditioning in years past had been really off. He hadn't found his rhythm. What I saw last year was a guy who looks like he was figuring out. It was obvious to me that he was starting to find the formula. And if that's the case, there's no stop. I thought when he worked with Chris to see over the year before. I thought for the pre-chaging and lumpinGHe was too fly. He didn't look good. But for the night show, he looked great. And then he won the Arnold year that we could have to keep. I thought that was the best I've ever seen. I thought that look could have possibly been in the middle of the last year. But he didn't bring that look. He brought a bigger look. They like big in the Middle East. Sure, they're a big, big, big, big, big, big. Well, they're guys. And it works for a lot of these guys. Branded. But I don't think Rami's so big that he doesn't need to be bigger. Yeah. And I think at this point they have to just play the conditioning game. And I think when he comes in with conditioning, it's a one-bedroom. You're not your ruling. This guy is when you look at Rami Wanker, what comes to mind? What do you think of when you scan? It's funny because we've all been around this long enough for nothing free To say. He's the biggest guy. He's the biggest man. He's the biggest man. He's bigger than Rami. He's the biggest human to ever exist. When they show these images of this guy, it's like a living walking breathing photoshop. Things are happening that just don't happen. I think the problem with Roli is that he's too big. And he's lost a little bit of proportion. Which as a bodybuilding, I don't care almost because I'm just like, look at this muscle. Look at that muscle. But I think the aesthetics are a little, are not quite as good. Rami's got very good aesthetics for a big guy. He's very balanced up or lower. Yeah. There's nothing out of proportion. So I think that Rami has a better chance of winning the one-bedroom. The issue of people's champion. Yeah. Roli Wanker. I think he's the most talking about people. I was talking about Chik the other day. I think I have like a weekly one hour of time. Yeah. I think that's what we spent about 10 minutes of the call talking about this people's champion. And Bob said you can write it down. That really wins it. If he's really so popular. He's a great guy. He's a great guy. Marcus Roli would have been the people's champion back in the day. That's right. Because he never would have won the only one being. But people's loved the size. Yeah. Roli is the guy that would have done the a four-minute, the four-minute note, night of champions. Everybody went every single year back in the reward. Right. Because that's what he has like. And after all, if the bare root scratch roots, that's what bodybuilding is. It's about building muscle and coming in darling, free To heart. Yes. And the fans don't necessarily care about aesthetics as much as you think. Even though there is this like social media movement for the classic looks. Right. Most people don't give a question about that. Most of the fans want hard core muscle. And that's what we grow up. Especially now that there's all these other divisions where those other physiques. If they have a point. Can you showcase, right? So now it's like if we're going to get to the big stage. Let's showcase the big bodies. I am one of those people who does like the physiques the flow. I do like the degree of aesthetics. IMarvel especially in the early years of fill-heat. I used to marvel over thaT3-dimensional muscle. I thought when he lost the Arnold Classic to the Kai was in 2010. That sounds very good. He was unbelievable. If you want to go back and look guys if you're watching, go back and watch on the YouTube videos. He was unbelievable. His waist was teeny tiny. His proportion. His size was perfect. I don't know. I definitely didn't need to get any bigger. Of course, as a bodybuilding we all want to be bigger bigger. Better. Sure. But I thought that that should have been Mr. Olympia. Yeah. And that was the ideal physique. So I think to fill genetically was meant to be Mr. Olympia. But every Mr. Olympia we've ever had as they've gotten later into their years. To the end of their reign. Their aesthetics have gotten awful. Because you know what happened? Everything rose including the waist. It's a tiny. Never have that. Rani is 99.98 waist was teeny. His 2004 or five waist was a lot thicker. Yeah. And that's just the way you know. You still look forward to going to the Olympia over here? Yeah, you do. You know, IMissed the Arnold classes the first time. I did do 25 years. How you got this? Yeah. And I, you know, it's a taste. I don't even know if you're going to be able to be. I haven't decided. It's very hard with the on kids to. I think that sacrifice to the athlete. My wife alone for that many days without me being there. I don't know. We'll see if I have a sponsor. IMight be able to justify going. If I don't, IMight like Chris and the crew do their thing on the baron. It's funny. Like we all bitch and complain about stuff right here whenever I get to Vegas for the Olympia. It's that one moment where I have this real great new depreciation. I fall in love with body going to get ready. Every year in September, I go to the Olympia. Of course, you got the Wayne Johnson, the rock. They're all there. It's a great energy. Anybody who starts talking about the demise of body building. You walk inside that. Or lanes arena. You see Robin Shane stage production. You see the energy in the building. You appreciate the historic importance of what you're at. It's the singular greatest event in body going. And it makes me love body building again. And that's why I keep going back. Because throughout the year it's easy to get cynical and get caught up in the minutia of the negative stuff. But the Olympia, it's the hallmark. It's the Super Bowl. It's nice. You know, who doesn't want to go to the Super Bowl. That's the Super Bowl of our sport. That's what it's worth. That's worth. And I understand what you talk about. You do get in. You almost get excited about body building. Yeah. You become proud to be a part of this community when you go out to the end. And for some reason, whatever I go to these big events, tell me controversial always goes down between me and so and else. And I, it's, it becomes more than just anything. I want to be a week and all the world weekend. Me and Sean Ray or me and this person. And I, by your always the comment, did I? Yeah. I don't know what it is. It's like I'm a cold, very polarizing. You're honest, I very strong opinions. And I'm not afraid to give my opinions. And I think people, the fans appreciate that. Some don't. Most of them do. And what happens is that on those weekends, you're so charged up trying to do content. This and that and opinions that someone, invariably, you know, people block heads in a lot of times people back down. But I don't back down from strong opinions. And I feel that it's my duty as a, as a, as a press person to respond to that. Because the fans expect that. You, people asked me about all sorts of members of the body building meeting. I get asked about you and I always say that Dave Palombo is willing to go there. He's willing to go where I'm not willing to go. He's willing to go where most guys aren't willing to go. There's a lot of times where you'll do something and I will vehemently disagree with the fact that you just did that or you just did that interview. But it's served you well. Every industry has somebody who serves the role that you serve. So, and you work hard and I respect what you do. But yeah, you are willing to go places that most people aren't willing to go. Because you know what the only way change can happen is if someone speaks up right about it. And I'm not saying that I'm responsible for all the change that occurs. But I like to believe that a lot of the things that have been created in our sport may be changed. Maybe it has a little something to do with it. Right. Just by opening my big mouth and you know, and somehow it trickles back down and five years later they decided to make a change because of that. So, someone has to at least put the thought out there because if no one does, then then the sports stagnates and we don't see it. Well, the portion that can happen is for people to stop talking about bodybuilding. And that does concern me. Here we are. What do we tend to unrikes out from the biggest event of the year? We have a guy who's about to try to catch the biggest record in bodybuilding. These are big stories. We have the Kigreens story. We have Flex Lewis competing in the 212 for the final time. We have so many other dynamics in the other divisions that are playing out. I'd like to see more chatter. So, it's important for all of us to do our part to some people say, we're talking about manufacturing, we're talking about manufacturing. Well, I say, you know, manufacturing. If you got to do whatever you got to do, let's get people talking about bodybuilding. You know, Dan, I always do this every year for the Arnale. I always do pre-interviews with all these guys. I get the people and people talking about it. Do it for the Olympics too. And you know what I get? I get stonewall with the top guys because there's still with the stupid exclusivity. Why is Phil Heath exclusive? When Arnale would go, okay, and do the Olympics or promote movies. He'd go on every talk show in the entire world. Okay, because publicity is good for the gory. Same for the Olympic. Ported Mr. Olympia, Sheraton, where Flex magazine will all his sponsors on it and send them out and let them do media for everyone to promote the Olympic. You know what? The guy actually might be a like guy after that. If I got him in the studio here or if I got him on Skype and interviewed him, I guarantee you more people would like this guy because I talk to him alone. And he has a good heart. He's a good guy. I think he's a misunderstood champion because he's very passionate about what he does. He gets mad when people critique him. I guarantee if I sat down in an interview to I say, I guarantee if you sat down in a interview to people would have a different presentation. There's no question about, I actually watched Phil doing interview with somebody who I'm not familiar with. He talked about his life and his approach to business and I came away really appreciating Phil's brain. He's talking to me. He's talking to me. Very well done. I don't know why they won't let this guy do interviews with. And it's really only exclusivity. It's really him now that there's not a lot of guys who have those deals. It's only exclusionary for like, for probably you me and the other body. Yeah, I don't know why he can do TV. Let the guy do as many interviews as he wants. It's good for the freaking Mr. Olympic contest. I don't understand it. Same thing with Dexter and he got a couple of the guys under it. There should be no more exclusive contracts. It's the social media age. And we want you to be able to interview anywhere they want it to be. Because it's going to only help the sport. The good news is we are trening that right. One of the reasons I started digital muscle.com is because there were there weren't very many exclusives anymore. I have great content providers all over the room who have the freedom to provide content. Yes, Phil he does the number one body member on the planet. He still has his deal with the waiter and my people. And that's fine. But there's fewer and the fact that we can sit here by the way. Yeah. And do this now shows how much things have changed because there was a time where my contract for limitations would prevent this event. But I understand that there was magazines that there was a reason to have a season. But you don't have to truth this feels exclusive. They know what even uses him over there. They're not even usinGHim. Maybe they'll have one interview with this guy. Why not let their champion let the Mr. Olympia represents the sport. But he's at the president of the United States for body level. That's right. Let him go out there and give his speeches and give his interviews and represent. He's a guy who's very well spoken. I wanted the reasons why they got him in there. I began much because he's a good representative. What the guy represent? That's the one thing that I really have a problem. And you should. But I think the good news is we're getting close to it. And we're getting close to it. I think simply because we're print media is headed. It's headed. It's headed. The resources are there to limit those guys the way it used to. Blacks Lewis is dying. He's dying. He's dying. He's right down here. No. No. Something contract. I can't say the freedom to do that. No. He does not. Because not be any good love to. Maybe. Imagine when you they take the title of the. There we go. But what are they usinGHim for? What was the last interview? Some of the flex Lewis. Well, I saw the one that they just did. I'm also finished and flex magazine where he announced his decision. Right. But that was just like kind of an up news update. Right. Let's get this guy. He's the best rep. He's the best. The best of you have all tied. Right. This guy is the kind of regretter of. That's another body building. He just wants to talk talk talk talk. He's not afraid to call people out. He's very controversial. Come on. Let's. You want excitement in the sport. Let these guys talk. Open up. Take the gag orders off everyone and let these people talk because you know what? That's what the fans want. You don't need to people's champion. Let the champions themselves go out there and be the people's champion and speak. I guarantee you if you didn't lock these guys behind prison doors and not let them speak to anyone. They would actually be more like by the public. The public would get to know what they are. Personality was. No question about it. And it is one of the things that has really helped body building back. But those seeds were planted along the way. I know. It's an old guard system. It's like an antiquated system. It doesn't serve any of the stuff. The system sort of raises even in 2005 when I started probating on the weekly top radio. I would actually sign Jay color to my radio show. I didn't know. Think of the absurdity. Yeah. I look back on that now and it seems crazy. The one we mean Bob was sat down. We did a deal. He wasn't allowed to appear on any other. I remember that. Radio shows. It's now I love the concept. But at the time it was a big story, right? Jay couldn't go on your show already. Right. Well, in the time I was working for Muscle Development, I used it. And it's blackly was going crazy with you. But dance. I had dance on them. Because you were doing, trying to scoff up the interview before he did and you would put the gobash on it. And it was fun that day because he had you were valuable. And I can't see how Muscle Development. And it was flexed that didn't really have a radio show, but they wouldn't provide any content for you guys. So it was its whole like war. Which was fun. There's no warning more. The war's over. No one won. The only people who wanted the people survived. That's true and me. And I can't even say it in these survivors. And they're like on the Titanic at the bottom of the ocean. But the bottom line is that it doesn't expose the video as in serving more. The most important thing that we need to have happened is we need to everybody to thrive. Because that competition is what put money in all of our pockets. We had a compete with side B and had a spend money to be better than side B. We all won the athletes won. All of us in the media won. But now that's not the case. They're just struggling to get by. So we don't have that competitive spirit anymore. It's forces people to spend money. So as a result, the athletes aren't getting their contracts anymore. The whole model has changed for guys like us. So you gotta let these guys promote themselves? Because otherwise they can't make money. If you went into good flex loads and I end up in flex loads of the B2s, completely different interviews. And they wouldn't clash and people would watch both and they would think they would both break. Because I would ask them to completely different questions in you. Yeah, they wouldn't ask them about it. The first on life you wouldn't ask them about it. You know, what is, you know, hobbies are you wouldn't ask them about, you know, how close the competition was. You would ask them very concerned. So what would I ask you? You would ask, you just take your money. You just take your money. You're a Larry King. You ask all thEQuestions people want to know about everything. The people like all the background that will be very organized, you'll, your flex will come out as like, Marlon Brand out in the right of you. And people will love it. And then I'll get them and I'll ask them every little dirty secret that he's got. And all the things that people think, oh, I can't believe you asked me that question. What do you say? Yeah. And so it'll be two separate interviews. And that's what you need. You see, it'll basically diversify him and show that he has different dimensions to his character. That's right. And you can get a third person who can interview and you get a completely different story about him. They could talk about something else. It's a broad reading business. So that's, and then all of the sudden people say, wow, flexosis is a pretty, fucking interesting person. That's true. But now they don't know what he is because he can't talk to anyone. That's right. The limitations are very, I'm glad we were there. Dan and I actually remarked this down. What's the, what's the day? July, what? We need to, um, I think the interview that would be really good is I've never really interviewed you the way you need to be interviewed. Um, and your story, and you hide up here in this treehouse up here, right? And you do your thing. Yeah. Um, but your story is pretty good. And I, to be honest, my favorite part about doing what we all do is, I love the stories. You know, Joey de Roe, he used to say to us, you know, he used to say it's about, we talked about the stories, not about the physics, the things that are, the physics are, what we see, but what makes this industry run are the stories. And I love the stories. I love stories about guys who went from here to here and back here and, and the things that they went through and even the athletes and what inspired them, what motivated them to do what they do and, um, on the business side, there's some remarkable stories of success and unbelievable failure. Um, things that we can all learn from, and motivated by that to me is, um, one of the, I was actually at one point when people still write books, I was going on people so red built, right? I was going to write a book, something like, like, a business of time. I haven't written a book because no one reads it, maybe. Right, there you go. But I was going to write, I was going to take, like, the 15 most compelling people that I've had the privilege of sitting down and telling their stories. Um, and it would always be like a college course type book, because these stories are remarkable. And they teach lessons. And they teach lessons, they teach business, they teach failure, um, they teach success. And I've always thought that that's sort of the thing that has kept me doing this for as long as I've been doing this. Yeah, that's, that's, that's the people. So this is the stories that they have to tell them. That's what, when I interview people, I try to find that story, the line, what's going on, you know, because there's a story behind every single person. These are the most boring person, and as an interview, if you could find that story, I think you did your job. That's right. And sometimes I can't do it. Sometimes I, I fail. I'm like, you know what, that was a terrible interview. And people might like it anyway, but I, I feel like I failed. But then sometimes I get to the heart of who that person is, and all of a sudden they unlock something that they had never talked about. And I'm like, that was the interview that I needed to do. We're all in search of that one. You know, if you're doing it, okay? I was the last person. I purposely waited to be the last person that I've been to. Because I was a person who did it. No, no, no, no. IMean, in terms of like, everyone, all these media sources, we're doing it in self-advalent. Okay. A lot of people in the interview, people said you wanted to do it. Because I know I have wanted to. And I sound like I'm not ready yet. And I interviewed him recently. And I, it was a four part of you. And I thought it was probably one of the better interviews I've ever done. And I think a lot of people agree with that. And while during reveal, a lot about his character, who he was, and he competing in what it was like to compete, and what he felt, all the things he went through. All thEQuestions I wanted to tell was, is during never talked about anything when he was competing. No, I asked him all thEQuestions I had, which people like, but then I got the last part. I got to ask him about some of the social beliefs. And we talked about the Holocaust. And now, because he had put out some controversial statements about how he had didn't believe it or really was the Holocaust. He was telling me that Jewish people had swimming pools, and they had softball leagues there. And it was, and none of us really killed. And they started a starvation. And I was able to challenge him. Now, this was not something I even, because they thought, but happened. Because I thought maybe he would say, oh, I just, you know, I didn't really believe that. But he, that was his belief. And I challenged it, and it was real. And it was real drama, and it was not edited, and it was his beliefs versus what I believe, and people like that. Because of that real. And he afterwards he called me up and he said, you think we should take that off. Because he didn't know I was going to ask him that. I said, no, that's your beliefs. I said, you're entitled to those beliefs. And that's fine. And that's what makes you do our innate to you. You left it in there. And I thought that was, that was the reason why that interview was so important. Because it was really, that was really the way he felt it. He wasn't ashamed to say it. And I wasn't ashamed to challenge him. It was a very uncomfortable situation, because I always looked up to Doryan. And I still did. I think he's, he was a, he was a, a great, great, great, spy, was a whole time. And he's a very interesting person. Well, but it was a hard interview to do. And it's interesting that you say that, because when we started doing this, years back, there was, the bar was lower. We could interview a guy about sets and reps. And people were fascinated. I remember when I first started doing a pro body of a weekly, he would call the enter. They would write in and they would say, I have some way to eat for breakfast. They would say things like, wow, that's the first time I ever heard Sean Ray speak. You know? And I'm unfortunate. You're Sean Ray speak all the time. No, no, no, no. But no, what an all seriousness. We know we have the situation. We're back then. People just wanted to grasp that any piece of information about their contest prep, their carb, the protein, their sodium manipulation. They were cool with all that stuff. And now with the access to the world has to do with that. So what you're doing is really important day because you're going there and you're creating a layer of exposure and disclosure for these athletes that they need because the fans, the people who consume this information, they want more. They need more. It's no longer good enough for them to just come on and ask some sugarcoded interview because there's not enough that to keep people in need. If you want to know that these guys are real people with the real process and real issues in life and real solutions. There's a lot of the, to be a champion, you have to be able to solve problems. Yeah. And Dory Nage was a great problem, solve it. He overcame a lot of injuries and drama in his life to win six Olympias. That's right. And the most unbelievable fashion of the time. And that's what made him so special. Ronnie Coleman too. Look where, look at Ronnie Coleman. Or you feel bad for Ronnie Coleman as a field vet for Ronnie Coleman. I feel bad for Ronnie Coleman as a summer's pain. But he wouldn't trade it for the world. And then when he went to Olympias. That was important. So that's an important story. You know, there he went. Look, IMean, a lot of people would say, well, he's crazy. You know, look what he did to his body. He sees crippled hours. He can't walk. And he's in pain chronically. But Ronnie Coleman was in care about that. IMean, he has to want to be in pain. But Ronnie Coleman would not trade aromasingle day for, who would fur for those titles that he had. That he did what he wanted on his deadline. And that's, and he always reveals that. He always does that. And he's in a busy. He never says, no, I don't regret anything. I regret that I didn't do more weight, you know. And so that's real. That's, you know, that's, that's drama. That's what people want to see. Because you know what? There's not many people who are willing to go there. That's right. Sacrifice their body, sacrifice themselves. You know, give up pleasure to achieve something. That's right. And that's why there's not that many great people out there. There's a lot of people that just kind of, you know, live their life and they're happy with their families. And never going to do crazy great things in their life. Because they're just not willing to go there. That's why we enjoy watching the people who are because it inspires us. Well, you know, you get inspired by the people who trust you to help them tell their story, right? I, I, I, I, I told you the story in the past that the reds part story, right? The reds part, you know, contacted me and we all knew that he had months to live. That was great. And that was something that mean it meant so much to me because he was basically asking me to He was last interviewed. To help him tell his story to the world knowing that it would be the final time he would tell that story. So it's a big responsibility and it's obviously when you take serious things. Yeah, that was great. And it went divided away. But there's, there's just been so many great moments and there's so many great people that are in our industry. And as long as we have access to them, yeah, we can continue to access. That's the key. That's right. No more gangwriters get these to remove the, the blinders. Yeah. But yeah, thank you for stopping by. He's having that pleasure. I didn't think we'd see you came crying. No, it's like in a long island. People in the north don't like to go to the South Shore. People in Florida, East Coast, as you said, East Coast, and I was less accustomed to South. We stayed a little bit above, but before I had, I got to give her a shout out. House of pain, dress me today. I love the new house of pain. Joe, Joe Corbin, the crew of House of Pain. You guys are killing it. They want a great job. House of Pain.com. And I'm also wearing this cap. You guys might not know what this cap is. I don't know what this is. It is not a San Diego cap. This is a Marjorie Stomonduyber's high school baseball cap. Now, you guys might know that I'm from Parkland, Florida. Yes. So we unfortunately have unbelievable situation there. So many families continue to heal. And so many people are doing some amazing things to make sure something like that does not happen to GANS. Our shout out to everybody at Stomondouglas and all the great people in Parkland in that day, man. It was fun doing this. Yeah, absolutely. Dan Salmon in the Rx muscle studios. This might be a precedent in history that may never be repeated. I hope it will be though. Sometimes you gotta have me down to your studios. Do you even have a studio? Come on down. I don't have a studio like this. I don't have a set up on this, but you know what they'll find out you're coming? I'll build some film films. I'll get this out. Alright guys, I know this has been a very long interview. We'll probably break it up into two parts because I thought it was that good. For now, we're out of time until next week. I am Dave Plumman here with Dan Salmon. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: BODYBUILDING in the OLYMPICS？ [y-DKhxubVLQ].txt ===

Ben Weedor, that was his quested life to put the, well every show we ever saw him talk at the Arnold in the Olympia every year. It was the Olympics and this guy I'm talking to the president and we're getting a send the Asian games and here's the problem. Everyone thinks it's a drug related thing. It's really not because they can do the same random drug tests they do with every sport. IMean, and I'm sure that the athletes that can beat the test and we'll pass the test and I'm sure there are natural athletes that will be able to compete and beat the test because they don't take any drugs. But here's the problem. It's how do you quantify bodybuilding? There's no specific poses and scores. You hit this pose right, you get this many points. Like you do it like San and gymnastics or in ice skating and stuff like that. They don't have a quantify bodybuilding so you can score it. Even the posing around is not scored, which is the one thing that you can actually quantify. They haven't done that and until they do that and they probably won't because I don't think anyone cares about it. You'll never see bodybuilding in the Olympics. I think you have a better chance of getting fitness the fitness division into the Olympics before you would bodybuilding because at least fitness you can score the routine. And once they don't even have a quantify, they used to have a quantify-able scoring system. If they made one, you'd be much more likely to get that one in first. But I don't think the organization has any desire to put it in the Olympics. Once you get it on the auspices of the IOC, the Olympic committee, testing committee. Now they're going to want to drug testing and I don't think our bodybuilding organization wants any part of that. And I don't blame them. It's not worth it. It's not worth opening that can of worms.

=== FILE: BODYBUILDING'S BATMAN! Aaron Baker Interview [_D8OATrvMcQ].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Welcome back to Live with I'm Dave Palombo and today we have a very special guest. He's a superhero of sorts. They call them the Batman. The man I'm talking about is Aaron Baker. Welcome to the show. Brother Dave, what's up, man? I got Batman here. I'm so excited, man. I remember you know, we're getting in the magazine back when I was really getting into it in the late 80s and early 90s and I really hadn't started competing yet. Man, I see pictures of you. You'd have those Batman costume on and I was like, man, that's what I want to look like. You look like a superhero of sorts, you know, a pre-alibious superhero. Thank you. You got to have fun with it, man. That's what I believed and that's what I was doing. I had to figure out some kind of way to get my name remembered while I was coming up to ranked and being a Batman fiction hero that helped me have a little bit of fun with it. The thing is, the Batman that you were was not the Batman that's a kid's note today. You were the Michael Keaton Batman, right? Back in the day. You know, right around 89, I was in the Amateur National Level ranks, aspiring to turn professional. Michael Keaton came out with the new darker version of Batman. So there was a whole slew of Batman T-shirts, earrings, all sorts of memorabilia collectors items. So I had a ball where in different Batman T-shirts every day, you know, and match in the socks and having fun with it and doing photo shoots and Batman earrings and it just, and guess clothes and as Batman, just had a ball with it, you know. I went out to goals. I think it was the first time I was 1994 and I went into the gym. IMean, you didn't have a Batman costume on in the gym, but used to wear those tight, hot skin outfits and unitar, and I'm like, this guy is unbelievable. You were probably one of the most impressive in the gym body builders because you were always lean, you had the great structure and you would wear these outfits like that, like IMean, everyone had a look at you when you were trened. It was unbelievable. Thank you. I was playing superhero, you know, that gave me a lot of pleasure. I was getting to just have fun with the physique, you know, so many people, everyone's got their own style. You know what IMean? Some people loved to be covered from head to toe and Grace Wetz and crew neck and hoodies and, you know, that's your bag. Cool. I just, I don't know. I just like to play superhero. That was one of the things that inspired me as a youth and really introduced my, my natural artistic eye to, you know, to physique. It's like, okay, there are real people that look like that. Right. So you ain't the body building Aaron. I don't, I don't even know the story to be honest with you. Well, my older brother Larry got, he ordered a Joe Weedor 110 pound weight set. We all had that, yeah. And then he began to scrounge up every rusty ugly weight plate that he can find in the neighborhood. And he just began to work out and he drastically trensformed his physique in like a year. Oh, wow. And he's shorter than I am, lighter bone structure, you know, the genetics were there. And he developed a nice physique. Did you give them a nickname? And of course, I used to sneak and read his muscle magazines. And he would always arrange them just right where he, he'd know that I'd been there. Right. And my, my magazines. And I'd, okay, okay. And as soon as he leaves, I'd be looking at the articles of Robinson and Zane and, you know, and, you know, you name it. People of the heyday. No, I'm not. You might mind most like, what did you like look up to and say, like, I remember Lou Ferigno always like struck a chord with me, but who did you look at and say, that's what I want to look like? Well, as a, like a 14 or 15 year old young brown body builder, first guy that caught my eye was was Muhammad Mac away because he looked a little like me, you know what IMean? And I thought this guy was so impressive. Yeah. And so shredded and so majestic. There was something majestic about his poses that were captured. Even in the still shots. Yeah. This guy was like a little ferro out there, you know, and, but it wasn't very long before Robbie Robinson caught my eye. I was going to say, I think of Robbie Robinson and I think of your physique. And oh, oh, my goodness, man, even today, there are things about his physique that inspired me. IMean, I always wanted hamstrings like Robbie. There are things that, you know, come on, we want everything I Robbie, what buys like Robbie, what laughs like what a little bit as long as Robbie, he's unbelievable to guys. He's like the incredible. IMean, he's still doing it at 70 or something years old. Exactly. And interestingly enough, Dave, I read a lot of his articles and studied what he said and adapted his type of trening, the squeezing, the deliberate contractions, the full range of motion, the taking your time, the mind muscle link, the pain barrier. Because they don't even write about now days. I was a serious, you are a volume trener or were you like more of a heavy trener? I was always in between. I believed in heavy weights and I was trened to use heavy weights because when I first started trening in my bedroom with the television on, watching, leave it to beaver, you know. Now you're dating yourself. Oh, I know. I know. It's out now. You've got to be, are you 60 yet? Yeah. Wow. Unbelievable. What, what, how old do you know? 60. Oh, you just turned 60. That's incredible. You're another guy who doesn't age. I've been in a few, a lot of guys who are just turning, hitting that 60 narrative. No one looks like they're 60 anymore. Romano is like 60, he doesn't look 60, you know. Oh, yeah, we had a good side reason. Yeah, I know John. No, he doesn't. He doesn't. You know. And Richie's right behind. He's right there. It looks like a kid, man. Unbelievable. It's the ice, I equated, you know, people say, you know, obviously steroids. I don't know, good for you. But I think that as body builders, we really live, you know, a pretty clen lifestyle in the sense that we ate well, we took care of ourselves, we didn't have a lot of body fat. And you know what, you don't get the wear and tear in your body when you're lean and when you work out and you're exercise and you're in fresh air and you know, we don't have a lot of stress from jobs, we're not working, you know, these crazy, nine to five jobs. I just think that the buy and fart body building does leave itself to the healthier lifestyle, even with the addition of the performance and handspoon stuff. Buy and large yes. IMean, even when I first saw Rob in the gym and I talked to people that were close to him, I found out he barely had dessert. You know, he's he would have a little tiny piece of dessert every so often, but rarely and he just had the lifestyle. Right. And I'm thinking, wow, he really eats like that. That's why he looks. Yeah. I don't need dessert either. I don't know why I was not even the sugars. I don't like, I don't feel good when I eat simple sugars. I have a fast metabolism, I can eat whatever I want, but I just need sugars. Right. Well, strengely enough, neither do I. IMean, I tell people, look, I can go months without having a piece of dessert. It's just if I wanted it's there. Yeah. And if I have it, I have it and then I go on about my business. Right. You know, if I have cookies and a body in the house, they were last because they were just, I just don't need to go and have one every day. And I'm grateful for that because there was a time when, you know, I would have, I'd be more inclined to have desserts. I think deprivation had something to do. I was going to say dieting, leagative, one eat, everything in sight, especially when you were Venice. IMean, Venice had the best place to eat. So when you'd get a more for show, I would go out to Venice just to go eat. No. Right. No one realized that the cheesecake factory started in Venice, it was that was the first place of what? That was the first time I had to eat in the air in the 90s. I was like, holy back, I was places I'm believable, you know. Crazy, man. Yeah. Crazy. And not to mention the firehouse. IMean, of course, the buckwheat pancakes. Hey, they put those on the map. Yeah. We'll practice this to all that crazy. This is the world renowned now. You know, what did you, were you born in California? I never even remember. I was born in, actually a Flint Michigan. Another Michigan guy, man. Michigan has a lot of great body balls that came out of that. But you know, I was a kid, very young, born there, then moved to Philadelphia, lived there for maybe five years or so, then moved to North Carolina where my parents were from. So I actually grew up in North Carolina, South Eastern Seaboard. So East Coast guy, Southern Heat and humidity. Yeah, you know, I was talking with Ron love about this. There's a lot of great body balls that came out of Michigan. But Tom Platt. Iris Kyle, you know, Linda Murray. Yes, people don't realize there's a lot of trensplants out of that place. I don't know what's with Michigan, but there was a lot of genetic talent there, I think. Right, right. Recently, learned that Tom was originally from there. Yeah, so I, he had told me that too. I was surprised. I even forgot about that until he just reminded me. But there was a lot of people that came out of Michigan that were, that were body builders. And they just kind of moved to different places in the country, you know? Right. Well, you go where the action is. That's right. How did you get out to California eventually? Well, I was in the military for four years. I was an Army paratrooper and who was stationed overseas. One of the things that the recruiter negotiated with was the fact that my last duty station would be in California. Oh, wow. And you could have sent me to Tim Buck II. I ended up going to Korea as an overseas duty station. But I'm going to California after. So, but by then, I was a teenage competitor. A competitor on through my, you were a military. You were a military, huh? Wow. Yes. How would you go right to 18 years old, right, out of Cal, ice cool? 17. Wow. Okay. Right out of Cal, was that a culture shock for you? It was because, you know, it's an entirely different culture. Yeah. Entirely different culture. But for, it's, it's great for a lot of people. IMean, I had parents that cared and cared enough to discipline me. And, you know, so, but there's lots of people that didn't have any type of structure in their lives or discipline. And so, it's a perfect environment for them to acquire some. Right. It's the best thing for them, really, because, you know, you go out into life, thinking it owes you a living, no respect for authority or whatever. And then you learn very rapidly that the world doesn't work that way. No, no. You know, I went to school in my life. So I always had no problem taking, you know, direction from authority. But you're right. There's a lot of people that they can't handle direction from authority. Right. And, you know, I didn't go to the military. I went to jail unfortunately for five months. But I didn't have a problem there, because I don't have a problem taking orders from authority, you know what IMean? Right. And I'm, and I'm actually good like that, because I like to be told what to do sometimes, because I'm an ultra-focuser, like, you know, I like discipline. You know? You strike them as naturally disciplined, because even your dieting was hardcore, you know, and, you know, I'm like, gee, I wish I had to work with Dave when I was. Yeah. Was, was, was, did you have problems with your dieted? Was that something that was not on point? Well, actually, I came from the old school where you dieted so hard. You know what IMean? The low carb diet, diets, when I was a teenager. Okay. And so you stripped it down and then you carbed up. And so the science was changing as the sport evolved and it was a lot healthier, you know? And, you know, as the adage goes, if I knew then what I know now. You know, but dieting wasn't a problem. Even now, that's why we can eat night, you know, clenly and have a nice, healthy lifestyle. Enjoy it without feeling deprived. Right. But I think like, when I think of Aaron Baker and I see on stage, IMean, you had, like, some of the best genetic gifts out there. We'll talk about your, your, your conscious history to admit it. But I felt like your consistency wasn't there. And I think that, that hurt you a little bit. To be honest, that's true. That's true. I, uh, one of my best conditions was, uh, I think it was the 94 iron man. Yes. You were great though. And, and I was right behind vents and, uh, Chris. Chris, for a minute. Right. So it was, I had entered one, uh, I have BB competition. I believe it was the night of the champions the, the year before. Right. But to be honest after the WBF, um, Fiasco, I was so enamored to enter any I have BB show. I just jumped on it, you know, and it wasn't really ready. But they opened the gate and I ran in and was lost in the mix. But the following year, I really worked my butt off to get in conditions. Yeah. And, um, I thought you were in the 95 either. Say again, I think you were great. 95, I remember those shows that you in Flex Wheel are going one, two and those shows. And I am a pro show. I had him on a couple of those shows. Yes. Miami Pro show and, uh, Iron Man 95. Yeah. IMean, you know, go figure. You know, that would say when you could say I could be Flex Wheel or on stage. IMean, that that's, that's to the accomplishments that not many people could could could even hold up there, you know, flex is phenomenal, you know, um, you were fit in. No, too. And, and I, I look at pictures and I go, wow, you know, and I can appreciate, um, all of it. And it was a lot of fun. But my point is, um, even though we're Fiasco competitors, I think you are, you start out as fans and you always, you'll always be a fan. IMean, I can look at pictures back. I can look at pictures of you and look at pictures of Flex and go, wow, that's crazy. Sean Ray posted one and there's always still that deep appreciation for what it took to, to reach that pinnacle. Right. I thought I had done the job that day. You know, I thought it deserved. I did a lot of people did, you know, flex. That a lot of momentum. You still have that stigma of the WVF, which we'll talk about a little bit. That definitely was working against you big time. Without question, you know, with, with obviously, we didn't, we didn't work around that would be a big deal. But, you know, he was. And so yeah, in Wayne was, you know, there's well, but, you know, but, you know, hats off to Flex. He's, he's, I look at some of the things that after I retired and look at his physique and what he went on to and it's just stellar. IMean, it's still mind blowing to the day. So there's an appreciation, you know, always, you know, for that. You, I did think I had that one. Aaron, when you won the USA in 1990, IMean, yeah, you were spectacular. IMean, as for amateur guy, IMean, you were a pro basically on that amateur stage. No, it was, what do, what did it take for you to get to that point where, hey, Aaron Baker is Mr. USA? IMean, was that a tough year for you, did you work hard? What, what do you think changed over the course of that last year into the USA? Were you able to kind of elevate yourself to that, to that level where you were able to win? Thank you. That's a good question. Well, first of all, that was a drug tested year. I remember that, yeah. But before that, to answer your question, I had two or three years scratching up the amateur ranks trying to get my name out there. You know, and it seemed like every national show I went to or state show or something, there were people that were already known. Now I didn't grow up in California. You know, I, during the California, you know, went up against Troy Zucallado. He won the overall heavyweight that year. I won the, um, think it was light heavy weights or midwitz or something like heavy weights. Um, you know, I always seem to be going up against the name game. So that, uh, aside, in addition to diligence, I think that's, uh, where the Batman thing came. The first guest posing that I was hired for, I thought, hey, why don't I have a little bit of fun? Right. Why don't I do something to make myself memorable while having that fun? But coming up the ranks, doing the, uh, nationals, doing the North American, doing the circuit coming up. Uh, and a lot of times I got kicked in the teeth. There are times I've got lost in the lineup. Right. Until aspiring young body builders look, my first competition, I probably placed 13th. You know, out of 22. So that's, you know, but then next time, you know, back then, though, people that really sometimes it was hard to make the top 15. They did an, you need to do an elimination round where it was, it was, it was so many people in the class that they would, they would do like a comparison and then they would call out the top 15 names and everyone else went home. Yeah, I know. I know. And a lot of times guys never made the top 15. No. And it was so sad too. It's like, no one cared. Now they're like, oh, everyone's got to get a trophy and everyone's got to post back into like, sorry, buddy. See you later, man. It patching the head and they go, you can get dressed in it. I see it. I can get dressed in it. Luckily, I never was out of the top 15. Do you mean that? Yeah, but I saw those guys. I felt bad for them, man. Yeah. It was. All right. See, she had coming up the ranks. You know, you placed in second year before people were talking about Aaron Baker. I remember the talk of the magazines was he's the next guy. Now you have pressure on you, right? Because now everyone wants to see what you're going to bring to that stage. How did that year go? The prep, who helped you? How did you make that happen? It went well. Still back in those days, it was just me. IMean, I worked in nine to five. And at one point, I was in undercover security agent. And I haven't walked that department store. Oh, really? That's cool. With my bag and there would be voices coming from my bag, you know, people would walk up and go, you're security aren't you? IMean, I don't know. Plus, you don't take anything. You are huge too. What do you think? You were enormous back then. Oh, yeah. Actually, Laura Kraval started working in the makeup department. Oh, no way. That's funny. So she was working to make up the makeup. And I was doing security. And she trened at Gold's gym. Yeah, yeah. And so I was like, this moment of, hey, don't you work out at Gold? So now, interestingly enough, we both won California that year. One, like Southern California, and then the California. And then, you know, we went on to place in national competitions and win national competitions. So it was, it was an exciting time. It was a humble beginning. But I look back on that with, with fondness and, you know, is that your greatest victory? Or was it one of the provv wins your greatest victory? Well, USA was the greatest victory, you know, because it was, you know, all mine and it couldn't be taken away. It could be like Russell, Vrb, or anything like that. And just literally enough, I had a lot of drive coming in. I felt good. I felt like, okay, this is going to be in my air. I'm just going to keep going. I'm just going to keep getting better and better. And then there came the climate change with the antibiotics testing. Right. So they did it in the IFBB and then they decided this year, all of the national level qualifiers are going to be tested. So what did you do? So what did I do? Yeah. Well, I knew a guy that was a practitioner of Chinese herbs. Okay. In this guy, he would always tell me, yeah, yeah, you don't need that stuff. You know, you need to be on Chinese herbs and you're a run. You know, they're a tonics that will build your blood up and that will, you know. And so when this, this, this turn of events occurred, I checked him out. Right. So how did it work out? It worked out great. IMean, my blood was so clen. Um, very healthy, lots of energy. Right. I grew, but at the same time, if I'd known what I knew a few years later about eating, about consuming calories, about filling out, about I would have looked even better. So were you, were you really natural for that show? IMean, did you, IMean, because I know you guys took things to try to beat the test and all that stuff. Did you all like it legit? All I took was Chinese herbs. Wow. And it was really good. Like, thank you. Like things that have been around for years and also, uh, Neil Spruce to his credit, uh, did my diet that year. Wow. And um, we carb up slowly and in retrospect, yeah. If I had continued, you know, would have been even better. But you know, it takes time to learn your body and going from an old school type of regimen into something new where you can actually come in bigger and fuller and more healthier. You're still going to hurt. I tell people all the time, I said, look, there was no steroids in body building. The same champions would be the same champions. I said, because they have genetic something going on genetically that is just makes them better than everyone else. And I think Ronnie would have been Mr. Olympia still. I think you would have still been as good as you were. You proved it. You know, when the WVF drug test, and we'll talk about that in a minute, you were the best guy there because you obviously probably needed the drugs, the least, you know. So, so, so, well, when the USA, okay, you get drug testing, you pass the test because you're drunk free obviously a lot of these other guys couldn't do that. And then, you know, here you have the opportunity. You got an IFVV pro card. You've known to the IVV and can be, but you don't take, you don't go that route. You get approached by Tom Platt's and Vince McMahon who were starting to, Vince is starting to WVF organization, finding organization that thrown out big contracts and the flying guys in, how did they approach you? Tell us how that all went down. Well, we were rude. Yeah. You know what IMean? And it was a great feeling. And IMean, come on Tom Platt's. Icon in this sport. And we all love Tom anyway. He trened at Gold's Venice for a time in World Gym and was just a stellar guy, gentlemen. Right. You know, very, very forthcoming, you know, just a good catch. Sure. So, he began to approach different people. And he was in charge. He was the liaison between the office and the talent. So, it was his job to help scout out and look. And I remember when I came to Gold's gym in 85, he was still trening there. And Tony Pearson was trening there as well. So, they would take his out to lunch, propose what they wanted to do. And you know, a lot of people, they wonder, you know, what was the, what was the appeal. They said, look, we wanted to make professional body builders household names. Like the wrestlers, like the football players. We want to have a weekly MTVish sort of television program. We want to put you guys on the map. Yeah, we're going to use your alley too, creatively. Oh, yeah. I showed them a guest posing tape of me doing the Batman performance. And it had this really crude overhead lighting, which worked out perfectly. Yeah. Because, you know, it just popped. Everything popped and they loved it. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And they sent that, sent that to them. And I wish I still have that tape. Oh, man. Sure, it's floating around some place though. But they said, okay, this guy's a character. He's exactly what, uh, so, you know, what we need. What was the offer? IMean, there's obviously was a big monetary draw, too, because you guys were making no money, you know, you're an amateur. You were probably exactly, you know, like you said, you were security guard. So, IMean, what's, what are they throwing on the table at you? Waffer wise? Well, I was a security agent, which meant I wore no uniform. I just wore a detergent. I just carried a bag in there. You're on the cover security. I have a jacket. And I pseudo blended in with the customers. Yeah, I don't believe that. First act. You stuck out like a sweat, I'm probably. Oh, of course I did. Yeah. Well, you know, and people, and you know, a day, people still stole, and I would tackle them. Just like, you know, with the cops on, and it was such a spectacle, people would just watch. That's the security footage. That's the video footage I want to say. That's me, too. That mean, I'm like, did you really expect to get away? Yeah. That's crazy. It really was bad, man. Yeah. So what have been throwing the table at you to make you want to go over to the WBF? Well, here's the thing, as you said, many of us had scratched up. And literally, in retrospect, it was the best thing for the sport at the time. Yeah. You know, who wouldn't jump at that chance? I had no I had to start a contract. Joe, we had to give out contracts after that. None. And that was one of the main reasons that he had a problem with Vince McMahon, because for years, he had a monopoly on it. Of course. He didn't pay guys. Come on. He had his hand picked. Few that he would take care of. And that was minimal. Yeah. And he'd give out magazine pages. Spreads and pages. And oh, yeah, you'll make a lot of money. Yeah, how about the money you're making? But you could be paying me so that I can eat a lot sooner. So I can write pay from my tuna fish and then you get you know, which is all you could afford. That's right. But you know what? So Joe Weater, of course, in retaliation began to procure people. Anyone that came, you know, in his midst that had potential. IMean, he signed a Paul DeLette. He started snapping people up. Did you get approached by Joe to like, save with him? No, Joe, I never had a good relationship with Joe. We are him. By the time I had a meeting with Joe, it was post WBF. Right. And he gave me some line about you were you were in another photo, you know, he didn't say that. He said, oh, you were in the other magazines. That's a joke. Everybody's in the other. Yeah, exactly. Are you kidding me? You know, but, you know, my, my, my best friend at the time, Dave Durth had a contract. Yeah, IMean, so. So, um, so he gave me a line and I realized, look, now I'm going to beg you, dude. Right. So what do you think Joe just didn't think you were Markin? Well, I don't know how he couldn't. IMean, you were, you were, uh, IMean, you were Batman. Come on, for God's sake. I won't presume to know what was on his mind, but you know, he was an old school guy in Stubborn and very used to gettinGHis way and once he made up his mind. Right. And in retrospect, I think about well, maybe I could have said this. If I had known that that's what I would have gotten. I thought for sure, you know, right. I'm like, dude, you got way worse guys on their roster than I. Right. Do you think I didn't even do with the color you skin? Well, to be honest, I'm not one that usually beats that drum, but, you know, I do live in reality. Right. And I do know of other people that have been in that climate, you know, and things, you know, these allegedly said and, you know, we're grownups. Yeah. And this is, is 2021. It's reality. IMean, let's face it. It could be. It would be honest. I thought, okay, maybe you got enough black guys. Yeah. I don't know. I, but there were plenty on his roster, you know, I can't say that. Sure. Yeah, it was a thing. I literally thought that. I thought, well, maybe he's done enough. Well, I think it was a combination. Maybe in the fact that you, you did the WBF thing. And then in addition to that, he's like, well, how many, you know, he's thinking selling magazine's joke. It's just a business man. I don't think Joe was a race. I think Joe was a business man. And he's, yes. What's going to sell more covers, David Dirt or, or, or, or, Aaron Baker. And, and that's why David Dirt had a contract. And according to one of his old quotes, you know, that that was the case. But that, I'm not man in anybody or it is what it is. No. And even, but in retrospect, I look and I go, wow, had I in any way known that might have come that way. I would have been better prepared. I was literally floored in shocked that that was the answer that I got. So I was almost speechless. I, I, you know, you look back and you say, I could have should have, this is what I should have said. And this is, I would have made this point. Right. It, it was bam. Like, are you kidding me? Is it a booze? Yeah. And you probably didn't, IMean, you were one of the top guys at that time. So IMean, it was, yeah, exactly. And I'm sure your play seems got hurt because you didn't have a weater contract because, oh, yeah. That was, it doesn't exist now. It was no Joe Weeter. But that definitely was, was dude. I knew by who is in let's see, who's on the roster? I'm like, okay, I'm behind him. I'm. I was telling the John in, it rich, it was like, like the bus. It's like, all right. Who's here tonight? All right, Aaron Baker, you just stand right there. All the buss up, you know, you're looking at, all right? Who's here? All right, it was like that. People don't know that today. But that sort of was like, when you worked for the waiter, you got the, you know, you get the nut. Now, you know, getting back to Vince for a second, I talked to David Dirk, Ray May, Rest in peace, you know, before he had to, obviously. And he said, you guys can treat like rock stars, you know, when you move it there. IMean, first class, everything, right? See, in the beginning, and that's the beauty of it. We both made this joke and we, we tell it in interviews, you know, in the beginning, they send you limo, and you know, and take you to the hotel, and take you to Trump's hours. Take you to the, the large hotel to meet in the conference room to have a, have a discussion, like when they were making the announcement that it was going to be drug tested. It was back when Hulk Hogan was in the news and, and the unfreephy list goings on behind the scenes with referees. And, you know, it was a whole sorted business. So now Vince has to address this, this issue of antibiotics. So he causes in and he says, well, you know, Senator Joe Biden, you know, as petitioned, you know, antibiotics. Was it, was it Biden back then? That's funny. Biden was the man. He was the one who did it. He's the guy who, trouble making that was president. Yeah. And he doesn't even know he's president. That's the funny thing. I felt like, you know, what's something? You know, Newman. No, so. But yeah. So bad, you know, I've known that name since then because he's the one that he's the reason why you have the USA that was drug tested. He's the reason that the first Iron Man was drug tested. And he really should be the effervescent. Yeah. Yes. So he came in, made a speech and said, you know, gentlemen, our next show will have to be drug tested. We are going to address this issue. And we're going to show that we are. Compliant. We are policing our ranks as it were. You know, they may not have been as exact words, but that's in essence what he said. So, you know, anyway. Oh, so that's what, you know, David, I would say in the beginning, limousines. And so after the second show, which all of the, you know, you've got guys that learn how to peek. You know how to peek a certain way. You know, imagine if someone looked just as good. You were the best one up there. I thought, yeah, you and the striadam, you know, and you. Thank you. Yeah. Well, I knew I wasn't going to get hired then, where I was, but I was grateful to be. Right. But just to explain to people, the WBF was like, WW wrestling at the time. Exactly. So there was a story line you guys, it's supposed to be a foul. So everyone kind of knew where they were going to place, but it was like the act and the presentation. And it was like, it was meant to be almost like wrestling, really. Yeah. We were characters, major guns, you know, the arcane, you know, you know, the giant killer. And it was a lot of fun. Oh, yeah. IMean, we go to Europe to the Fibo and have the biggest booth there. You know what IMean? I wish it would have continued. I think it would have made it. I really think it would have changed body volume, you know. It really would have. And that's the real shame is is the pawns on the chessboard suffered. You know, in a war between two kings, the pawns suffer. What? What has only been good for bodybuilding? I think it would have kept weeter and McMahon, what can be competing against each other. And they would have had to keep funneling more money into the athletes. Right. He's trying to, you know, beat the other guy. And I think that would have just, it could have made the sport huge involved. You really could have, you know. It could have also addressed a lot of the health concerns. Maybe it would have been approached. In a more. Healthier manner, maybe we could have combated some of the negative. Stigma is involved in and just arrived at better, more healthier ways to accomplish the same thing. Yeah. You know, without all of the negative press that has occurred. From abuse and what have you. But you abuse anything. Yeah. You know, you're going to get the same result. Yeah. But Dave, Dave and I used to say. Towards the end after that second show. Yeah. Now you have many people that came in. And that's a good shape. Now lifEQuit was the worst. I think. Yeah. But it was tough for, you know, for people that have learned to peak. They've peaked a certain way all their body building careers. And then all of a sudden you have someone saying, well, here we have this gentleman here who's going new. He has a way. It's a high-fat diet. And this was way. It was falling. Yeah. Yes. And now I had just won the USA from a drug tested year. So you knew how to do it already. Right. I took Dave downtown. That's the Kimmy man. We're, we're going to get your Chinese herbs. Yeah. So I put him on him. So that's why he came in fifth. He made the top. Yeah. And we, you know, we celebrated. It was, I remember that day when they called us. We placed that night and then we had a big, had a huge press conference afterwards. Yeah. And they called us up on stage and awarded us, you know, we had our, our medals on and everything. Yeah. And so, yeah. It was, it was, it was, what was the reason they'd been scared you guys for anything to leave? Well, it was pretty, it was pretty self-explanatory. He didn't really call us in and say we're ending it. He really left it to Tom to kind of, you know, slowly slowly kind of, let the news out. And we could feel the climate changing. IMean, okay. Now here's the point. I was coming to you in the beginning. They sent limousines towards the end. It's like, oh, yeah. Find your way to the airport, you know. So we're seeing, yes, that's the first scene. We can see that the handwriting on the wall changed. Right. And just like, yeah, we'll see you there. You know, just, yeah, that was that one. That definitely wasn't a good sign. Now David Dirtelby party is like a maniac when he was in the WBF. You know, you know, did you, were you one of the guys that saved all their money like Jimmy Quinn or did you spend it all, you know, like when you were making it? Now I didn't make what Jimmy Quinn made. Okay. And I didn't make what? Certain been now. Just one of the USA, you get offered an amount of money, which is more than you've ever seen in your life. Right. And you go, that's a great deal. I'm going to take it. And then you find out what others have been offered. So you weren't making as much as some of these other guys were. You didn't know better. No, I did. It did increase the second. Oh, it did. The second year. But, you know, I didn't, I wasn't that savvy in that regard. I didn't have the experience. You were having to pay period. Probably not. And you know what, it was, it was a good amount of money. IMean, it's, look. You get 50 grand for doing what you want to do. You know, 40 grand, 55, you know, others started out. Well, above that. Yeah. You know, now if you're used to in, in London, McMahon, you know, Did the negotiating, she's an attorney, you know, she's a pistol, you know, very short woman. I actually did, I actually did a dive first. I know her very nice. Yeah. They, you know, Yeah, very short. Very short. And it was then that I learned the word in perpetuity. That's pretty, that's been perpetuity. They were just, you know, How are you in perpetuity, yeah? Yeah. But, you know what, she always treated me well. I got along with everybody, Shane. You know, they were kids then. I know Stephanie. Yeah. And once he took us all over to the house, and, you know, we were at the pool and just had just had a ball. Yeah. And then we were not there actually good people. Like I know them personally. They're really good people don't realize they have a lot of money, but you would never know it. They don't act like they have a lot of money, you know. I have nothing bad to say, you know, about any. And as a matter of fact, um, interestingly enough, after they, they decided to make it a drug free competition. Yeah. We had regular, um, unscheduled drug tests. Right. Now, after the second competition, we were still, um, you know, locked to that policy. Right. Now we heard from the great vine, um, I could say who. But someone who understood our plight said, well, if I were you, I would start, you know, preparing, you know, to leave. So, you know what that means. Um, now, um, I did have the, tiny, herbal thing, but, you know, the background, but it was also time to cut losses and time to prepare, you know, for the IFBB. So there was one test where our numbers were, not so low as they were. So, so Vince stopped a check. Oh, so they used that as the, as the reason to cut you guys, off. Well, no, no, I'm talking about two, particularly different readings. You know, it was like, up, your numbers have changed big time, you know, and I'm sure, if I squal, like, okay, this guy's on. Yeah, but in fairness, I talk to my liaison. He put in the word for Vince. And he said, you know, you're a man who was low in the totem pole. And you know, you're trens, you're making a trensition. Sure. You know, you need that money. Absolutely. You know, so, and actually, I did a little bit of wrestling. After a retired from bodybuilder. I didn't know. Oh, yeah, oh, it was a lot of fun. I wrestled with John Cena. We had a match. Oh, because John said he used to work at Gold's gym, right? Exactly. Exactly. So John, we put on shows each weekend. That's awesome. I didn't even know you did. And it just, that's funny. You know, shout out to Rick Basman, who ran the ultimate university. Did you try to get into wrestling? IMean, because you might have been good for that, I think. I actually signed a contract with another Federation that didn't last. But I had a good pay day. And I had a lot of fun. I've got, I've got footage of it. Right. It was one of those that Russell Simmons had. And it was this, Okay. It's a ribbon type of flare. So you had people from all different nations. Right. And all different types of characters and gimmicks. And so. So, but it was, it was one of those things. I ended up tearing a bicep. Oh, that's it. That was the end of that. Yeah. It healed in. 12 weeks. Oh. I was released to tren. Yeah. I got back. Got the bicep back. Right. You know, and that, you know, my first thought day. Oh, no. There goes my double bicep. Of course. That's why I would think the same thing. I just said bodybuilder right there. I'm ruined. I'll never, I'll never crack a double again. Is that why you got it? You stayed away from the wrestling. You said I don't want to get hurt. Well, here's the thing. My wife at the time didn't. She didn't want me to go back into it. And it's also not. The best environment for relationships. It's hard. I'm sure. You know, it's hard and relationships. It takes a lot to traveling a lot to it, right? You know, to gird it. So from that standpoint, I wasn't afraid to go back into it. It's just that, okay, you could have to convince your wife to go back in. And at the time, you know, we had other things to deal with. Got you. So I never went back in. But in retrospect, I look back. And I realized that was probably the best thing for me. You would have been right up your alley. I'm shocked at Vince didn't even offer you something like, hey, Aaron, I know you know where IMean, you're in wrestling because I think you would have been like, been plugged right into that whole thing. Really easy. Well, you know what? I had a ball doing it. I was in the trening school for what? Two years, two or three years. And we were doing regular wrestling shows. So we're getting smooth and tired. I was still green, you know, by by by any stretch, but coming along. And I think I had a with a little more time. Could have been really smooth. And I'd like to think I could have made it with the right to the right push in time. But then you would have got hurt. Who knows, you know, and then, you know, Well, here's the thing about professional wrestling. It's not a question of if you get hurt. It's when it's when. Yeah, IMean, I'm friends with Triple H obviously do his diet. He, the guy tore a lot of muscles over the years. Both quads, you know, IMean, it's brutal in your body. I think as bodybuilders, we love ourselves so much that we, it's like, it's like, even though you know you can make a good living and you probably call your wife, right? You're very popular. . He's a thing. I didn't, that's not what stopped me from going back in. I've my wife expressed that you really, you know, Please don't go back in, you know. Now, it was a dream of mine to do it. and I did it and I was given enough to get signed and I had a lot of fun with it. But at the time, the other things are more important. In retrospect, looking at the way the business works, the climate of it. It's a very cut throat. I'm sure. And it's how would I have fared in that climate? Would I have subjected myself to it? You know, and many people don't, they cut their losses, whatever. But I look at it from this perspective. And I realize it was probably for the better. Yeah. I think it was just God steering me in the opposite direction. You know, I'd had a taste of it. Got to realize another goal. And but knowing what I know about the business and, you know, and what it entails. And not any, you know, not dense is just the business itself. What it requires. So, and I learned some of that even on the amateur level when I was doing independent wrestling, coming up the ranks, you know, you get sick. You're expected to go. You got a shot. Yeah. But I've got the flu. No matter. You're jammed in. Get out of bed. But I just threw up. We'll clear it up and get, you know, so. You know, that's what you know that. It's just going to say that. How did you eventually segue out of bodybuilding? What major to side are to had enough? You know, a lot of guys stay in it way too long. You kind of left when you were still, you know, really good. What major event, you know, trenspired where you said, you know what? That's it. I'm done with bodybuilding. Well, I separated from my wife. Maybe a month or so or through weeks, maybe before the 98 Olympia. Right. And so here I am beginning to enter peak weeks. Biggest show, best shape. Most months all I've ever had. Right. Trying to dial in, moved out of the house was in a hotel. Completely distraught trying to continue and hold it together. Where she sick of, where she like sick of the bodybuilding is that way broke up or was it for a different reason? No, it was, it was a number of things. And it's never one person, you know, so. Sure. Of course. It's just in, and from a maturity standpoint and looking back at who we were, who we weren't, you know, you do the best you can based on who you are at that time. Of course. And so if you don't learn from it, then then it's in vain. But at that time, it, you know, I went through the motions and did the best I could and showed up off. And I look at the footage from that show and I go, my goodness. I think I had more muscle than this show than any other show. And you had been to the United Man earlier in the year. Second, you had been third at the Iron Man in the beginning of that year, right? Hmm. No, this was 98. I haven't, in my, in my notes here, you were third at the Iron Man, seventh at the Arnold that year. 98? Is that not true? Hmm. Nope. Okay. I was six in the Arnold, I think it was 1996. I have 98 or a classic seventh place Iron Man third. I don't know. And the lipid did not place, but I don't know. So, you're saying it was a, it was a, it was a terrible year because of the relationship. Yeah, of 98. And, you know, at that time, I think I was just tired. You know what IMean? I just didn't have the focus at that time. And even retiring, it, now, I also came across an opportunity to tren at ultimate university that Rick Basman used to run. Right. And that's something I always wanted to, to do professional wrestling even as a kid, even along with professional bodybuilding. Sure. So it wasn't just this thing, hey, I think I'll try this now. Right. It was like, hey, here's an opportunity to go to school. Got it. You know, and so I did that for a while, for abouT3 years, ended up landing a fairly lucrative contract for my experience. And, you know, and the timing and all, but, you know, was embedded all for a first contract. And I have fun doing what I wanted to do. I wanted to do that for. Say again, how long did you do that for? AbouT3 years. Okay. You know, is that why you made the come, you made it come back, I think, right in the old three? Yes. So I think between two between 99, 2000, so it was like 98, 99, 2000, I was wrestling. And then I came back in 2003. And I stayed in shape. IMean, I still tren hard and regularly. And, you know, I kept saying, no, I'm not going to compete. No, you'recompeting. No one looks like this. You'recompeting. No, no, no, I'm wrestling. Yeah. I'm over here. I'm wrestling. You know, and then I decided, I'm going to come out of the retirement. I'm going to go for that, that master's in Olympia. Okay. And I thought, you know what, I can win that. I don't think anybody at 42 looks looks like me right now. Sure. And events had won it a few times. And then later on, I heard, well, he's not doing it this year. I'm like, good, Vince, you go ahead. You take a rest. That would be the worst thinGHe was mad, right? Because he lost to like, don't know what was. Ah, okay. Okay. So I didn't have the backstory. I just, I think that was the story behind it. Okay. Yeah. I'm sure that was a pretty big upset, you know, because this is raining, raining champ. Yeah. But so I went looking for a contract. I went to the Arnold. No, not the Arnold. But the Arnold. Olympia. Right. Decided to go to Vegas, make the announcement that I was indeed coming out of retirement. Um. Stayed up, stayed there. And I was still kind of in the world, you know, I was still very much in the world. Um, of tren hard, work hard, party hard. Yeah. Okay. And um. So yeah, you remember that weekend? Yeah. Back when the Craig tightest parties. Oh. You noticed I just stopped right there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was back in those days. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. But anyway, made the announcement. Signed autographs had a, had a good time. Went back. Did the Arnold. I'm sorry. The, um, Iron Man. Um. Mr. Peak. Peak that night. Hmm. So it was just one of those things. Um, but the contract that I was waiting for didn't come through. Um, money wasn't there. No. No. So that was the, the whole point of splashing back and then getting some backing. Um, to do the, the, the, the Mr. Olympia. Right. Right. The, the master system. Never did it, huh? It is never did it. Yeah. So. And then. No more desire to get back on stage. What, what, what change in your life. SomethinGHad to have happened at that point. Something definitely happened. Um. Everything. Slow down. I actually stopped. Um. And I was, I was wondering what was going to be next. I kind of backed up and stopped. Oh, no. And a chain of events began to happen in my life where I was. Beginning to here, what I hadn't been hearing before. I was, I had grown up Christian, but I had been not. Practicing. Got to. I had been, backslidden pulled out. In the divorces, you know, there's no, uh, reason for the, the divorces instead of drawing. drawing towards God, I just kind of filled those holes with the world. God, you got to. God, basically. You've got to basically, you know, as a warrior, so. Second. You found God, God came into your life, the best way. Well, yeah, he, he, he, had just had a major encounter. And it, there's certain events that led to it that on the, the appointed day and time, I had a major encounter that just drastically just changed everything. IMean, there's no way I could have been the same guy after that. You know, and there's an expression that Mike Tyson made famous, you know, they asked him about a plan one time. You may know this and he says, yeah, everybody's got a plan to, you get punched in the face. That's right. That's right. And that's how it was with God. So there's many people that. They call themselves Christians or they believe in God or whatever. And, but that doesn't without a trensformation, then you're basically not. People say, oh, I don't go to church because there's so many hypocrites there. But the, the Greek word for hypocrite actually means actor. Interesting. Yeah. Think about that. So in many people, you know, they can have a distaste for someone that says there one thing and lives another and to people's credit, many people do the best they can under their own strength. Well, a lot of people go to the gym, but not everyone's a bodybuilder, even though a lot of people call themselves bodybuilders because they don't really simply live the lifestyle outside the gym, right? They don't need to feel that. Exactly. They don't get the rest. They don't do what everything they got, it's practice deposing. So they're pretending when they go to the gym basically. Exactly. And you know yourself. They're people that go, oh, yeah. I used to be as big as you. Yeah. You know what IMean? Oh, they go, yeah. I competed in this and I won this show and you know within a few syllables. Yeah. They don't know what they got. My uncle, he was bigger than you. I said he was. I said, I'm just like 320 pounds. I said. Exactly. So the same thing with people that live, see without the counter, there's no trensformation. Sure. You know what? And you want to share your encounter, is that something like private? You know, you don't. Do it justice. It would take time to set up. Okay. And then it would be so apparent. And the handwriting is on the wall. IMean, I could say what I heard in bottom line is, you know, God spoke to me. Right. So what are you doing with this new, you know, revelation since you found God? What have you, how has your life changed? What are you doing today with yourself now? What would happen then was everything changed? IMean, I quit chasing women. I quit like a lot of things that were part of my lifestyle that I would try to fill up this God-shaped hole. It's not only one thing that will fill that hole. And most of us, you know, we grab onto other idols just to make it through the day, make it through the night. So when that happened, man, I was so wrecked that there's no way that I could have stayed the same. IMoved to Hawaii and see, when you have something that major, especially if it's of a spiritual nature to the rest of the world, you look crazy. I'm sure. I was like, what in the world happened to him? And I heard all kinds of rumors, you know, I was off in Hawaii, living in cave. I joined a cult, you know, it's like, what? All these weird things. It was probably the cave they found Ravey Robinson, right? What do you want to imagine? National stuff. He's living at the top of the mountain into the mountain. Right? You know, but I just surrendered everything. Sure. You know, you can't get anywhere without surrender. And it's, so that's one thing that a lot of people don't understand. It's like you can call yourself one thing. Just because you're going to church doesn't make you a son. God, this is make you a true Christian because a true Christian is not about religion. There's countless religions. But what happened was an encounter caused a relationship that I never had. And it sparked an intimacy that I'd never had. Did you know that you felt empowered by that, obviously, as well? Oh, my goodness. Dude, even now, it's like what I do now, which I'll get into is the supernatural lifestyle. The things that I see every day on a daily basis is just still never ceases to amaze me. So I see legs grow back out. I see people healed. I see, and see when I have that encounter, my eyes were open. I remember walking into Gold's gym one day to tren after this. And I walked in abouT4 feet inside the door and I looked up and I saw so much darkness in that place. I'm sure. I went, I got to get out of here. I turned around and I didn't go back until maybe 2018. Just recently, I went back and saw my pals and as a different person. But see, I have this veil over my eyes before then. And that's not all I saw once the veil came off. I saw things in my apartment that were there because I had invited them there through my lifestyle. And it never ceases to be amazing. And it's not all about goose bumps. It's also just about knowing it's an intimacy. See, you can't really even, can't really belong to God without the intimacy. Otherwise, you're doing the best you can under your own power. And people don't change by working on their character that changed by intimacy with him. So you basically weren't, you surrendered to him as we were. Exactly. That's the word I wrote down. So rendered. It's like, how are you going to have a king if you won't get off the throne? Right. And for years, I knew who I was. I knew what I believe. I had no doubts about it, but it was different when he showed up. That's interesting. Very cool. So what are you doing now? I'm so excited to hear what this is. So I'm in ministry. Hold on a couple of times. Do quite a few things. I counsel during the week. I'm counseling. I'm teaching and preaching. Speaking at conferences. Where are you living now, by the way? I forgot to add. I'm in Seattle. Seattle, Washington. Speaking at conferences, connected to an orphanage in Honduras. Impact ministries. And good friend of mine, Tom Stamman built an orphanage about eight years ago in Honduras. And now it's a city. And it's a, they grow mangos and pigs until opium. And everything, it just keeps increasing. And so they sustain themselves by what they produce. And then they sell it on the market to Honduras. And it helps benefit the city. They also build safe houses in the states. And all over the world that rescues, battered wives in child trafficking victims. So I go out once a week and I pray for people. So and I watch God do crazy miracles. And some of that's on the internet as well. But backs healed legs grow out, the legs that are in shorter grow out right before your eyes and things like that they never get old. So I live a supernatural lifestyle. That's what? Which just when I say that, some will think I'm diluted. Some more things get crazy because it sounds crazy. But I believe you. I truly believe you. I know you do. And that's the fun part is, oh yeah, I said it's crazy. But something I'm diluted, something I'm mistaken. But others get it. Others know exactly what I'm talking about. And they know that I don't even have to convince anybody. Question is, even as I speak now, there are certain people whose hearts are being touched by what I'm saying because all you have to do is look at the world and what's going on right now. And you realize there's a lot of darkness there. And if there's a lot of darkness, you know that there's light and there's enough light. So that's what, and from time to time I will still help someone with a competition with a diet or a posing, bring up a body part. Because once you're a fan, you never stop. IMean, you counsel body goes, like, let's say a guy is feeling lost or something like that's something that you have people wanted to contact you and then talk to you. Oh yeah, I do a lot of that. I see deliverance. You name it. Because there's always a need. And we've all been through things. Bondage is bondage, whether it's drugs, whether it's lust, whether it's alcohol, whether it's drugs, you know. And it's not about religion. You can work out religiously as we both know. But that doesn't bring you any closer to God. It doesn't. Body bullying is a lot of that over compensation for other emotional, you know, short we got going on and we all know that. IMean, come on. But how? Go ahead. But to get to that next to pass that and to get past that, it, you know, that takes time. Like you said, it does require surrender. A lot of us are such control freaks that we can't do that. And so until you are ready to do that, you're not going to change anything in your life, you know. Exactly. Exactly. You know, that was the first thing that I realized is that even growing up being a believer, I never gave God my, never gave my 100%. It's just like Bondage Bowman. You know, the rules are simple. You do the work. You tren hard. You match your nutrition. You tow the line. You do what it requires and you will yield the fruit. And it's the same, you know, in your spiritual walk. But so many of us want to see Jesus doesn't date. And so if you're in a relationship with someone and it is basically a marriage to God, you know. But you were like, oh, yeah, oh, I'm with you. But I'm going to take this old girlfriend out. She's only going to be in town for the baby. They'll be home. They'll be yours. You know, so the cool part is, you know, God does the heavy lifting. Yeah. You know, if you surrender, and I used to think, oh, man, you know, I'm going to be the one and these boring Christians. I'm going to be on a man. I'm not going to be my half of a lot. You know, what will I do without this in that wild? Was that wrong? Was that wrong? I probably would be the greatest high that people could even imagine they just don't realize it because no one wants to go to that place because it's sometimes it's scary for people. I like, you know, well, exactly. And it's like, it's like the book Green Eggs and Ham, which I probably be like shouted down with arrows for mentioning your doctor's, the soup book. Yeah. But you know, it's like Green Eggs and Ham. It's like all through the book. This guy is like, I will not eat Green Eggs and Ham. I will not eat them. Sam, I am. Will not eat them with a mouse. I will not eat them in a house. You know, and then finally he breaks down. Oh, dude. All right, fine. It eats them. He makes it ham. And then you see that picture of his face. You know, this is the bomb. You know, you just see like these intensity coming from his head, you know, his face. Then he's got his arm around the dude walking with, walking with Sam. So for years, you know, I thought, and I, I clung to a lot of things that, you know, give you a short-lived pleasure, you know, but they don't give you peace. Yeah. There's so many, I've trened billionaires that have a lot of money, but they don't have peace. No, it's scary. People think money brings you peace. No, but I was in an action, bring you more motivation, you know. And also exposes who you are, you know. Yeah. It's not good. But then he get money is not evil either. I think a lot of people. And then it's one of the other, you could have everything, you could, if you find balance, you could have it all, you know, I think. It, exactly. And that's another scripture, people miss quote, well, you know, money is the root of all evil. The Bible doesn't say that. It says the love of money is the root. Right. Because the love of money is what people will cut people's throat for. They will rob steel, lie. Yeah. Kill. True. True. True. That you bow down to. Mm-hmm. Right. And, you know, at the at the risk and sacrifice of your marriage or your children or your personal relationships or family. For family. How many families have broken up over money? Come on. That's the number one reason. Yeah. Yeah. Great. I tell you peace is a higher currency, you know. It's like, you know, I see you at peace a lot, you know. I've watched some of your, your interviews and, you know. Yeah. You know, it was a long process to get to that point of time too. Because we're hard hit. We're so stubborn. We know what all? Yeah. Well, yeah. Exactly. You know, the first, you know, when I was 22, I thought I knew everything. You know, I went to medical school, I went to college, you know. I went to what school? I went to medical school. IMean, so I did. Oh, I know everything, right? I have a genius. You know, I, I, I, no one's had this level of education, but I do nothing. You know, I just knew facts. I didn't know, I didn't have any, any awareness or any kind of like connection to anything. And it's that's what you're talking about. Knowledge without wisdom. That's right. It took a long time. It, it's, it's, it's a learn that though. But, because, you know, knowledge is powerful in this society, but it doesn't find, like you said, you don't find peace with that. You don't find happiness with that. It's, so you have to find a balance between the two. And that, let's again, I'm a slow learner, right? And it's that. It's a long time. We all do. And there's a lot of, uh, extremely bright people that, you know, they relegate it to, oh, yeah, that's, that's good for you, that's your courage, and that's, you know, and they don't realize that the very thing that stops them from receiving that truth is the fact that they're blocking the doorway. Yeah. Because they're clinging to this. And, and even certain people that, that are believers, they subscribe to what they think. That's not really interested in what you think. Yeah. It's like if you're willing to receive truth and you move out of the way, it'll hit you right in the face and then you're, wow, I never dreamed. Yeah. Amen. So that, man. Thank you so much today for sharing all that with us and sharing your life with us. And I think people will have a much greater perspective of who you are as a person and, you know, what you went through to get where you are. And I think it's, it's amazing. If people want to reach out to you, what's the best way for them to get in touch with you? Right now, you need to reach man, Facebook. There's a few Instagram posts out there. We're still having Instagram. We're going to get that going. Say that again. We're going to get that going. Because I've got some great shots and ours and ours. We got pictures. We're going to get, we're going to get them to put up all this stuff because we want to stop it. I'll be the first guy to follow you. You send that link to me. That. I want to be number one. All right. Right. Right there. I got to be number one. I don't know. He's already got the address. I don't want to move it on his territory. Eric, thank you so much, seriously. I really great time talking to you today. And, you know, I only wish you the greatest luck. You don't see a life, you know, because you're doing some great stuff. You're really helping a lot of people. And I think that we need more people like you out there. Thank you. It's, I'm having a blast, man. I want to piece. Let's enjoy. Yeah. But good to see you, man. I'm going to, and how's Amanda? Oh, I've been doing great. We goT3. You doing well? I'm kidding. In the kids. Good deal. Keep it as busy. You know, keep it young. Yes. Very good, man. All right. Thank you so much for having me. This has been blast. My pleasure. That guy's just going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with I am Dave Palombo. We will see you next time.

=== FILE: BODYBUILDING'S COMEBACK KID! Antoine Vaillant Interview [DhRPOOmnw9c].txt ===

I'm Dave Pullumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products we use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Pullumbo and today's guest is our Cal Pro men's open bodybuilding champion. He's going to the Olympia. He's the new honking talk man himself and one of Ion's. Welcome. That was good. I love the hat. You look like a good fan. I'm a national tendency. I want to fit in so I thought I would get that hat. What are you doing in the national Tennessee? Do you have a recording contract or something? No, there's a big event. Next weekend at Carbon Culture USA is actually a Bernie Teresa Jim that he opened up and he invited us with Brent, who's also owner of the arm of the manufacturers. Some of them are the manufacturers of our supplements. He invited us to go to this event there. It's going to be pretty cool. My friend, Jim and Fuselibi there. John, we don't want to be there. Jose Raymond, a bunch of have a. Wow. It's a little bit dearest from the fitness industry. That's a huge event. I'm glad to see during these COVID times that we're still doing events. Because this might be the first event. Yeah, that's right. Well, we're all very mask and try to stay away from each other and just like somebody's got the sniffles. We kind of get powered out a little bit. But it's all good. Was it weird having to compete on stage with a mask on? I had to ask you that because I was meaning to it. That was the first show I really seen in Vegas. We're pro men had actually a mask on. I know, but the thing is is that my mask that I had at some point I was breathing was going in my mouth. But the, the, the Derek, I when you said, if you didn't break it, it could just ask us and it won't be like a, calling like a default in the points. So what kind of my call that I got, I got, I need a break. And mask Charles had involved in his mask. So he could breathe better. Oh, that's smart. Yeah. So let's go. It's not all right. I need a break. So I said, you send us backstage and we came back for a definitive call out. It's bad enough that you dehydrated to death. It's 100 degrees under those lights. And now they got to put a mask on. You see, you can't freaking breathe. IMean, what, what other hand you kept the unique while you were on stage posing there, right? Yeah, it was a little bit harder than usual for sure. But you know what? The show did go off and you did, you did win. Now, let's talk what I really want to talk about because I'm always interested in seeing, you know, how the progression of things with people. We'll talk about what you've overcome those past year in a minute. But you know, you were at the New York Pro, which took place in Tampa, you were seven place there. What I saw you look, when I saw you on stage, I knew right away that you were over-depleted to death. I knew that was a fraction of what your potential was. Because I had been watching you and I know what your physique looks like. What happened in New York? What went wrong? And then how did you guys correct it for the cow? Well, the thing with New York, what happened is that I didn't have the right Instagram filter going on. I couldn't like crop the picture problem. I didn't have a face toon, you had some details, and yeah, so I was like shit. I think Ali Pro, I can't use Instagram. Your Instagram tools were not available to you. Exactly. What happened is that my condition was very good. There was no mistakes really made the thing that happened is that we flew in. And I thought what was in was crazy high right now. I told Doria, let's get me through that. I want to be really dry and stuff. We tried to carbon up. We did carbon up a little bit, but I was flat at the prejudging. But you know what, hurt me the most, I think, is some of the poses. I felt like I shut myself in the foot, because I was coaching down too much on their front relax. On their mum double, they don't like the twist, they want me to expand. And also the advertising was coaching down too much. So what happened is that because I was flat combined with poses that make me smaller compared to the whole lineup was like freaking swall right. Like Justin, where Doria is backstage, I was like, what the fuck is that? I'm a, he was hard. He was hard to do that. So what happened is that I did my posing to hurt me way more than my condition itself. That's the only thing that happened. I was on the first call, they put on the left. I'm on the right, I guess. My right, my left, so I did it, they're called out. And because my poses were not that great, they just left me there, they didn't want to compare. But if they were to compare me with the other guys, I couldn't assume it was very good. I think I would have made it higher only if I posed better. Right. I was fine. Even when I got seven, I wasn't mad or the, all right, cool. Fuck, I'm happy I competed. No, I know I've got to be way bigger. What can I do for Cali to fix that? And from two days out, New York drove all the way to the Cali Pro show, I ate over 10,000 grams of carbs. Wow. That's great. And I fixed my posing and I had to fix sweeter to help me out with that. And also, we had like a backstage for the finals. Usually the final picture for New York, I'm a little bit fuller. And I'm pumping more, my time was a little bit better too. It's because backstage we had this, because we had a product called Carb HD. And we used Carb HD with a cup of water. And we put like, probably a gram of salt in there with the shaker. And I drank that while pumping up. And my body started coming alive more. So I was actually a bit fuller at the night show. But it wasn't enough. And the judging was done. The coverage, IMean, they probably back a little bit, but not really. You probably back with my friend, went into that school. But yeah. So the place I feel like I deserved it. I don't feel like beinGHigher for me at one place in your two. I would have met that character as much. Sure. You wanted to wait. Like, what can I do? OK, what's next? Let's go. What can I do to be better next time? And I just went full on with, I just did my best for the whole week. I just did the, what was the best I can do? What I do, perhaps the same thing. And Doyne was with me the whole time. Looking at me every flowers, weighing me, making me pose. And then we would adjust and adjust. And I would eat every meal pretty much like a pound of rice with a heap of scooper money at 30 grams of sugar. I was trying to pull me spill over before pouring the water. And I was stabilizing and losing weight. We had it in and out where it goes Wednesday. Wow. And then I was eating like all the 60 grams of potatoes. That is like it's crazy. I was eating so much food. But my digestion was so good. My stomach stayed flat. I heard something now. I only was in salt with my meals. I'm only used to crazy condiments. Because that I think and make your garlic and stuff can be your waste of loaded money and things. Yeah. It's salt and rice. It just goes right. I tell people all the time, don't cut your sodium out. IMean, except maybe the very end because the sodium is what keeps you muscles full. IMean, I live a huge mistake people made. We didn't cut so much on that all. Yeah, even it was telling me to salt my meals. Absolutely. Yeah, that's a good thing. Sometimes people go too crazy. At the end they cut salt, they cut water too quickly. And then they take it and stuff. If you get yourself freaking shredded and peeled, peeled, it's like, how much water can you retain in any way? It's like, people try to do some nicks and the end and try to make something. No, what do you need to do is the four months before, when you need to put that fucking effort effort. Not like trying to find some magic trick at the end. Right. I think, look, I told, I told them what's his name in Valia, the same thing. I said, you're in shape already. Stop doing it. All these crazy things at the end. Just eat and we have to listen to our coach, right? So he is listening to Patrick. Two more. So and the thing is that they did a few shows together. I guess they were still learning their bodies body. So yeah, if he comes up one show, I was seven at the New York and then I won the next week. He was seven. He was one of the biggest players that he won the next show. So it's like we, that bodybuilding is cool like that because if you're in shape, if you're really like it's shape, you're peeled, you can make great improvements in the strong amount of time. I am integrating the food, but if you're kind of off of you, you have body fat to lose and stuff and you're not like dry, there's nothing that is going to help you out in the last week. I always tell people, that's why it's a good idea to do more than one show. If the first show is what you make your little mistakes and you tend to over die it, you overdo things because you're so excited about getting up on stage and with you, there was a comeback involved because you had torn your bicep lashing, you really never got a chance to like prove how good you look. See the scar there? I got to tell you, I can't even tell on stage, they did a great job repairing that bicep. Wow. Yeah. You should have just a little bit smaller than the other one, but the thing is that all of you could tell, all of you could tell. Well, a little bit, right? Tiny drop, you know what you should send your surgeon a gift certificate or something like that because he did it right now. The thing is that this one was smaller before anyway, before my dad. I got you told. But now if you look at everybody's arms, there's always a bicep smaller because now I really looked all the time. Yeah. Well, okay. If you look at, if you look at each side of your face, one side is big and then the other, there's no perfect surgery. Perfect surgery. Perfect surgery actually by itself. That's why I do this. I'm more beard on the left side than on the right side actually. I think you've been to trim that up a little bit. A shit. Yeah. But actually, if you look at the Lee Priest's arms, he torres bicep when he was 20. Yeah. Next to Jackson, Mike Melin, they all torred it by, and the one you know is really. I didn't know that. I didn't know because we kind of talked like, because of that, I just know more about bicep. There's now, but there's a lot of pros who torred it by step and they've even if those who didn't, if you look at their arms, they're different. Yeah. You know, we've talked before about what you went through to make this original comeback. Obviously, you were down in your lock, you were basically living on the street at no money. You dragged yourself out of the, you know, a miserable situation. You made the successful comeback. Last year was supposed to be your year to shine, you know, to really start winning shows and to establish myself, your physique had come back. How the moralizing and how depressing was it when you tore that bicep? I know you interviewed that you and you said you were in a good state, but now you're now looking back, was it tough to get through that time? You know, when you, after you tore that bicep, it had to like not compete. Well, the first five hours, I was very scared and I, as soon as it happened, I went on all the tours on the gym floor and I cried because I was like, I didn't know what was going to happen. The fear was because of the unknown, right? Right. It, my career ended. I have to put all the shows and what's going on. I knew it was bad. I felt it. Yeah, I felt the fucking thing of a rip and like just rip and inclusion. It was so painful. But the most painful thing was just a hurt that it made the fuck as all this, all this work that I did, I want to come back to the stage. Sure. I want to show people the other hard work I did, you know, and I love competing and I don't want to stop. But that last hint is a little bit that I said, okay, what's the best thing I can do? How can I, how can IMake sure that I can come back the best that I can be? Even if it's going to be a shit, what's the best I can do? Because that's how you can do the rest. It's not up to you. So I did that. That they after I was doing likes and then I, that I, it would the cast, who still told him by said, I was doing back. I was to chest. I did one of them stuff for like weeks. Right. That was smart. That was smart because you know, they say if you tren one side, yes, stimulates the other side and directly. Yeah. Yeah. It's like a tree. I treat will never grow like just one side. It will grow on two sides, right? Yep. So it's that there's a trensfer of gain is like 25, 20%. Like if you never tren your life, you always tren the left, the right will be 20% bigger. So there is a theory, I'm not sure if I have to explain properly. But I've heard that many times in my doctor Dr. Khan who helped me out with the tear. Yes. So I just did it the best I could do. Really? Then stop moving. The only thing that I could have done better is that I think all the sweating, you really bad infection. It was a big lump on the ground. Oh, really? I didn't know you had an infection. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you find some pictures on my Instagram or something. You could see like a big lump or they could set up to you later. Big is great. What did they do then? He gave you antibiotics. Yeah. I went to the emergency room. The doctor gave me some antibiotics. And I was on there and it went down eventually. But it was very weird. I was doing this and my farm was touching my bicycle. Oh, wow. Yeah. That's scary. Especially, I think it's got surgery. It was like I have like a synthola or something. That was weird. So you got through that. You started gearing. I'm now. You originally, I know we're working, you were endorsed or sponsored by RedCon. And then you kind of switch. What happened with that whole contract? Well, Dorian Hamilton, my coach and my pretty much wife and best friends just started with, hang on with her every day pretty much. Right. He's also the owner of PumaSons Fitness. Yep. And I had coach of TMHG trening. You started your own solo company and I knew eventually I would go with them because before a silent redcon, the idea was to be part of the brand. But I had to pay the bills and I absolutely got to make it make it good offer. You know, a fully could be. So I went with them and I had a good time. It was pretty cool. It was very supportive because we had a similar pass. And I kind of really did that with me. Right. And the help of the other, then at some point, it was just like, I just feel like I just asked him to get out of it. Any, he was fine. That was nice. All right. So you start working. I know you've been working with Dorian Hamilton. So now you've been endorsinGHis line as well. You guys sit down. You have to put together a game plan at some point. What made you decide to pick New York pro is the first show. Or was it just because there's whole COVID thing that was the only option you had? No, my first show was the first lockdown. I had like, what's one was that? It was that indeed. So you were, you were going to compete earlier in the year. That was the plan? Yeah, yeah. There was indeed. There was a show that we were in the spring. There was a lot of shows that got canceled. I know Brazil. I was supposed to do our little Brazil. Okay. Do was another one I was supposed to do. How long were you dieting into one? You must have been dieting for eight months. December 18. Wow. Oh my God. Yeah, December 18. Had you say so mentally focused the whole time? Does I love bodybuilding? You got a lot of good Instagram followers from that. No, probably. Oh, yeah, for sure. I think I'm going to be really good Instagram bodybuilding. Now, let me ask you this question because I always believe things work out the way they are supposed to. So, you know, obviously, do you think that all those extra months of dieting gave your body a more refined look because you had a lot of detail and really good lines running through your body? I did stay leaner because the thing that when it shows that I loved down, I shot it off. I came off and I just like I lost a little bit of size and stuff. But I stayed lean. And so when it was tied to it, when the shows came back on, I was like, all right, I guess let's do Boston and let's do a, what's the other one that was there? Boston and Chicago. So let's do those shows. And then I started doing those shows and I was already lean so it was just about like getting back some muscle, getting some density back. And that came back pretty quick. And actually, you know what's funny? I decided to do New York and Cali three weeks out of the shows. Really? Yeah, what did I take that show? I didn't plan to do those shows with my girlfriend Sam just said, well, you're looking pretty good. Why don't you do the Cali pro in the New York? Right. I was like, huh? Because Boston just got canceled. I was afraid that we can't sociALCARgo. Right. So I'm like, shit. I've been asked to or anything if I can do that. And don't say, I think if there's somebody who can pull it off, it's you. They made me a new plan. And I just, I just, all right. Yeah, it's getting shit right now. And then I did a 10 days. I was, I was ready. 10 days. Okay, pull it up. Because the thing is that I would do, it's crazy because for like 10 days in a row, almost, I probably did like eight power yoga session. I was 40 minutes of cardio in the morning. Why are you doing the yoga for? What was that for? Because it's me. Just you, you'll go, power up yoga should be part of the basics of bodybuilding. Should be cardio, nutrition, weight trening, and yoga. Just like anyway. It's, it's your trening. Because we're always pushing, contracting, like on a trail, linear. And then we become all bound up. Yeah. And you're doing so many different things. The twisting movement, the holding, breathing. It's good for the, the mental. It's good for the spirit. Yeah. And it grounds you. And the thing that's really cool is that it humbles you. Because I was only doing stuff that I was like, good at. And I am going to the heart room. I got, I'm getting my ass kicked every time. The heart is the hardest thing I do is harder than like this. And at the crazy, crazy ability, it increases it, it gets your way smaller, it gets too fricking shredded. You can, you can, they burn up to like 900 calories in one session. Right. You know, you didn't feel like you would get over trened in that all that yoga? Yes. Well, look, listen. I did a six days in a row. I would get easier as I, but I was like, I was just like, I was just like going on pure motivation and just a little bit. Because I was doing cardio in the morning also 40 minutes too much. Yeah, I was too much. Yeah. And 40 minutes as a sound line, but I put my heart rate over 130 for 40 minutes. Oh, so you do high intensity cardio. That's not like, I just, I just do straight to the fucking pedal to the metal. On the, on the life fitness bike. I would level sometimes 15 to 20. How do you know, who she likes doing? You're a genetic freak. That's why anyone else who would do that would, would, their body would fall apart. It's a nice, organic super pump. You're, that's called genetics. You can get away with it. Yeah. I guess, but my upper body was going away a little bit though. And it's, but I would do my weight trening session after that. And then I would do yoga. Wow. No one the way you needed to eat a thousand calories a day. Yeah. I was a thousand grams of carbs a day, right? Yeah. That's what he kind of like tells me to go back. That's what he's like doing the opposite. They said, but tell me, like, hey, you should do more. You're more cardio. Right. They relax. Right. You know, like, kill out and don't do cardio. And then I feel like 10 days we pull back. Yeah. You said me a little bit more and more high days. And actually dialed in pretty good. But IMean, that wasn't what's so high. Like I said, for the York, I could carb up in time. So it seems to me as though you're an extremist. You like to do things. Thank God you got Dory and who kind of like balances you out a little bit. That's what it seems like. I would be like, you'd be able to say, I should do classic. I could probably do classic if I tren myself. I would lose 40 pounds of muscle like that. I love that pose. There's a pose of you and Logan Frank. And I think in it like a posing. Oh, yeah. I loved that. I loved that picture. I put it up when I was doing my interviews. And heavy muscle ready. I think it's an awesome picture between you guys. It's like, yeah, and Laura has a, it's a, it's a pin or art. Yeah. You should do some, you should do some fine some guy who's like an artistic photographer and get some, some good shots because you know, well, which age do muscle, I do in sister Mariah. She just went for the first time. She's how we do photography. And it's for the first time she went on a trip with us to do content. And if you look at the, our YouTube channel, age do muscle. Yeah. YouTube dot com slash age do muscle. She's filming it. And I'll over up back home, big through media is editing it. It's just, they could great pictures. So there's a lot of cool pictures. I have a lot of stuff to post when I'm like, yeah, you can be in a magazine. You've got that artistic look to your physique. You got great. You know the angles to hit. And yeah, you know, I'm pretty good with like the angles and looking good on Instagram. You know, I didn't even like, I'd love to see like a photo shoot between you and Kai Green to just the diversity of the physics. Yeah, great. He's a, you know, he's his own style. And I like that. But there, I don't think you're selling posting routine in the York. I like to do stuff now. That's pretty unique also. But I love I can. Yeah, it's like I try to just find poses that people have never seen before. Right. And Milo, Sarchev said that he saw the, some poses I never seen before. So that, that's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. I think fun with like all the classic and artsy like poses and stuff and just make a like a mixture of classic. I like a mixture of like powerful poses like a mix of door and Yates. So artistic like mixed together and stuff. I don't know. That's that's a unique talent you have. And I think that that sets you aside and kind of separates you from the rep, the packs, so to speak. It always elevated guys like Melvin Anthony up to a higher level because they were able to display their physique so well flex wheel or two. And that that definitely helps play things and helps you beat guys a lot of times that when it's close, you know. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, I get the art side in me from my mom. My mom does a she has a bachelor in arts and she does well now and she does lots of arts and crafts and I've always loved art. I kind of draw myself a little bit of stuff. But during this prep, I was so obsessed with my next meal in the trening. I guess that's all I did. And I was, you know, when you're prepping, well, you know, you're just obsessed. You're like, all right, just to get about the posing and stuff. And yeah, I would post in the morning too. Actually, I got through an hour in the last two weeks. Wow. And I would lose three pounds posing. Most guys don't want to pose at all because they're so exhausted. You know, that last couple of weeks. And you're going to win more. That's why you're doing the morning. Like, yeah, I wasn't at night. Fuck that. Yeah, exactly. I did like I can barely alive. I would be able to couch in the dark. Just like, no energy to even watch a show. Right. So what's the strategy now? You win the Cal Pro. You beat Max Shaw. I'm sure Milo wasn't happy about that. But that's the way it goes. Now you're going into the Olympia. You're first Olympia at the end of December over there. What's the strategy now? What are you going to change anything or are you going to go as is? No, we're going to go bigger. OK. Yeah, we're going to back up the legs. We're going to rebound right now a little bit. clen the system before maybe 46 weeks. Yeah. You know, I think I struggled with. I thought all that stuff and just like clear it out. And but use the food and the trading to gain muscle. OK. We're going to clen the system and rebound clen the same time. Yeah. But then when it's time to be like eight to ten weeks out, we're going to fucking wrap it up. I'm going to get shredded. It gets fucking shredded and dancing that. We're going to this time is not going to. Because I'm going to release it. It's not going to push me as hard. Right. I'll tell you to back down and push too hard because he's got to feed me and I'm going to try to come bigger. And I'm actually going to try to come with muscle bigger muscles. I don't think I can gain muscle. And because I look at myself with me, we don't straightening. And or even the last one's on Instagram where I'm posing and I'm like shit. Put that up there. It's like I'm way I'm way like fuller right now. It's like. And I'm not that watery. It's like so I could be I could have been fuller. Right. So I'm just going to do my best. Lizard De Doran's coaching advices and guidance because it's like really good. And I'm just going to come in bigger. And what did you weigh? What did you weigh at the cow? Oh. I was to 61 the morning up. I took eight to meals and I drank some carbaged geod salt in the backstage. And so I guess I wasn't maybe to 63 on stage. That's a lot of weight. That's a good weight. IMean, there's not many guys competing over 260 pounds on stage. That lead. But I'm six foot and because my joints are big, I had great new him is big. Everything is big. My knees are big. And my friend was like a bigger frame. I need to I can be say I'm pretty sure I can be 50 pounds of dry muscle heavier. But that's only upper body. Keep my ways the same and be as they tell. And with that package, Jake, I don't know if I should be more confident with myself. Because IMean, I'm seeing like a feelinGHe dexter all the guys are like up there. Right? But now it's like, no, I'm going to be in my head. I'm coping myself with the best in the world. Right. And it's only that each of them, I should try to sing something and I can beat them out. Yeah, I think it's good strategy. You can mental strategy. So I need to believe in myself. I'm going to be a Olympia. Yeah, of course, it's the best in the world. And people are with all of these. And the other people don't believe in me. But so far, I've been pushinGHard and doing my best. And I'm going to go past the path I am right now. Obviously, the one I'm supposed to take. Yes. I've got to keep workinGHard in that path. And I will see what happens. But I need to change my mindset about what I can do in body body. Let me ask you this question. What did Flex Wheeler tell you when you spent all that time posing with him? Did he give you any advice that you did to heart? Yeah. Well, there's a whole video on it on an age gym muscle. You do the whole session. You can learn a lot from Flex Wheeler when I learn. And it's a lot about just two weeks on the cellular access front, relax in the two poses that he told me. And he also told me like, still poses. And like, what? Still their poses. So what do you mean? So he said that you need to do stuff to catch his people attention. Because if they're looking at the stage for, let's say, 20 seconds. And you feel a second from the other guys. You're still in their poses. Right. And he said also said, hit the first hit the pose in the last two release. And they said to like, like, call out the guys a little bit. You know, like, on stage. Right. And I just have played all that stuff. It doesn't look more like it's. I thought a lot. It's a psychological war fair up there as well as as a physical. You know, yes. And he also, yeah. And I think what also helped me out with Cali is that on stage, I have like, at energy. Well, I've protected I had. I was like, I gave, I was like, Ari, this is it. This is like, it's, it's door best here too. It's not be lazy and it's not like, you know, sloshed down. Right. It's a, it's a bummer. But he's like, show. Let's put on a show. Right. So I did that and placed give me a lot of advice. I posted it for two hours and a half. Wow. Yeah. Three days out. I was like, he was telling me sometimes. I know you're tired, but I don't care. Hold the pose. I'll get a, explain something. I was like, but it, it, it, it, it made me learn that shit. I need to practice posing way more. Which are you already practiced a lot? But yeah. But the funny thing is, I need to hold the poses 20 seconds. And I need to like act like I'm on stage in my head when I pose and I need to pose more, more, more, more posing. Just like I should be. I think we need to, it's if you have no energy, you should eat more, a little bit more, you can pose more, like almost. I think of more guy spend time posing. And I, I'm guilty of this when I, because can be, I should have spent more time posing less doing cardio because I didn't even need the cardio. And the funny thing was that you do it because you want to get that extra graininess, but you know what the posing practice will do the same thing if you do continuous sessions. I have my apple watch. I can jack my heart rate up to 140, just posing. I believe that's what I, I believe. I believe that. Well, it's like if you're contracted, the maximum you can, it's like maximum effort. I think, yeah, I got, I got a business, I got a business idea for you. I like to give people business ideas. I don't have any time to do all these ideas. You should create, you know, like they had the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the 5o boxing and they had all these different crazy. You should do an hour posing like session like routine where you actually, people can get a workout out of it, but that it's, it's a relevant cardio session. You lead the whole thing and talk it almost like you're the, like the aerobics and structure, so to speak. And right now or long video, I guarantee you sell a million of them. Yeah, I'm going to be able to post on one hour first. You can do it now. You can do it. You, you get the second genic energy. You can do anything you put your mindset. Yeah, well, of course. I, yeah, I've been a, for your limpia. I don't care. I'm just going to practice practice and practice and practice and I'm going to be the, I want to be the guy on stage. Louis doubles comfortable posing. There you go. Well, you know what, I want to give you a big congratulations. You proved everyone and all the Naysay is wrong. You came back after New York and you won the Cal Pro. You going to the Olympia. Your comeback can act. I, I say your comeback is this huge success. IMean, you pulled yourself out of the gutter. You're on top of the world. Congratulations and, and best of luck at the Olympia. Yeah, thank you. I want to say something about the haters and Naysayers. Yeah. It doesn't affect me at all when people say that when people talk negative or they say comments, like, hey, what's up with your nipples, man? Like, I, I, I go with it that I, I just say, I tren the both twice a day. You know something. You got it. You, you, you, you shouldn't let that's the one thing I want to say. You shouldn't let, because what happens is that if somebody hates on you on, yeah, on Instagram is because what they saw in, in, in your picture, triggered something and then that is triggered because of their experiences in the past. Right. And they react to the stimulus of you in a certain way. Of course. It's not, it's done about you. It, you should never take it as a personal. Now, what the jealousy you took, that's another thing. Yeah. So the thing is, is what if you react back, you are reacting to their reaction of it, something that triggered them. Right. So it's like, it's just nonsense. It just, it goes nowhere. It's not good for anything. You're right. You should never let somebody's reaction and impulse, emotion affect your day. You should not let them or whatever they're writing affect you because they're being affected by seeing you. So you go to stop the cycle. That's a point. Yep. Wayne Gyer said, don't let the good opinion of others influence you in any way. What's so ever? Yeah. Not even the exact. And even the good comments. Like if you say, you know the haters, ignored the good comments too. I appreciate them. Well, the good, when I say the good opinion, I'm saying it's archastically. So yeah, but, you're, you're also writing the notes of cast of weight. Because if you feed off the likes and the good comments, you feed that and you feed that off to validate yourself, you're sure you're something to head now. You're going to look for that to feel good. Right. Balanced. Yeah, you should still go inside. You would just you and the now. And you should like I said, don't let the comments affect you because they're just triggered by what they're seeing on a screen that happens to be in the shape of you. You're right. You shouldn't let them affect your day. No, go on. Just like whatever. Like it's funny. You just see their hating. It's like, okay, whatever. Good fun. Yep. I think for me, when people hate or they say comments and stuff, it doesn't affect me at all. A zero, zero. So I wish, because I see other pros and stuff that IMet people all their friends and they're affected by that. They feel they're going to reply and prove something. No, chill out. Who will you? They go, why would you give them a tension? Call your mom a step. Yeah. She did a slipboard tension. You're right. You're right. It's a very healthy attitude. Yeah, I just wanted to talk about that because I've seen some pros and stuff and they're kind of like affected by what people say, but you know what? If you have positive energy and you're nice, you just do what's good in your heart. You shouldn't be worried about what people say. My whole take on it is because people love and hate me just as much. And I always say the fact that they're even talking about me in such a passionate way, whether it be negative positive, means that I'm doing something right because I'm inciting this reaction. And that's obviously, you know, I'm doing my job, you know. And also, we're our sports bodybuilding. If it was a sports, like car racing, you will talk all this, this guy's car shit, whatever. People like you talk people like you give their opinion, talk shit about the sport they love. Right. And then it happens to be us, like we are the things that in the sport, like the way we look. So people are going to bash us. They're going to comment it. Tell them what they're opinion. That's fine because if they didn't, there would be no fucking sport to be watched. It's like telling Miss America that you're she's ugly. You know what IMean? Well, she's just one Miss America. She's how ugly can she possibly be? Yeah. So the guy thinks it's she's ugly. Some people just say they want to voice your opinion because they just love like that sport or whatever. It's like this, what they do, people are going to talk shit about people like you did an emotional about and the fail teams. They fight over them. They get so involved and you know, like that's normal. So people are going to talk shit. That's normal. Let them talk shit. It's good. You know, people talk stuff. It's good. This is what sports are. People like the FFs. Favorite teams, favorite bodybuilders and stuff. Like it's okay. Like just don't worry about it. Just do what you got to do and just live and let live. Amen to that Antoine. Best luck and joyer a little weekend. Say a lot of branding, curry. He's opening a gym. You said, right? Yes. Yeah. Fortunately, he's not going to be able to come because of the pandemic and the rules. Like because he comes, he won't be able to come back to tren to play the club. Okay. There's going to be a lot of things. I'll be there. I'll see you're taking the place and Mr. Olivia, basically. Maybe that's a foreshadowing of things to come. Yeah. I guess it's. Yeah. I'll be there with HG muscle with Jujimu Foods, also HG muscle athlete. Thor, my coach, the Dorian Alters going to be there. We got lots of fun and also going to HG muscle.com called AV for supplements. Okay. Right away, cold AV 10, I was praying for the belt and stuff. That's my three main sponsors. Yep. I want to thank Trifectel sponsored my food for the whole trip. Wow. Thank you so much. Yeah. So I'll try to do all the food and stuff. It's pretty good that I want to take our muscle. Thank you. Thank you. And yeah. So it's a great day to be a Instagram bodybuilder here. Yeah. I love interviewing you because you got such a good mental, you know, at look. You have fun with what you do. I wouldn't be doing my job if you if I didn't ask you to take us out of this interview with some kind of creative something you're going to do for us, whether we're posing or an impression or whatever you want to do, you take this interview and exit it in your own unique style. Okay. All right. Thanks for watching. I'm Alex Mussel. This is day journal Palombo and I wear a Swiss set of these. Not here. I thought you were going to be here. A set of the real the real the technician. So who's who's been waiting lately of his clients. I don't know. But it's all going in the hood. See you next time. Bye. That was great.

=== FILE: BODYBUILDING'S NEXT GREAT HARDCORE FREAK？ Nick Walker Interview [63fEHhu3y5k].txt ===

I'm Dave Holumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live With Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is the 2020 IFBB actually NPC North American men's body building overall champion Nick Walker. He finally did it at the old age of 26 years, welcome to the show and congratulations. Thank you for having me on Dave. Yeah, IMean, this was a long time coming to you. A lot of people don't realize you've been trening a very long time since you're a teenager. Even though you're only 26 years old, you've been in the game for a long time, but wasn't like, you know, a lot of guys pop in and they went into Europe too. You busted your butt, your typical, you know, northeast guy, trened hardcore and jersey there. And you made it happen. Congratulations. Thank you, I appreciate it, man. You have, you know, something that we haven't seen in a while. I call it the throwback 1990s Freak physique, you know, whereas you got all the body parts in the right, you know, order, so to speak. You have, you know, a pro level structure on your body, but you also have that, like, dense, grainy, you know, freaking muscle that we haven't seen in a very long time on the body building circuit. What are you, what are you a tripped at here? My trening. I had trened very, very intensely, but low, low vibe. Kind of like it, like, doing eights. Yeah, I noticed that. Yeah, I saw you doing interview with that and I was, I was impressed because I don't see a lot of guys kind of switch the way from that. And, you know, I was always a big believer also in low volume, high, high weights. And it shows in the density of your, of your physique. That's, I believe, and I also believe that's one of the best ways to save muscle as well. When you're dieting so low, the more volume you do, you can sometimes attend the burn the muscle. And if you tren low volume, you can keep the weight really high and just give out own sense to either one of two sets. You should maintain majority volume or muscle. How you used to tell people, when I would do after I would do it, like, four sets of incline presses, I wanted to go home. Like, I felt like I got enough out of it. I felt like my chest was fried already. I lifted, you know, 405 for six heavy reps. And I didn't want to do anymore. And you know, when I started realizing that more wasn't necessarily better at that point. Is that? And sometimes that will hinder recovery. Yeah, I'll be very important, especially doing prep. Yeah, absolutely. And, you know, your physique speaks for yourself. I actually, you know, when I look at your physique and say to actually, we're rising at Mike Franswatt, if you remember him back in the 1990s. Yeah, I've heard that a couple of times. Yeah, you got that, a lot of density like him. And he also tren really heavy. So IMean, it, there's definitely something to it. IMean, it's, it's not like, you know, people want to know if you get that muscle from it. It's from people who put in hard work. Now, when you first started out and you were doing shows back in the early, you know, 2010 area, 2013, whatever, when you're a teenager, where people already telling you, you know, you have potential to go far or were you like one of these guys when they said, hey, you know, you know, maybe you're wasting your time. Yeah. Well, when I, I see I graduated high school at 230 pounds. Oh, I was your big kid. Yeah. And you know, everyone told me I should do my first show or do like do my, yeah, do it first show. So after I graduated high school, I did my first show, the goal was classic in 2012. Yeah. And I went from 230 pounds to 159 pounds. Oh, my God. Holy macro. Yeah, we talked about it over. I didn't. Yeah. That are the hard way sometimes, right? Yeah. I got a totally different person. But at that point, like, yeah, I've heard maybe it's not for me, but I also knew the genetic factor that I had. Yeah. And if I had a, you know, a proper coach that you had to diet me properly, but it would have been a different. Yeah. So I came back the following year, I did the Eastern's in New York as a teen as well. And I was, and I weighed 198 pounds. I won the team division. And I took third in the light at least. I was at that show. I remember, I remember, you know, I didn't remember who you were. But now that you, I was looking at your conversation. I remember, because I was, I know I was at that show. And you were very impressive. I thought as a teenager at 1998. It was, you could tell that you had, you had potential. Who knew how far you were going to go with it, but you definitely had potential, you know, a definitely. Yeah. You definitely changed your physique in that year for sure. Just in G. Gain, what, say 20 pounds on stage? Yeah. Pretty much. That when you did teen assials the year after and play second, was that a big disappointment for you? IMean, yeah. IMean, it's always a disappointment losing, right? Who beat you with that? Was that a Cody Montgomery year? Yes. Yeah. Well, that was jusT3 feet. I remember, yeah. IMean, you know, he was the favorite obviously going into that show. Yeah. Yeah. So like, I didn't go on the show like knowing I was going to lose, but I prepared myself for that because I know Cody was the favorite. Yeah. It was going to be a three-peak, but to be neck and neck was him. Yeah. You know, close second. I was happy with it. I think IMight, and I can't remember back then. I think IMight have actually said that I thought you deserved to win. I think when I, in my analysis, I was at that show. I think I actually liked your physique better than him at that show, or maybe I saw a more potential, and you, I don't know what it was, but yeah. That was a good battle you guys had there. And that was probably Cody's hardest show. You would think the third one when he was the oldest would have been the easiest win for him, but I don't think it was. I think that might have been his toughest win. Yeah. So you come off that team, National's. You know that you have potential at this point. And what, what was your game plan at that point? How do you go from the teams now into that open division and have to start competing for a pro-card? Like, what's the mental, I guess, thing that clicked in your head and said, okay, I have to take it to the next level now. Well, at that point, I actually hired Jeff Long as my coach, right? Because he lives like you're from a fair amount of time. Yeah, yeah. And jersey, you're both jersey guys. Yeah. So we did a good offseason together. And in 2016, I did a regional show, which was the South Jersey Championships. And I won the overall there as a heavyweight. I was actually, I was like, I want to say two to ten. All right. You're taking a run for the right after the T-National's? Yeah, yeah. Okay. And then we did USA's seven weeks after that. And we sucked down to a light heavyweight. Okay. Where I placed a six place there. Now, was that a mistake going down? You think in weight or was it was it the right move? I think was the right move. I think if I stayed in heavies, I don't think I was big enough for what compared it as good enough as I was in the lights. Right. And I liked the way my physique looked there. I was almost very crisp, very lean, dry. And you know, to get top six that your first national show in a light heavyweight was she's a very competitive weight class. Right. Now, I'm totally, Nick, how tall you? Five, seven. I didn't really do that short. Wow. Okay. Yes. So, I didn't do that into that weight. So, it wasn't like you were too tall for it at all. No, no. So, where people telling you at that point, you know what? Stay as a light heavyweight, get your pro-card and then move up. That's, I hear that a lot, especially with the guys. Well, I actually know when said that to me. Now, after we did USA's, we just ran right into an all season. And we got ready for, I had to qualify again. So, 2017, I did the muscle beach as a heavyweight. And I won the overall there. And then we went to North Americans in 2017, where I think we just over-dited a little bit. And I ended up being like 200, 200 pounds on stage. Okay. And I got six there again, but it was not my question. Was it a good luck for you, yeah? Yeah. You obviously look better bigger. Yes. So, I think so. So, now you took 2018, you actually preparing for a show. And then you never competed. What happened that year? Because I think a lot of people were wondering is Nick Walker done. You know, sometimes you see young guys come up. They've, you know, they got tremendous talent. They get all this potential, like, I think of a trade brewer. And then actually, I actually compared you in a show I just did the earlier to a young trade brewer that actually lived up to his hype, you know, so to speak. But a lot of times these guys disappeared. Did you freak out? What happened? No, I had a slight issue that I was having. I don't want to get too in depth about it. Okay. I don't want to start trouble anywhere. Yeah. But I just thought it was the best move for me being young and not knowing what was going on. Okay. And I didn't want to go in my future. It continued. And then something serious actually happened. I got you. So I decided to pull out got my full blood work done and majority of everything just came back normal. Okay. So I just, I just said, okay. So I decided at that point, I was going to, I actually went and back connected after that. I got you. So you had a problem with your coach. I understand. You don't want to talk about it. Well, you, you, you know, sometimes when something like that happened, you know, and you're right before a show and you have to pull out. It's very depressing. Did you fall into a depression? Did you kind of like move past? I would've said, yeah, yeah, I was very upset. But I'm, I'm the type of guy that gets over things real quick and makes the next move. And we get started on that. Okay. So you, you hook up with Matt Jensen and you say, all right, we're going to go for, for two thousand, nineteen. We're going to do the USA. Yeah. And obviously that was your breakout year when you play second last year. What was, what was different going into that prep? And what did you actually wind up on stage? Wait, why? At USA's. Yeah. To, to, to, to 36 to 38. I was that's a huge jump you made. What did you get? We had. Yeah. Yeah. What, what are you a tribute that to? Again, that was when we, me and him actually, that's when I started doing the low vine trening. Okay. We ate a lot more food. We lived, you know, high intensity low volume and everything just, just clicked. Yeah, everything clicked perfectly. You know, we were, you and I were talking earlier and we were talking about, you were telling me how for this year you kind of stopped doing a lot of freeway. It's quite sort of, make sure you waste and get any bigger. And we were talking about what, what machines and what exercises you kind of feel more nice to, was telling you that when I was competing, I tried to do the whole, you know, no squatting thing when you were, I did leg press. And I really don't, I never felt like press really well. I never really was a big leg press fan. And you said you feel like press a lot. And I think it goes back to the fact that you have to find what works for your physique. And obviously you and Matt, when you connected, you figured out how your physique rose best, which is more food less volume. And which is the case with a lot of guys. I was like a low volume guy too. If I did too much volume, I didn't recover, I didn't grow. So obviously you found what works for your physique and your body, you know, blossomed one you did that. And you did very, very quickly. My strength was going up like weekly, like by a long crowd. Well, what kind of, what kind of lifts you are doing? IMean, like what was some of your impressive gym lifts? I know you have some crazy lifts. You know, okay. So the highs, I inclined dumbbell press the 225. So high. Let me ask you a question with that. Because you know, I was a best drug pretty strong guy when I got big too. But I had problem with heavy dumbbells because I couldn't, I couldn't, like, I literally wanted a fall over. I couldn't balance the three-minute, three-hundred pounds. I couldn't balance those things. Yeah. How do you, what do you have? Someone hand you each one of them? Yeah. So basically how we did it was we just, we sat on one of my lap. And when I went, when I went to kick them back, they kind of just followed with me and helped me tell me. So you need two spiders basically, is what you need? I did. I needed two spiders. That's crazy. And then once I got going, those are very smooth. So impressive. What else are you doing in the gym that's impressive? I dumbbell shoulder press, 200 pound dumbbells. Wow. I guess the same, because someone has to hand you those things. There's no way you lift the nose off the floor. Oh, yeah. So if they had a hand to hand to the top, I'd have to make sure I had some strong people with it. That's scary too, because if you move a little in the wrong direction, you can hurt yourself a lot. Do you have to have a really strong spot? Oh, really strong. Who's a strong person? And then I also barbelled shoulder press, four-five for eight of the people. That's sick. I thought I was impressed. I thought it was impressive when I did three-fifteen for like six, buT4 or five for six is absolutely insane. People don't know how hard that way just to stabilize. It's difficult. That's the hardest one. Unbelievable. And how do you work up to that? Did one day you just say, okay, let's throw another 25 on each side. Did you do that? Yeah, honestly, yeah. When I did three, 65 before that, I was like, oh, this feels like I'm stopping. Yeah. And I just racked it and we puT4 or five on and I got six out of five. Wow. Oh, he said. You know, and the reason I stress this and why I'm making a big deal about this is because that's why you're so big and dense because you're lifting these heavy weights and you're not just doing one rep with them, you're doing full range motion and you're doing both the bull reps and that's why you're growing and people just don't get it anymore. And I think that's why we don't see physics like yours anymore because no one's willing to do that in the gym and that's scary shit getting under 230 pound dumbbells or putting four or five and pressing over your head because it's not comfortable it hurts and it's dangerous. So people don't do those things. And they can't take selfies while they're doing it. Exactly. Exactly. That's very true. That's why I had someone video it for me. To make bad as worse, you trened in pretty much the most hard-coach in your area, until this gym and that rings the bell when people's minds. It's because I've had to get to those gym owners on the show. They've been fighting the state since this whole COVID thing went down to stay open. They've been fine. They've lost their business license. They've taken the front door off and you've been trening it. I didn't know this. You trened at that gym every single day. Yep. That's awesome. That's got to be a great environment because everyone is so fired up in that place all the time. Oh yeah. It was definitely an experience. That's for sure. Were you there when the cops came? Oh yeah. Was everyone just continue trening and they didn't even give a shit? Everyone kept on their thing. That is awesome. They got released from prison and those were the guys right back there. That's not good. Awesome. Well, it really saved you because you had a, you needed to place the tren and you can't keep that kind of weight in your house. It's one thing to have your own little home gym, but you're not keeping two or three pound dumbbells in your house. So IMean, you really need the gyms to do that. Exactly. Yes. Really, you should be taken to head off to those guys because those guys are just as responsible for you getting that pro-car. Oh, yeah. Me and the owners are really good friends. Yeah. I think they're good guys. So you come into this year's show. What did you actually weigh on stage? So the morning of pre-judging, I believe I was 247. Wow. That's, you're height. People have to remember, you're only five foot seven. Yeah. If you were five eleven, that would be like weighing 280 pounds. Right. Right. That's, because that's what you look like you're on stage. You look like you're 280 on stage. It's crazy. Matter of fact, people were saying when I put up, I put up a picture of you on Instagram, you know, thanking you, congratulating you. People were saying, this guy could have won the New York pro. That's got to be a compliment to you right there, right? It's actually really, it's really cool to hear. It's, it's that's the awesome. It would have been nice if it wasn't on the same weekend, like we would have been the weekend after you should go to California competing next weekend. Yeah. You probably qualify for the Olympia. Probably. Why are you thinking about doing that or are you shutting it down for the year? Oh, no, we're going to do Chicago. Oh, you are. Okay, which is taking place in Atlanta, obviously. They moved it. Yeah, the whole reason why we're doing Chicago and not, Cali. Yeah. We're simply just because, you know, me and Matt had this goal of turning pros since we started, like this was our goal. Yeah. And we just, he wanted me to enjoy it. He wanted me to embrace it and enjoy it a couple of days, where it's. And if we were to do Cali, I wouldn't have had time to really enjoy my, my land, you know, right? Right. Although he wanted me to have that and then start getting ready for Chicago. Are you still mentally strong in the sense that you can keep going for Chicago with that burning out? I plan. If I win Chicago, I'm going to go to the end. Well, yeah, that's an obvious here. Oh, yeah. So I'm, that win just fired me up even more now. No. It's crazy that, you know, and I always say this to people like yourself. It's, there's two types of people. There's the guys to turn pro, but then they have to work to become a good pro. And then there's the guys to turn pro who it took them so long to turn pro that they're already pro material just waiting to happen. So you can go plug yourself right into the pro ranks and do well. You know, how well you do, we won't know until you stand on stage with these other guys, obviously. But you're going to match up well because you got the size, the density, and the conditioning you're ready. And the reason you had that is because you had to work your butt off the last five years to get that. It wasn't like, you know, it wasn't just handed to you, you know, like, because you got lucky at a show, no one showed up. Right. And then like that, or you want to light away class. So you got to feel good knowing that you can go into a pro show and probably do the game and write off the bat. Oh, for sure. And I'm very excited to see how I do for sure. Yeah. I am too. I think it's, you know, we haven't seen a physique like yours in quite a while. And I think that it's, you know, the pro ranks have had a lot of older guys who were kind of running at the top of the game right now. And there's only a couple young guys that are coming up and to see like, like, you Hunter LeBraude and a couple of younger guys that are entering into the pro ranks. It's kind of like we're seeing what the future is going to look like because you guys are going to be the guys doing battle in five or six years from now when all these other guys are already retired because then I get a laugh. Daxa, maybe Daxa will be around. But no one else is going to be around seven years. These other guys that arecompeting now that in their 40s, they're going to be retired. So it's, it's cool to see, you know, upcoming talent. You know, when you, when you won, what was the feedback that any judges come up to you and give you some good feedback? Well, I won, which straight ones. Yeah. And they, they said everything was on point. Just work on my front last bread. Because they said, you know, when you do your back last bread, your rack is really wide. Yeah. So you know, you can hit it from last bed better. So that's, you know, we're going to practice that. We're going to try, we're going to come in, we're going to try and come in a little bigger and better condition as well. And we're just going to practice more stage presentation better. Right. You know, it's funny. But the front last bread pose really shouldn't be called the front last bread pose. I was talking about, and this is why it, it messes people up. Should we call the front last spread relaxed pose? Because that's really what it is. It's relaxing your lats and opening them up because everyone kind of, even Ronnie Coleman ever was able to hit a front last bread. His back was so big, it didn't matter. But he would like, it would always feel like he'd be doing the most muscular hit net last rest. And it locks down your lats and it doesn't allow them to open. But not been expand completely. Dory and H probably has the best front last bread of all time, you know, I think. Yeah, or Joel Stubbs, maybe, who had a great back to. But if you see, it's almost just to relax pose with these guys. It's just basically just opening their lats up. And I think that just comes with experience. I never understood it either. I always, I couldn't, that was my worst pose when I first started. It was my best, one of my best poses when I retired. So that's just comes with experience really, you know. That's great. That's great. I think a lot of people in your corner, he'd like to thank and he's your opportunity, you know, go ahead and thank the people who were in your corner and let us know, like, who was behind the scenes helping you? Yeah, so first I think my family, my mom and dad who have supported me literally since I started my body building career, literally through all the ups, all the downs, all the money that was spent, they never walked away. And never missed show. My mom, my mom loves this shit so much. She thinks she's a judge now. Oh, that's, I love the fact that your parents are into it because my dad was a football baseball guy. He had no idea about body building. He respected my dad, but he didn't really get it. I love that your mother like, fixed the team once a go to the show and yell out the poses to your dad. Oh, right. You should have seen, you should have seen. She thinks she takes all my morning pictures that I sent them to. She looked poker, teak my posing. She's playing out. It looks like shit. Chainsville. It's funny. It's awesome. I want to thank also, my coach, my Matt Jensen, who's, you know, done a lot for me. He's definitely more than just a coach to me at this point. He's definitely family and I cherish every memory we have made and continue to make at this point. And you wrap this company too, right? You're an athlete for him. Yeah, I'm a wrong nutrition athlete and a revive athlete as well. Which is awesome. Excellent. And also, I want to thank my girlfriend as well. She's been very supportive throughout the whole thing. And I always like to say this because it's true. Anyone who knows me knows no relationships like it's with me, Dorm Prep. In fact, that she's here, she's stuck through it. She's a keeper. She's either a gliding for punishment or she's a keeper like you said. Yeah, she's, you make it through a prep with me, you're a keeper. Are you a, are you a, are you a pain in the S? IMean, I used to get really grumped. I'm a pain in the S. Yes. Oh, I didn't get a gallery in the bath, y'all. And yeah. Yeah. I get pretty cranky at times. Yeah. Yeah. And overall, just everyone has supports me. I'm just very thankful for it all. And it's, it's just very humbling. I enjoy every moment of it. Yeah, well, revel in the victory doesn't last long, but you know what? What's good for you is you don't have to wait. Well, next year is you're going to be competing in a few weeks at the Chicago Pro where hopefully, you know, God willing, you win the show and you go to the Olympia and make that even more exciting. So I wanted to give you a huge congratulations. Once again, very impressive victory. You have a great physique and a great future ahead of you. And I hope you, you know, you go very far in the sport. If I was a betting man, I would put my money on you to go all the way. Thank you. I appreciate that. All right, guys, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo for Nick Walker. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: BRAD ROWE HANGS IT UP! [nsVt-mrd1bs].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Thursday, August 13th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Last weeks from now, there might be a lot of New England Patriot fans crying themselves to sleep every night, because they're still in the early stages of Tom Brady post-barm depression. But luckily for Pat's fans, they still have the Boston Pro to look forward to, especially now that Regan Grimes is throwinGHis hat into the ring. We've only a month and a half to go before he makes his season debut, the next two or three weeks are critical, because these are the moments that separate the contenders from the pretenders, but for a guy with Regan's pedigree, backtracking should never be an option. As the great general, Pat and would say, there's only one thing to do, go forward. So if he keeps marching ahead and puts one front in front of the other, I see him as being a front runner to brinGHome the win. I'm going to rough road for college football fans between the big 10 coming out and canceling their season, and prime time players like Trevor Lawrence, publicly going to war with one of the most powerful institutions in America. All in all, it's been a rough ride for just about everyone involved. So if all the crazy this has you looking for a stable force to attach your anchor to, Rafa Brandeo may be your number one option. Since he's been back home in Brazil, Rafa has been like a man on a mission, which is exactly what you want when you're looking for someone, tried and true. Looking back home in his natural element seems like it's a shhhad, rejuvenating, on Rafa. And when you have a guy with this type of talent operating inside his comfort zone, it really means trouble for anyone brave enough to stand in his way. During a conversation with the president, a former White House staffer was quoted as saying, Mr. President, every great man can be defined in one sentence, what your sentence is going to be? Fred, Elas Santiago, that sentence might end up going something like this. By our second season as an IFVV pro, she'd already established herself as the most dominant bikini athlete Brazil has ever produced. Even though she only had a handful of shows under her belt, a Tila's already built up a really impressive resume by collecting a handful of wins, placing eighth in her Olympia debut and fifth in the Arnold back in March. She's gotten better every time we've seen her. So if she keeps trening upward, there are only a few spots left to climb on the ladder. And finally, I want to end today's show by sending out a very happy trails to my long time Fred Brad Grove, who announced on Monday that he was hanging up the posing trunks for a good and heading into retirement. For the better part of the last decade, Brad's been a fixture on the bodygling scene, competing in dozens of pro and amateur events, including a trip to the Olympia back in 2015. But for his good, as a representative, that Brad was on the stage, he probably was an even better ambassador for the sport away from it, where he's been featured in dozens of TV commercials and various public projects. Brad, it was a fun ride while last, and I hope that whatever is waiting for you on your next chapter is even better than the last. And that does it if you had another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On day, Pellumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: BRANDON CURRY & WILLIAM BONAC 11 WEEKS OUT! ｜ Muscle in the Morning (10⧸6⧸20) [b0XpxGGK5o0].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low-car pot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Morning, I'm Dave Polonvo and today is Tuesday, October 6th, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. There's something to be said for people who recognize when it's their time to step up and seize the moment. And so far this year, Boluos has been giving out lessons on how to recognize when it's your time. If you think back to the beginning of the restart a few months ago when everything was still in flux, that was when it felt like Bol really started to gain some momentum. Fast forward to him dominating from wire to wire at the New York Pro and now all of a sudden he's heading into his first Olympia with people talking about him as a legitimate threat to crack the top six and that's all it takes. One time for one person to recognize their window of opportunity exactly like he did at the end of the summer and now that his moment is finally here, it's only left for him to do is finish the job. Last night I was reading before I went to bed and I highlighted this quote that I want to share with you. This comfort is the precursor to action and I thought it was deep and powerful and true in a lot of ways. This morning I also thought it might explain how Amara's canani is feeling too. Yesterday I saw a clip of Amad trening back in oxygen gym that made me stop and say to myself oh, the old Amad is finally back. It made me think that whatever this new surge of energy is might have come from a place of discomfort and it might be why he's pushing so hard to get back to the top because if you stay in discomfort for long enough at some point the universe always calls you to move. One of the things that makes champions who they are is the ability to step up and deliver trenscendent performances when it matters most. When all the chips are on the table and the lights are at their brightest they're the ones who step up and embrace the moment, just like Brandon Curry is doing right now. After being a radio silent for most of the season all of a sudden Brandon's popping up all over the place looking like the trenscendent athlete that he is. For the first time in history the Mr. Olympia will have four current and former champions all competing for a slice of the same pie and all the signs are pointing to Brandon beinGHungry enough to take the whole damn thing. I think it was the great Winston Churchill who said those who fail to learn history are doomed to repeat it. But by now we know William Bowenack is a student of the game and if there's one thinGHe doesn't want to do this time around it's have a repeat runner up performance. Late last week William stepped out of his social media bunker to post a new photo of himself hitting a back double bicep pose where you can see some of the improvements he's made in the offseason started to come together. Even for someone who's been as good as William has these last few years this 2020 line of feels like a completely different animal at the top that being said William the conquerors never been wanted to back down from a challenge and I wouldn't expect anything to change anytime soon. And that does it the added another edition of Muscle in the morning. Undead the limbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: BRANDON CURRY 6 WEEKS OUT! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸2⧸18) [frPlLFEzZ_8].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Volongo and today is Thursday, August 2nd, 2018. I'm going to find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Hey, you remember that story about the big, bad wolf? Well, I think Brandon Curry might be about the huff and puff and blow some houses down. This week, Team Curry released some new updates from Deep Inside the Heart of Oxygen Gym, where they gave their fans a quick look at some of the work they've been doing out there for the last two and a half months or so. By his own account, Curry says that he's feeling pretty good about where he's sitting right now at this point in his prep. So now that the finish line is almost in sight, let's see what sort of tricks they have up their sleeves as we head down the home stretch. Over you get, the more you can start to appreciate the old saying, don't count the days, make the days count. And with less than 50 days to go until she makes her annual pilgrimage out to the Olympia stage, fitness icon, Riled Raver, looks like she's making all of her days count right now. The five time IFBB Pro winner was spotted cranking out some high volume leg day action earlier this week. Actually, takes another step closer to puttinGHerself in the running to become the 2018 Miss Fitness Olympia champ. I know a lot of people who think, oh 100% Riled Raver is pound for pound, one of the best in the business. So if you can brinGHer any game to the big stage in September, look out for her to be right there in the thick of things. Once the pre-judging starts to get rolling. This weird world of social media that we live in, it's hard to find athletes who aren't into the whole, well look at me here I am, mentality. But after falling this career from behind the scenes for the last few years, I can safely say that Rashid Al-Draker is one of the rare few. This week we got our hands on some trening video of the reclusive former NPC USA champ who's only days away now from making a surprise appearance down at the Tampa Pro. Old Raker is one of those guys who almost shocks you with how crazy Density is when you see him in person. If there's one guy who could be a potential door course in this lineup, it's definitely him. Never have one of those friends who every time you went out always seems like he was ready to end the night with a bar fight. Well, a key William seems like he's one of those dudes who's down to fight the bar every single time he steps into the gym. Tuesday morning the BK beast stepped into the gym to give the bar a beat down with another crazy leg workout as once again he somehow manages to crush seven place for reps like nobody's business. When you look at the way he trens in comparison to so much of what we see nowadays a team really is that throw back to another generation of athlete. But when you keep getting better a year after a year and show after show the way he does, you don't have to worry about a whole lot of people out there trying to question your methods. As the old proverb once wisely stated, always be aware of the sleeping giant. And unfortunately for men's physique division it's starting to look like Andre Ferguson is starting to peak his eyes open. After taking some time off to regroup from his blazing start to the season, the number one challenger to the men's physique division announced this week that he was about to officially drop the hammer heading into the last phase of his Olympia prep. When you look at what he's done over the last year or so, I don't think there should be any doubt in anyone's mind about just how dangerous this guy is when he's at his best. But when you start to factor in that he's one of those irrationally confident guys that believes he's good enough to do anything. Well now all of a sudden he becomes a whole lot more dangerous. And that does if he had another addition of muscle in the morning. On day full on bow, reminding you to always be true to your passion and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: BRANDON CURRY 8 WEEKS OUT! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸20⧸18) [rPSvc5ilmX4].txt ===

And PIPpe Paray is the week in here at Muscle in the Morning. And I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Friday, July 20th, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. As we mentioned on yesterday's show, last week in Juliena, Malacarney officially pulled out of the 2018 Olympia. And according to reports, Malacarney has stated that this is by no means a retirement from competition at this point in time. It's simply a long overdue mental and physical break from the grind of competing at the highest level for almost a decade. What this means for the future of the women's physique division moving forward probably means that we're looking at a decade of Sheneet Grant and the value of play-low going toe-to-toe, a frasier style for a title that's only changed hands twice since the start of the division. And now that we're going to have two vacant titles and a looming flex-loose retirement in the two-to-toe division, all of a sudden, the new era of bodybuilding looks like it might be here sooner than we might have all expected. One of the things you hear from people who age well is that they never stop trying to find new ways to push outside of their comfort zone. And as far as I can tell, two-toe legend, Jose Rame, and is anything but comfortable right now. Recently, the Boston Mass dropped a short clip from one of his recent leg trening sessions where we see the 20-year veteran hammering out a few PRs that would have made the great Ronnie Coleman smile. By all accounts, Jose is right on track to come back and being contentioned for the title again this year and a field that seems like it's got awfully top heavy all of a sudden. But even with some of these young guys, nipping in his heels, it'd be shows up at 100% it's hard not to think that he won't be standing next to Flex Lewis trying to get everythinGHe can handled in hopes of winning the title. Here's a saying in sports that goes something to the effect of young teams don't win championships. So I guess it probably works out in her favor than that long-time fitness that mini capes has a few rounds under her belt. This week capes and her team released a few clips from their pre-show prep to give her fans a sneak peek at what she's doing to work out the kinks in this year's routine. For the better part of the last decade, capes has been a perennial top five athlete in the fitness division. With so much riding on this year's contest, you can't help but think that this is a now or never sort of momentous for us, title hopes are concerned. So if we can get one of those vintage mini capes, Las Vegas spectacular, I think she has a good chance as anyone to be crowned the next Miss Fitness Olympia. Back when I was growing up in New York, a few of us would get together and play cards and one of my friends basements on the weekends. And I always hated when people would start calling out wild cards, because it changed the dynamic of the entire game. And when you try to survey the table of this year's 212 Olympia, one of the biggest wild cards I see has got to be 2018 New Zealand pro winner, Dr. Farghar Fadazad. Dr. Far essentially dropped out of the sky to win that show and then turned around one week later to give some of the best athletes in the division, all they can handle with this top 10 finish at the Arnold Orstralia. Since early March, all we've seen is a trail of spicy bread crumbs coming from Dr. Far and his team. But based on this little bit that we've seen, this guy could be bad for business if you're a potential top 10 finisher. Whether or not he could pull the genie back out of the bottle again for the Olympia, is still anyone's guest right now. But I can't say that it'd be shocked if two months from now he ends up finishinGHis season as one of the top 10 rank athletes in the division. Do you remember that old Super Mario game in Nintendo? Were you guys with double in size F-U-8, one of those magic mushrooms? Well, I'm starting to think that might be a lot closer to reality, and we all think based on what we've seen from Brandon Curry over these last few weeks. Once again, the Tennessee native is hunkered down at Oxygen Gym in Kuwait for this year's Olympia prep, where he and the camel crew seem to be brewing up some of that magic mushroom voodoo once again. Last year, Curry made himself one of the tag story lines heading into the weekend because we also saw what he was capable of at his New Zealand pro and Arnold Australian wins without having those two trial runs to work out all the little tanks. It does make you wonder whether or not they can pull off that same sort of Vegas Super size me routine again. September. And that does the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Dave Alumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: BRANDON CURRY SNEAK PEAK! [dE2NTgb0SFw].txt ===

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. We love to show this is our best place to be in LA. We love to show this is our best place to be in LA. We love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. On day polimbo and today is Wednesday, July 28th, 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, we are back in better than ever with another brand new edition of Recap Wednesday coming your way. And as you might have guessed, we're kicking the show off today with a recap of the Chicago Pro. Starting with the men's bodybuilding open where Hunter LeBrona came in and took care of business. Again, one of the best lineups that we've seen all year long, to clinch a trip back to the Olympia stage. As I'm sure you've heard by now, and the two 12 division was all about Key on Pearson, as you took home the crown for the second year in a row, and confirmed his place as a top tier title contender. In classic physique, Darwin, Eurebe, captioned the attention of everyone in the division as he put together an amazing look on the way to earninGHis first win of his career. And in men's physique once again, Ramsey's Rams came in and took care of business as he continued to build on his career year. On the women's side of things, she and all, like spectacular on our way to earning top honors in women's bodybuilding and in women's physique, the best version of Pat Gosling that we've ever seen came out and dominated from wire to wire as she punched her ticket back to the Olympia stage. In figure, Julia Waring looked phenomenal on the way to collecting the win for the show for her second time in her career. So congratulations for a great effort. Laura Leishopados was absolutely light out in the Keene as she crews to a big time win in her season debut and a strong effort from Sarah Kobak, brought home the title and fitness. And finally, we're wrapping up our coverage year with the wellness division where Cassandra Gillis became the latest athlete to punch her ticket to the inaugural Olympia ceremonies after her big victory. The deck's event on the schedule took place up in the steel city, which once again welcomed in a long list of athletes for this year's Pittsburgh Pro Masters, where we're going to run through a few of the highlights here starting with Patricia Lloyd, who is the winner in the 35 and 45 plus Keene, and figure eat of the driver managed to pull off the trifector winning the 3540 and 45 titles, which is something you don't see all that often. So congratulations. Lenore Greggson did a little bit of double dipping in her own right as she collected wins in the 35 and 45 women's physique, and in the 40 plus women's bodybuilding when the Sanchez scored straight first across the board to collect her first win ever pro career. On the men's side of things we're starting off with the 50 plus bodybuilding, we're a familiar face in Milton Martinez managed to slide in and snaGHis first pro win, and we're wrapping up our coverage here with the men's physique division where the ageless wonder Michael Ferguson pulled up the second trifector of the weekend, as he swept up the titles in the 3540 and 45 classes. Recap of the day comes from the first annual Janna Roe to our pro, which is a figure only event put on by the muscle contest crew out there in Anaheim, California. When it was all set in done, Brazil's Michelle Silva, Pinto, ended up as the last woman standing, which helped her secure her well deserved. The Olivia qualification for the first time in a career, second place went to the familiar face in the career in a bra who looked great in her season debut. She'll ace a shoemaker, continue the strong start to her season with another solid top three effort here as she managed to hold off a solid fourth place effort from Rahil Kushea. And rounding out the top five was none other than veteran Kim Clark. And finally, we're closing out the show today with this brand new update from your 2019 Mr. Olympia champ branding curry. After keepinGHimself under wraps for the last few weeks on Monday, Brandon decided to give his fans a sneak peek at what he's been working on for the last few weeks since he made the move back out to oxygen gym. And I guess the big takeaway here would be that Brandon looks a whole lot like someone who has every intention of winninGHis title back. Obviously, we all know that when Brandon is at his best, he's capable of beating everyone else in the lineup, including our current champ, Big Rami. So he and the Campbell crew can cook up something special this year as a strong possibility that we could see history happen again as the Olympia title changed hands for the fourth straight year. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Deep. I'm Bobo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: BRANDON CURRY'S ROAD TO THE OLYMPIA STARTS NOW! [c2M8btGJAbM].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car capped hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Polonvo and today is Monday, September 21st, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. To quote legendary author Jim Rohn, success leaves clues, so I'll leave it to you guys to follow the breadcrumbs that James Hollingshead has been sprinkling around lately. According to reports, James is waking up in the morning somewhere in the neighborhood of 278 pounds, and his team says they believe it will be in the striking distance within the next two weeks. As of today, James is a little more than three weeks out from the Europa Championships in Spain, which means that he should be able to coast into the final week of his prep. So if he does end up grabbing one of the lasT3 remaining Olympia qualifications, I don't think anyone will be able to say that they didn't see it coming. 2020 has been a weird and exciting year for a lot of different reasons between the starts and the stops and the retirement and the returns. There have been a lot of different storylines to follow, and that's in addition to the fact that we're also trying to kickstart the wellness division. But if there was ever a person who can inject a little bit of excitement into wellness, your Rishna Ayala would be the woman for the job. Over the weekend, we heard a rumor that your Rishna and her team were having candid conversations about her taking a run at the wellness division, which seems like was tailor made for an athlete like her. It might not be hard to remember now, but a few years ago, your Rishna was knocking on the door of winning pro shows in the IFB Vicki division. So the fact that she can slide into a division like wellness that lets her body do what it already wants to do naturally, could be trouble for anyone who's unlucky enough to run into her when she's firing on all cylinders. Not to make this a political discussion, but recently it came to my attention that there are some people who may not be too enthusiastic about voting for either one of the major party nominees for president in November. Now, luckily for us, we do live in a democratic nation, which means that when you go for voting, you have an option to write in the candidate on your ballot. And I think if we get the hashtag at Curie 2020 going right now, there might be an outside chance for branding Curie to make a last minute push for the White House. If you guys ago, it's our picture of Brandon standing in front of the magic mirror where he looked the part of someone who might be ready to lead a revolution. So if the US really is the land of opportunity where anything in everything is possible, who's to say that Brandon can't be the 15th winner of the Mr. Olympia title and the 46th president of the United States. In basketball, there's a stat line called the triple double, which is when an athlete has double digits statistics in three different categories like points, rebounds and assists. But since double digit scoring and bodybuilding is actually a bad thing, I'm pointing a new term, the triple single. It's when an athlete places first with all ones across the board in three straight major competitions, or as they call it in bikini, the esipissini special, even though she's heading into her first Olympia title defense, when you take into account her flawless win at the international. It puts esit in line to join Ashley caught washer and Angelica Tashara as the only other woman in the history of the division, the pull off the newly patented RX muscle triple single special. So you know, all she does is repeat what we saw in her last two outings, that triple single is basically a lock. And that does it the end another edition of muscle in the morning on day pull up, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: BRANDON REGIER： HOCKEY PROSPECT TURNED IFBB PRO! [1nburZr9UvY].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by species nutrition visits speciesutrition.com. On the Palombeau, and today's guest is our newest IFB pro all the way from Vancouver, Canada, Brandon, Reggie, and welcome. Hey Dave, thanks for having me. I love the suit. You know, I love the little tie and then the vest. Where are you going? Well, this is a job interview, isn't it? That's right. You're right. Except you got to come dressed in opposing trunks if you want to job with us. Yeah, I'm a fancial advisor at one of the Canadian banks here. That's awesome. A real job. I like it. Not many bodies. It's a good career. So I had to ask you at home here to do this interview with you. My friend is like hard-cruc, you know, I work with him. I do his diet with him. And this past week and when he was doing the Vancouver pro, I'm show up there. He's like, you know, I'm driving to go way in and I'm going to drive back. It's like an hour and a half each way. I'm like, what are you doing? Did you get to stay in the hotel? You did. You drove back and forth. Then you went back for the show and then you left at the night show. We were texting like it was like three in the morning by me because you guys are three hours behind you. Is it going to drive in home now? I'm like, yo, no kids going to accident. It was almost to that point, Dave. I was getting a little concerned there after being up for, you know, 24 hours straight. I almost had to pull over my wife drive. But we made it. We made it. Okay. Was it was only about 40 minutes at night. Oh, what's up? You bad. Yeah, you're hard-cruc. That's real. That's real blue collar. We like to call that, you know, tight. Yeah, that's a bad thing. But you pulled it off. You got the pro card. IMean, it's great. You know, Canada was so hard to get pro cards in the past because they had like two pro cards you can get every year. Now with the opening up of the, I guess the I could be splitting and you have the pro league now going with the new Canadian alliance there. You kind of have a lot more opportunities to turn pro there, which is great. There's a lot of great bodybuilders. You pick the right show and we nailed it on the head and now you're in the I. F.B. Pro ranks my friend. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, no, it's pretty well. Yeah, no, it's pretty much I guess now we have, I guess it's I.B. Pro League. There's still only two shows a year that you can get it. It's only one card per per division. So it's still not too much easier. It's only about one extra show. I think that really. So what shows are they're in Canada now? Just a Toronto pro and then the Vancouver pro. So there's no nationals anymore. Well, there is a nationals apparently. No one really knows anything about it anymore because it's the differently. Great. Okay, so they're not associated with the new league. No, I don't think so. I don't think so. We're all around on some. So I've ever been ever in switched over to the CPA. They call it the Canadian physique alliance or call it and that's the one that gets you to the Toronto and Vancouver pro. Right. And those get you the IFBB pro card. So you can compete in the real IFBB pro league, which you know, you're pro and Arnold and they limp you. Exactly. Exactly. Well, do you pick the right show then that's good. Absolutely. Yeah, it was huge. You know, the funny thing is that I've lately the last couple of years, the talent pool it's been coming out of Canada has been unbelievable. I think it's wave. I don't want to insult my American compatriots here, but I think you guys are blowing away the American talent in the, and especially the East Coast there. They seem to have all the talent there. The Ontario guys. But there's a few of us doing the thing around here and here and here and here. It's nice that you guys have a pro qualifier over there and Vancouver. A lot of people don't know the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the Hoover's like California and like Toronto's like New York with you trying to relate to Canada. So yeah. Yeah, what's relatively new to you. So it's still, it's still got some time to grow for sure. The brand of you have a good story because I didn't, I didn't notice till before the interview, but you know, even though we worked out, you were a hockey prodigy. You came from a hockey family, which is not surprising seeing that you're living Canada. Tell us a little bit about that. Yeah. So I grew up as the youngest of four brothers. So my father and, you know, my uncle's ever unplayed hockey. Uh, so that was, you know, the family we were born into. I started playing when I was abouT4 years old. Wow. Um, played very competitively through through my childhood. Um, when I was 15 years old, I was first round draft pick to the W.H.L. And at that point, you know, as him and Han, if that was when I went to Duranot, I always had, you know, passion for pursuing my education and going that route. Um, and then I saw my older brother play the W.H.L. And, you know, he messed up a schooling and everything like that. I was having to go redo high school courses just to get him to have these university. My objective was to get into the best business school in the country, which I did. I went up going to a starter school of business at UBC. And that was after he died. Give it up the hockey career and decided to pursue my education. You know, at a, at a 15, it's crazy that you can actually leave school and go play, you know, professional hockey. IMean, that's only a candidate that you, like you get away with that. Well, that's the thing. Well, they still put you in school, but you're, you know, they ship you off to wherever you got drafted. So you're, you know, it's a big decision as a 15 year old because you're a kid, right? So, you know, at that time, I was thinking about, you know, girls and parties and, you know, hockey wasn't a huge passion of mine. So that's when I had to really dig down and think about what I want to do. And, you know, sure I could have followed it for a bit, but I knew deep down that. If I wanted to play an age L, which I could have, you know, I definitely needed a lot more heart for the game than I did. So we, we discussed this early. You get burnt out sometimes when you, when you start things too early and that's all you do is a kid. But I now understand now why the Canadian hockey players are so damn good because it's like, that's what they ingrained in your blood almost from when the minute you're born. It's for sure. The fans on the way to part of the country, but yeah, no for sure. It's definitely a huge, a huge part of most people's families for sure. So did you feel at some point, you know, that you missed being a elite level athlete? Is that how you got into working out in bodybuilding? No, I've always been, I've always had a fascination with bodybuilding and it wasn't, you know, it didn't really, I didn't really become educated on actual bodybuilding until I was probably in university. But yeah, no, definitely having that, that competitive aspect to life is always something that I've always enjoyed for sure, whether it was in hockey or in school or now bodybuilding. That's definitely something that obviously thrive off of. I don't like to be sit around and be bored all day. I'm sure. Sure. Who does that mean? But the bottom line is that, you know, you did have a drive to do something. Bodybuilding is not an easy sport by any means. It's not like some of you, it's probably harder than hockey in a sense, although it's way. It's way more. Hockey just show up for your hour practice. You times a week and you're two hour game a couple times a week and that was it, right? Bodybuilding, you don't have a second to spare without thinking about it, right? Yeah. Is the new general, IMean, you're only 26 years old. Is the new generation of hockey players? Is it still as dangerous? IMean, in terms of fights, losing teeth and all that stuff? Yeah, I'm not a softy, I don't think anything's really that dangerous when you're talking about sports, but you know, I was certainly an enforcer and when I played junior for a minute there, I was a little bit of a fighter. Oh, you were. But yeah, no, I don't, I've heard they've pushed, IMean, I don't keep up with it a whole lot anymore. It's kind of, I'm kind of out of the hockey realm. I'm definitely fully consumed in the bodybuilding industry. I've, from what I've understood is at the younger ages, I've actually pushed back contact sport, the contact portion of the sport until later years, which is, you know, I'm pretty sure it's like 12 or 13 where you'd be for your lots of certain hitting guys, which is just outrageous to me because, you know, then also in your 15 years old and you only got a couple years and your belt of contact being in the sport with contact that you, you know, you're not quite ready for it. So I don't know, I think the world's getting pretty soft. So they're pushing things back. What's the difference between like a street fight and a hockey fight? Are there different rules or are there different, different methodologies you use? They'rEQuite a bit different. Yeah, no hockey fights just squaring up and usually one guy's going to go for your jersey right away and then you start feeding punches, right? There's no real. There's not a whole lot of skill involved with no stocking fights. You can tell when a guy knows how to fight because then he'll dodge a couple punches and just clock you once or whatever and then you get you good, you know, with me, I never, I was able to get him to get him fights and never get hit. That's good. Worked out well for me, but I never really had, you know, everything just happened so fast and ever had too much time to think as much as I probably should have, but it'll always pan out for me. Yeah, you know, with all that equipment on, can you actually get hurt? IMean, with the fights. IMean, I've, I've definitely, definitely heard some guys before. I, you know, there's lots of ways you can block punches. IMean, you got your shoulder pads on, you can throw your shoulder, I've been deflected the punches and stuff, right? And then in junior and stuff, they started preventing you from taking out, allowing you to take your helmet off before you fight to you. But really, the helmet just messes up your hand more. Right. Right. Interesting. All the things you learn about hockey fights, who would have been, maybe a broken nose or broken jaw here and there, but that's what I think. Look, you're an IPv pro 26 is on now. You're young. You got you a big future. How do you, is this something that you want to pursue like as a full-time position, where you see yourself competing in the upper echelons of the IPv or is it still, so on the hobby level for you? Well, it's, you know, it's tough to, it's tough to put it until full-time retrospective, just because I have such a young family. And you know, I have to, they're, they depend on me for support and I have to support them financially. So, you know, it's, it's a definitely a risk if I were to pursue it full-time because, you know, in reality, competing in the IPv doesn't really make you any money. It's the things that you do, you know, all the side of the competitions that make you all the money that, you know, the social media now and all that stuff, the huge gameplay are getting the endorsements and the sponsorships competing itself doesn't really actually pay you anything. And, you know, I'm fortunate enough I have the ability to do juggable right now, so I will, you know, take it as far as they can while juggling both. Well, IMean, let's say a supplement company came along and they wanted to back you and they wanted to give you some money and, and, and, and, and, and, and able to pay your expenses and, and, and body both full-time. That's something that you want to do. I, and the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, sometimes with the coaching love that. Yeah, absolutely. Like, I'm sure everyone can agree. Everyone who's in the industry can agree that that's like a dream come true if if someone can fully support you financially, IMean, it would have to be enough. Right. Where I would be able to, you know, sacrifice the business out of bills for that. So, IMean, if it did come along and that it did take off like that, then who wouldn't take that on my opinion. What have the challenges getting ready for body-building competition while you're working a full-time job and you have two young kids, you know, 10 months and, and two years old. Uh, I'd say the only challenge really is having them, the kids being so young. Um, you know, you get a little agitated a little bit easier when the, the, the young guy squawk and at you for, for whatever reason. Um, but luckily I have my wife who who's very good. She's a full-time mom. So she, uh, she does a very good job of making sure that and that side of things are looked after and so I can, you know, focus on work and and body-building, everything like that. But it did, you know, it's funny. Dave, because we, we live up my wife and I live a lifestyle that's, you know, lines up perfectly with, uh, preparing for competitions and everything anyways. So we have the ability. Just our, we're very structured in our lives. How do we have ability to, you know, I've the ability to step my alarm for 5 a.m. When most bankers sleep till 8. Right. Right. So I get up at 5 and, you know, I'm able to do an hour cardio and make breakfast and do all my things in the morning and it'd be to work, be at work by eight. Right. Um, and that I, you know, I pack all my food and my wife helps prepare all my meals. Um, and then, you know, come home, bring the kids, the gym together. They have bigger in the gym, right? So, and my wife, my wife just is into fitness and health and everything is I. I'm so, she doesn't compete or anything, but, um, she, she looks like she competes. Right. Um, but yeah, no, it just, it works out. We didn't have, I didn't honestly have too many battles with it. You know, other than other than the odd day here and there where you, you feel around down. Everything's pretty much, kosher. Have you thought about what you want to do as your, uh, protege you? Well, you know, and just folks aren't taking the summer off. I haven't really made any set plans, but, you know, the easiest thing given my current situation would be to do that. Yeah, it's good to say. That would make the most sense. Uh, you could drive there again. Exactly. Yes. So, you know, having to have in the young kids and stuff and, you know, having to travel with them is really a lot. It's real pain in the ass. Oh, I tell them. I know. It's not the finest thing in the world. So, it's definitely even, you know, even going to the old can organ was tough to, right? Sure. Have it to, you know, we stayed at luckily stayed in my cousin's place, but I was still driving back and forth from Vernon to Klon, which is about 45 minutes. Wow. Um, and, you know, the wife's not always in the greatest mood when I'm gone all day in the kids are being pain and hurt by it. I know all about it. So, so. So, so, so, so, no, that would definitely be the simplest route would be to do back. We were in action. And, you know, I do need a bit of a rest. So, we, we have a lot of things planned to summer with the family. So, we're going to take some good, aren't I? And, uh, relax for the summer and then back to dry and ward in the fall. Oh, I just wanted to let you know that I'm very proud of what you accomplished in, you know, at the young six years of age to have that IFBB pro-cardin hand in the world by the, uh, the Kahone, so to speak. I just want to wish you the best of luck this coming summer. And, uh, obviously, I'll be in a lot more touch with you than everyone else will, but we'll keep everyone updated as to what's coming up for you next year. And, uh, hopefully we'll see you up on that Vancouver stage. And, maybe, maybe don't give you a free hotel room this year. Yeah, sure. And that's the very same thing. Yeah, sure. You're the hometown guy, man. Come on. Support the hometown and the body knows. Right? Yeah, maybe I don't know after my trophy. I got there. I don't think they're throwing out dollars like they should be. Yeah. What's the price money for the men's open there? Oh, I don't even know. I'm trying to figure out what they got. I know it was pretty decent. I thought it was a really, really, really, 10 or 20,000. I'm thinking that much. That would be nice. That would be, uh, you can figure out how to invest that properly since you're an investment like, right? Shelter, it's from tackle. Well, that's, well, that's pennies on the grand scheme of things. I know. I know. I know. Believe me. I have kids. I know exactly what you're talking about. Well, once again, congratulations on the big win, Brandon, and, uh, and good luck to you. For sure. Thanks, like it. All right. Kind of another episode of live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo, and we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: BREON ANSLEY 5 WEEKS OUT! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸10⧸18) [OyyhwjjLYgk].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Deep Belumbo and today is Friday August 10, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. After thEQuahit Lantern trade shook up the entire San Antonio Sports scene a few weeks ago, things have been relatively quiet around the Alamo City. But this weekend, Classic Physicist standout Nick Cavalero will be hoping to change all of that. As of today, the Mile High on Muscle product is less than 24 hours away from makinGHis bro debut right there in the heart of Texas at this year's San Antonio Pro. We're he and his team are planning to come out and bring some major heat. According to Cavalero, he's bringing 15 pounds of new muscle and the best conditioning of his career to the stage this weekend. And all you have to do is take one look at the photos to know that this kid isn't messing around. This lineup in San Antonio is definitely wide open at this point. So I wouldn't put it past someone like Camelero to step up and get after it while the getting is still good. If you've been paying attention to some of these box scores in the men's physique division over the last few weeks, then I don't have to tell you that things had been getting pretty weird lately. But when you're already a three-time Olympian, like better and heavy hit or Joseph Lee, I guess you don't let small stuff get you off track. Earlier this week, League and his team released a few new updates that point to all systems being a go right now. If you look at the lucky bro to win, the Salt Lake City showdown earlier this year, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that this guy is in a great competitive space right now. And as long as he can stay the course, he has a legitimate shot at cracking the top five and Vegas assuminGHe's in his very best. Sometimes in life, I've come to realize that it isn't so much what you're willing to do that pushes you to be great. It's more about what you're unwilling to settle for that forces you to keep going. And this year it seems like second year star in the making, Justin Rodriguez wasn't willing to settle for anything less than Olympia birth. A few days after he put together a strong top five finish at the Tampa Pro, Jayrod got a nearly Christmas present when he found that. He officially plunged his ticket to the this year's Olympia stage. He'll get the chance to stand up there with the best athletes in the business on the sports biggest stage. Even though it's been a wild season in the media for him up to this point, there's no denying that this guy is in a pre-in talent when he's on top of his game. And now that he'll have an opportunity to show the world exactly who he is, I'm a 100% certain that we'll see the best Justin Rodriguez ever step out there on to the Olympia stage. Other than the fact that you can find on the map somewhere down there in South America, I can tell you very little about the country of power wide. But I can tell you that one of the best pro League athletes that ever come out of the country, Herina Gra is on her way back to the Olympia stage. The five time IFVV Pro winner is less than two months away from makinGHer fifth trip to the Olympia stage where she'll look to finally break out of the Sin City slump. It's been hauntinGHer every time she's made the long trek out of the Orleens Arena. To her credit, Rao is one of the athletes who always likes to let her performances do the talking. And I'm sure you can pull off a top 10 finish in this insane lineup. It'll speak volumes about what she was willing to do to finally get over the hump. Psychologists will tell you that if you just stand in the mirror and smile at yourself like a crazy person for five minutes every day, it can literally change the way you think and help your depression. And when you look as good as Breonna Ansley does right now, you don't have to force a whole lot of smiles. The rating and defending classic physique Olympia champ looks like he's ready to smile as way all the way back to the granddaddy of Amol six weeks from now where the smart money says that he should be still coming in as a heavy favorite. This when you wake up every day, doing what you love and knowing you're the best in the world like this guy does, you've got plenty to smile about. What if he becomes the first athlete ever to go back to back this year? I can promise you that his 1000 watt smile will end up being one of the lasting images to come out of this Olivia weekend. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day full of old reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followers and things put Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: BREON ANSLEY ON FIRE! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸25⧸18) [B3BvfT6gTv8].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Dave Palombo and today is Wednesday July 25th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, children of all ages, welcome back to an other brand-spanking new editianavar XMuscle.com's Recap Wednesday. Let's jump right into last weekend's action all the way over. The Atlantic Ocean in Betiformme Spain where we had the first annual IFBB Bigman Weekend Championships. Big story here was the wind in the men's open by Canadian Hulk in Valier, who showed up looking like something straight out of a comic book to earn the wind insecure his first career Olivia qualification. The second was Slovakian nightmare, Igor Ilyis, who certainly played the role of Dark Horse in this lineup and impressed a lot of people in the process and ran the out the top three with the best overall performance of his career was our old friend Roman Fritz. Overall the bikini side Hungarian bombshell Diana Solomon brought home the top spot as she managed to edge out surging UK standout BB Hagen, who was forced to settle for second and closing out the top three on the pro side was homegrown Spanish knockout, Fristobalena Poharis. On the west coast and beautiful Riddondo Beach we had some of the best talents in the figure division show up and show out for this year's edition of the LA Championships. In the open division first place went to Red Hot Brazilian import Michelle Pinto, who was flat out awesome in her first win in the year. The runner-up position went to third year standout Melissa Bumsted, who continues to impress week after week with what she brings to the table and finishing third was better in this asset Julie Mayer. In the master's division it came down to a photo finished between Osiris Trump, who was confirmed not to be a Russian spy in case anyone was wondering and Tanya wheatfall. With Trump managing to get the nod when it was all set and done and wrapping up the top three at this year's event was Australian standout Stacey Steiner. Last weekend, Sidney got pounded with a heat wave of biblical proportions, but I'm sure the fact that some of the best men's physique and pro bikini competitors in the business were all out there turning up the heat at the Battle of the Desert probably made things a whole lot warmer. In the men's physique division it was a surging Anthony Woods who managed to find himself as the last man standing in a line up that turned out to be deeper than we expected. BringinGHome the runner-up spot was the always dangerous long loop, but might have been it as all time best and closing out the top three with second year man Daniel Amaz. The big story here came from the bikini side of things however where Ashley Colt Wasser continued her relentless assault on the division by obliterating the field on the way to yet another huge win. Second place went to Sid City Zone, Francesco Lauren, who's been sneaky good so far this year if you haven't been paying attention and finishing in third in another spectacular post-baby effort was the incomparable in Napolino. Have you ever seen that picture of a monk on fire where they talk about the power of the human mind to believe in something so intensely that it can trenscend its current reality? Well I'm starting to think that reigning classic physique Olympia champ, Breon Anzly might be getting that same sort of place mentally. The latest updates coming from Anzly and his team look a whole lot like a guy who has no intentions of letting anything or anyone knock him off the path right now and that path is pointed directly up to coming the first man in history to win back to back classic Olympia titles. And with the amount of talent in the division I don't think you can discount the fact that this guy is provinGHimself more than capable of being great when the situation calls for it. So if you can stand in there and withstand the fire, I think he's got enough in the tank to fight off the field again this September. You've never been around to hear a flash flood siren go off before the water starts to rush in. I'm sure you can probably imagine the panic that sets in over those next few minutes. So if any of you guys out there know someone who works at the Tampa Port Authority, now would be the time to tell them to start sounding the alarm. Because it looks like Alexis Rolone might be about the flood the streets. Recently Rolone and his team release some updates a little less than three weeks out from the Tampa Pro where he figures to be right there in the mix of things once it gets going. He's somewhere he is right now. Rolone looks like he's got the right balance of fullness and conditioning that he's been looking for. And once he starts hitting all those finishing touches, this guy might end up being the runaway favor to take that Tampa show all the way to the bag. And that doesn't yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: BUBBLE GUT CURE! Live Wth Carl Lanore [_84fWlPL4VM].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com on Dave Palumbo and back by Popule demand. Part two, we have our good friend Carl Lennor. Thanks Dave. Thanks for having me here. Welcome back, Crop, because our last show is very popular. And I was taking notes. I actually learned a lot of stuff. And I think we always have a good conversation. So I figured, hey, let's, we got plenty more topics to discuss here. I watched the last show when I, I was just way too moving too fast to some of the topics. And so I promised to slow down a little bit this time. Well, you know, we, I think we felt this urgency to get everything out there. Now we figure, well, hey, you know what we can do a couple of these. We don't have to rush too much. So yeah. Yeah. We were talking, you know, it's funny. We were talking before the show. And I think it's relevant. Just going to think people go through this. And I think the people can relate a lot of times to the stuff that we go through as hosts of these shows. And I was telling you about my dad. He's kind of on his deathbed at this point. And, you know, his body's shutting down. And you made a very valid, you know, a very valid observation about your dad. And tell it, tell the analogy you were telling me, because I completely looked after it. When my father got sick, I was going through my divorce. So I was able to leave Kentucky and go to Arizona. And I brought him home from the nursinGHome. And I really believed I was going to like reverse everything. I was going to make protein shakes for him. I was going to do all the things I knew to do. But the problem was poly pharmacy really destroyed his body. His kidneys were gone. His liver was gone. From all the medications he had been taking the decades. And so, you know, we got a hospital bed for him, put him in the hospital bed, make him made him comfortable as possible. He stopped eating abouT4 days before he passed away. And the night before he passed away, I slept outside his door on the sofa. And I heard this noise coming from his room. And it sounded like somebody took a tub-aware tub. And I was like rubbing it and clacking it on the table. And later on, I learned that they called this the death rattle. I didn't know what it was. But the next day I was in his room. Was that his breathing crawl that you hear? Yeah, my dad's doing that. My dad's been doing it for two weeks. Yeah, the airway stopped the cave in. They had a hard time breathing. They call it the death rattle. There's no turning back once that starts happening. Because even breathing is becoming a virtual impossibility. And my father probably like you, father, these guys were built tough. And they hang on and they hang on. And so I knew that that's what he was doing. And I had to talk with them. And I said, you know, what a great father he was. And he's taught us everything we need. And we can take care of ourselves. And he doesn't have to hang on anymore. And I even told him, well, I don't subscribe to the whole religion thing. I told him, you know, your mother and uncle Anthony and auntessie, they're all waiting for you. They'll take care of you. And within 15 minutes he went. He looked at me. His eyes were all glassy. Like he turned his head towards me. But I don't believe he saw me. That's what I thought. Yeah, he turned his head towards the window. And he was looking at the sunlight and he passed away. And in that nanosecond, when I realized he was gone, I took his pulse, I felt his hand, I cried. And I looked at him and I swear to God, I saw my facial features. I saw my bone structure in that man. And I thought to myself, oh my God, that's going to be me. And I'm not ready for this. And that is when my own mortality came front and said, you know, my parents told me, you don't understand what it is to be an adult until you have your own children. And now I understand you don't know what it is about death until you see a foment, you are far the pair's away because then you're next. That's the thing that comes into your head. Yeah, it's amazing. I think I'm clearly related. Absolutely, everything you said was like bringing bells in my head when I heard that's why I wanted you to repeat it on the show. Absolutely, I saw him laying there and I said, you know what, that's going to be me one day. And who knows when, you know, and it's a scary thought. You saw it thinking everything that went wrong with your parent could go wrong with you. And then what you do is you shot to say, well, maybe I could have heard this or have heard that because I eat well, exercise my dad's smoke and he drank and he didn't work out. So it's a, it's a crazy thing. And it's very depressing when you start getting into that because it become, you do see your own mortality right in front of you there. It becomes very, very apparent. I think a lot of us don't think about it, but when you're staring it right in the face for whatever it is you did four days, whatever, you know, whatever, I've been there for a couple weeks. It's, it is painful. It's tough. Well, I'd see, I just turned 60 in June. And the truth of the matter is that I'm battling some auto immunity issue. How you are? Yeah, through my gut. And you know, the funny thing is, Dave, I always thought because I hosted superhuman radio that I was going to be the guy that didn't get sick. You know, I was going to be like strong to the end. Yeah. I used to say, oh, I want to go when I go, I want to go in the hole with 500 pounds on my back. And then all of a sudden, like stuff started malfunctioning and I'm like, and I'm, I'm actually fixing myself. But the reality is that, you know, I'm 60 years old. I go to the gym and I tren. But I tren with a lot of problems right now. And I'm still pushing. I'm still treninGHard. And that kind of sobed me up like, oh, okay, you know, if I can get this problem, then I can get other problems. And maybe the end for me isn't that far away at all. So I got to really make sure that everything I do on a day to day basis is something that I either have to do or that I love to do. In fact, I did a blog post about it that treat every birthday like you're a mock twin predicted his own death that he would die when some comet came back around. And he died. Yeah. Was it hali's? Night of men. Yeah. I thought it was like every 75 years. When I was coming, and he died, and hali's coming, and I thought that was he was born on it. And he died on it. Yeah. 75 years. And I thought to myself, what if we knew the day we were going to die? And just for the sake of the blog post, I said, what if you knew you were going to die on your birthday? How would you live that next year differently? Because that's how we should live every year because we could drop dead any second. Right. No, we're no one knows when you're going. You're right. Well, Carl, let's get into a happy or topic first. Because a lot of bodybuilders suffer with different malinies. And we're always trying to like, I know as a coach and prep guy and a scientist. I'm always trying to figure out solutions to things. And I know you're very analytical like that as well. You know, you had mentioned to me a good topic that you thought would be great to discuss. And I agreed with you was these guts. These descended stomachs that alive these bodybuilders get. And I'll tell you, I'll give you a little, before you give me your insight on it. I wanted to say, when I got to a certain size, I was suffering from the standard stomach also. And I found that one of the things that really helped me out a lot was fiber. Was adding to dietary fiber in twice a day. Because I'm eating so much food. I think I wasn't getting rid of it all. That was one of the problems. Okay. And that's why I really was high up on creating my own fiber product, which I did in fiber lies. And it became a very popular supplement that's available on the market. But that's one of the things. But what I noticed was when I downsize my physique over the course of 15 years from whatever it was over 300 to down to like, you know, almost about 195 right now. And I feel really good at this way. My, my, the standard stomach, my thick and abdominal wall, everything came down. And my, my waist is actually really small right now in my stomach is flat. And I can vacuum my stomach. And I just, it all, it took, which turned, which tells me that a lot of that was high-perchirphied muscle, whether it be in the form of the, you know, the muscle in the abdominal wall or the muscle that's in the organs, you know, the colon as a, I would, I would dispute that part. You, you, you had me all the way. You, you write on, so first of all, all of the extended stomachs we see embody building a dietary because 70, 6% of the American population has gut issues. They have extended stomachs. They burp, they burp, they belch, after a meal, they feel like somebody pumped air in there. So this is the general population. They're not using insulin, they're not using red pads, they're not eating 5,000, 10,000 calories a day. So we, so we have to look for the lowest common denominator of what is possibly going on in our population. Okay. And, and we're actually doing a show next week that looks at the fact that the increase of probiotic use parallels, the increase in swollen testinal bacterial overgrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And there's a good doctor who's saying, stop taking probiotics, you don't need them, but that's a different story. But, but what, what we're seeing is completely dietary because I'll give you some examples. Leapree's never had a disdented stomach. I'd love to know what he ate and what he didn't eat, but more importantly, in Australia, thEQuality of food is different than in the United States. But you're living in the US though for many, many years though, Carl too. I'm eating, I'm talking fried chicken by his own mission. Okay. Well, then I'm wrong about that. I was going to use him as a post-aboid, but if we go back in time, Arnold could do a vacuum pose. A lot of these guys could do vacuum poses back then. And they were hyper muscular. Maybe not as hyper muscular as some of the bodybuilders today, but nonetheless, the tortoise shell that these guys have today. Yeah. I remember the first time I saw it was Gustavo Badele. I was like, oh my God, every time he switched poses and he inhaled, he had a lead his stomach out. He looked pregnant. And we see this as rampant today. This is inflammation from the esophagus to the aina state. All these guys have girded. They all have, they have obstructive sleep apnea, whether they're treating it or not. They're gasy, they're bloated all the time. They're farting. They have terrible bowel movements, but they're consuming 10,000 calories a day and they're pushing so much food through them. These guys are inflamed from their anus to their esophagus. And I'm going to say something and people go, oh yeah, he's a quack because they said that about so many things I said last time. But glyphosate round up, glyphosate is an anti-microbial and they sprayed on crops. Okay. glyphosate is an actual antibiotic. Moncanto has a patent that's 10 years old for combining glyphosate with a moxacillin to treat antibiotic resistant diseases. Now think about that. This is something that sprayed on your crops. Okay. So when I both know what happens when somebody takes low dose antibiotics, it destroys the lining of the gut. Right. It leads to IBS, to celiacs, disease, rheumatoid arthritis. All of these autoimmune disorders all start because of gut permeability. Right. Well, if you're today glyphosate is ubiquitous. It's in food, it's in drinks, they're finding it in human breast milk that mothers feed their babies. It's in tampons. It's everywhere. And a lot of people don't realize that they're consuming glyphosate throughout the day. They're eating away at the lining of the stomach. Once the lining of the stomach is destroyed, once the gut microbial diversity is destroyed, the stomach, the intestines, the large intestine, the small intestine, they become populated with fungi and with microbes that were never supposed to be there. The small intestine is supposed to be, it's not supposed to have anything in it. Right. And everybody got microbed. That's why if you look at these people, Dave, the distension starts right at the thorax. It just literally pushes out. The small intestine is trensverse, right near the liver. It goes right across. That's the small intestine filled with gas and pushing out. And then the stomach just becomes round from their own because the entire intestinal tract is in flame. So I would predict that a philodity's bodybuilders did a urine analysis and looked for their glyphosate load. They find that it's very high. It takes a long time for the inflammation to go away. It doesn't go away sometimes in a year. You have to, because it didn't become inflamed like that in a year. This is like after decades of exposure. But that's my bet. It's, look, insulin, testosterone and estrogen, or even oxytocin, or having effect on microbial diversity. What we're seeing today is inflammation from, from, from the asophagus to the Anis, is no doubt my mind about it. And they get brain fog from it. They develop other issues from it. If it stays around long enough, they're now, the show I'm doing next week, links, probiotic use and, and metabolic acidosis. A lot of people don't realize they have metabolic acidosis. They wake up in the morning, they have brain fog. They just take more caffeine. They don't realize that some of the early signs of metabolic acidosis is headaches and waking up in the morning feeling like somebody, your head is stuffed with cotton. So, how do you, how do you combat that coral, do you think? Okay, so what I'm doing right now to help reverse some of my autoimmune disorders and it's working for me. The first thing is, you and I don't like enzymes. We had this conversation back in like 2000 and 7. But here's when to take your enzymes. If you take your enzymes with your food, you take hydrochloric acid, amylase, protease and lipase. Those are the, the four things you should take. You take those and hour and a half to two hours after the meal. I did a show three weeks ago about using baking soda before meal actually makes a lot of the symptoms of autoimmune disorders go away. There's a published study. When I got down to the nitty gritty, I said to the scientists, so what is it? Is it the alkaline of effects of baking soda? Is it the CO2 that's released? He says, no, when you take baking soda, the rebound is to produce more acid in the stomach to overcome the buffering. So what these guys at Gals are doing is they're just increasing the acidity of the gut before they introduce the meal. I said so in other words, enzymes could be used. He goes, yeah, I think so. But what I discovered is if I eat a meal about an hour and a half later, I'm belching. I shouldn't be, that meal has moved out of my stomach. So there's undigested food still in my stomach. That's when I take the enzymes and I swear, the belching goes away immediately. Immediately. Yes, yes. And the other thing that it does is this, the doodnum is the vestibule where acidity changes. The gut has high acid, hydrocholk acid, the stoichi of one, the doodnum is where actually, a bicarbonate is, is excreted so that when the, the chime, the food moves into the small intestine, it doesn't have any acid left in it. What's happeninGHere is the doodnum is becoming populated with microbes. And then it just keeps on growing into the small intestine. If you start taking acid enzymes, I got to slow down. In between your meals, it will actually destroy the microbes in the doodnum and slowly into the small intestine. You can actually read yourself of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone by starting that. And then obviously avoid all sugars and starches for a period of time because we're now finding out, you're going to get a kick out of this. The culprit microbe are the lactate producing microbes, lactobacillus acid, dophalus, lactobacillus this, bifidobac, these are all lactic acid producing microbes. These are the ones that are being seeded into the doodnum and the small intestine. And these are the, and what, and what is everybody taking in antibiotics today? Lactobacillus, they're down at kimchi, they eat in yogurt. It's all, it's all the lactic acid producing microbes. We're not supposed to have that many of them. Okay, so, but what I, I, but the whole thinking is that everyone is deficient in these, in these microbes and that's why everyone's taking probiotics. What do you say to that? Well, what if we're finding that that is an incorrect assumption. You see the problem being just mentioned that you just mentioned leaky gut and permeability and the gut because of all the depletion of the good bacteria there. So how do we receive the, the colon? So so first of all, you, what you don't want to do is preferentially plant one type of microbes, okay? And what we've been doing for the past five years with the probiotic movement is just giving ourselves one type of microbe. So the first thing is that you got to stop this preferential seeding number one. Number two, your body will correct, your, your microbes react to your diet. By crawling with diversity changes in as little as 24 hours based on the food you eat. You know when I'm using to help cure myself, Dave, you won't believe I came home from Ireland after drinking booze and eating bread. And I swear to God, I felt friggin horrible. I just started doing the dron the diet. I'm eating beef and eggs for every meal. The bloating went away. The gas went away. My stomach is flattening out. Uh, and, and a lot of my symptoms are starting to subside. So it depends on what you eat. That's what will influence what you do. What do you think is doing a ketogenic diet? And your stick is in a protein and fats basically. But see your, your, your, what a ketogenic diet you and a ketogenic diet to me is a bed of diet than the ketogenic diet that most people are doing today. I've done three shows about this already. Yeah. Look, the prevalence of ketosis in our ancestors was only during starvation now. Right. This stands something. A half a millimole of ketones in the blood. Most people wake up with that if they didn't eat too close to bed time. That's not what I'm talking about. But today there's this senseless challenge. Well, how, how high can you get your key? Oh, mine, the 4.5 millimole. The only time that happened was if you were starving. Right. So that actually creates genetic imprints in you that you are not a good hunter. You're actually a good starver. And that kind of ketogenic diet is not good. Unless you're battling brain cancer or seizures and you're using it therapeutically. Right. The ketogenic diet you and I talk about, which is very high protein, moderate fat and very low carb. The body goes, oh, we're getting a lot of food. We're producing ketones. Maybe one and a half, two millimoles a day. But I'm getting a lot of protein. This guy's a good hunter. Yeah. I agree. All right. So what role do you think that growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone IGF-1 insulin plays in gut distension if any in your theory? I don't believe the notion that people promote completely that IGF-1 and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone cores rampant organ growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I, while there is evidence of some organ growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, that's not the reason for the distended stomach. I agree. I think that a sensible regimen, like I use, I use a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor 1 through 29 and GHRP every morning and post-workout. I'm using only 100 micrograms of each because that is the saturation dose for adult men. You don't need any more than that. I don't get super hungry from it. I don't get flush feeling from it. If I get flush and hungry, then I use too much. That's a sensible regimen. That's not going to cause my gut to blow up. However, these hormones do influence microbial diversity. So for instance, it's like, I use oxytocin post-workout. All, all guys should. So oxytocin increases a particular micro called L-Routary, which is associated with longer lives at better age. They do play a role in microbial diversity. I don't buy the whole, it's making me big and fat in my gut. I don't buy that. I believe that the antibiotics, especially GH and insulin caused the organs to swell. And I don't know if it's an inflammation thing or if it's just growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and insulin make all the muscles swell. That looks good in skeletal muscle, but in smooth muscle, obviously it doesn't because it's all located right in your abdominal area and it's pushing the gut out. So I think there's a combination of what you're, I think your theory is partially right, but I don't think it's complete because we don't see it in actual bodybuilders and they're eating a ton of food. But you see it in way more in GH insulin using bodybuilders, Carl. And you're right. And that influencing the microbial diversity of the gut could be leading to them being more susceptible to getting that inflammatory response in their gut. There's no doubt about it. So as a bodybuilder who has to eat all this food, and what's the taking drugs, is there any solution? I think that you have to be cautious about your choices of starchy carbohydrates, grains. So I just did a show about a study that people can join. If they go to my website, superrido.net, you can join in. There's a glyphosate study right now. You have to pay for your own glyphosate test, but you become part of the study. How much? $99. And I just got, yeah. And so what I think people need to do is they need to become cognizant of foods that have the highest level of glyphosate. Now wheat does because they use it to synchronize the crop. They literally spray the crop of wheat two days before harvesting it so that they kill the wheat and it's easier to thrash and separate and do all that sort of stuff. Okay. Well, there's a couple other crops that I just found out I didn't know about. All beans, beans, legumes, chickpeas, they have the highest degree of glyphosate retention because they do the same thing with beans. They're using it to synchronize the crop and oats. My beloved oatmeal. I have to eat organic oatmeal now because oats was number three on the list. So it's wheat, beans and oats. You have to buy your gan. I heard brown rice too has a lot of that. Does it? I don't know about rice because brown rice in here. Because the husk. Well brown rice, okay. So there's a different issue with things that have husks, right? Any kind of seed. The anti nutrients that are designed to keep bugs from eating them are on the shell of the seed. So white rice, they strip the husk off. Right. All the anti nutrients, the lectin state are in the husk. That's why I don't eat brown rice for that reason. Right. Or wild rice. Interesting. You know, because you always hear brown rice is better. You can, while all these whole grain type stuff and now we're hearing stuff. It seems like call every week they come out with a concert at the same state and they say, one week they say fish oil is good for you. The next week it's not going to be a few. One week brown rice. No white rice now they say, why rice don't eat brown rice. It's so confusing even for people like you and me who are kind of in the industry and know on top of the food chain, how does a beginner person know what the eating, everyone's afraid. So what I tell people is don't listen to anything. Listen to your body. Your body will tell you what your foods are not being processed properly and which ones are. I just did this rant at the end of today's show. I said, if your dietary approach, then let's just call it your diet. Requires you to belong to a group, go on cruises with people who eat like you. Orgue with people who don't. You are making choices not because they're good for you, but because you want to be one of the club. That's not how you should pick your diet. Yeah. It's a paleo guy. It's a vegan. The vegan, the paleo, the ceto. IMean, come on. There's people on the internet right now. They've been on ceto for seven, eight months. They're so depressed. They're losing their hair and the people tell them, well, just eat more fat. No, get off the freaking diet. It doesn't work for you. Yeah, yeah, not everyone doesn't work forever. You know, it's funny because I was in the store once and I was buying some, I think it was like a red bean burgers. They were made. They were like burgers. They were made out of beans and I just happened to like unusual foods like that. It's not that I'm a vegan because I eat, play and check in and fish and something like that. But someone saw me there and she's like, oh, you're a vegan too. Good job. And I was like, I didn't want to disappoint her. I'm like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Way to go. What else do you like here? Let's get some huddestroy, and all these other ingredients, you know, vegans. But you know, I just think it's hysterical. You're right. Club, people want to belong to club. The funny thing is I like the old Woody Allen, you know, line that he kind of was, I guess paraphrase and grow after Marx. I wouldn't want to belong to any club that would have someone like me as a member. You know, that's right. Right. That's funny. Yeah, but it's what happens is when diet becomes dogma, you've lost all rational, critical thinking to approach the diet. If you eat something and you don't feel good, but the rest of the people in your club eat it, then you don't belong in that club. Because you don't, you don't, you don't you should be in that food. That's it. Simple. Well, good. Very good advice. You know, hopefully maybe some people learn some stuff about the standard add. I still think it has a lot to do also with the structure of the person. People are long torsos, tend to have less distension. People are shorter torsos, like high green, tend to have more distension. But yeah, I think the foods we're eating are definitely influencing it, and you brought you shed some really interesting light on some of these topics. ThEQuestion Carl, before I let you go is, how do we get these? These, these, these ingredients that are sprayed all over our crops and all of our ready. What do you do? How do you not get them in your diet? If you know what, it, it, it, it, it first of all, there was no glyphosate found in meat, like beef. There was no glyphosate found in chicken. Uh-huh. There was, there was no glyphosate found in booze, believe it or not. And he thinks that it was, of course, the fermentation process, uh, uh, uh, uh, ferment actually broke it down or denatured it or whatever. You have to find out, first of all, what your glyphosate exposure has been. Right. You got to get tested. People hate to test. They just want to buy something. Well, that sounds like me all buy it. You don't even know if it's going to work for you because you don't know if that's why you feel that way. But get tested and learn which foods are high in glyphosate and avoid them. It can be done. It takes a little discipline. But look, serious bodybuilders, they're eating chicken and broccoli six meals a day. If anybody can do it, they can. Sure. The average person, you know, a long time ago and you and I have actually talked about this, I divorced myself from flavor. Uh-huh. I, I'm not a gastronomist. You know, I don't want to have all you know, I'm the bathed in a chipotle. So no, give me a steak, give me four or five eggs. I'm happy. Yeah. So if you are driven by gastronomy, you have to have sexy, amazing dishes, you know, Michelin star restaurants, you're going to be exposed to a lot more this stuff, unfortunately, because that's where they use it. They're using it all these commercial establishments. But learn what has glyphosate on it. Listen to that show I just did. I forget what show number it is, but it's at super-radiol.net. And learn what has glyphosate on it and do your best to avoid it, get tested, eliminate those foods, get tested again. Very, very simple. You know, I, I'm going back to my, I think I'm going to go back to my original diet. And it works for me when I was at my biggest and my hardest and freakiest, I think it was probably the safest diet. I'm going back to eat McDonald's every day because I think that's the only, at least you know, it's in it. McDonald's is, is it, you know, China and get McDonald's, you could eat McDonald's in California. It's the same McDonald's you're going to get. And you know what, I think artificial foods like that, the way McDonald's is made is the way even the future. Probably the safest, at least you know what you're putting in the stuff. Well, I was so, so on that note, when I don't bring food to the studio and I get hungry, I go to Wendy's. Yeah. And I asked them off the all the cart menu. Yeah. I said, can you and they say sure, and I go, give me six beef patties, the large ones. That's a pound and a half of beef. And I sit there and I eat them and they look at me like I'm crazy. Yeah. Half of it. You know what? It's safe. I know what's in it. It's just beef and salt. That's it. Right. It's flavoring. And then. See, after all this, you thought everyone thought they were going to take on this, this very wise insightful, nutritional mantra and secret. And the bottom line is calling, I am telling you, go freaking eat fast food. That's the bottom line to save the thing that you can possibly eat. And on that note, we're out of time. Until next time, I'm Dave Lumber with Carl and Naur for another edition of Live With.

=== FILE: BUILDING FREAKISH TRICEPS! #askDave [befk06eHiSw].txt ===

Alright, until I've vision on rxmuscle.com, this is astabe better known as hashtag astabe brought to you by species nutrition visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host of the Furuki Fizz. Is your 30 minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Flumbo all your questions on diet, trening, supplementation, IFBB pros, competitions, whatever's on your mind, it is all on the tables. We now go to Dave Flumbo Dave you look like the kind of a promoter you would see running up and down the biggest strip tell us about the elaborate ensemble you have on. My good friend Rob Swaffer, the Mexican national shirt, it's great. IMean this thinGHas got all kinds of blingol over it. It's got the back as even better. I don't know if I can turn around yet. I don't want to ruin my life. It's just an awesome shirt this thing. I don't think I can wear it out. I think it'd be too embarrassed to wear it out. For TV it's great. I feel like Bob Chicker will a little bit. Those little suits he wears up on the MCs. The Mexicans not had to do it. They just bling it out and they're like, man, we're throwing a party. We want everyone there. That's really what the national's worth. It was like a three-day fair. Just like non-stop, you know, fun. He was down there. He lives in Mexico now and he sent me back to shirt. I had a wear. It's the represent. I also want to say another thing. My good friend, Mr. J, George Smolley. I've been talking about this for two years now. I think he finally is ready to put these on the shelf. Mr. Pots, potato protein, potato chips. They're actually regular potato chips that have their ruffles, potato chips that actually have a protein coating on them. So all the different coatings, all the flavors. That's where the proteins. 12 grams of protein per bag. I love these things. I'm completely addicted to them. They decided to put them in this new white bag. I think it's a good idea because what happens is you can actually stand them up and they stand up on the counter by themselves. So they're kind of like a great promotional piece right there for themselves. And these will be available soon in all stores in 7-11 and stuff like that. So Mr. G, congratulations. You've got a great pride here. We'recompletely addicted then we fight over these in the office. Thank God Mr. G supplies us with 20 of these. And my kids eat them. I eat them. My wife eats everyone who's in the office. Tyler Eat some. And they're just delicious. And we could justify and because they got protein on them. I'm vacuum Mr. G. Of heavy muscle TB fame. Let's go to thEQuestions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palombo experience at first question. When taking antibiotics, why wouldn't tapering up yield more gains over the period of time? We know we can only add muscle so fast so if taking 500 mg of test a week, let's me gain a couple of pounds a week. Why would I ride that out until I hit a plateau and then add more tests or another ballic? Well, having said that, why would you take any more than 500 mg of test? It goes back to the old saying when you first start, you don't eat a lot of stuff. At some point you get to a threshold where you're like, you know what, I want to maximize my gains over the period of time. So if you're doing an 18-week cycle and half that cycle you're doing 500 mg a week, you might be losing some gains that you might have been makinGHad you been taking a thousand milligrams a week. Now, having said that, if you do 2000 or 3000 milligrams a week, you're not necessarily going to get more gains at that point, you're just going to get a lot more side effects. So, you know, personally, I think that about a thousand milligrams per week is ideal for muscle gains with the minimal amount of side effects. When you go over that, you tend to get more side effects when you go below that, you don't get as much muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So that's why, you know, in people that are experienced users, that's usually the threshold amount that you'd want to do. You never want to go kind of less than that because once again, you're not going to maximize how much muscle you put on because you're only, you're not on all the time. You're not on three to 65 days here. You can't do that. You won't respond that often. So when you are on, you want to maximize the ability or you maximize your ability to build muscle during that period of time. And if you're not taking enough, you're cheating yourself in a sense. Second question, again, from the Dave Plumbo Experience app, on a maintenance diet, is there any benefit to metabolism, tossing in a cheap meal, or a once weekly, higher at day. So I guess thEQuestion is, cheap meal or cheap day on a maintenance diet? I think you should always have a cheap meal. I think you should never eat the same thing all the time because your body stagnates. It platoes. It understands what's going on. And then what happens is it stops making progress. So whether you're trying to lose weight or whether you're trying to gain weight. Now if you're trying to maintain, I think you're just going to get stagnant in the sense that you're going to feel like, all right, I just don't feel I'm losing the drive to go in the gym. Always give your brain and your body that extra something special. That meal meal meal meal, you can kind of let loose once a week. Think about it. If you're eating six times a day, seven days a week, that's 42 meals a week you're eating. Okay. If one out of 42 meals is something a little junkier, okay. You're not setting yourself back anything. If anything, you're only making improvements to your physique. And you're only going to help spike your metabolism and shock your body into new growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone into new fat loss. So I think it's a good idea to have a chain meal once a week. ATL fantasy arEQuant sleeps, genetic also have you ever seen someone put site enhancement oil in outer quant sleeps with good results. I don't like to do site enhancement oils in thEQuads. You always, almost 99% of the time it's going to look lumpy and fake, okay. Genetics, a sweep to your legs has a lot to do with the genetics, but it has a lot to do with building muscle. Everyone's quad shape is going to be different depending on what your genetic potential is. So if I blow my legs up as big as they can get and the next guy does his, the shape will look completely different. You can't really influence that. However, you can influence how much muscle you put on your body. And that's what you have to work on. So whether you have your feet positioned this way or this way, this way, this way, you're probably not going to change that much on the development that you're going to get on your legs. However, if you open your stance up, you're going to involve more adductor of the inner thighs, which is going to girth and make a girthier quad. You keep your feet close to the other side. You're going to really just target and quad and kind of eliminate that inner thigh, which a lot of times gives the muscles the leg muscle to smaller. Look, because you don't have as much your missing out on a whole muscle group. So while foot position is not that important in or out with wide and close does make a big difference. You know, there is ways of influence, you know, how your legs look, but ultimately your genetic shape is your genetic shape. Excellent. 187. I've been trening for nearly a decade now. I've competed. I've been ripped. I've been strong. I've had striations of invasculoid, but I've never had my self-alic vein pop out. Is there any signs or trening method to bring out one self-alic vein? You're talking about the vein that goes right down the middle of the bicep. And you know what, I had one of those from the day I started trening. Okay, it wasn't that big. As I got bigger and bigger, it got thicker and thicker and it looked more impressive and more impressive. So I always had veins. You know, I haven't now. I'm only 190 pounds. So that's just my genetics. Can you make them come out? Can you make them bigger? Yeah, through trening. But genetically, if you don't really have them all the time, you'd probably, the only time you'll probably have them is like right before a show. And you suck out all the water and you burn up all the subqtaneous fat. If you tend to be vastly lower all the time, you'll get more of asking them before a show. And that's just the way it is. Some people have a lot of superficial veins and very low body fat and thin skin. Like myself. Other people have thicker skin, but they put muscle on. They have more dense muscle on their body, because that's just the way their body is a wire. Once again, a lot of genetics. A lot of Olympia related questions from PT Heavy Online is this the year that Flex Lewis gets the throne and then Carolos 98. Dave, can you get Phil Heath on this channel? I don't think that Flex Lewis is going to lose unless we see how he's shooting somehow get a visa from Iran, which we're in the process of working on right now. I'm involved in this project. I don't know if it could happen, but we'll see. And we'll get Phil on the show. That's in the works as well. Obviously, as you guys know, Phil is no longer exclusive to AMI and he's able to do interviews. Once again, if I do an interview, however, I want to make sure it's going to be something special and something that's unique, not like everyone else is going to do. So, it might not happen overnight and we're in talks with him so that's definitely on the PIPeline. Sean Willey, Dave, do you have any tips to help tighten up loose skin designs? It naturally tightening up over time. You know, that's a question I get asked a lot. And to question I don't really like because I don't really have an answer to a lot of people. People come to me and they show me this, they would 300 pounds and now they're 180 pounds and they get this loose skin hanging on their lower stomach. What can they do to tighten it up? A lot of times, there's nothing you can do. But then there's a lot of times where I see spontaneously people lose weight and they keep it off for six, eight months and the skin tightens up. So I don't ever like to say it's impossible but it's unlikely if you have that loose saggy skin there or that it's going to overstretched a lot of times it doesn't come back. Look, I have on my back my arms, I have loose skin just for being, you know, having 24 and charms and now I have, you know, whatever, 16 and charms of 15 hits or whatever, they all I don't measure them. You know, it's just the skin was stretched out tremendously when I was huge, you know. And so I have loose skin, I have no body fat but I have some skin there. It's not hanging, you know, terribly but it's still there and it's bothersome, you know, if I was going to walk around with a shirt off, I wouldn't like it. But hey, that's what happens, you know. It's better to be 180 pounds in shape and lean with a little loose skin than being a fat slob with no loose skin, right? IMean, let's face it. That's the bottom line. Now, for a lot of women who come to me and they say, hey, I lose skin under that of my arms, I don't know what to do. On my butt, it's loose. I don't really, I kind of, I'm in shape and they show me pictures and they aren't shaped. I'm like, you got to build more muscle there. The muscle will stretch that skin tight and that's really the only solution. Now, if it's on your lower abdomen, unfortunately, most of the time the solution is to get a tummy tuck, you know, tummy tuck, you know, skin reduction there. The top roller wants to know if being on an anti-estrogen and finasteride would make a dose of testosterone more and a ballad than it takes in a low-intzense less of it converts. Well, if you have less testosterone converting to estrogen and DHT, you have more available to build muscle. So that's just logical. If you block the estrogen production, you block the HCH production, you can have more testosterone available. So that, you know, there's nothing really to shocking there. However, having less testosterone and less DHT doesn't mean you'll build muscle better, okay? It'll mean you'll build muscle better if you have more testosterone about around it doesn't mean in other words, they don't, estrogen doesn't stop muscle building in the matter. In fact, people have a lot of estrogen build muscle better, usually because estrogen sensitizes and angiogen receptors to a certain degree. I think that's why women can take lower doses of drugs and they can grow better. I think because they have so much estrogen in their body, they actually have better angiogen sensitivity. Not to mention, they're angiogen receptors are better just to begin with because they don't have a lot of testosterone in their body. They don't produce any. It's very, my new to mounts coming from adrenal angiogen and it's like the HAA. And so they have to be able to be responsive to that. So women have a double bonus on building musclEQuickly. That's why when I see women taking ridiculous amounts of drugs and a ballics that have tons of side effects, I cringe because there's no reason to them to use that. A little animal, you know, and they can put a lot of muscle on with that. Claw, Dave, have you ever refused to coach a client for a show because of extremely unhealthy blood work? No, because I always see it as a challenge to fix the blood work. If I get to one with unhealthy blood work, I want to get them to have improved blood work. And a lot of times, just putting them on like macadamia, no oil, fiber lies, omega lies, these, you know, are like a liver, you know, liver stable from molecular nutrition, kidney stuff. Once I get them on this, I clen up their organs, we clen up their blood, you know, and they're doing terrific in one to two months. And a lot of times their doctors will be, and then they lose weight on top of that because they're on a diet with me. Their doctors like, I don't know what you're doing, whatever you're doing, don't stop. I've had so many people tell me that. And a lot of times, it's just because I'm getting their diet clened up and I'm getting them to lose weight. But then you put those essential fatty acids and are very important. And fiber, very important, pulling toxins and lowering LDL cholesterol, you can't believe just on a couple of supplements and a little too diet changes how radical you can change the blood work around. Moving to 222 advice on holding onto leg size with age. Note that he is, don't stop treninGHim. You know, so just stop and you lose the muscle. It's hard to get it back. Obviously, I had thEQuads here and I was at the gym a lot and I still can't tren legs well because I have this quite a still partially torn. I'm going to need to have it on the surgery probably in the next year or two whenever I have free Time. I think good luck for that. So I lost a lot of leg mass and I don't know if it would come back if I trened it. But I think the guys who never lost the mass to begin with, they seem to be able to hold it. I've talked about Dexter Jack to me in the age of one. He never lost any leg size. He never really had huge legs to begin with but he has good legs and he never lost the leg mass and so he's able to maintain it because he's still able to tren he has no injuries. That's the key. If he would have stopped trening for two years and just kind of like do nothing for his legs and they shrunk up and then he went to try to put that size back on, he'd have a difficult time. And that's just the way it is. So the key is don't, if you don't want to lose legs, don't stop trening your legs. Tyron Ram Deep can you tell Subanchar or Riddhmea you said you had it during exercise. What does it feel like? The weird thing is it doesn't feel like anything. I don't even know what happened. The only reason I knew I had it was because I was wearing a heart rate monitor when I would ride my bike. You put those scraps around your chest and you have a little readout on your latch out, on the little garments, readout on my bike. And I was seeing, I was looking at these high numbers and like this is impossible. I feel fine. So I went to the doctor and got a check and they thought it was a mistake too. And then they tested me and they'll like, no, you're really, you're throwing these crazy rhythms. So, you know, to play and say, obviously, I don't want to have a heart attack or something like that. And I never had an episode where I actually felt it. But I don't want to get to that point. That's how people drop dead suddenly on basketball courts or on soccer fields, I don't know where. And so that's why I addressed it aggressively. And I think you got to do that. You got to know what's wrong with you and what's right about you. And so that you don't get surprised because people die because they get surprised because they're not ready for it. If you're ready for, or you have a contingency plan of somethinGHappens, then you could get through the incidents. You know, I don't, I try not to do super high intensity exercise anymore if I can help. But that doesn't mean I can't run up a flight of steps. It means that I can't, I can't go bike riding for an hour straight, you know, pushing maximum, you know, RPMs. It's not smart. And it doesn't serve any purpose. And I'm not preparing for the, you know, toward a France anytime soon. Tell your own limitations and it doesn't mean that you should live and fear them, which is means you should beware. Watching ass Dave on our ex muscle.com brought to you by species nutritionals. Got a Carlston iron burner Dave. What's the best way to build a nice tricep ed? You know, I always found at least in my body because I have very long arms that using isolating what unilateral movements with cables work the best. And you know, I really learned that from Vince Taylor. He said that, you know, you don't have to go crazy super heavy with compound movements for arms because they respond to isolation type movements. So, you know, if I do reverse grip pull downs, if I do one on push downs, if I do over him cable extensions, I can say I can do that that's my new shoulder. It doesn't hurt. Or if I can't make extensions, even some kickbacks, you know, that's going to really isolate my muscle, my tricep heads. And I can go heavy on those. And that's going to build muscle. I found that that was the best way to probably the second half of my career. I built my arms using these techniques. Heavy weights, isolating movements, unilateral one arm at a time. And I have good arms. I, you know, when I started out my father used to say to me, he goes, you're never going to be a good body. You just don't have the arms of these guys. And I'm like, it would drive me crazy because I knew he was right. And it took me a while, but you know, I built 24 in charge. So, anyone can do it. If you put your mind to it and you eat enough food and use the right trening techniques, you can add muscle to your body. Let's go to Jacobi, Alber, Alvi, Dave, how does a mega fats bring down inflammation? And it's something like omega lies comparable to kidney stuff in terms of inflammation reduction. Yeah, kidney stuff is special because it reduces inflammation around the kidney tubules. And that's by reducing the inflammation and allowing these tubules to dilate more. You can get better filtration at the kidney tubule, which means you're going to get lower creatinine and the UN levels, which is what we want, meaning the blood is being filtered more efficiently. Right? IMean, that's what we're looking for. But the omega-3 fats, you know, specifically DHA EPA, which is the omega-3 intermediates, actually reduced total body inflammation. There's actually another fatty acid in omega lies called pulmetallag acid. It's an omega-7 fatty. It's not essential, but it's also a terrific reducer of total body inflammation. And obviously when body inflammation is lower, the incidence of heart disease and any kind of cancers and chronic degenerate diseases decreases. So these are mega fats by their nature. The omega-3 is just reducing inflammation. Now, it's interesting. The omega-6 fats will be actually put in omega lies specifically coming from primos, well, gamma-limalag acid, GLA. Also, it's probably one of the only omega-6 fats that's anti-inflammatory as well. So we only put the anti-inflammatory fats in omega lies, so that it's hard to healthy and you know, you're getting the fatty acids that are very hard to get from the diet. And that's the key. Because you're not going to get these essential fats from your diet, you could be deficient in them. So rather than be deficient in them, I created an insurance policy type fatty acid supplement. You take that every day and you don't have to worry if you're getting the right amount of certain types of fats in your diet as long as you're getting the fats in. And that's the key. That's why I like to really focus on diet-wise, on the mono-insaturated fats, which are not essential, but they're hard-healthy. Like macadamia, and other well olive oil, if you can find real olive oil, even have a cod oil. Those should be, you know, the predominance of a lot of your fats in your diet. And then the supplemental fork should come from your omega-3s and 6s. Another Olympia related question from Tony Melzond. Do you see anyone new cranking the top six in the open class this year? If so, who gets balanced out? I'll give you the top six from last year. Bill, the Romney, Bonack, Dexter, Rodin, and Rolie. I don't think that might, I don't think we're going to see anyone else in that top six that's going to really shake up anything. I think you'll see it in the 2012, you're going to see some new talent in there. But I don't know. I just don't think there's anyone, you know, maybe Nathan the ash should get sneak in there. But then again, who do you throw out of that top six? That's thEQuestion. No, if Kai Green would enter the show, I think that he would be certainly in the top six. And someone would get booted out of there. I think Rolie's going to move up. If anyone was going to get kicked out of that top six, it might be like a rodent, you know, because he's had some health issues earlier this year, although I hear he's looking really good and he's at the best ever. So I don't think we're going to see the same top six this year. Cosm L centri or Rimidex. Is it a must-during cycle? Does it help with libido? Can someone off-cycle? Use it. Well, Rimidex blocks the conversion test often into estrogen. If you're a person that aromatizes testosterone really easily, meaning you convert a lot of testosterone to estrogen, a remees is an absolute must-during. And you know who you are. You know when your estrogen is your whole water, your nipples are sensitive. You hold body fat in your lower body, like a woman would, and that's an estrogenic person. That's the person who absolutely needs a Rimidex. When I was on hormone replacement, I never took a Rimidex because I just didn't need it. I didn't aromatize that much in my body. And I think it's because my body fat levels were really low. So you have to figure out what you're genetics are. Now if you do take some a Rimidex and you lower your estrogen, you're going to suppress your natural testosterone much less because it's estrogen that suppresses the pituitary from releasing LHNFSA, which stimulates testosterone production. So if you don't have any estrogen around, you're not going to shut off that feedback loop, and you're going to produce more natural testosterone. So once again, you got to go by what are your genetics and are you estrogenic and not do you need your dog you need it? Stolen adult 2 with a question on a column Von Mologer based on your experience, will column Von Mologer be able to squamp beyond 315 again or better yet, brinGHis quads to the development he once had? I thought I was going to be able to. I was actually squiding 225, you know, and from easy reps and I thought I was going to go back to 315 although I wasn't ready to push it at that point. But you know what, my quad just didn't hold up and it like, oh, now he's a younger guy. So he should he'll find. He should recover from the surgeries. Long as he doesn't try to repel off the side of a free impairment, something like that. And he's here with just something like that. He should recover and he should be out the lift again. He should be out of the belt branch warranted. The branch warrant wasn't doing crazy stuff either after, you know, his surgery. So who knows, you know, I'd like to see him get back. I like his physique. I think he's got a good personality. I'd love to interview him, you know, one of these days. And I think that he's a real talent. I think he's his own worst enemy right now. TJ O'Connor, the vacuum pose has been a super popular has become a super popular pose once again in body building and especially with the classic physique division. My waist has always been small, but I can't seem to create that sucked in look. What are some techniques to help hit this pose effectively? And the shout out, Shani Grant responding below on that question as well. Okay. You know, I, I, I, I, I love the vacuum pose. I do. I think, and I think I like because no one was hitting it. Now that everyone's doing it, it's kind of making me a little, I'm just not kind of getting a little bored with it. To be honest, not everyone should hit the vacuum pose. Okay. Because not everyone looks good in the vacuum pose. Some physiques don't look that good. It's just weird looking on them. So, you know, if you have a real deep ribbox like Arnold did, you know, that vacuum pose is a, and that vacuum looks great. But a lot of guys that doesn't look great. So, you got to determine what works the orthozyg. Don't try to be someone else. Don't try to hit a vacuum just because you think that's a classic pose that you have to hit. It's silly to do that. Only use it if it works to your advantage on stage. And you know, you can look at pictures and you can say, hey, that looks good or, it doesn't. And if you're not sure, ask someone else that you know is going to tell them the truth. I'll tell you in the truth. If you vacuum pose, look good. And what was the other part of thEQuestion? No, that was thEQuestion. I thought there was another piece to it. No, no, no, I said shout out to Shini Granthagashi, I was going to get another, the part of thEQuestion was how do you get to do a vacuum pose? Now, if you're having trouble hitting the pose, you can do these intestinal excess breathing exercises that I've talked about in other videos. But you kind of just put your hands on your stomach. You suck in, you push out, you suck in, you push out. You do 300 of those a day. That's working that trensverse abdominis muscle. That's the inner layer of muscle under the rectus abdominis. Though that layer of muscles are responsible pulling in your stomach. That's what you're doing on a vacuum pose. You're pulling in your stomach and then throwing your arms up so that you hitting that vacuum. So you're blowing your air out and sucking your stomach into the same time. But if you don't have strong trensverse abdominis muscles, you're not going to be able to pull your stomach in that much. That's why you got to start doing these intestinal breathing exercises once again. In, out. It feels unnatural to push out, but you push out, you push pull it, you push out, you pull it, and you do that 300 times a day. Within I promise you within a month or two, you're going to see a complete difference in the way for you execute that vacuum pose. Car 84, how to tren and eat right with an active chronic ulcerative colitis. You got to be careful, you got to find what works for you. The food you know, you're going to figure out which foods you're body tolerates, which one doesn't. A great supplement is by standard processes, is by as well you have complex. It's got a very strong extract of as well you with a couple other anti inflammatory herbs in there. You take that and it seems to calm down the colitis tremendously once again. You've got to be able to eat, you can't become a victim of your colitis. You have to find a way to get it done. Get those meals in, eat clen, try to stay away from irritating foods. Try to take a probiotic, whether it be a body sour crowd, a couple servings every day. These are things you've got to do. You have restrictions on yourself when you have all sorts of colitis. But if you live by those restrictions in there and you know what irritates it makes it worse and what makes it better, then you can control the disease. Bahama Jamal, would you please talk about sugar alcohols and sugar substitutes like stevia and the difference between them. How are they calorie free yet taste so sweet? Well, there's different sweeteners. There's aspirate which has been around forever which is just two amino acids. A phenolalanine in a sporadic acid. You mix them together and they taste sweet. I don't know why people get so crazy about aspirate. I think it's going to cause everything from cancer and death. All these ters, autism and all these terrible things. I don't agree with you. Two amino acids mix the acid, can't be that bad for you. Now if you eat anything in an excessive amount, you're going to get side effects. So being said, don't overdo it. Now, splender is like the new generation of like equal. Because what splender is, it's superlose. It looks like a sucrose with a tablespoon of molecular, but then they've altered it chemically. So your body doesn't recognize it. And so you just don't absorb it. But it tastes, it's actually 10 times more, maybe more, sweeter than regular sugar. So that and you can cook with it. It has a good texture to it. So here's something you can certainly use. Now, steveer is something that all the naturalistic, the naturalists, I like to call them, started using. Oh, we can't use autofrocious sweetness. We only can use things from nature as if amino acids are not from nature. Whatever. So steveer actually is an herb that they find in the grown wildly, that actually tastes sweet. And the province, it's got a slight bitter taste to it. So you have to really kind of blend it. Usually it's mixed with some kind of other sweetener, artificial sweetener, to kind of even it off, and allow it to be consumed without having that super bitter taste. I happen to like it a lot. If the right type, steveer balance for me is the best one, because it's steveer mixed with the inulin fiber, which is unabsorbable, sourced fiber. And I see people get really good results that steveer balance you can even unlimited amounts of what you're dying, if they're worried about it. The problem with the splendor and equal packages is they add a gram of dextrose, or a gram of, usually, it's usually dextrose that they knew put in there. Well, I've seen multi-dextron. They're all, it's basically sugar. But it's only one gram per pack, but most people eat five, ten, five, and twenty packets a day. So that's not a good idea to do. So when you're dieting for a show, stick with the steveer balance, offseason, if you want to take in a couple packets of sucrose, not a big deal. Like I said, I put it in my D-Cath coffee every morning. I know people that add it to their shakes, they make it a little sweeter. There's nothing wrong with that. Tantos, oh sorry, I just want to bring up sugar alcohols. Sugar alcohols that they used to use back in the day would give you crazy diarrhea, malabsorption. They would terrible. The new one's say, like, you know, a rithritol, they're sugar alcohols, but they kind of don't really, you know, mess with blood sugar that much. But remember, guys, there's no such thing as a free calorie. Every carb count. The only carbs you can't have the count would be your five-risk carbs. But sugar alcohols is still coloric. They're not sugar, but they coloric. Time for a couple of morEQuestions. Panos, Dave, I've heard that when you use synthetic H-H in the morning, you must not eat carbs the first meal, but thanks. Is that true? Is it release of insulin, make any negative effects on your synthetic H-H? And what's your opinion about the best time to take your H-H during the day? Yeah, I like to take a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in the morning. Because you're the most catabolic in the morning. You're having the most catabolic hormones coming from cortisol early in the morning. And then as the day goes on, cortisol drops and your natural and your hormones go off your animal hormones. So you might as well take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in the morning when you're the most catabolic to try to counteract some of that, right? Because then you're going to grow better. The problem is that a lot of people, I'm just trying to think, what was the original question? I want to go back. Oh, wow. I'm kind of blanking on that as well. Oh, yeah. It was a long question about the best time to take. But that's time for me. Yeah, I remember. I remember, as I was going to say. Oh, by having carbs, yeah, for me. So when you're taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, because it's actually growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone already and you're not worrying about your body producing its own, you could eat whatever you want. Because no matter what you eat, you could eat a gallon of ice cream. It doesn't matter how much sugar is in an ice cream because if you inject G-H, you've got G-H in your bloodstream. Now, if you're trying to stimulate your body to produce its own growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and you're eating a high carb diet, high sugar content, okay, that could suppress your natural G-H release. But we're not trying to get our body to release G-H. We're actually taking synthetic G-H. So it doesn't matter what the environment is that you put it in, if you're taking synthetic G-H, you've got the G-H in your body and it's going to act like G-H. And that's the bottom line. But if you're taking something that stimulates growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone release from the pituitary gland, now you have to look at what's the environment around it because maybe you won't actually release as much G-H as you thought, if you have an ostimulus that you're giving your body, make sense? Think it should. Mm-hmm. Sorush SRD can you explain sodium loading? I'm not a big sodium load. I believe in sodium loading the whole diet, meaning that never cut your sodium. Heat would ever salt you want, it's a matter of fact, salt your foods, the more sodium you consume, the less sodium sensitive you become. How do you become sodium sensitive? Well, if you don't need a lot of salt to your diet, what happens is your body gets the senses low sodium. So it sends out a signal to release the hormone aldosterone from the adrenal glands. Aldosterone's job is to re-absorb sodium and water. So eating salt will actually make you more salt sensitive because the longer you go with that salt, okay, your body starts to release and then a hormone known as aldosterone. Aldosterone's job is to re-absorb sodium and water. So if you're eating no salt, you're gonna have high aldosterone every time you do eat salt, you're retaining. If you're eating enough salt in your diet already, your aldosterone production will never go up, okay, because your body doesn't need it. So when you do eat a big salty crazy meal, you won't absorb that whole meal. You'll actually pee at everything and get rid of it because you don't have super high aldosterone. So the biggest mistake people make is somehow is restricting salt in their diet, thinking it's gonna get them leaner and it's not. Prime time, what's the idea behind having your feet elevated while winning backstage for a show? Well, the problem is when you backstage, okay, if you're on your feet, all the fluid that's left in your body will pool in your legs and you'll get swollen ankles and a lot of times your legs can smooth that a little bit. By laying down and elevating your feet, you're allowing the blood to come back to the heart and get re-circulated efficiently without that blood leaving, okay, the circulatory system and what happens is the blood's not really leaving. It's the actual clear fluid portion of the blood, the water part of the blood that was leaving and going under the skin and is gonna create more subqtaneous water, okay, we don't want that. One morEQuestion is from Iisha and Thayton. It's a question that we used to have a lot on the first few episodes of Iron Davey. Some say bodybuilding is not a real quote sport, your take. You know, you're going to the gym, you're working out. It's a physical endeavor. It requires proper nutrition, it requires sleep, right? It requires the use of possibly performance enhancing drugs. That to me is a sport. Now, bodybuilding is a sport, but bodybuilding competition is judged like a pageant, like almost a beauty pageant. There are certain guidelines that you want to look for and muscle size and conditioning and something like that, but ultimately, the judges pick who they like. What the overall look is that they're a pit that they're attracted to. That's like, hey, that's what I think bodybuilding should be about. So there's real no in stone rules. You can kind of vote for whoever you want as a judge. And so that makes it a pageant in a sense. So it's a sport in the gym when you compete. It's a pageant. Don't get upset when you don't get the placing you want because you think you deserve it. That doesn't mean that everyone else agrees with the European end of the way you look. Some people may say, you know what, he looks good, but he doesn't look. I don't think that's not a look that's appealing to me. So that's why people get frustrated. And you can't get frustrated. It is what it is. That's the way it goes. It's not a subjective sport. It's a opinionated sport. And the judges get to decide who they like and who they want and that winner circle. That is going to do it for this episode of As Game Again. Broke to you by Speeding Nutrition, visit speciesnutrition.com. For Dave Lomo and our producer Tyler Shore, I'm Siddee for Rokey. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: BUILDING FREAKY CALVES! #askDave [sJgXtBu_y1w].txt ===

Alright, television on rxmuscle.com, this is astabe. I don't know, as hashtag astabe brought to you by species nutrition, visit speciesnutrition.com. And if you follow rxmuscle on instagram, check the story now for an exclusive promo code available at speciesnutrition.com again on the rxmuscle instagram. This is your third even question. And as you're showing, Dave, the plumber, all your questions on diet trening supplementation. I, if you've you pros, competitions, of course, this past weekend, exciting, temp of pro and the Olympia in less than five weeks. So we now bring in Dave, plumber, Dave, every week, we get abouT4 or fivEQuestions about stand, efforting and his vertical diet. Well, you just spoke to stand about an hour ago. Yeah, I know stand for many years. And we go back. He took my guru course. I did his diet years ago, a little bit as offseason diet. And stands for these guys, like, really educate themselves on everything that they're doing and really immerse himself in it. And he's, you know, he's launching a new business. He's got this new diet. He's promoting it's basically like, like more of a food diet, you know, trying to get your nutrients in micronutrients from all the food you're eating. And he's been implementing it with a lot of these strong men that he's friends with, like, Brian Shaw. He's got a food service that kind of caters to the diet that he recommends. And he's working. He launched that. So he's a real business man. And so I like talking to him. So I like learning from him. Actually, I like to hear all the way. All the way, he came up with all the ideas he had. He had a tons of real estate. He bought and sold back in the early 2000s. He did the same thing with a, he built it to telecommunications business. So he's just an interesting guy. Plus he's got, you know, he's a, he's an awesome power left there. And he's a great body of older term pro at the Masters and National Years ago. So I, I just like to surround myself like with people, like him that are super successful. And here with, you know, that they did and I know the community really likes him. It's got a very popular YouTube channel now. So we got him on and I think it's, I think people like the discussion aside from my microphone issues. I was having that it was a little buzzing. The interview was terrific. Luckily, Stan talked most of the time. So again, it keep an eye out for that live. Would Stan ever been coming soon to Rx muscle dot com. Let's go to thEQuestion. The first two questions from the Dave Palombo experience at the first question. Dave, what are the process by which facts affect cholesterol levels positively and which ones are most effective for this actions? You know, what we found over the years and I always suspected this is that facts really don't change. I shouldn't say that. Fats don't really make your cholesterol worse. Okay. So you, you can need a ton of cholesterol and you're not going to have high cholesterol. But if you're trying to sugar your body will synth it seems like sugar is like almost like a catalyst for your body to start synthesizing more of its own. So what they found is that high sugar diets actually result in high LDL cholesterol, which is your bad cholesterol carriers. And that's just a cause and effect. The American Heart Association came out recently and said that the consumption of abstract rate of fats don't have any bearing on cholesterol levels. And that's a huge statement by them. For them to make that statement is validation that that's really a fact. I've been saying it for years anyway though. IMean, I have 24 whole legs a day when I was diving or getting ready for my shows and for trying to put weight on in the offseason. And my cholesterol was always low. So there is a genetic component to cholesterol. But fact consumption doesn't seem to alter it as much as what your carbohydrate consumption happens to be. Now, by taking good essential fatty acids, okay, like what I put into a mechanized fish oil, even in permausa, you could definitely influence positively your cholesterol profiles lower LDLs, somewhat raised HLs, HLs, increasing by supplementation is more controversial subject. We're not really sure if there's a cause and effect on that. Taking in mono and saturated fats like a macadamin, anodol, extroversion, all-wheel, if you can find the real extroversion. We'll also lower LDL cholesterol. Likewise, fiber consumption will do that as well. But the bottom line is that the fat that you consume in your diet really doesn't seem to have a bearing anymore on the cholesterol that you're eating. Except that if you eat good fats, you can lower your your bad cholesterol. It doesn't seem like you really could raise it by eating the wrong fats, which is interesting. Second question again from the Dave Blumbo Experience app. If T3 increases metabolism of all nutritional components, if you took it offseason and ate more protein, couldn't this yield more muscle due to increased protein synthesis? If you take off, why I didn't catch with what they said? If you took offseason and ate more protein, could it have yield more muscle due to increased protein synthesis? Not necessarily because what the problem is that if your thyroid is not low to the game with it, you take extra thyroid, you're going to speed yourself up too much. What's going to happen is you're going to invariably eat up muscle tissue. You're going to metabolize it. Remember, if you're low in thyroid, taking thyroid will definitely increase protein synthesis. If you're already at optimal levels, you increase your thyroid too much, then you become catabolic from it. Now obviously taking out of all steroids and clumbuteral and GH can spare muscle to some degree. My guys can diet real hard on high amounts of T3 and not lose muscle. But in the average person, that's just not the case. I take them to thyroid. The offseason is not necessarily a good idea because it's going to speed you up too much and it's going to make it hard to gain weight. Let's go to our Instagram questions. Again, our Instagram handle is official underscore Rx muscle. If you're following us on Instagram, check our story for an exclusive deal at Speciesnutrition.com. Let's first go to Ashley Burns, the difference between GHRP and 2 and what and how do you choose 1. You know, according to what I've read and anecdotally done by trying a couple of these different ones, I found that the GHRP seems to be the most potent with the least side effects. The only side effect of GHRP seems to be hunger, which if you're trying to eat more food and gain weight, it might be good. I have guys, and I'm using the GHRP just for appetite increasing. I don't know how great it is in terms of GH release because I don't think anyone's really tested it. But from what I've read and conceptually on paper, GHRP is one of the stronger ones better than 2. Kyle Maranucci, how do you know when to cut out red meat? I'm currently a bit over two weeks after my show and my leanest ever should I even cut it out totally or keep it in. It doesn't make a difference. If you're in shape already then there's no reason to cut it out. You're probably who look worse if you do. For some people I cut red meat and I switch to more fish intake because fish seems to be a better insulin sensitizer, which means that you don't release as much insulin, which means you burn fat better. So when people have trouble with burning fat, I usually switch them to all fish at the end or egg whites, and that seems to work at getting them lean or much quicker. If you look good already, don't change anything. I always tell people that don't mess with what looks great. Big John Gaines working out sciatica, I have it bad. My daily functional pain is about a four and I can get through all workouts and day-to-day life like that. However, some days like today it puts me out completely and I can't do anything. It's at a 20 now. I've been seeing a doctor and hopefully you can fix it. I think it will be the same if I worked out or not thoughts. You know, it's impossible for me really to know. First of all, why are you having sciatica pain? Is it an injury? Is it an hour ring of the spaces, the framing, the terminals come out? I don't know. Sometimes working out makes it better because it stretches out that area. It opens up the space a little more, gives those nerves a little more room to go. So then I think, you know, prod it and pinch it off. So the answer to your question is, I don't know. But you got it to go by feel. If you feel good and you feel like, you know what, hey, I'm going to go to the gym. It's going to help stretch me out a little bit. I'm going to feel better. That's fine. Don't go and try to set any records, especially if this is your first day back. Feel it out. Mikey, Diesel Dave, I just finished up a show on Saturday and I'm going to start your clen Out Protocol next week. I remember you saying you should still run your diuretics post show for a certain amount of time. But what is the best time to stop them at post show? clen and T3. Well, clenMeter on T3 should be tapered down over two weeks. Usually when clenMeter all you go down to 20 microamps twice a day for a week and then 20 microamps per day for a week and you go off. T3 can you go right down to 25 microamps per day for a week and then half of that. 12.5 microamps per day for a week and then go off. That those are easy to get off of. As far as what was the other question I'm trying to think they were asking. You're still run diuretics post show. Sorry. I'm losing my mind. Only use the diuretics if you need them. Some people think, oh Dave said use diuretics. I just keep using them every day the week after the show and they're like ridiculously dehydrated and feel terrible. No, wait. If you gain 10, 15 pounds then take a half of the isidin' before bed for a couple days. But you don't necessarily need it necessarily. Wait until you start gaining, you know, excessive amounts of weight because if you just keep taking a take and take a take and you're going to eventually have a big rebound off of it. But if you use it only when you get swollen and you get that extra water after you're body you won't rebound from that. BT4 Live Dave your thoughts on using libido pills as a pump blood flow supplement and then he throws in I guess for workouts as well. Yeah, I've talked about this before. You know, before by Agra before Seattle was around they used your Hindi for like erection medications. It really didn't work very well because your heavy can increase blood flow through the body. You know, it opens up the blood vessels a little bit to asserting the grain. When they discovered a biagrant which was the first erection medication, what they did was they discovered something that opens up the causes, the age-old dilation that causes the, you know, a pump effect what if you want in the genitals exclusively. So, biagrant increases blood flow through the genitals which is what causes erections. It doesn't increase blood flow through the rest of the body like that. It doesn't have that same effect. So, people take these biagrant before they go to the gym thinking they get it at about a pump. The only place you're getting a pump is in your, in your pants. And that's not going to help you perform better on, in the gym or on a body-building stage. So, don't be silly people. You know, stop doing, stop the insanity, okay? You just do them crazy stuff. If anything, you're more than likely to pass out on stage because a lot of times it lowers blood pressure. These, these, these anti-irection drugs were originally blood pressure meds that just happened to have as a side effect that you got in a row. That you got an erection from it. So, I wouldn't recommend taking it when you pour your alcohol at stage. Once again, don't do crazy stuff before you go on stage. Trust me. Christy Cookie, why do you think there is more drama and trash talk these days more than ever a cough cough Sergio O'Liva, Junior cough cough? Seems like social media has, in their opinion, ruined the sport beyond repair. And guys, and to talk more than letting the results speak for themselves and stayinGHumble. More guys are offended and trash talk and let it get to them more often than it shows. So, in general, your thoughts on, I guess, the reason increase in trash talk in body-building social media. Well, these, these athletes know that social media is important for the marketability and for making money for themselves. And what's going to draw people to their page other than, you know, the great pictures of these athletes? Trash talking. Think about how many views, you know, Sergio, yeah, so how many views just and gets, you know, just in a regular way. You know, Justin Rodriguez, when they post shit about each other, they're getting crazy amounts of interaction people looking at what they're doing. I don't, I'm not, I'm the, I'm the post-journalist social media, but I'm not excessive about it. And I posted up a couple of my clients who did really good last weekend in their shows and actually was the weekend before that I think. Well, some of this weekend too, but I posted like, well, the winner is that I work with, and I got a lot of, I get tell you, I got a lot of people signed up with me for coaching after that. Because maybe they didn't know that I was still coaching people or maybe they didn't realize the results I got with my clients. And when they saw all these people, they didn't really, really well. People signed up with me. So it works. So I understand why guys go out there and sensationalize things and they trash each other because they think, well, who cares? Doesn't really bother me. And I'm going to get people responding to me and, and eventually that could lead to more business for myself. And I think that's exactly what people are doing. Worst Brown, Europeanian of using a Cerma-Rellin for bodybuilding. How effective is it compared to H.H. Avenue prescription for this along with testosterone? Cerma-Rellin is a GHRP or growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone home and releasing peptide. It's Simulade's growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone home and releasinGHormone. It's produced by the Hype of Falmus in the brain. And what it does is it stimulates the pituitary to directly release GH. The problem is that everyone responds differently to this stuff. To compare GH to Cerma-Rellin, it would be like comparinGH.C.G to testosterone. Because you're trying to make your body naturally produce a certain amount. You can't naturally produce anywhere near what your body could take. What could be, I guess, injected in usable form. Meaning that if you take three, four, I use a GH. You couldn't possibly do it released that much GH in a Cerma-Rellin shot. So the comparison is not good. If you can afford to take the real stuff, you're going to get way better results. Consentine Malamov, where you influence by Binsjuron as legacy, your method sound like you think the way that Vince did. I like a lot of what he says. He was a big protein fat advocate for building muscle and for building that animal effect in the body using nutrition. He was back in that 80s year, although when they really were using more red meats and heavy creams. So they were going with protein in fact, the fat sources were not necessarily ideal. But the concept was the same. A lot of the results they got were really good because of that. People enjoyed being in a ketogenic diet. He really was ahead of his time back in the day. He was trening wise ahead of his time, diet wise, supplementation wise. I always say, I think if I've seen father, it's because I've seen stood on the shoulder of giants. Vince was one of the even scrumptious giants that guys like me and Chad and all these people stood on top of to see further. So he got us to this point and then we went further. I actually don't know if my dieting techniques were directly related to reading about his stuff. It might have been more of the spual and some of the other guys, but he certainly influenced me in some degree. Because I remember reading about his diets and his philosophies and muscle manganes, something like that. So absolutely. Marco Tunisi is a janky-lating away your testicles are forced to produce more testosterone. No. When you have an orgasm and you inject that, you're just releasing sperm. The sperm that you've produced in the testicles that were stored in the epididimus of your testicles are now just released through the spermatic ducts into the, you know, out of the urule or your rethro. It has nothing to do with testosterone, production whatsoever. You can have sperm production in the notestosium. It's unlikely, but you, you got to remember, when you go on a cycle and you shut your testicles down essentially. Okay. They're still producing a little bit, but not much. They're still producing a little sperm and not much. Okay. So when you, when you ejaculate on when you're shut down, you basically it's all the prostate and that's different. And all those, those little glands in there that are releasing fluid. Okay. But, you know, when you go back on and when you go off, excuse me, you body turns yourself back on. Now you're producing a dog and the stuff releasing sperm doesn't lower testosterone. Despite what people think, you know, the old adage and a Muhammad Ali never had sex six weeks before. Fights, we go to week in him. It's just not true. Jane Ramirez 58. Dave, how would you treat shoulder pain, which severe arthritis? How would I, I'll tell you right now, I can't imagine how to hold the time. I just suffer. I don't take any pain meds. I had my left shoulder replaced. I took some pain meds for the firsT4 days after surgery. But I'm saying, I never needed pain. I never used pain meds. While I had the shoulder pain and while I was walking around, but now my right one definitely needs a replacement. It's been, it's been a year and I'm ready to get this one done. But I still don't. I'd rest right now in that in pain. Everything I do, moving wise hurts. But, you know, once you get on to the pain med, you know, path, it's a brutal pathway and a lot of times leads to bad places. So, if you could avoid it, I would choose that. So, avoiding it, I take arthritis, 10 pills a day, you know, five twice a day. Every day, religiously, along with my female allies, which is my minerals, which are going to help prepare the bone. And I just deal with it. And it seems to work okay. Once again, it's not getting better, but it's not really necessarily getting worse. It's just getting a little annoying at this point. So, at some point, I will get this right shoulder replaced as well. Noah, the fox, what is the best set-slash rep scheme you found to bring up your calves? I've told people this story before. I was a big believer in, you know, high rafts and high sets. My calves do not know what I would never grow. And I was in the, I was in the actual gold gym medicine. I remember, Lufra Rigna was on the machine next to me. And I got up and I was doing some calf raises. And I started really light, you know, with the way I warm up setting. Which was still a decent amount of weight. And I did this set, and I'm like, holy mac, but my calves feel pumped, man. And it's, you always get a better work at gold's advantage because of all the celebrities in them. And I'm like, this is weird. So I went and tried to do a couple more sets. And all I was feeling was the bottom of my feet hurting at this point. But I wasn't even feeling into my calves anymore. I said, you know, I wonder how I would do if I just did, like, one set of standing, one set of c to calves, since they hit different heads of the calf muscle. And just left the gym. That's it. At the end of my workout, bang that I had to take no time at all, give it a hundred percent intensity. I've one set to really, really focus on. And I did it. And I would do it twice a week every three days. And it worked great. My calves grew. So that isolation, that ability to get full range of motion, to have a nice, you know, rested calf before I'm doing my calf raises, it made a world of difference. As you are, BB20, what were the cycles of Arnold's era like for a types and doses? So I guess Arnold, that classic era, I, this question has been asked in different variations of the poor, but we'll address it here. I, look, I don't know what Arnold took. I, I never sat down and talked with him. So for me to make speculate would be merratic, okay? What the guys did like, they liked they animal back in the day, they took the animal pills, they took windshield tabs, they used a lot of decker and cream of all, you know, pre-emovol and probably went to show a really popular and contest prep. And there was no really aromatase inhibitors, they would use all the decks and stuff like that. So they were very simple cycles, they were not high in doses. No one did a thousand milligrams of tests, they would do like 500, that would be a huge cycle. And it worked for them. So trening and eating was impeccable on, on point. So maybe today's, body goes to take a play, you know, page out of the playbook of these past champions, maybe it's not all about the drugs, maybe it's more about how you tren and how you rest and how you allow your body to be intuitive. Let's go to a trinketous vialis better for bulking. So it's kind of a two per question here. What's better for bulking? One gram test 500 test slash 500 EQ, second part. Also, it's someone can handle the tren sides and has healthy kidney liver BV values. What a BOK to use in 10 weeks or a bit more. I think 12 to 16 weeks would be fine. And I think that, you know, I would go higher in the test, you know, anywhere from up to 750 milligrams a week, you can do with some sort of an anabolic, which maybe a lower dose is in what you're recommending. I see a lot of cycles today, by younger guys are trying to be centered on the, they think that they use more anabolic and less testosterone, less side effects than they'll grow better. The test posture is the number one building muscle buildinGHormone in the body. So you want your base to be high in testosterone, where the B750 a thousand a week, those are really your effective dose just and combine that with an anabolic, whether it be, you know, 150, 200 milligrams of trenbolone a week spread out or or DACA or EQ even or masteron. You're going to get results. Remember, steroids build muscle, okay, and spare muscle loss. So it doesn't really matter what you, you know, what you're taking. You can get ready for a show taking an anagreal day. You can get ready for a show taking, you know, one shot of test of me. If you die hard and you take the right supplements, you're going to look good. Tall man Dave, I was thinking about taking caffeine pills for free workout was wondering if 200 mg around 5 p.m. before I tren would be too much. I don't want it to keep me up all night. The only thing I drink all day long is water and I don't like coffee. So my caffeine sensitivity level could be different from coffee and soda drinkers, your thoughts. One more time. What does he want to take? It's a 200 mg caffeine pills at around 5 p.m. before he trens. As long as it's not going to keep you up all night, that's what I would fear. IMean, if you're pretty well adapted to caffeine, then it'll probably be alright. But if you're taking it, it's six o'clock at night and you're not gettinGHome to like probably 8, 8, 30. You're going to have trouble sleeping. That's a lot of caffeine to pump it to your body. Unless you're one of these people that has a very, very high tolerance to caffeine because you consume it all the time. The Russian Prince 96 Dave, I'm considering doing my first test only cycle and read a lot of different opinions on what it should be like. The majority people say that less than 500 mg of test won't do anything while some others like Jordan Peter for example advocate lower doses such as 250 or 300 to start with. What do you stress? I'm a big believer in, and I think a thousand milligrams of testosterone per week is a sweet spot. It builds the most muscle has the least side effects. I think once you drop down from there, you're not as effective. If you take 250 a week, you're just basically replacing what your body naturally produces. So you shut your body down, you replace it. That's a waste. 500 is the first threshold that you're going to get good results from. Okay, 750 is better than 500. A thousand is better than 750. And when you go over a thousand, you get diminishing returns. You get more side effects rather than the muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So I always found that a thousand of me to sweet spot. If you wanted to make it easy, you could take 250 milligrams every other day. And I think that's more than adequate. Interesting one here. I just want to save this one because thEQuestion that we ask about you during your competing career, we'd like to save those towards the end. So what's the basic nickname? Is it okay to give blood while on a A's for example, a low TRT dose of 200 mg? In terms of donating blood, do you think you're talking about? Yes. Yeah, it's fine. Yeah, I don't, a lot of guys give blood just to kind of get the thickness of their blood down. Because if you take some red blood cells out, you're watering down the blood a little bit. It won't be as likely that these blood cells will stick together and cause a clot. I think it's a good idea to give blood if you're hot. But if you're not super high, sometimes you know the benefit that you get performance wise in the gym and doing cardio, because you're a better oxygen carrying capacity is a better way to go. Ashenic with hands, I know you're a big Mac nut oil fan, but what are your thoughts on butter? I used to spray olive oil until we educate him about it's low smoke point and losinGHis nutritional value when cooked. I think what I use is I use grass fed butter. That's the cows were fed grass rather than green. Most of the fats in the butter now or a lot of them will be these a good essential Omega 3 fats, okay, with the DHA EPA and them. And that's just good for you. So I think that's a better way to go Mac oil obviously, to Rithagoy to go as well. You don't want to have too many pro inflammatory fats which are like corn oils and soy bean oils and stuff like that. Those are just not good for you. Tony LeBeeb coming down a prep, what do you think of a zero calorie syrup flavoring, Splenda stevia, Walden Farms should they be cut out? I add them into my oats and my egg whites and they make the meals that much better. Yeah, you know, I named a million ingredients, so I don't know what he's using. I wouldn't like the Walden Farms stuff. You know, some stevia base, you know, sweeteners, even a little bit of the superlose like the splender, okay, even some as per tank, I don't have a problem with you. You know, equal packets are fine. As long as you're that overdoing it, when you do anything excessively, you sabotage yourself. If you do it in moderation and you're doing a little bit here or there, that's fun. Olympian prime, let's clear the air about this so-called cyclical ketogenic diet or CKD, where people eat enormous amounts of carbs once a week, 400 to 800 grams worth your thoughts. That's what they call this cyclical ketode diet. I don't, I think, from my experience, okay, a ketogenic diet is super, I guess effective. However, you can't eat for a whole day, okay, or two days, then the Shane had this body off the side. It was basically a ketogenic diet, but you ate for like, you know, both days, sat at a Sunday on the weekend, and it just sat you back to you for you. You can't recover from it. So all the good losses you got up to that point now are negated and reverse. You're might not gain any weight in the long run, but you're not losing weight. So to me, I'm not a big advocate or that. I don't like these super high carb days every, you know, five days or six days. It just doesn't work. Question on ice-sized by species nutrition, J, G, or G, Dave, I sliced a 100% stage 100% protein, but it's 27.5. Well, he's test 27 the new version, which has been about a year now, 27.5 grams for serving up a 31 grams serving. I thought 100% will be 31 grams of 31 grams for serving. Could you explain? I repeat thEQuestion, sir. I'm not sure. I'm going to grasp the one. So he said the ice-sized states 100% protein, but it's 27 grams of a 31 grams serving. I thought 100%. I got it. It's a 100% whey isolate, meaning that we only use whey isolate protein in there. Now, when you take a whey isolate, okay, and you separate, okay, when you take, I should say whey protein from milk and you separate and you filter off the lactose and the crap that's out of there. You can only extract so much protein. Currently, given the extraction methods that are available, we use the highest quality whey isolate that you could possibly get. So there's no extraction process that is better that can yield a higher amount of protein per serving than what we have. So 27.5 grams of protein is actually 27.8, but we have to around that. 27.8 grams of protein per 32 grams of serving size is the highest yield whey isolate on market, okay. So it's 100% isolate. We don't have any other, you know, like we don't put concentrate in there or anything like that. Now, we do have some isolate that's been further digested into what we call hydrolysis or hydrolysis. That's just digestion products of whey isolate. Now, we only put a little bit in there because if you put too much in there, it destroys the taste. And once again, I'm a huge believer of having a high quality protein, but it's got a taste good because if people don't like to taste them, it then not going to buy your protein. And so I really pride myself to be honest with you. When we assess the cost of what it costs to make isolation, the flavoring system is so sophisticated and comes from like these certain flavor houses, it's almost like nestleys. You know, it's that expensive, the flavor system. That's more cost, that adds more to the cost than the actual protein itself. So my flavor system is more expensive than the protein. That's how disgusting and how stupid I am. But it's also how brilliant I am because we have a great tasting product that's clen. It's actually lactose free. No isolate is lactose free, but if anyone says that on the container, they're lying. But it's so low in lactose that it's not going to affect you even if you lactose intolerant because I am. And it just goes down and you're it's enjoyable. People look forward to drinking the shakes and that's what you want. If you have to say to yourself, oh no, I've got a shaking your tongue and if this is horrendous, I can't stand the taste. Eventually, you're just going to stop using the product. So we pride ourselves at species that say we have the best tastinGHighest quality product. Yeah, we might be a little more expensive than the next guy, but you know what? Isn't it worth paying a buck or two extra to have the best? I think it is. Last question from Matt 3.0. What does it actually feel like physically to walk around really heavy and really lean slash hard? If her dory and say it was painful on the feet, Interested to know what it actually feels like to be in that condition. It's a challenge, you know, when I was at my heaviest, I couldn't every minute of the day, I would you know, sock down a shake or put down a meal and go to the gym and tren. I felt like yeah, I'm growing, but I could not wait to get home and go to sleep at night because it was so tiring to walk around with that body weight. You know, I literally, I would, I remember Paul Delet and I was talking once, You see a lot of body weight was they kind of hooked their thumbs in their pant loops of their pants or their shorts because it's so heavy to hold your arm up all day. And to walk steps was brutal, put your shoes on was brutal. And this was the offseason. Now when I would die at down and I would probably wait, We'd come down under 300 into the 280, 70s. I would feel way, way better. I was still big, but it wasn't like I was hopping and puffing and wanting to go to sleep all the time. So it's not, look, you know, think about what it is to be like a fat person. Okay, I can't imagine what a fat person must feel like carrying around with that weight. Being in athlete, you know, big athletic and having a lot of muscle and carrying that weight around is got to be better because it's more functional. But it's still damn heavy. I'll tell you the day I knew that I was too heavy was when I would go to the, we would go to the beach in the 90s all the time on the weekends in the summer in New York. We go to Jones Beach. We bring these like, you know, these aluminum chairs because they were light and we carry them. And we'd sit on the beach and I eat my food and, you know, we'd make fun of people and people probably people around us would make fun of us. IMean, you know, big juiceheads and everything like that. And every single, at least every other time I would go, I would lean back like to like see something or reach something and all of a sudden the chair would just go right and right half. The aluminum would actually just snap and half under the weight of my body. This happened from when I was about 280 up to, you know, over 300. Then I got into my car and I told the story before. I had a Pontiac Grand Prix with T-Tops and I got into the car and once again, I think someone, I think someone was beeping behind me and I reached back and turned around and all of a sudden I heard the seat go snap. And I actually snapped the seat of my car. A car seat because I was, I was 320 pounds. It's a lot of weight and I was a functional 300. So when I leaned back in my back, which was huge, you know, musculi contract that against that seat at my weight, it was like I was actually trying to break the seat in half and that's exactly what I did. So I knew I said you know what? I think I'm going to start diving. And I had to bite me car. That is going to do for this episode of ass day, but brought to you as always by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com For Dave Wumble and our producer Tyler Shore, I'm Sady Furuki. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: BULKING WITHOUT ANABOLICS： Waste Of Time？ #askDave [TfEzqceXbAs].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition Lighter Products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the Evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA PIXX Road, there's 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Alright, tell vision on RSMuscle.com. This is as Dave better known as hashtag as Dave. You're a 30 minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Plumbo all your questions, diet, trening, supplementation. I have to be pros, news, bodybuilding, anything outside of bodybuilding and beyond. It is all on the table as we now bring in Dave. You just recorded a preview video for these, this weekend Chicago Pro. A show that had the late inclusion of one really winkler. A lot of big names in the show, Hunter LaBrada. Mahama Shabana has had impressive form this year. A son, Mustafa, Max Charles. A lot of excitement, but as you did know, this is really show to lose. I think that, you know, look, IMean, Rulli Winkler is by far the number one guy in this line. IMean, as much as I love Hunter LaBrada's physique and I think he's great, you know, he obviously really impressed the hell out of us last year. And I'm sure he made improvements this year. There's no doubt that he's coming back better than he was. I don't think he could touch a Rulli Winkler who's at 100% because I think 100% literally Winkler could potentially win the Olympia this year. I think Rulli's coming in and make a statement. He's got to be really upset from last year, not being able to do that Olympia, getting that COVID at the last minute. This is an important show for him. It's an important show for a number of reasons. Number one, it's important because he wants to let everyone know that he's still around and he's still one of the best out there. Number two, it's a retribution for not being able to do the Olympia last year. And number three, he wants that momentum going into the Arnold and then going into the Olympia. And so I think we're going to see an amazing Rulli Winkler. If we don't, this could be the writing on the wall that maybe something's going on with Rulli. But I don't, I've seen some pictures from, you know, that he's posted over the last couple of weeks. IMean, this guy is, looks insane to me. I hope he comes in at his best. He'll be hard to beat. I think Huntsal Abraut will be right there, Mo. Shabani is going to be right there. So I think we got a lot of great guys in this lineup that could potentially do some serious damage. And get, I guess what, that, two 12-class and classic class are also going to be outstanding. He got a key on pierced in and there. You got a carriage badge on my guy in there in the 2012. You're going, this is going to be a lot of battles up on that stage. And I'm thinking we're going to see some, maybe the best show in the year. We posted a picture of Caripadjo kind of a weeks ago. IMean, Ricky Form, heading into the Chicago Pro. Check that video out right now. It is live on our YouTube channel, Dave Flumbos Preview of the Chicago Curals. Go to thEQuestions, the first few questions. From the Dave Flumbos Experience app, Dave, I know that your Keter Genie diet works great with building muscle losing body fat. But I'm trying to understand why a lot of pro bodybuilders knock it down and say Caripadjo are way more beneficial for bodybuilding use if you can explain. You've got to look at who's at the person you're dealing with. For the average person or the introductory bodybuilder, getting in shape for a competition, a lot of times a ketogenic diet works really well. It works amazing for women. Because women don't do well with carbs and women don't have crazy fast metabolism with the exception of there is a few. And I've worked with women that you got a few carbs to. When you deal with guys who however are at the elite level and they're packing 280 pounds of muscle on their body, they'recompeting for 10 years. They have muscle maturity. They don't walk around with a lot of body fat because the metabolism are insane. Those people need carbs. We all need a fuel source. But when you have that amount of muscle that demands down like energy, sometimes eating a ketogenic diet just can't provide that fuel source. And what happens is you want to be using the protein you're eating anyway for fuel. If you could eat carbs and I tell you, look, I've been using my ketogenic diet for years. And what I've found over the years is that for people who can metabolize the carbohydrates and eat the high protein and moderate fat, that's the best in area. But for most people, you can't give them high protein, moderate fat and moderate carbs. It's too much. They won't lose. So there has to be an expendable nutrient. So I find it for people who don't have those insane metabolism. A lot of times, using a ketogenic diet is a better approach because you're giving the body what it needs, high protein, moderate fat. Okay. And having said that, a lot of times with most of the men I work with, I don't go exclusively into a ketogenic state with them. I do some days with carbs, some days that are higher in fat. And that seems to work. And then as we get closer to the shelf, they're not losing enough weight. I'll go to more protein in fat days and go maybe into a ketogenic state. With women I usually go right into a ketogenic state because they do better in that. Why? Because their brain has a fuel source all the time. They don't get cravings, they don't get moody. I'm giving their body fat. Okay. Which is what it needs. And women's bodies, if you don't give them enough fat, especially essential fatty acids, their body will hoard fat in their lower body and the lower half of their body. Even though their upper body may get super lean, their lower body stays softer. The cost of the fat that they have a high amount of estrogen in their body. So women do better on ketogenic diets. Plus they don't like to be bloated. So when you eat no carbs, you don't hold any fluid. You look better and you mentally feel better. So once again, it's not for everyone. But if you ask that most of the people who don't like ketogenic diets are people who don't need to use a ketogenic type of amount of protein. If I'm a pro and I'm 280 pounds and I can eat carbs and I can eat protein and some fat in my diet. Now I'm going to get ripped. Why would I take all the carbs out of this no reason to? So it's not a knee jerk. Hey, this is what you have to do. It's what's the person goals? What kind of metabolism they have? What's their body? Muscle mass, weight and what's their activity level? And then you can figure out what works best. And that's what it's all about. It's about experimentation. Every person is a little different. Second question again from the Dave Pull-Ambo Experience app. Thoughts on the supplement and AD. You know, I started taking it because it's good anti-aging supplements. What's the good for brain function? I used the oral form a bit for probably six months. Then a tight medical center. A good friends over a tighten. They came out with an injectable form of it that I tried and I liked. I got to make sure a little flush when you first take it. Almost like a nice and like effect. But then that goes away after a couple minutes. And I used that for, you know, I'm still using it actually. So I find that it obviously you can inject it. It's got to be more potent at least in my mind, right? But the pill form that I use from life extension has gotten good reviews as well. So you could use both. I don't think it's necessary if you're under the age of 35 because what it really does is helps the mind of a congeria function better, which are found that all the cells of our body including brain cells. So I think it's one of these like more of an anti-aging type of situation. As we can older, this is something you might want to add to the next. They would glue to fire and glue to fire is great. But if you're really young, you probably produce enough of it naturally in your body. And you may not need to take a supplemental form of it. Obviously if you're eating, you know, a lot of, you know, taking in toxic compounds like antibiotics, it will help you deliver detox. But I find that an AD is something for probably the people over the age of 35. Obviously people in the 50s and 60s would probably benefit it for most because those are the people going to be the most efficient. Let's go to our Instagram questions again. If you're not already following this or handles official on risk or our ex muscle if you're watching us for the first time on YouTube, hit the subscribe button below hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss any of our shows segment, especially now rolling into the Chicago Pro. So before you know it's going to be the all-class condense right after that's going to be Olympia. So truck full of pre-visitments, iron debates, interviews, the whole nine, just like we do pre-contest heading into the big contest season. Let's go to Neil Zaluski, Dave, what physique did you aim to emulate when you first started bodybuilding? You know, when I first started just just working out, I wanted to look like, you know, Stallone and Rocky and Rambo. And then it went to like more of a like an Arnold like, you know, the, oh, I can't really Arnold in some of his movies, Conan and Predator and all those movies. And then, you know, once I got past the whole movie star look, then I, you know, and I started getting it to competing. I, during the A-tademy, you'd influence something. When I saw the amount of muscle he was able to add to his body, the way he trened, blooding guts, high intensity, you know, less set, more intensity, full range of motion. I just, and I saw the nasty put on his body. That was just captivating. And I, and I've said this before. When I was at that 1993, I think it was gasposing. You did it the NPC Atlantic states. He had already been Mr. Olympia, but he made tremendous improvements between 92 and 93. And he got on that stage and almost 300 pounds, gasposing six weeks before the Olympia. And he blew everyone's mind. That's, in my head was the moment that I said, ah, ah, that's what I want to do. That's how I want to look like that. And so that was really a big, I guess a big, it gave me an image of my head to strive for. That's what I was striving for. And I said, you know what, if you can do it, I can do it. And I did achieve, you know, the 300 pound mark. I did have the level of leanness that he did. I didn't have his structure. And that's why I wasn't Mr. Olympia or a pro. But I was able to use that as a, as a vision of my head to achieve. It's hard to achieve some of you. You can't envision it. Once I saw Dory did it, I was like, yes, I can do it too. Let's go to Tony win, Dave, and getting back in a weight trening almost 50 years old, haven't touched gear in over 10 years. Any advice on natural products to elevate to stonstron levels? An average guy, working at our manual work in only 30 minute break trening. But so he was asking, I guess about natural stuff. And then trening, would you keep it to a minimum, maybe a couple times per week or do you think maybe one body par per day and during the day worth relying on a couple of quick protein. So he's going into the whole thing about this. It must just stick to the natural supplements to racist sauce from levels. Well, for the, with trening, I always find thaT4 to five times a week is enough for as far as weight trening. And I like to do one body part per day. If you're going to do four days, obviously you can combine some body parts. But more five days a week is good. You definitely want to take at least two days off per week to rest. Maybe at 50, you might want to go to a three day resT4 days of trening. Having said that, I think the best natural way to, you know, a lot of people don't realize it. As we get older, people think your testosterone drops. What really happens in a lot of people and they don't realize this is that it's testosterone you're producing is the same as it was when you were a little younger. More of it is converting to other stuff. And the other stuff that converts to, when I've said this a million times, I'll repeat it because it bears protein, repeating is testosterone can convert to estrogen and it can convert to DHT or dihydrotestosterone. The DHC when it gets too elevated, it can go as hair loss, it goes acne, it goes prostate enlargement. When it converts to estrogen, we know the worst thing that estrogen production does in the body and it's not gyneclamaz, it's not fluid retention. The estrogen shuts down your pituitary gland. Okay. What it basically does is it goes to the hypothalamus in the brain and binds to estrogen receptors. It tells the hypothalamus stop producing, genetic trap, genetic tropic releasinGHormone. The genetic tropic releasinGHormone is necessary for the pituitary to be stimulated in your brain, which then produces lootinizinGHormone and fall-facilstimulatinGHormone, LHFSH, which stimulates the testicles to produce testosterone. So if you have too much estrogen around, you shut down testosterone production in your testicles. So it's a vicious cycle. So we get all there. We produce more DHC in estrogen. We have less testosterone around and then we shut down testosterone production with the all that estrogen production. So it creates a havoc on the body. And it does a very easy solution to the problem. In addition to trying to directly stimulate testosterone, naturally, which we can do with the espartic acid and a couple other products out there. My testolized product that I produced from species nutrition utilizes natural ingredients that block or blunt the production of DHT in the body and blunt the production or bind up and pull extra estrogen out of the body. Because you can't really naturally inhibit estrogen production because that would require something like an aromotace inhibitor. But you can grab up the extra estrogen and get rid of it from the body before it binds to the hypothalamus and shuts it down. And that's what testolized uses. Those two methodologies of limiting estrogen, blocking DHT production, and then also naturally or stimulating, early, the production of testosterone. When you put all that together, what you're doing is you're recreating a youthful scenario in your body. What is producing testosterone and it's staying as testosterone. And that's what you're real. That's the best way to naturally enhance it. So if you took like testolized three pills twice today, I guarantee you'd see a benefit. Not only that give it to a lot of kids who have bad acne problems, it cures that women as they get older and they get sendinGHair sometimes because their DHT levels start to predominate because the estrogen levels go down and you can take a testolized to limit the DHT production in your body and you'll see benefits of that as well. So that would be my suggestion. If that doesn't work and you just feel really low and you go for testing and you're super low in testosterone, you can contact titemeticalcenter.com, tell them day to lungo set you and you can go in hormone replacement and you have them give you an HRT dose testosterone to make GG. And I think that that would also solve the problem. But if you want to, I would suggest trying it naturally first. If you can't get it into a good range, then opt for the other hormone replacement. Well it's good to classic physique, Nash. Dave generally speaking, what's the best way to space out and dose HCG for an effective PCT after a moderately dose 12 weeks cycle of gear, not looking for the full protocol just in the ECG aspect. How long you take HCG's really up to you? IMean, for guys that are going to go back on a cycle in eight weeks after they stop, I usually do two weeks of HCG, two weeks of cloment and then four weeks off everything. If you're not going to go back on right away and you're going to stay off for six months or longer, you can do HCG for two months if you want. And I usually, I usually dose it every third day in my pregnancy protocol, my baby making protocol that I give out, I do it every other day. But for purposes of turning back on the body, every third day is perfect because you get like with HCG getting an initial dose and then you get like a second pulse after three days. So I like to do it every on every third day type of situation and usually I do anywhere from a thousand to two thousand I use every third day. And what that does is it gives you a body a nice jolt or it gives your testicles at least a nice jolt and they'll start producing more testosterone. And if you keep doing it on a regular basis, you're going to keep that testosterone production going. Now, if you're trying to clen your body out and you're trying to like get those receptors to regenerate, you don't want to stay on HCG consistently because you're going to keep your S testosterone elevated too much. You're almost wanting to drop a little bit so you take your HCG, you stimulate, let the testicles start producing something at least, then you can pull away the HCG and then whatever, you know, your body does it will probably drop the levels down a little bit because now you don't have that artificial stimulus there anymore. That's when I usually have people kick combated. So thEQuestion is, do you want to turn yourself back on because you're going to go back on in eight weeks or are you going to stay off for a long period of time in which case you might want to use HCG, you know, continuously. I take a shot of HCG every couple weeks just to kind of like wake my body up. Even though my levels naturally are good there, you know, they're still a little low and I don't really want to go on HCRT. I don't feel I need it but I like to take a shot of HCG every three weeks or so just to kind of like, boom, give my testosterone levels a rise. I stay on my test-sized products and my estrogen and DHCR lower and everything seems to work really well in that case. It was good to team team band band, good for another post-contot test question. I've always wondered and one of the explanation of the rebounding event at the contest. I wanted to place a lot of people who don't want to go. In my show Ultra-shredded and now when I eat a meal within an hour or two feels like I've never eaten any food at all personally, I've made a very good rebound putting on 15 to 20 pounds a little bit of cheating but mostly all my meals have been clen just off thEQuantity larger, score wondering what this physiological, I guess this question is the physiological science I guess behind the rebound given his circumstances that he's gained 15 to 20 pounds but he kind of wants a better explanation as far as coming and shredded eating feeling like he's never eaten before yet putting on that weight. When your body is being deprived of nutrients for a long period of time because you're dieting and I'm just trying to mobilize stuff out of the cells. You want to burn, you want to duplicate glycogen out of your muscles, you want to duplicate glycogen out of the liver, you want to mobilize fat out of the fat cells. Your body is not happy about this. You're hiding once to store it. Once it's trying to restore itself to what it was prior to you starting to die it but what you're doing is you're putting yourself in a deficit of energy, you're taking fat burners, you're doing cardio, you know. So you're doing all this stuff is making your body mobilize stuff out when it really doesn't want to. It likes to stay the same all the time. That's why we have a certain set point. The body will fight to stay at that set point. If you try to lower your weight, okay, by burning fat, it's going to fight you. If you try to gain weight, it's going to burn up those extra calories. That's just the way the body works. So now you do this for 16 weeks, right? You get in the best shape of your life, you're a 2% body fat and now you start to eat, okay. More food than your body requires. Okay, glycogen stores are empty. They're going to start filling up with carbs, okay. You're going to feel bigger. Now your body is going to have a more volume-wise muscle cell which is going to put it in a really out of bulk, you know, state. Now the muscle cells want to grab protein and store them as muscle tissue essentially because it's scared because you've been restricting it for so long. That's the phenomenon. That's the anabolic phenomenon or the anabolic rebound phenomenon you get. It has nothing to do with the drugs you're taking. That's why a lot of people say, oh, I got to do a massive cycle after my show for six weeks to get the rebound. You don't need to. You have so many drugs in your system already if you're taking out of all it's that you have enough there to grow. It's the food. It's the targeting of the food because a lot of people after a show they eat a lot of junk but they don't really have a regimented eating and they actually wind up night eating enough protein. They're eating too many carbs in fact. They get bloated. They get they don't feel good and then they never really achieve anything. You have to have aromasingle, your mind has got to be focused. Okay, shows over. I took my break. I took a few days off after the show. I'm ready to go back to the gym now. I'm going to build some muscle. I'm going to eat red you meant it. It doesn't have to be super crazy clen but you can eat more food but you got to get those six meals, seven meals in a day. You post-workout shake and if you do this religiously for four to six weeks after your show, you will put on muscle. Your body wants to build muscle after that. It wants to store. It just wants to store. It also wants to store fat but that's why you're not going to overdue the food because you don't want to get fat just because you're, you know, but ironically enough that the push your body is going to build so much muscle after the show is over, after the diets over. A lot of that storage that would normally happen in a typical off-season scenario is not going to happen here because your body is using all that fat that you're eating and the stored fat as a fuel source to fuel the muscle building process. So you've got the perfect environment to grow. It's not about, it's a lot of people think it's about the drugs. It's not. And when you withdraw the drugs and you start doing PCT right after a show, it's actually good because your body is clener and when you're clener and you're not eating and when you're not taking a lot of anabolic, your body has a better appetite. So the key is getting enough food in trening, stimulate, not muscle. You don't want to do a lot of sets. You don't want to do a lot of, you know, different crazy exercises stick to your basics and I promise you you'll put muscle on after your show even in the absence of taking drugs. Let's go to lag and no excuse. He wants to know what's far as dumbbell pullovers. If you can maybe want to demonstrate this by gesture, can hit the chest more than hitting the lats. You know, I probably if this was two years or I wouldn't be able to demonstrate anything like I'm going to reach out in my head but I can reach out my head now and I could show this. You know, Dorian was a big pullover guy and Dorian's fault for Dorian did them for lats and he felt if you sit in the machine, the old Dorian was pullover machine. You sat in a machine like this and there was like a pad here and a pad here with a bar you grab and you went back behind you and you pulled the bar down driving from your elbows which is really basically driving from your lats and he felt it had built more of the the lats that kind of sticks out from the front when you do that front lats spread. So he liked those pullovers. Now the other pullovers we kind of laying back on a bench and with the dumbbell over the bench and you kind of bringing it over here. I always felt that work more packed and almost like the serratus anterior muscles here that kind of connect the pack to the abdominal muscle sure. I never really felt it as a full blown chest exercise. It was always either like you said in the normal machine as a lat type of movement or the dumbbell pullover more as a serratus, you know anterior muscle here. These muscles right here. It definitely adds detail to your chest area because these serratus connect right into the pecs and it definitely can help your lats flare a little bit more if it's used properly. I think people do too many sets sometimes they do too much weight and they don't really feel it in the muscles they're supposed to feel it in. It's not a fine actually it's not really a fine exercise alone comfortable especially with the dumbbell but you got don't go too heavy that's the key just because dorn and used a 150 pound dumbbell doesn't mean you have to use a dumbbell that you can control and squeeze you know that muscular chair in the pack and and serratus area when you're on a bench if you're trying to do it for lats and you get on it on the pullover machine you don't want to be cheating on that either pushing from your hands make sure you're driving through your elbows. It's good to blow off me day a tren legs till they're dead but I ended up being sore for four to five days after and the pain is unbearable any tip to reduce soreness. It's almost something you just started doing legs I never really got sore even on the worst most brutal leg workout I ever did and I did some brutal leg workouts. I never was sore for four days except when I very first started when you first started the first leg workout I ever did I remember I was in the gym in the gym in Pennsylvania and I decided I was going to do squats and I started with the 10 pounds on each of the bar and I'm squatting that's easy 25 and I had never squatting before and I got up to and someone said don't go heavy the 25 so you first leg workout I'm like I got strong legs I put the 45s on 135 and I do like that six or seven reps that was a little wobbly you know because I had never done it before and I'm telling you the next day I could not sit on a toilet bowl I was in so much pain that I didn't do legs again for two months after that I saw never do legs again I can't I can't deal with that I didn't see it was that crippling I couldn't believe it because the weight didn't feel that heavy to me but I had never done it and so two months later I decided I was going to do legs again and it did this time and only I was only sore for like a day or two and then the next time I did that was sore for a day so if you're sore for four days and you're not a beginner something's a little wrong you're you're absolutely overdue you're probably doing too much volume and too much weight but if you do enough if you do the weight and you're using full range of motion which it sounds like you're getting a real workout there's no reason to do 25 30 sets you're doing too much you should not have that delayed muscle soreness for that many days that is a absolute side that you're over trening your legs. interesting one here from AJ 49 Dave your thoughts on fine grams of loose scene of postwork out before any protein consumption in order to increase proteins synthesis the studies look very promising. IMean loose scene we know turns on m tour which is basically that it flips the switch in the muscle cell it says to the muscle cell alright start engaging and protein synthesis now you need to feed in the amino acids you know from protein consumption to actually start building repairing the muscles. They found you know doing these studies that yes loose scene is the main contributor to turning on this switch however they also found that loose scene in association with the other amino acids in other words like a whey protein okay isolate that would have because scrupal whey protein isolate has like a lot of loose scene and it has 11,000 milligrams of branching amino acids so this this probably 6,000 milligrams of loose scene in there and they find that the loose in content in association with the other amino acids in a whole food source the animal food source is a better or more potent stimulus I think of and then from what I read of m tour than just taking pure loose scene would be. Now if you're a vegan and you don't take animal source to a protein which all the plant sources are very very low in branched chain amino acids you might want to add a you know like a product like my amino evolve is a fermented amino acid product so a lot of vegans can use it you might do a scoop of that postwork out then go home and eat your vegan meal that's fine but for people who eat you know animal source or protein I still say whey isolate is the gold standard postwork out. Hardly brochacho does bulking really matter if you're not on antibiotics or seeing that almost all natural dudes including myself that both just get fat and the loose the way and look the same when they were cutting time at their time again and again with insignificant improve. So if you're bulking and you're just getting fat and you're not putting on muscles and that there's a problem there. I work with a couple of people and I have two clients right now very very loyal clients there they're they're really dedicated to body going it it I like working with them because they're so passionate about what they do but they're not making the games that they should be making they're taking they're taking some kind of lot of drugs they're taking drugs they're eating the food they're taking the right nutritional supplements but yet they're not growing properly and and you know I have to say to my summary well what can possibly be wronGHere because you gotta be sure all I can't see here. The read the food that doing you know they're going to the gym that the only thing that I don't have control over okay it would be being in the gym with these guys especially if they don't live in this country right so I'm like send me videos trening videos of you doing your squat workouts your your incline bench workouts your shoulder press all the main movements I want to see how they execute and and with both of these guys I noticed when they showed me the videos they were not doing full range of motion they were doing very short range of motion because they were trying to live too much way they weren't engaging the muscles they were supposed to engage like a lot of times people get on that bench and they start rolling their shoulders forward so they can't get the weight up and they cheat and that's working front the altcy you're not using your pecs because they're not keeping the pecs up you know and back okay if you can't lift the weight the right way then don't it's too much weight you got to light in the weight up so a lot of people just I think they're not trening properly and that's why a lot of people not getting the results that they want and that's one of the reasons why when people both they think are I'm just gonna eat a ton of food take a ton of drugs and I'm gonna get big no you're not if you're gaining a lot of weight and you're not trening properly you're just gaining fat okay if you're trening properly however and you eat enough protein okay and you don't want to overeat the carbs just to be the sake of putting weight scale on you know putting weight on the scale but if you're eating enough calories in terms of an up protein enough fat and some carbs to fuel your workouts and you're trening right and you're doing the supplements in and the gear you have to grow okay so it's a lot of times it's a trening phenomenon now so I don't like when people say to me I got a bulk up I got a gain 50 pounds so you don't want to gain 50 pounds you have to gain muscle so if the 50 pounds is a terrible 50 pounds that's not good if the 50 pounds is mostly muscle and some water retention and a little bit of fat that's fine okay so yeah when I coach people and we start off on a certain offseason plan that might be very comparable to what other people doing I have to change it depending on how the person's progressing if a person is just getting fat then I'm gonna cut back their carbs and and put them raise their cardio a little bit and then I have to say to myself why are they gaining muscle and then I got to look at their trening what they're doing so a lot of times also some guys a lot of people out there using fake drugs that's why I recommend to everyone highly recommend because I see I see these tests come in all the time to get the Roy test kits that I sell from Bill of Wellen on my daypalumma.com website and test your gear trust me everyone who goes on my on my site to buy a kit if they come back with something that doesn't seem kosher it's not meshing with what they said to me to an email and they say what do you think of this color reaction and a lot of times the stuff is either nothing or it's test propinate when it should be you know pre-mobile or it's test propinate when it should be a test an athate or it's test propinate when it should be tren alone there's a lot of fake stuff a lot of worlds come back as dianibule rather than an anolvar or windshield you have to test the drugs out there a lot of the GHS fake test them it doesn't keep believe me you'll have a your mind will be put at rest because if you're not growing because you're on fake drugs you're wasting your time essentially so these are just some of the pitfalls that I find that people have to answer thEQuestion you don't need to get fat to get more muscular it's not a live show where we just got a question of the species in bots from Chris Tyson can you take test a lies well on TRT? Absolutely and a matter of fact it works very well well on TRT because you're taking like let's say you're taking 200 milligrams of testosterone week you know you don't want that converting to DHD but at the same time you don't want to annihilate your DHD production because then you you need to lose your sex drive and you can be sensitized your ability to grow so I always tell people test the lies is good because it kind of just blunts the HC production likewise if you're producing if you are an aromatizer okay TRT doesn't necessarily warrant you taking a RIMITX because it's kind of like there's not a lot there that's to aromatize but in some people they aromatize and the estrogen then shuts down their body even more and sometimes they lose their sex drive so by flushing the extra estrogen out of the body the a test lies people seem to have a better TRT experience on a test lies than on nothing else now if you happen to be someone who's super aromatizer then you might need a little bit of aromatics you know uh wall on TRT it really depends on your blood work and and how you buy your response uh let's see if we can blaze through these lasT3 uh okay pun day can you please speak about lymphoma I have these hard painless lumps in my tons of layer behind the neck even in the groin area not sure what it is well you know lymphoma is is that's a pretty extreme diagnosis that's like saying you have a pimple on your body and you think you have a melanoma okay so i would if you're if you're you're worried about it i would go get a check out more than likely you might have a viral infection in your body and your body's lymph nodes are clening it up and so they're swollen um but i would you know if it's something that's there chronically for months and months and months i would absolutely go get tested because it could be something serious it's probably unlikely that it is but it could be something serious let's go to v rod i need to take a blood test soon for my test levels IMean you need to be around 800 total how many weeks would you say it takes from around a total To sawstron 2000 lower my levels to 800 if i completely stop injections usually up to three weeks your levels will go down considerably because that's the these long acting testosterone that's there let that's their life span essentially three weeks and four four weeks you can get yourself really love if you want but if you're on hormone replace them with a clinic and you go in and your levels come up at 80 when they when before on HRT they were at like 500 they're going to know something suspicious now something is clinics might not care but you know you might want to just drop down your you might want to go off for two weeks and then go back on your HRT like at 100 milligrams per week and just leave it there and then go get tested you know at the fourth week mark and the level should come back in the range that they were normally at when you were only on HRT that would probably be my recommendation last one here from the same as sure does more strength build muscle or more muscle build strength it goes both ways really although i've seen skinny guys have a lot of strength i've seen guys in the gym who are 180 pounds bench press you know 450 and i'm like how the heck are they doing that i could i could barely do that when i was 320 you know so you know getting stronger doesn't mean you're getting bigger because it's just because you're strong and you have good tendon connections and good natural genetic strength doesn't mean you're going to get bigger because if you're an eating enough food if you're not doing full range of motion you know that's not going to you're not going to improve your muscle size however what i found was when i first started i wasn't super strong i was strong above average but i wasn't like some of these prodigies are but as i got bigger and as i built high quality muscle using full range of motion and really using correct exercise form my strength went up through the roof so i started as a guy who wasn't that strong and when i got to my biggest i was super strong i was in planning 405 for you know 68 reps i was told to press him behind the neck 315 for rep for 68 reps i was you know squatting 700 pounds for 3 or 4 reps so i i i got super strong because i got so big and i had functional muscle that that was using full range of motion so i would say that muscle size usually is what leads to strength but in some cases some people just happen to be genetically very strong even at a lower bodyweight that's going to do for this episode of as they remind her right now on the channel they plumbos preview of this weekend's exciting exciting chicago pro for talashore and day plumbo i'm sad if you're new to the next time

=== FILE: Best MASS BUILDING Cycle w⧸100% Pharma Grade! [bb37zuEqpHQ].txt ===

IMean, I was getting pharmacy drugs when I was competing in the 90s and for me, a thousand milligrams of testosterone worked really well with like, literally we were using three to 400 milligrams of acropoise a week or four to 500 milligrams of dechiro week, 76 milligrams of tren balloon, which was called parable in back then two or three times a week. And we were building lots of muscle. I was using three to four I used maximum of GH per week, but it was all pharmacy, you know, great stuff. And it worked. And I think a lot of the problems today is that there's two problems. One problem is that people think they need a ridiculous amount of drugs to be huge. The other problem is that the drugs are not dose properly or they're not the actual drugs that people think they're taking. And that's why the the Roy test kits we saw, I sell on my daypalumbo.com website sell so well because people are always testing their products. And unfortunately, a lot of the stuff out there is either nothing or it's cheaper ingredients. In other words, people think they're using tren balloon or they think they're using dacchar and they're actually using test propane. They think they're using anavar that's using dianimal. It's a huge podge of mixed mishmosh out there. And but if you can get pharmacy great stuff and you know your gear is good, you don't need quite as much as people think.

=== FILE: Big Lenny Shows FURIOUS Punching Power, Mr. G Responds! AH Podcast (7⧸6⧸21) [cLQYoq2sIr0].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Also check us out on our donation by the word, all proceedings will go to the wheelchair body building building. With your order. Thank you for checking this out. Take care. Welcome back guys to another edition of After Hour. I'm Dave Alumbo with a skeleton crew here. They'll be joining in shortly though. I got Jimmy to bowl drive and truck, dump some soil, get Mr. G, at the Mr. Pots protein warehouse, bacon cookies, and John Ramile will be joining us shortly. I don't know. Greg Valentino is missing an action. It's really my fault because we're filming an hour early today because my kids are off from school because this supposedly you don't have to have these crazy hurricane. This is what's going to be a hurricane. Now it's downgraded to a tropical storm. It'll probably be some heavy rain but they cancel school so I got to do this early. What's up guys? What's up Dave School? When I have someone, is it some of the school or is it just because, well, because of COVID, my son's doing DPK which is before kindergarten over the summer as like a summer session and then my daughter goes to the daycare they are where they are the same place and then my other daughter is usually in the office and she's going to start in August. But if I have three kids at one time in the office with my wife and I who was processing on the species orders, we had a huge sale this past weekend with like 1,000 orders. We want to blow our brains out so you know. Imagine you have three kids running around, you're where else they're while you're trying to bake cookies. By suddenly climbing in the oven, my daughter would be mixing up stuff, you'd go crazy. Look at you see you're going to a giant any from a pop operation. That's what it's like kids. The kids eat it. Oh, Bob. Oh, there he is. Jimmy. Jimmy, where are you? Is that the big green? I'm in the water. I'm in the water. You can't fucking jump. I take the trout to the plane. Yeah, I was just sayinGHere. The Guadi Airports is a nightmare. Now, I know they've been redoing it. Jimmy, is it still under construction? Oh, are you kidding me? They're going to have to fucking extend years. They're going to have to structure up here. You know, it's funny. About five years ago, they re-did Guadi Airport. It was really nice they made it. And then they decide, you know what, we want to make a new airport terminal. So we're going to build it in the parking lot of the other one. So there's no parking. And they tried driving the trailer. They've stood as fun to find it. It's nuts. And it's right off the Grand Central Parkway. You can see that park. There's no room to do anything. So all you have is massive construction and blockages and the versions and detours. And I don't even know how you can drive that. The stress level is insane there. I'm driving the trail. We think I'm losing weight. I'm sweating. I asked. Before I had to take a shit out of here. It was the port of body over there. And it's a fuckinGHundred degrees out. I had to pull up. I was stuck in my ass. Come on out in a fucking port of John. I couldn't even breathe in that motherfucker. Yeah. All of blue water was splashing up my ass. It would be that I got into the fuckinGHouse. FuckinGHorrible. FuckinGHorrible. Yeah, yeah, I love the angle too. It's funny. Look at all the cars you see. Now guys, this is during the middle of the day with this. Everyone's at work. Can now take the cars that you see on that parkway and multiply that times like a hundred. That's rush hour. That's like people start getting out of work at like 3.34 o'clock to like 6 o'clock. It doesn't move because this is no way for anyone to go. God forbid you have to come pick someone up at the airport at that time. You might as well just not come. You know, it's not worth it. Rush out. Rush out. I want to clock. I want to clock and start now. Oh, yeah, you're feeling for good about it. Oh, no, I got to open it. I got to open it. Well, you know, and maybe it's not as bad now because everyone works from home now. No one wants to work in an office anymore, right? Oh, it's bad, bro. Bad. Really bad. So now what are you doing? Are you dumping dirt? I'm just being over there. Yeah, I'm going to demonstrate what I do now. I've got to have photos. Feel it while I'm doing it. So now let me just get this thing. Well, you guys, you guys get to see fresh hair and what I do over here. When I fucking I shit my pants every time I dump this fucking thing. Now give me a. You need to sell the truck, take the dirt from where we're going to pick the dirt up from. I'm going to show you right now. So here's the body of right. Right. That's a little brand new time. It'll all be this. Yeah. Here's the dirt we've been dumped in. Yeah, it's going to. Where are you getting the dirt from though, Jimmy? Oh, we're getting it on base shore. It's all right. You got it dry. You got to drive two hours to base or to pick up one dumb truck worth of dirt. Yeah, dumped trailer. So find some place as to get it. Why can't they drive that into this special? This is, I'm doing a TV show, bro. My buddy, Birder, mama. He makes sure that I don't fucking kill myself when I'm. You've got to hold this thing when I dump it. I want you to go to film. That's special dirt over there. It's got commoner in it. Pigeon shit. And what else is in it, bro? Don't shit, what else is that? Yeah, don't. Pigeon shit fucking, you count this. And it mix it all in in nice and nice. Sometimes I think a shit in it too. So that's all mixed in in nice. And then I use it for planting. Well, over like what? He's saying, we're doing all the planting. Oh, I thought he was for like landfill. Oh, this is for actually like planting. Oh, no. This is for the plant. That's why we got a shit. He's gonna get all the fermentation in there. Like junk those, he's a cook. So we got to get all that in here. And just wait and cheese for a nice and nice. And I'm saying that's funny. So actually, I wonder when a load of dirt costs you think to bring in from Bay Short to look water airport. I'm thinking to 35 yards. That is probably like three, you know, probably three to 500 hours alone. Oh, that sounds so bad, I guess. I've got to open up the gate. You're going to hold your lead. You're beautifying queens. Making a LaGuardia look like it might actually. Oh, yeah. Well, look, we got some cheese over here. Look. I like it. See that nice to cheese out of the barrels. You know, you know, I'm in the bottom of it. I think when they finally finish this terminal, it'll actually pretty nice. See it's power up there. See the tower up there, Dave. Yeah. There watch everything I do. Yeah, bird. Hold that. Yeah, they have much to bullshit. What time I got out of the fucking truck with a, what, what, what, what, what, my hat? And I got a focal to the form. They told me to fuck it. I'm gonna have my hat on. Really? You believe this shit? Wow. Yeah. No, pretty good, Jimmy. No breakdown. All right, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Look at that. Look at that nice, nice, smells even good. Tilt the net. Who's responsible for? Who's responsible for planting all these plants? Did they have like a landscaping company? Oh, yeah, big company. Yep. That's where I'm working for right now. Yeah. That's awesome. Bird. Bird. That's a very long truck, Jimmy. Oh, yes. To trail of prouders, they know joke. This is part of the fuckers got some weight behind it. The hat, he's got that old fuel. Oh, you're gonna want a bird that's gonna throw me. You're gonna see birds here and how I'm gonna, baby possibly kill myself. How many yards, Jimmy? Is that 20 yards? Yeah, 35 yards. 30 yards, 30. 20? I just get 35 yards, George. 35. Yeah, yeah. Now, if anybody's full out of that back in that truck, Jimmy will cut that part out, all right? Yeah, anything else helps out in the back, please cut it out. Let's go to the Hoosen there. You know, Jimmy often can be in there for all of you though. Oh, he's probably one of these to my pillars. I heard he's in the barren zone. I don't know, one of the pillars in the barren zone. Oh, yeah. Just got some, you know, who knows? Grabbing away the guys. Yeah. I looked at him. I said, oh, can you see me? We're watching, yeah, we're watching. Yeah. Oh, okay. All right, good. Yeah, good. I'm very impressed that your Bluetooth headphones work so well. Oh, yes, but shit man, I paid $135 for this. I was gonna say you know, the radio that Mr. G does and he's sitting right next to his phone. If anybody wants to go to headset, it's called the Blue Park. It's, it goes on one of the epic, but that's what's legal. You can't have two ears closed. I don't want your driving to 12. Yeah, they did the right. I was going to say they should hire you to advertise there their product. It's, uh, you're on the right. I got a black off a little bit. See what happens. Funny how his signal is. The guy's in a Mr. G signal. The guy's in flux with that. Yeah. He's in a car. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know. So now the whole, the whole truck is on. Okay. All right, baby, here we go. Should I hold back in that truck? See it'll lift up, huh? And dump that? 60 foot in the air. It's motherfucking goes with a full load of dirt. Wow. Crazy. How heavy is that truck with the dirt? Oh, it's about a million. About a million. Maybe it'll like a hundred, twenty thousand in the back. Wow. And that's a truck weighs about $35,000. I guess you know, so yeah, we got some weight here. I could say imagine. Got some weight. Imagine running into something with that truck. If you just go right over it, you know. Up there it goes. You guys get the visual. Yeah. Our cameraman is not focusing on the dirt though. You've got to move over to camera a little bit. Tell him. Oh, look at the trailer. Yeah, we can speak through a bit of English every time. I got to, I got to, hey, Jimmy, there's not a little maybe a stand on it. Oh, I want to see the dirt. You know, there's the stuff that can do it. I want to explain. So what happens is the dirt. Of course, I got an aluminum trailer. The piece of shit. The dirt, the dirt sticks in the fucking smell. I got to get it all the way. Fuck it up. I got to make the sight of the cross in the movie. That the fucking thing don't get fall. You know, some folks are having a fight in the fucking town. There's a blow. There's a blow. Okay, you know, Shane, let's fight. Fuck the dangerous man. Now, what happens when you get to move the truck up a little bit? Because I didn't look at it. Yeah, I saw the dangerous thing now. You got to move the truck up. That's another dangerous thing because if the bro goes out of level, when you got to load up the shit, come by, Charlie. It's over. You know, like that fucking commercial son got Charlie. Some kids play on the back. It's Charlie. Yeah. That's what the fuck that happened. I would love to see you surfing on that. That soil as it's coming down. Right? Wouldn't that be cool? Like with a little surfboard. Yeah, yeah. I could definitely. I did that when they. IMean, Sandy. Sandy. IMean, Sandy came. They had like two stories of sand. Wow. Long Beach. Like up to two blocks. I got washed up. Let me ask you this question, Jimmy. Have any get the dirt in the truck? That's a better question. Oh, pay a load. He's there. He's yellow. I got to run this. I got to run this. Follow the fucking reverse. Get the last to the dirt out. I see. That's pretty good. That's pretty good. I got the fucking. I'm pretty. How do you know if the dirt's actually out of the back of the truck or not? IMean, I can tell you. I got my spot back there, bro. This still some stuff in there. Just in case you need me. I know. I know. I get as questions in a lower than beds of business. You're actually your spotters today. So we can be in spot. Well, I got one spot. I'm having the birth of. You got two spot. You got the whole audience here. But I think. Oh, yeah. A little bit of dirt in there. Yeah. I can't get it out. Bro, it's impossible. Yeah. I give the majority of load. I'm saying. Yeah. Oh, fuck. You can go sell whatever's left to like some little low lady to plant the tomato. Garden or something like that. Thank you, brother. He's your paperwork, brother. I don't care what you think you can burn it on. I don't care what you do with that. Next week. Well, let me see what's in the bag. I don't know if it's fine. Yeah, yeah, for filming. Yeah. It's a little bit of dirt. Not too bad. No. You see that fucking gay thinGHolding the middle of the trail. Yeah. I did that with the yesterday band. I just don't fucking. So you went in there with the yesterday lady. We're digging out the truth. Oh, and he hurt. He hooked the floor and ripped the floor up. So I got a fuckinGHole in the floor now. You have a, you have a damaged truck as usual. Let me just shut this door. Bro, just just just cast me shut the gig. All right. Thank you. Or show them how I got to pick my fucking balls from fucking living. I don't know if anyone else. But it seems amusing to me. I'm the muse by what you're doing. So. I get it. Everybody a little look. I want to get the first dead. I got to move the fucking dead. I'll be like this. How many guys are going to wait for something to sit to happen to you? So that you can do bitch. You can play to that and I think that's really what it is. That's really what it is. I got a fucking day like that. Nobody else escaped. Just open up on the bottom. Like a normal person. I got a fucking bottle. I got to break my fucking balls. Everything I do. I'm impressed that you know how to do all this. Did you did someone teach you how to do this? So you just figured it out. Who's that thing? I said, did you have to go to schooling for this or IMean, how do you know how to do all this? I tell you, years ago. I got the license, right? That's it, right? I'm not my brother. I see tomorrow, right? All right, but you didn't want to get it right tomorrow or something. Let me look, check Daniels. You actually come back again tomorrow. Yeah, every week. So you just do what you would do. You run one load per day. Two. So you're going to come back again today. Oh, that's it. You just take it right here. Who's that? Yeah, I think I wouldn't have sworn it down. Well, you did want to come over there. Okay, all right. Look at that. Look at that. I got this view. The worst part of the whole job is driving to LaGuardia. Oh, yeah. Getting it out of here. It's a son of a bitch, man. Let me tell you. Then what would you make for driving this truck, you know, back and forth twice for the day? What did they pay you to drive this truck back and forth for the day? Well, it's union. So you got to buck on the books. Get abouT4. One hundred a day. Some shit like that. That's good. That's a lot. Yeah. Well, they got to be paying more than 300 load. And he's getting 400 bucks. But that would be okay. Yeah, that's about 400 a day. Maybe a little more actually. Well, if you're getting 400 in the load cost 350, and that's 700 hundred for too long. Oh, that's that. That's what I get paid. That's not what he gets paid. That's what he's paid. That's what he's paid. What is he charging for? What is he charging for? For those loads of dirt. The truck. Well, with the dirt in the truck, it's over $1,000. Yeah. Well, that makes sense. That makes sense. That's a good deal. Yeah. It's a pretty good deal. I got to get on this fucking gray stuff to buck for you over here. That's another fucking thing. Now, if you were in Florida running these these, I got to fuck the Mario and tell you over here. Go on this motherfucker. Nobody's done his bitch. Now, Jimmy, this is what maybe you should do. I don't know what you're doing. I don't know what you're doing. I paid. I think we've paid like $200. I think a truck load for some dirt to fill my house that. In Florida when they built houses, they got to, they got to have dirt delivered to build them up higher. So the water runs off. If you had a little truck, you got a little business going. You probably make a lot of money down here in Florida. They're building left and right. You know how to do it. Yeah, you gotta get the, yeah, you gotta get the thumb trellas. Those are the thumb trellas. Make the most money, you know? Yeah. You have to realize it. I paid, you know what IMean? IMean, I think it was $250 per load. Think about how much money I paid. IMean, that's one person, one property. You know, so you can make some good cash if you did that down here, you know? Oh, yeah, definitely, right? I like the sound like the thing is, you know, like, keep it over here in New York. There's a lot of money. IMean, I like the sound like the thing is, you know, like, keep it over here in New York. There's a lot of people who can't get the A license for the fucking drug addicts. Right. It's not really hard to get an A license. You know, you're driving in Florida. You know, there's no little Guardie airport here. The driving is so easy. You'd be like, this is a breeze, you know? It would you would enjoy it, actually. Okay, here's the pocket. Look. Yeah. That's the grand social right there. Yeah. No. It's quiet. It's quiet right now. No, that's not. It's funny. You're in the clear. No, no, no, no, come in up on the story of Boulevard. You guys take the law and express. Get out, probably. Get out. Get out. Look, what are you? You got to take the express. Oh, you, okay. And New York, you can't take the parkway with the truck. You got to get on the expressway. Oh, no. No. Well, the cleav you, you can. The cleav you, the expressway. But no, you can't take, yeah. You can't take no parkways. They're going to take the back road. The story of Boulevard. Didn't wash street. Oh, these fucking bad 94, it's free 82nd, every, and all these fucking, and this, this tight hurt. How do you do that? You just know where you going? I think we're welcome. All right, let me, let me go to Georgia anyway. Georgia, I want to talk about the last week you called off the Big Liney fight. You said you didn't want to hurt him. And I knew this was going to be a, I knew this was going to be a bad idea for you to do. I knew they were going to come back and Lenny came back with it with a vengeance. with the vengeance with a video and message to you. Let's play this video clip. George, are you there right? Yeah, okay, all right. I can't play the big-line clip, hold on. I'm going to kick you my legs, feel up. You know, it was a total of 10 seconds. Big-line, he's back in trening now. He's planted the fight. You, he says, you know, he's calling you a complete moron again and he's, he's trying to, you know, boss, fire up the rivalry. The moron stuff, that doesn't bother his butt. He's the same. My prox have arse thinking of, yeah. That's trying to irritate you now, that's all. With that told with it, but you know, that's, that's over the whole thing. Everyone knows it's but everyone knows it's bullshit, but you know what? I just want to say, he's obviously trying to antagonize you, which is obviously he wants to fight you. IMean, since you're going to go, there's no more mercy, right? IMean, it's a copercut. No mercy. So what happened is Rob said, I said, Rob, Rob Zillard. I spoke, I spoke, I spoke, the Rick, Rick, and with all the fighters, we were speaking, you know, because Rick fights, guy can't, guys not trening, guy can't even take it, kick, he harms bad. Just one kick. You don't know that. He obviously feels that you're being, you know, that you're, maybe you're trying to, you're trying to get out of the fight. Then we, well, because they weren't posting, then I decided we'll do a box of match. So this way, can't really get hurt. And then then when I said that Rob said he had pneumonia. Well, people get pneumonia. IMean, people get sick. Well, I told you, Lenny was going to get sick. He's not going to be down for the hope for three months. He goT3 months of this fight. Yeah. But if he has the moly, he's not going to, the moly is to sit. IMean, yeah, well, he's out of the, he's already done. IMean, he took his antibiotics and he's to feel good. So IMean, he's back in trening. Yeah, well, please. Now, that now it's, it's back on. So the fights back on officially. Yeah, now they're, they're like, two fucking assholes. They, they haven't created anything to hope fucking life. And they try to destroy somebody's a business. This is exactly like they fight against the rise on the school. You see, I agree you are right now. I think that's the, I think the idea was to get you angry. It's because he's like they did that. I'm not, it's, they're cowards. What they did is cowardly. You know, we told them how to promote the fight to very beginning to do stuff. And he never did. And then once, once, once I said, you got it, then he started doing things. Yeah, but I think there, from what I watched in their video, I think they feel like, well, it's three months away. You know, what, we're going to promote it. But it's not, it's still a long way off. So, you know, we'll, we'll, we'll mention it here and there, but we're not going to go crazy on promoting to get closer, because then people kind of lose interest. They asked me, Rob was always concerned about letting it get, they wanted thEQuarry of the, oh really. I think it would be better for this quarry. Perfect, personally, but you want to, I'm a book, I'm not sure, I'm not sure, I'm not, it's not WWE. I didn't do it. This is, it's not what the, why I did in the beginning. Right. The very first thing was to got this, I lost it up. Number one reason. Yeah. You got these, these pumps online that that's saying shit about people's businesses to try to get, you know, rolling their companies. Right. And you got to stand up to them. No, that's the bottom line. So the fight's on and you, I, you, I, you, of the mindset now, I don't know what the parts of the whole line. Why, why, why, why, why, why, why, it knows your strategies. Is it, is it a no mercy strategy? You're going to take them out as quick as possible as that is that your, your fight strategy. That's what they're like, but they don't want, they don't want once, once explosive and entertaining, right, not stop, you know, either either either the old five, five minute rounds of like non stop action back, book or you come out and I annihilate the person. Yes. You're going to try to annihilate them. I'm annihilate them. Okay. You're trying to take you away everything I worked my whole life for. I'm going to, I want to annihilate them. Now, when I was looking at that, at that, him punching that bag, it looked like he was almost like hitting it with like the, like he wasn't really hitting it, right? I don't know. He was like, it looked like he was doing this. No one, he can't hold his hands up to protect his face because his shoulders were can't go up like this when they met me in person. They didn't realize how strong I was and how big I was because I'm in the, I'm in the most shittiest sliding you can imagine. A little puppet when they saw me in person and it is, it's just like you're just all too. People will realize you're over six foot, you know, so you're impressive. It's like Chuck's you know and Charlie Alarm's, you know, you didn't see him in person, you beat them in person. Yeah. And you know, you're with a real world. Well, I got new to you. You're no Chuck's you know Charlie Alarm's, but you're definitely dangerous though. Those guys did, let's put that for Joe, I wanted to just analyze Lenny's punching skills and there are black I'm skills, maybe. Let's see, let's watch this again. Yeah, hold on. Yeah, I don't know what this any, any, any power behind those punches, but you don't a lot of weight behind himself. Yeah, everyone is first of all I spun, everyone in his punches I would knock down. Right, are you knocking right down? Yeah. It's a joke. You know I'm telling you right now, with over 300 pounds, you know, behind him, so there is some power behind that. I gotta play devil's advocate here otherwise I'm gonna win the game I've put in day once a last I fight every day right I get my I get my teeth knocked in I get my arms pulled out I get punched kicked yo people laying on top of me that have skill that have been finding the whole life let's let's look at this from a person let's let's let's assume let me let me let me give you a scenario obviously when he's got a little bit of power behind him we know he's got bad shoulder's never like that but he's got some power he's got some size mine let's say he he clocks you would it would it would have punched like a lucky punch okay can you take a punch you think from Lenny are you have you built up that kind of resistance yeah I can smash all the time I'm like a first of all I fight like I fight like Rocky I take my shot in other words yeah I go right yeah I'm dead yeah you're not gonna I already have it well he doesn't know this look if you asked them alright to tell a truth when he tried to push me and I stood there I could have pushed him right the fuck over really yeah no skill you can't go in and in a fight fight without any skill whatsoever especially in an MMA fight you can't even punch the big one in 10 seconds well yeah I was I I think that uh he's serious though about fighting you I don't I don't think he's like just playing along you know I think he really wants to get in the ring I don't know what's gonna happen but you know I I I'm gonna have I'm gonna choke them out on barm kick his legs out I'm gonna destroy him he I I don't can't what you do okay stand your feet can you do it from your feet boxing I'd like to it's more exciting when someone gets knocked out like what a punch you know he's going like this yeah he's swinging like this down he like yeah I don't want to see an arm bar and he's like that's boring I was just step by step this ball as he's doing it yeah I do it I do it I do it ankle kick right there's like that's boring now once he's on this back he's like a turtle he's not gonna be able to turn over bitch they it's a come I kick his ankle and then I come with all the right down he's chin I boom can you guys can talk to better strategy I want to see a knockout punch I don't want to really no one wants to see a knock him on his back it's that's gonna be boring you know I'm not listen I get him when I get I'm gonna take him down but when I when I get him on bar I'm not gonna arm bar I'm gonna stand up and tell him to get the fuck back up when I not be able to get off that's the problem what what are you gonna do let's them off the canvas oh yeah yeah oh he lost to get up what if you any stays out they're gonna work till he gets up now you just take him out with a punch if you're gonna do it so then at least it's we can we can play it in slow motion over and over we can see his face like oh I'm trening I'm I'm trening I'm most of memory when someone hit when I get kicked in punch who could we get there is the fight off we got to have someone ringside in case you know someone gets hurt I don't get things but Dave my brothers and Bob that we listen first but oh no we're John I need John with your brother first of all I'm sending the whole thing up these guys aren't paying for nothing it's in the course like like 12 15 grand a set this whole fight up they're not they're not giving any money in that you're gonna want what what do you what hold on what are you spending money on here they're to pay for the place got paid for the doctor right gonna gonna get can we get a celebrity doctor like the victim press or someone like that so that you know the at least it's like you know related to our our industry yeah we could you could have you could you could have some find somebody IMean now we start promoting you know that's not the press he'd love to come to this thing problem yeah and if he had a bloody tears that he muscles or he though that he could repair them too you know because he's a North and Beat Exeter listen he's making a money he's not only that he's making a mock yeah at an MMA fighting that's what he's doing you understand so I represent what I'm going in trening at one of the top MMA places trening places around and I can't go in there and show any of the any other skills that show every skill that I've learned in there you know he thinks he thinks that you don't need to tren the fight that you can just walk in lifting weights and just fight right that's not how it works of course not but but it's still interesting though the whole thing I I'm I'm I'm the muse by the the whole I'm glad it late I thought lady was gonna silently go away but he didn't he he came back with an engine to you so that's that's good that's that's good for sales of the ticket sales not that you're selling any tickets but how are we gonna watch this thing I want to do well I don't think you didn't pay from you I need you to do for free I need you to do it for free I'll tell you why we didn't we do it for free and get it's fast it's because we're having a million people watching so that's how you tell me more it's gonna be you'll have a hundred thousand probably who will eventually watch but what's gonna happen you don't someone there if you need people there with their phone live streaming it on their phone so your might as well do a real live stream and with good quality so people will just watch that you know who's going to live stream you're gonna we can all send Tyler there you can do it we can as long as we have a just make sure we have a wife I and the gym that's good enough so that we have to get they have to they have they do so they have two cameras now so we can bring our we can bring a computer something like that and stream it through the computer something like that yeah but this this thing is gonna get names of you know where is an area holding this thing again in in Orlando yeah I've the sports flat flex the land of it's 20 minutes so it's sweet thing it we think I think is that people from around the world have become into the Olympia yeah well do it on status between twelve and six you're crazy you're crazy no one's gonna go because yeah you're gonna people gonna be too excited about the Olympia you're gonna lose an audience I'm telling you you cannot do it at the Olympia it's the dumbest idea of all time it's between twelve and six we're gonna have a double amount look you know when we would go to the Olympia the Arnold we're running around like maniac and then when you have a little bit of downtime you got to eat and get ready to go out again for the next that it's not I was trying to jam it in down telling you you're gonna you well the guys went to the fights Jimmy Jimmy and Jimmy the bull and all those guys went to the fights that you stuck to a steep fight you know it's two people who work the body building fans and not gonna watch it because they're gonna be at the Olympia you're jamming it into a weekend that's already got too much going on and you're gonna be an afterthought I'm telling you this should be a it's own weekend because people will will watch it because it's just just just just to see what happens I don't know if they're that excited about it but they want to see what's gonna happen you know get Dave get the sponsors and because it'll have things you know I don't think anyone in their right mind with sponsors but but but I think it it'll be absolutely amusing for the top of the day and then pay review yeah I'm gonna pay to see if because someone will be there with a phone live streaming it you're not gonna be released that we will let them you're not gonna be able to police it's someone will be there or what will happen is someone will grab the live stream and they'll put it up right after the live stream's over on the computer because they'll tape it off the computer so you're not gonna it's not gonna be you're not gonna get them to the live viewers it's same thing with the Olympia they can do the same thing with the Olympia they do and they do all the time people stream it to their Instagram you know yeah I'm at the but look I'm not gonna go trouble for doing that no no at the fights at the fights they have people walking around making the people to the right you know if you live stream it someone at home will tape it it's only gonna take it it's gonna be two minutes right as soon as you're done they're gonna put it up on there on on the on their on their YouTube channel and then it's gonna get a million hits on those YouTube channels because no one's been sick that's well that's my point and why wouldn't spot the one spots right it was gonna be a residual they absolutely done either what are you there okay yeah yeah are you listening to all this I am would you explain to him why no one's gonna pay pay for you for this fight I'm gonna go to the second okay you're only gonna be able to get measurable metrics if you do a real a real view and you're not gonna get that if people are operating it so there's no way there's no way his brothers involved in a John what his brothers involved now robbing oh Bobby smells yeah yeah cuz he's like Mr. Crab's on SpongeBob he sees money this is just invented by the big of a million dollars on this fight how much if they think they gonna make a million dollars what are you paying big lady by the way for all this since he's participating in this we're givinGHim we're givinGHim 200 tickets right and then whatever whenever comes up because I'm doing it you gotta give him a percentage of the of the gate don't you think IMean he is with the talent here yeah gale gale gale gale get five or ten percent all right well you better make a better get a contract written up is you're gonna get a tickets to take a chance to take a chance to take a chance you can't you gotta give him something you got no one by a ticket no one's gonna buy tickets they're gonna watch it for free no one is buying tickets the only you can't use the Olympia as an example because the Olympia puts on a paper you with commentary right okay you got you got you got you got at you've got commentary you've got people talking about you know gonna have some videos and so if you got a whole set of comments you got you're not getting any comments who's commentating Marco Antonio Barrara you have been raised wait you know of John don't you look Marco I'll get Marco to come do the thing is the thing is this fight is gonna last 12 and a half seconds okay and I'm being generous all right so so you're only gonna get you're only gonna get excited me if it goes like the distance and it's not gonna happen be Lenny's gonna fucking die within the first 10 seconds so you don't you don't have an appointment Tyler but that's the problem George he is you don't have a real opponent this guy is John let's watch the clip again let's get let's get pumped up again hold on yeah right watch this he's not it's not it's not the way it's the fact that I can walk up there and take them a sharpie and rightly initials on his cheek right now he's wide open he's just started trading for the fight John give him a break he's a fucking coward fuck that's why he says cookie cut that's he says he doesn't want to die that's why he's stomach he's that biGHe's a coward that's why that's why they're trying to tear down my business and we'll fire them you think in it life him and fucking rock okay so now we're on a completely different deal I got about Mr. Jesus fired on you it worked Lenny did it with Lenny's video worked right the balls are trened that's why it's he's that's why he says cookie cut up because yeah I don't want to fucking die and go out of strict diets and sacrifice the suffer so I'm gonna say I'm not like a cookie cut it so I'm coming like a fat fuck just like the fight I don't have the tren fight and then I'm got guys who tren fan of me are pussy yeah we're gonna see Lenny what a pussy's like maybe playing possum John maybe he's just not Mr. G think that he's not trening just right I think he's just doinGHis best butterbeen and Tim in person I don't care what he does I don't care what he does this is about this is like picky wood going in for the championship no it's not it's Georgie Georgie it's not it's alright this is like this is like Bruce Lee going against P. We Hermit but when he's not jerking off in an an actuated movement all right this is not a contest if you if you if you are if you had a worthy opponent this would be a different story you don't have an opponent you're going up against a piece of glass this is in my business online and then like okay then if that's what you want to accomplish then go find them walk up to him with somebody video and toss some of beating don't make this whole fight down this way better John I don't I disagree with it it's a way better whole fighting is a far I think we got to get Victor Priskin here is the doctor know that they bring side to doctor though he's already presided one over one death at the Olympia or that's not but you don't want to you don't want to put that on him I think who's now who's going to be the referee because if there is a big landing or you get in trouble you know we you guys are not young guys we got to stop this fight you can't you know we don't want any apparently Lee priest is doing everythinGHe's working to corner he's restinGHe's doing it virtually though John we need to do it every please the referee from Australia we need like bojax and we erase his cause you work out you've already can't get rose we he's the man hook it we get his guess referee we need to guess referee I don't want like a regular guy who can we get John oh yeah I'm Charlie arms yeah I'm about maybe Ricky maybe get Ricky Ricky there's a good Ricky would be perfect definitely come on the right height too Ricky and you Ricky fit yeah yeah Ricky Ricky said he's wrong we did want you 22 miles on his right you mean it but actually Jimmy to bull yeah but Jimmy does Jimmy does another rules though I think that I think Ricky fights Ricky fights the man I'm Ricky fights Jimmy work you're Jimmy work you're cornered in yeah no Jimmy why don't you guys to be there so everyone to come meet you will come meet the laptop yeah hang out the sponsors come there and have their stuff so what's what Bobby Small's gotten what's his his business model behind this whole thing what's going on I want some trash hey Greg you guys game it up till you you guys started really early I didn't know because yeah my kids are here we have a tropical storm they cancel school so I got to get you if I would know tonight I was you don't look at my know it's not even raining yet right Dave's no yeah I know it's been raining but it's not it's nothing that it's gonna be like a typical Florida that play you know it's like a 90 clip oh I want Mr. Greg to see the big one he clip I don't know if he's sort play the big one he clip we got to watch this again again it's I love it I can watch it I watch it all day long I love it I hope he makes another one IMean don't what are those those are punches I'm trying to figure out what's happeninGHe's actually got to be sent hands to you even though he's not really does any terrible day I'm telling you I kind of wanted to say that fast now hey he's only moving to this far yeah that right doing this definitely like he's playing rock and sock and roll by exactly what the hell is he doinGHe's like I kind of wanted those reducing machine he's really gonna go through this yeah he's he's called out Mr. G again called again complete more on are you serious yeah if not if but Greg it's not that he's they said my my my prox I got them sick and I have my prox I have arstic in them and that's what that's what that's what has to stop why would you waste money on arstic yeah they do have steroids and I'm sending you guys want to check it out so now you're pissed and now even if he puts his hands up like this it's gonna be like the little rascals you know what IMean it to fuck and put the hands up you'd be having like even from the curtains you'd be punchinGHim and shit he's making a mock we had a fighting on you on YouTube like like fighters don't have to like you don't have to tren to fight and that's and every fight you know that's it that's his little lanye stick you know to kind of get you guys all fired up a little bit you can not tren you if I'm lady I don't want to get you fired up I would you know nobody could fight a tren fighter somebody who tren I don't care even a best street fighter bad ass dude let me taste them they can't last a 22nd fight seems like an hour when you're in a fight I said before you got on this fight is not lasting 12 and a half seconds so so it's it but my point was to all of this hype about paper view and where are you gonna watch it if you sneeze you're gonna miss this fight yeah so you might you might actually break Jorge Masspedal you might break his fucking record yes I think it's three seconds right we need like multiple cameras instead of we we can analyze the the knockout or whatever happened yeah because we're gonna we're gonna endlessly analyze four seconds of footing I want to see you know punch to the face I want to see like face exploding I hope I yeah we got to film it with a high speed camera so it's really not dangerous to lanye because I don't think he's got a last long enough to really get hurt do you know because Jorge's gonna hit him yeah if Jorge hits him okay would have fist anywhere in his face disguised done unless lanye could take a punch we don't know you bones break George he's stronGHis fuck there's no way there's no way there's no way lanye is gonna survive what was that every test you cover up your face he's gonna go like this you know George he's gonna do George he's gonna be hitting the belly he's gonna punch himself into face what if he plays the the form in ropedo you know no he's Ralph Cramden that was he's being clipped George he just hands and not like that he's not wearing a mouthpiece he's gonna have to wear a mouthpiece when he fights so he's not trening with a mouthpiece right now yeah again it's it takes you breathing it's 50% less breathing John knows so I wear my mouthpiece all the time I went I went right away last time for an hour and 15 minutes on the sand pulling a 250 pound pound with my mouthpiece in you know Jorge thank you're ready to fight carnima Gregor that would be a much better payday for you George I think you could fight carnima Gregor now I think you're ready to challenge a broken hole to a fight that would not a George no IMean I'm proud of him he knew what it is he's not like one of these guys because he knows he could probably just sleep a beer fuckinGHe had hot dog strike beer go to bed each night get fat and go in there it's still fucking knock a motherfucker out but he's not doing it he's actually taking it like he's fighting my Tyson you know he should he's wise will be the UFC championship of the world and that's that's what I'm finally I'm not looking at Lenny I'm looking at Lenny as as if he's a champion I'm not looking at him as Lenny so I'm treating as he he's gonna try and kill he killed me and I can't let that happen I got a rap this thing up and I wanted to say I and I'm sorry guys like once again IMiscommunicated because we the kids with cancel school but I wanted to try to get this thing changed I don't think it should be on the Libya weekend I think you're ready yes let's say you're a tone weekend okay let's work let's stay let's work on the date then okay okay can we fly what we should make it we should make it Easter now it's Easter pastor ready what are you talking about next next now we're not going to next year now Halloween Halloween Halloween Halloween's not a bad idea but let's do it close to you right here do it in both do it in both are over there because this way you guys are all close to each other I can drive across alligator allie it's not that long far from you I don't want to go to Orlando it's a fucking nightmare there let's do it in bokeh area find a gym there and that's the best way to do it well they have American top team is there alright that's fine I'll end yeah I gotta probably would have gym in bokeh why can't you but why can't we do it like an RX muscle event where we are yes like when we actually make it like a little X-bow our own little X-bow like Bruce versus Tyler Kevin for shows going on on the camera what's that Tyler said we can live stream it easily with multiple cameras you can do it no I don't mean just we should but like you put something interesting what IMean something something some show of hotest answer IMean the Momo meet us fucking yeah we get a little more I'm not absolutely with babes with a few things you know that's it I get a protein I'm gonna be booty you need girls I'll take yeah I grew that well hey well Mr. Mrs. RX muscle no you need pole dancing yeah he was triple con got to get Jack win going from big lighting we want to be here wet t-shirt on you need out the biggest hits contest you gotta have something like that all right we gotta see my little life Georgian big landing well teacher there you go you do many people would come just to sit and talk with us guys and and right before being able to sit down and ask Jimmy to pull you know a fucking crazy question look at this line except it'll be over and and and all thEQuestions have to be delivered by bitches would big tension wet you know what's funny no I bring a little part with thEQuestion on it no like walk like what were like oh we're not all the way to hand thEQuestion to Greg and then Greg's got to read thEQuestion no show read thEQuestion to Greg so say like Joe from Pittsburgh wants to know how big your arms were at the biggest and then you'll get to answer her and then she'll walk off stage would have what a thong on and then that'll be interesting we just want to go go I just want to go to the craft I was thinking about that because I was thinking about having our explosive barbecue all the fans cominGHang out with us you know but this is exactly what's all right put together package yes we're gonna get to girls you've got to have girls we don't have girls this is not gonna know it doesn't have no one cares they just want to see these two guys be the girl you need ring girls you need I think don't you not your granny's not for now I think yes yes yes you I love you get you get emails all the time all this though the people would love to come hang out I think that's what the energy of getting the the the the trenees for big line E for the ring girls and that would make it much more entertaining to get where I could I could we do it when I did with MD like the RX barbecue why could we have a barbecue after the barbecue we had a question and answer we'll leave for it and what's the day Eugene mission and fucking and Mellie Mellie had there I'd always people I did all the MC I did thEQuestion answer people were crazy they loved it you know IMean usually pretty sit right there answering the most fucked up questions right IMean he's a lot of that cuz we're the characters we're not like he said the fucking body brothers we do have these interviews we're interviewing the diet what they're on the America championship and he said well you know it's really hard for us and people sit there and then you know you know it's Joe Martin arts and you're like who the fuck is this guy on our X this week you know wake him good you know you just wanted North America pro how do you feel you know really you know you're gonna go for the real work on the details of it I got to wrap this up my kids are getting a revunkest in the other room and they're starting to destroy shit so we'll work on the details I think this is a better idea reach out to big lightning George so you make sure that you got we all coordinate all this stuff with them as well for now though guys we're out of time thank you guys for joining us as always and let's take us out with a little what do you got that George you got any promos going on yeah well got thank you vets okay all right this is the last group of cats you know I haven't got any cookies from you recently but that's okay that's more important I know you'll get him at the orange barbatch right I'm not gonna be cooking for three weeks to try to get enough cooking if you know the veteran the marine vet wants to fight Rob Zilly I get I sent you a 60 second tape oh yeah well yeah and that's up to Rob he'll have to determine that I don't really care I only want to see you in big lighting fight to be honest with you so we'll make it happen guys that's what we get to love you all love you damn love you guys bye

=== FILE: Big Ramy & Rafael Brandao DIAL IN For Spain Europa Pro! ｜ Muscle in the Morning (10⧸7⧸20) [Ot1BtT35TWE].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA PIDX Road, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car capped hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. We're going to be in LA PIDX Road! We're going to be in LA PIDX Road! Welcome back to legendary foods, Muscle in the morning. On day polo and today is Wednesday, October 7th, 2020. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's October, it's Wednesday, and we've got a huge week ahead of us. But before we jump into next week's action, we need to take a look at what went down at last weekend's Minneapolis Probecene. BringinGHome top honors in the open was an emerging star in Gabriella, Muscius, who looked awesome on her way to collectinGHer first career win. The number two spot went to second year pro Maya, a study, and rounding out the top three was former Junior National Champ, Jennifer St. Peter. Let's move on to the Master's Division where it was all about freedom of Martinez, who racked up another big win in her 43rd show as an IFV athlete. Second place went to Paul Aline and closing out the top three with a strong performance with Katie Michael. Since there was only one show in the dock at last weekend, I thought today would be a good time to do a little looking ahead to what's on deck this coming weekend at the Europa Championships in Alecante, Spain. Some of you may have already seen the official line up for released on Monday by Pro League officials. And just as we expected, this show is absolutely loaded all the way across the board. Not only is every single division going to be represented here, if you look at the list of names, it's a whos who are bodybuilding. This show has all the buzz and feel of a major event like the Arnold Plastic, except the stakes are even higher here since we're talking about having three Olympia qualifications up for grabs, which is unprecedented as far as I know. This is one of the few musty TV events of the season, and whatever happens here will have major ramifications for what happens three runs from now on stage in Planet Hollywood. Obviously, one of the biggest storylines of the weekend heading into this show is Big Rany, who absolutely needs to secure one of the top three spots in the men's open here to qualify for the Olympia. For me, the one burning question I have about Rany heading into this contest, all centers around how important this show is for his place in the hierarchy of bodybuilding. Let's not forget that this year we have Phil Heath entering back into the equation and flex Lewis makinGHis first run at an open title, which means by default two people who are used to be solid top five contenders will be on the outside looking in. And for ramming, not snagging, one of those Olympia qualifications could almost have a domino effect, because now we're not just talking about wearing fits into this year's contest, we're basically looking at this having a ripple effect that extends for years, which could ultimately mean that we've seen the last of his run for a legitimate top three contenders spot. And I get this is all speculative and that's what makes this conversation fun. It's what it is that makes it fascinating, but we won't really know how this whole thing plays out until the dust finally settles. The other part of the equation in the men's open here is the depth at the top of the lineup, which is beinGHeadline by the season debut of Rafa Brandeo. In the beginning of the week, Rafa released a pre-show progress photo that was so impressive I think it put him in the pole position in terms of who the public sees as the favourite heading into the contest. In a lot of ways, I think Rafa actually has the most to gain here with a win. Not only does it qualify him for his first career Olympia appearance, but it also legitimizes him as a top ten athlete in the division. The work that Rafa has put in with flex Lewis in his crew down in Florida has been well documented. And behind the scenes, Chris Ascitos has been pulling the right levers and guiding the ship. But that doesn't make this any less of a huge moment. We're all talking about the opportunity for a career defining win against one of the most popular athletes in the last decade. This is a huge deal, and I can see Rafa coming out of this weekend as the biggest winner of the bunch. And that's something we have to wait to find out and see. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions to make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Big Ramy 9 Days Out + Roelly Winklaar FREAKISH Update + Natalia Coelho & Jon Delarosa Updates! [tVfvOSdjjuY].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Motor 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car cocktail. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is October 2nd 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. This is way to take yourself out of the game as an athlete is by playing not to lose. Because the second you take your foot off the accelerator, somebody else is ready to go speeding right past you. But luckily for John Delorosa, the word slow and down aren't in his vocabulary. A few days ago, John's camp posted a video of him trening back with flexed Lewis' crew inside their private trening facility and showed John looking as big as I'd ever seen him. Around him, by athletes at this level, forces you to step up your game where else you get left behind. So the fact that John is playing for keeps on a daily basis is probably a blessing in disguise because it'll have him ready to hit the ground running at the start of next season. Back in the day, we used to say that pictures don't lie in bodybuilding. Nowadays, between Photoshop and filters and everything else going on out there, with the cameras, you can't always trust the photos the way you used to. But I do trust Rueley Winkler. A few days ago, a new photo surface of Rueley standing in front of the magic mirror with the camel crew who said that this year Rueley's bringing in something that we've never seen before. For someone at this stage of his career, I don't know if Rueley's cape of both completely revampinGHis look, but it's good to see that his confidence is ridinGHigh. So if the photos do end up telling the whole story, maybe this will be the year, we see him challenge for a top two spot. You know why good movie trailers are awesome? It's because they build anticipation. They give you just enough to suck you in and make you want more without giving you too much. So in a sense, the value of Quaylo's entire Olympia prep is like one giant movie trailer. This week, Natalia's camp released a video from a back trening session that showed us just enough to get everyone excited about what she's bringing to the Olympia this year. As the two time defending Arnold Champ, this could be a huge spot for Natalia, because knocking off someone like Sheneek Rand in the peak of her career would be the biggest upset in history. So if the final product does end up being as good as the trailer makes it seem, we're all in for one hell of a show. If you remember two weeks ago, we did a segment on Big Rami, and we said we're their smoke, their fire. Well, it turns out we were right. And in case you missed it on Tuesday, news officially broke that Rami was going to be competing at the Europa Pro in Spain next month. Where he immediately comes in now as the pre-show favorite. That being said, I do think this could be a double-edged sword. If he wins, now all of a sudden the hype tren kicks into overdrive and there will be 50 million people on social media commenting about how he's going to win the Olympia. But on the flip side, if he comes out flat and doesn't win this show, people will be waiting in line to pile on and talk about how he's been overrated as an entire career. Well, Rami, the balls in your court now, we're in the home stretch. It's time to put up, or shut up. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On Dave Alumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Big Ramy Rumors + Patrick Moore's Next Step + Ivana Ivusic Dials In + Sandra Grajales Recovers! [DE9HyhYRONU].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, Muscle in the Morning. On day polumbo and today is Tuesday, September 29th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. A big part of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in life is learninGHow to step back and reassess because when you're caught up in the grind of the day-to-day, it can be damn near impossible to gain the perspective you need to make sure that you're still on track. But now that Patrick Moore is in a position to step back and take a breather, these next few months could be a pivotal point in his career. According to Patrick, for the first time he's excited about moving into his offseason process. He and this team are planning to use this time to really dig in and do it needs to be done to take him to the next level with the hope being that 2021 will be the year that it all comes to fruition. So as long as they don't lose sight of who they are, what it is they need to do, I think a little bit of time to reflect could be just with the doctor ordered. Good runners and good bodybuilders have one really important thing in common. They both understand that running their hardest at the end is the thing that ultimately separates them from the pack. So I've been a vowsick now that you're coming down the home stretch. Here's my question to you. How hard are you willing to run? With the Chicago pro about one month away now, these next few weeks, are the make and break at time that could potentially set the stage for how these last few months of the season will play out. But if she can push through the pain and make one last final push, she can end up being the one who breaks the tape. Set it a million times before, where this smoke, there's fire. Just ask anyone living on the west coast. Now lately in case you haven't been paying attention, there's been a little bit of smoke surrounding big rammy. As rumors have started to circulate about him potentially jumping in to compete before the Olympian. Just to be clear, we didn't start the rumors and we don't know if there's any truth to them. But the smoke has to be coming from somewhere. And if there's smoke in the air, that means somewhere below the surface, something must be burning. So I would keep my eyes open and try to read the TV's because we might be seeing the big man make a return a whole lot sooner than we expected. And finally, we wanted to close out today's show with an update on Sandra Graghalis. Last week, we reported that Sandra was indefinitely out of commission after undergoing surgery. But thankfully, as of a few days ago, it looks like Sandra's well on the railroad to recovery. Late last week, Sandra released a few post surgery update photos that generated a lot of buzz, mostly because she looked like she hadn't even missed the beat. I don't know what that means in terms of her trening and competing this year, but at least on the surface it looks like she could be ready to go by the Olympia, which I hope is the case because adding a 100% Sandra Graghalis to the mix always makes things way more exciting. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Blaire White CALLS OUT Janae Marie Kroc! Palumbo's Response [nFUHPlF6CEc].txt ===

And something we don't often see is that Jene actually went back post-trensition and competing against men just because I guess like it was kind of like she's gone back and forth competing with men and women based on I don't know what IMean that's just a dick move no pun intended Okay pun intended I'm a fucking trenny so I can make that pun anyways Day Palombo here with an RX muscle rant all right guys and preparing you're just gonna be a controversial one Want to say right off the bat? I have a very good friend. Okay in this industry Originally his name was Mad Croc he trensitioned he's now a woman you probably know him as Jene Marie Croc he was a powerlifting and bodybuilding star You know tremendous amount of muscle mass one of the nicest guys of a met I've interviewed him as both Matt I've interviewed him as Jene There's AI guess you could say a YouTube personality called Blair White okay Supposedly you know from what I gathered she is a trens gender herself She was a male now she's a female and she has a very popular YouTube channel It's got about a million subscribers so that's obviously a lot of people watch these videos and she did a video on Well part of the video was was dedicated to Jene Marie and her I guess to stain at the fact that she felt that Jene Marie Okay was looking to compete against women in powerlifting and bodybuilding and she found it Appalling ludicrous you know She even called it a dick move at one point in the video Now if anyone if you any of you guys know Jene Marie okay Not a bad bone in this person's body sweetheart, you know just loves to lift super passion for for body-billing and the strength sports Whether she's a girl or she's a boy or she's back and forth and she considers her trens You know fluid gender I guess you could call it It doesn't matter she loves to lift okay, so one of the things is she doesn't identify her sex with You know how big she is muscular However she's also said that she never would consider competing with the women because she knows it's unfair And it would also cast a bad light on the trensgender community because she would be trying to you know Be people who are genetically and who are muscular and theory to her because she developed as a male Okay, and she knows that and she's gone on record even on our TV show She's gone on record the thing I was never compete as a woman bodybuild. I would never compete as a woman power left it because I would break every record it wouldn't even be it would not be fair I understand that but she still identifies herself as a woman So why this Blair white has decided to go on this this attack and I call it I call it cyber bullying I call it trens bullying if you wanted to know the truth I don't care if she's a trensgender or not She attacked the jenei put her down made her seem like she was trying to you know get over on the fact that she had all this You know muscle that she developed as a man and now was trying to use it to exploit You know the woman side of the sport and just beat everyone just because she wants to win things that's bullshit because you know what Jenei Wouldn't choose a natural bodybuilder Competed in the open division with all the people who were using drugs because she didn't care She just wanted to be the best next to you could be and what you decided to To use Supplements she's still competed with the same people she wants to be the best of what she does She doesn't have to win the women's division and she never ever went on record So I think it's a polling that this girl I don't care I'm gonna follow with she's got I don't care. I'm gonna be subscribed. She's got it. I'm gonna count popular she is She's bullying jeneIMarie and I'm gonna stand up for our iron brothers and sisters in this sport If someone on the outside goes on the attack and tries to cast an dispersion and make this person seem like they're not A good person and that they don't have a genuine heart and that they're looking to take advantage of the fact that they're That they've decided to trensition to another sex For purposes of promoting themselves because that's just not the case So you know what get your facts straight okay, Blair as my father would say You know I don't even want it my father would call her a ninkum poop because you know what If you really wanted to verify your facts and see if your story was accurate you could have called her up You could have reached out to jenei and jenei would have gotten back to you in two seconds amount of fact I think jenei told me because I just was looked out at the phone with her that she Her people that she's you know Publiscist and everythinGHas tried to reach out to this Blair white and I don't think that she may've heard back anything so Blair should have reached out to her God her side of the story before doing this condensing you know YouTube video on her probably just For you know to get people to watch her stuff because it is obviously very Polarizing because you look at jenei and she's huge and she's a female now and of course she's an easy target But that's what bullies do they they pick easy targets and they go after them You know what I I appreciate and respect what Blair is doing on our YouTube channel in the sense that she's trying to get more Notariety for the trens community and if she whatever her political you know Views are I don't care it doesn't matter because everyone's a title through her pain But before you go and bullying someone and make them feel bad about themselves in a subject You know nothing about the body bullying and fitness industry get you fact straight I'm Dave polombo within our ex muscle rare You're lying to her or you're lying to others and you're lying to your subs

=== FILE: Blaming a FAILED DRUG TEST on a BURRITO？ #askDave [4l2lcR0BHtU].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the species nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Pid X-Boss, our 30-year-in-a-row. What we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car mock tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Alright, it's television on rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave Betterknown as hashtag as Dave. You're 30 minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Palombo. All your questions. Die, tren, supplementation. I have BB pros, news, whatever you think is on your mind is all on the table. Now generally, as you can see here, I am not coming to you from the Rxmuscle New York Studios at Room is currently in use by my grandnought. I am currently coming to you from my three-year-olds room. I am your host, DPRWC. As we now bring in Dave Palombo, Dave, hilarious episode last night of after-hour. So, Larry's, but I left us on a little bit more of a serious, nature topic and that is the first of all, we saw Big Lany breaking the bottle over his head and you all reacted to it. We talked about the Olympic runner who I believe won't be allowed to compete because of a failed steroid test. She then proceeded to blame the steroid test failure on a burrito. Pork burrito. They're vilifying pork again. I didn't really know what the reason was, but I went back and looked while we were doing the show and I saw that they, I guess they supposedly, supposedly, they were not that the pigs can produce an angelone like compounds in their system. So, somehow they equated that that's why the runner failed to shape the pork burrito, which is ludicrous of course. But what I think happened was, they only use animals. Everyone knows that most of them use very short, at the end of the box so that they get tested the stuff that their system right away. But there's so much fake stuff out there on the market now that you could think you're using like, something like really fast actually, I try to tremble and acetate maybe or winstrel. And you'd theoretically, it could be tanked with that guy. They could have put that guy in there because it's cheaper instead of masteron something like that. And she probably was using something fake. And that's why I tell everyone, I know I saw like a broken record, I saw like, you mother's asking about your homework, but I'm telling you. The reason I give out information is because it's necessary. And test your steroids. I tell the women this especially because these women use anivore thinking it's anivore. They say, oh, it comes from a good source. I know they got guess what, test it. And you know what, 50% of the anivore out there is, is Diana bowl. Because it's cheap to make. It's way cheaper to give you someone a Diana bowl pill in charge of an anivore price. Because the price of it Diana bowl pill is probably 50 cents. The price of an animal or pill can be two bucks, three bucks sometimes. That's a huge difference in profitability. Same thing with injectables. Prima bowl is the most expensive raw material you can buy for any animal. It's not even that strong. But for women, women can use small doses of it. The problem is that 99% of the Prima bowl in out there is actually testosterone propane. And the reason I know this is because I sell these right test kits on my day. Pull on mo.com website. We sell a ton of them. And people as soon as they get something that comes back bad, they set me an email with the color. With the violence. What does this look like to you? I'm like, it's test propane. What does this look like to you? This pill. Unfortunately it's Diana bowl. I see it all the time. So especially if you get, now for someone who's not getting drug tests in like bodybuilders, it doesn't matter. But if you're an Olympic runner and you're doing a little gear on the side, you know, in your offseason trying to, you know, because what they do is they can't do it during the, the, the running season because they get intestinal of the time. Okay, two, two suspicious, but when they tren in the offseason, try to get better for the coming year and build strength, that's when they use the antibiotics. Now if anyone knows anything about DACA, mandrelones can stay in the system for up to 18 months to the metabolites. So if she used it say in January, once she was trening in the seat, there was no running season and to put on some strength and she thought she was taking, you know, like I said, like a short acting compound, like maybe like a, you know, like a winstrol or a masteron or something like that. And she was actually taking an engine loan. Now she's screwed for the next theoretically 12 to 18 months. She's going to test positive and that's probably why she's so like how the health type test positive. So they got to find a, they got to blame it on a pork burrito, which obviously the Olympic committee didn't buy. And they banned her for four years and she was the record holder. She probably would have won the gold medal at the Olympics. Great runner from the United States. So guys, the take home messages get your Roy test, check your stuff out, men, women. Because even if you're stuff, you know, even if you're not being drug tested, why would you want to waste your money on using something that you might think is trembling alone and you might think it's actually masteron and it's actually test officer and proponate. And you're, you're giving people good money and you wasting your time or even worse, it might be nothing. You could be completely wasting your money. I can't tell you how many growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone tests we sell. And I'm telling you 50% of the GH comes back as nothing. Okay. So the take home messages test you here. Test your gear and put down the pork burritos. Let's go to questions. The first few questions from the day, Pulumbo experience. The first question on the never ending quest to burn fat. Can you explain thyroid levels? What is low and what would benefit from exogenous health? My former coach never really explained or addressed it. For thyroid, you're talking about what I, what I was saying, your thyroid was for thyroid hormone, what's an antibiotic, yeah. Explained, yeah, thyroid levels. All right. So look, I could give you the best way I can explain it is to explain myself. Okay. I'm going to make a thyroid hormone and put the thyroid hormone at my thyroid removed. So I put the anti-four or the elophyroxy. That's inactifyroid hormone that's what my thyroid gland would naturally produce. My body then converts the T4 that I'm taking into active T3. So my body basically knows what it needs T3 is and it'll convert it to me. That's the best way to replace thyroid hormone is to give yourself T4. Now, if you have a thyroid gland that functions normally, okay, and you take T4, it's going to do nothing. It's not going to convert because your body's already converting your natural thyroid hormone into T3, which is the active form. So if you're going to supplement with thyroid hormone, you've got to take active thyroid home T3, also, side-to-mails at one of the brand names of that, another brand name would be Sino-Mell, which is the Mexican version. But what is adequate thyroid function? It's whatever the normal range is, and I don't remember it off hand, the normal range of T3, okay. So if you're thyroid stimulatinGHormone, which is the pituitary hormone that's produced that's stimulate chithyroid, is it the normal level, it would imply your T3's at normal level. I always tell her when to check everything, TSH, T4, T3, if they're all normal, then you're good. Raising that up a little bit will increase your metabolic rate a little bit. But really, and I've said this before, the urability to burn fat is really dictated by the metabolic enzymes in your muscle cells, in your mitochondria, how good of a fat metabolizer are you. So while my replacement of thyroid hormone didn't alter anything about my body, didn't get leaner, I didn't get fat. And the reason is that thyroid hormone doesn't control my levels of body fat. My mitochondria in my muscle cells, how they burn fat, which is superior to most people, that's my genetic gift, is still there. As long as I have thyroid hormone turning it on or allowing it to work, then I'm going to continue to be dipolumbal and have dipolumbal metabolism. So once again, what's adequate? Do you need to run higher levels? Higher helps a little bit, but it's not going to turn a fat genetically fat person into a fat burning day polumbal machine just by adding thyroid hormone. And that's or even uping it a little bit. That's important to know. However, when you combine thyroid hormone, T3 with plumbuterole, with a diet, with cardio, then you're going to start burning more fat. Okay? And it'll be dictated on an individual by individual basis, because everyone's fat burning machinery is different in their body. And that's what you have to remember. It's not the dual end all. It's just another piece of the puzzle that's going to help you to lose weight faster or a body fat faster. Second question, again, from the day polumbal experience app, Dave, what's glucogon? How does it work? What does it do? Okay. Glucogon is also produced by the pancreatic cells. There's two types of hormone producing cells in the pancreas. One is known as the beta cells which produce insulin, which we know that does it drives nutrients into the muscle cells. And then we have another hormone produced by the alpha cells of the pancreas, that's known as glucogon and glucogon, move stuff out of the cells. So if you have stored glycogen in your muscle cells or liver and your body's blood sugar drops, glucogon is released and glucogon has the cells or tells the cells liberate glucose into the bloodstream and raise blood sugars, because we need more sugar because the blood sugar levels are going low. So they work opposite each other, glucogon and insulin. Now the cortisol producing cells in your adrenal glands can also raise blood sugar, but they do it a different way. They turn amino acids into glucose. That's known as glucogonian genesis and that can occur in liver and to some degree in the kidneys. So that's a stress hormone. So if you're really, you know, really, really low and your body's under tremendous stress, your body can crank out more glucose via that route as well. But if the muscles have stored glycogen in it, usually if blood sugar drops, glucogonus released, the problem with the type one diabetics that take insulin is that when you inject insulin and it goes through the liver, a lot of times the body will release glucogon. And response to an insulin injection, which is what you don't want, right? Because here you are trying to drive new to this cells into the cells and your body's releasing glucogon, which is pushing them out of the cells. And that's why type one diabetics have to take a lot more insulin than you would naturally produce to accomplish the same feat clearing the blood of glucose. So glucogon is not something you would ever inject. You would ever use that. But that's what it does inside the cell, inside the body's use. Let's go to our Instagram questions again. If you're not already following us or handle us official underscore rx muscle, if you're watching us for the first time on YouTube, hit the subscribe button below, hit the notification bell. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button comment below that helps. And as always, we appreciate all of your support now offseason, contests, season or whenever we do this for you, we appreciate all the feedback from you, our rx nation all year long. Give tough question here if you're ready for it. It's from Lee Priest official Lee Priest handled. Should I wear blue or red, a blue or red shirt today, which is more antibiotic? Blue is definitely more antibiotic, I would say red is more catabolic because red is the color of the devil, right? I think blue is more antibiotic. Somebody's not associated with blue with muscle gains and red with fat loss, maybe because red kind of in my mind would be associated with raising metabolic rate and burning more calories and stuff like that. So I'd say go blue. Now I wanted to mention one thing, we do have a giveaway to do today. I think we missed the last couple weeks, although we're not doing this show live, those we can't do that. But next week, when we go back to live, next week, we'll do the giveaway is the legendary foods giveaways again. All right, so Lee, now you know what to wear for today. Let's go, actually, so we're getting a lot of questions. I don't know if he touched on this in the last episode. A lot of questions about when your next guru course is going to be is going to be virtual is going to be in person. So what can you tell the audience for those that are asking? I'm looking at my calendar right now. I think we haven't scheduled for July 10th to be honest with you. I have a check. I'll have the post-drup this week on the end of the week on my daypalombo.com website. I think we're going to be online. We're not ready to do anything in person yet because of COVID still. So we'll be online, which is great for all the international guys and girls who want to take the course because I have people, the people like the India, they got a wake up like it like four in the morning to date the class. I feel bad for them. But you know what, we have a great crew. I always have 15 to 20 good people in that class. They ask great questions. It's going to be once again. It'll be from nine in the morning Eastern Standard Time to 6pm. We take a break, a one hour break for lunch. And it's a really fun class because we go over everything from diet, supplementation, drugs, offseason, pre-conscious. I ask, answer every question. IMean, it's so comprehensive that by the end of the day, when I get to 6pm, I'm so drained. I can't even speak because I really, I give a lot of emotional energy to that course. It's, it's really near and dear to my heart. I really feel that educating people the next generation or the next generation. I should say is very important because I want to make sure that the coaches who come out of this course can take their clients to the next level and be true coaches. Not just in a sense that they have experience, but they have the knowledge behind that experience so that they can give people the right information. And not give them bro science information that's going to wind up hurting them down the road. So near and dear to me, check it out and just check my back with my website. I'll also post on my Facebook and Instagram when the next course is we're making the posts. I believe it is once again July 10th weekend and you'll be able to sign up at the Palombo University link and once again the link will be on my website. So I also want to mention that thEQuestions we addressed earlier in the show related to the day, Palombo experience app. People don't know what that is. That's the app we offer. You can download it at the iTunes Store Android store and it's $29 a month and you get access to everything I've ever written, everything I've ever done video wise, all in one place we put up a workout every single week. I answer everyone's questions on the apps. If you havEQuestions for me, they get answered on the app in a public forum. So everyone sees everyone's questions and everyone's answers which is I always wanted to do that because I like to see what other people are asking. Because a lot of times it's a question I have and I don't even remember and this way it's an educational tool. So you're constantly going on there, reading people's questions and answers and you're learning on a regular basis and then I also do a Q&A video. Kind of like ASD, except it's an extra one. More education based on thEQuestions of the app members and that goes up once a week as well. So you get a lot of value for your money and you've got a personal trener in your pocket. So you might want to check that out. Yeah, a lot of good questions. See how many we can get through. Let's go to Peck Pockman. Dave is natural competitive bodybuilding really natural as then are they competitive completely clen or are some mild form of drugs involved now? IMean, just if you can go back into yeah, clients you coach, what you've seen, what you've heard the truth beyond the matter. There's no such thing as natural bodybuilding. There are some people 100% natural in the sense that they don't use any illegal performance enhancing drugs absolutely. Are all the people who compete in natural competitions natural now? Because for most of these organizations, they call themselves natural but they're really just drug tested organizations. You beat the drug test. You beat the drug test. IMean, that's what the Olympics are. You think the Olympics are natural? Come on. It's called beat the drug test. Sometimes you fail the drug test like this runner. We just saw it recently who's banned for four years. You're rolling the dice. If you pass the drug test, you win the Olympic gold in your hero. If you fail it, you're a criminal. That's how they, that's how you branded this country. This is unfortunately how it goes. So are there natural competitions out there? They say they are. Is everyone natural? No. Are some people natural? Absolutely. And that's a personal choice you have to make. I just feel that if you're going to use antibiotics, can you get a huge drugs that are banned by these organizations? You might as well compete in an organization that doesn't test you. Because why be a fraud? You know what IMean? If those organizations should be reserved for people who don't want to take drugs, that feel like it's a protected environment. But unfortunately, it just isn't that because people want to be champions. They don't care if they have to cheat. They don't care if they're going to be the big fish and a small pond. It doesn't matter to them. I competed in a natural organization for one or two times when I was natural. And you know what? The second time I competed, people thought I was a natural. So I said, you know what? I'm not going to deal with this stuff. You know what? The truth is I want to be the best. And if I want to be the best, I got to use stuff. So I started using some antibiotics that I never competed in a natural organization again. Because I said, you know what? If I'm going to be the best, I got to compete against the best. And it's my choice how much I want to use or not use. Just because you compete in an organization that uses drugs. That means you have to use the most drugs of anyone out there. Because the amount of drugs you use is not an alicous to how well you place. As much as some people may think that that's the case. It's not. Okay, taking a threshold amount, eating right, trening right, sleeping enough, having some genetic predisposition. Those are the keys to success in bodybuilding. And if you think it's all drugs, you don't know what you're talking about. Let's go to tank MCG. Not sure if I have this question last week, because I saw this in question, but I'll ask you if you remember it, we'll move on to the next one. Does posing or flexing the muscle being worked between sets have any value? You know, I don't think it makes it. I don't think it makes you harder or leaner or I think what it does is it gives you a better mind muscle connection. That's what I found to be the hardest when I was going through about. I found it hard to be able to control the muscle that I wanted to use. Not only in a workout sense, but in a posing sense on stage. Now, as I got bigger, it became easier, maybe because I had more muscle and I could feel it better. But really what I felt was that the more I practiced my posing, the better body awareness I had. Some people just genetically just pick things up and have really good body awareness. They know where they are in space, they compose well, they move well. Other people need to practice a million times over to get that same, the builds up those neural pathways, that's me. I'm a guy who's got, I got to practice it mechanically a thousand times. And then, because I'm a creative person, then I could creatively hit my shot and move creatively. Because now it's ingrained in my neural pathways and now I can artistically release it. I can't do two things at one time. You can ask my wife if I'm working on the computer and she's talking to me, I don't hear anything. I'm like in my own little world. Whereas I know people that come up my wife come up with it, she can watch TV, she can be yelling at the kids, she can be sending out orders on the computer and she won't make aromasingle mistake. So, everyone is a little different like that. And I think that you have to just accept and figure out what kind of person you are. And if you need to work more on your posing because you just don't have that body awareness, you don't move well on stage. You can learn to. The key is not saying, well, I'm just not good on stage on that kind of practice. No, let me do you got to practice more than the other person. Let's go to Leon James Fit. Dave, you've explained that GH causes new muscle fibers and you will start to see the difference around the six mark. I guess six week mark period depending on the dose. ThEQuestion that follows that is if you build a new muscle tissue from say a year or two of GH and then stop all year and working out once you start back up trening a year while you have muscle memory to build back the tissue that GH caused that you never got within a ballics or will you have to get back on GH? What I explained was that when you take a compound like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or IGF-1 and you're producing new cells, you're turning stem cells which we used to call satellite cells and other called stem cells. We turn these stem cells which are basically the lobs of nothing and we turn them into muscle tissue using a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone which will differentiate these stem cells and turn them into muscle fibers. Once we do that, they're muscle fibers. Now, in order to see the results of those new muscle fibers we produce which are very they're going to be microscopic cells. We want to get them enlarged. How do we enlarge muscle cells when we tren? We break them down, we build them up. We take steroids which make them bigger. Once the GH makes the cells but then we have to make those cells bigger. That's why I said this usually like a lag of six months and it's not six weeks, six months I find. So the cells that you've made have created today in six months you'll see them get to their full size. If you tren hard and you do everything else right of course. Now, if you stop trening and those cells shrink up again, you still have those muscle cells that are just smaller and that's what muscle memory is, right? Now you go back to trening again after taking off a couple months and boom, they blow right up because you already got those new cells there. They're not changing. Once you've turned them into muscle, they're muscle and those nuclei are not going away. They make it smaller but they're still there. So once you want them back, you just have to start eating and trening again and they come back pretty fast because you're just blowing up the size of those cells. You don't have to take GH to do it. You don't even have to take steroids to do it but if you obviously would take steroids and you tren heavy, they're going to get bigger faster. Let's go to Cobb Brey. This is about your competition career but if you have any successful stories in clients as well, you're most successful contest car-blood protocol. You know, I try a lot of different things. When I originally started trening and competing in the early 90s when I was really doing, I started first started doing well. I didn't eat anything. It was like a protein and carbs and I would carb up. I would just load tons of carbs because and I could not get full enough. So what I would usually do is I would have like a pancakes and syrup and butter on the morning of the show and that would fill me out a little bit but I always looked better the next day after eating like a maniac Saturday night. Then I realized as part of my whole, I guess you could say, Quest to figure out the whole fat equation. Fat's are necessary. Fat's actually go into the cells and they actually add volume to the cell too. There's something called intermuscular fat and some of that is necessary for fullness. So when IMy most successful carb load was when I realized I didn't really need as many carbs as I was eating. I needed a lot more fat. I couldn't cut the fat out because by taking away the fat, your body is what happens is when you start eating carbs and carb loading, you basically stimulate in the metabolism. So what's happening is a lot of those, especially if you have a fast metabolism like mine, I can eat A-500, 600, 700 grams of carbs for the day but my body is using the mole for energy because it's because my metabolism is going through the roof. If you have fat as a buffer in there, your body can use some of that fat as fuel and a lot of those carbs now that you're eating will get stored as glycogen as opposed to just being consumed as energy. And that's when I realized what the formula was. So my the last couple years from 2001 to 2003, like all the years from the 2000, those four years from 0 to 1, 2, 3, 4, I realized that I didn't need to eat a thousand grams of carbs to carb up. I can eat, you know, three, four hundred grams of carbs. And I can keep my fat high at 150 grams or whatever I was eating, 160 grams of fat per day along with my protein which I didn't lower. That's another mistake people think, oh, you don't need as much protein because I'm eating more carbs. If you lower your calories, okay, or keep your calories the same and just change the composition, you're not going to carb up adequately. So I needed to keep my food intake high and add carbs. And that's what I did. I didn't reduce fat, I didn't reduce protein. I added carbs on top of all that stuff. And that's when I looked full, but yet I wasn't blowing out my gut and constipating myself because I was eating a thousand grams of carbs a day. And that just what that's what works for me. And it's works from 99% of my clients. Everyone's in a while. You got to freak shut. You got to do crazy stuff with. But for most people, that's the way to go with it. Don't cut the fat and protein back and add some carbs. Depending on how carbs sensitive the person is or how much you need to carb up, that'll dictate how much you give them. It's good to have an abandoned bed. You know, it's good for them to show which creates more hamstring growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, leg curl machines or deadlift variations overloading the stretch position or the peak of the contraction. Look, I'm a big believer in squats and dead lifts, build the whole leg, you know. And, you know, hamstring, ludes, that's a lot of, a lot of deadlift. You get a lot of stimulation in there. And I'm not talking straight like deadlift. So I'm going to regular dead lifts, press and off the floor. Pull that weight off. Squats, when you're lowering that weight, that's all hamstring, you know. So you're not going to get huge thick mass of hamstrings from doing leg curls, okay? Does it help? Of course it does. Is it going to give you the dense look that you see like some of these freak savants as you know? That's lowering the weight on the leg press, lowering the weight on squats, okay? Dead lifting, pushing, pulling that weight off the floor. So I'm going to be using those glutes and hamstrings. And let me tell you something, the adductors, the inner thighs are really important to the hamstring pose because when you put that leg back, a lot of that stuff that hangs back there is not just hamstring. It's adductor too. On the side pose, when you put your legs together and you see that nice drop that we call that hamstring drop, it's really not a hamstring drop, it's really an adductor drop. The inner thigh gets pressed against the other one, it hangs and then just a little edge of the back of your leg is your hamstring. But it's a lot of adductor in there too. So don't neglect the adductor compartment. Open your stance up when you squatting, dead lifting, you know, or pressing, let those adductors work. Well, it's good at the rectum rhino. When should you get your blood worked on post-show also? How long would you say to stay off for a proper clear out? I tell people wait at leasT4 weeks to get blood worked on after your last antibiotics shot because it takes at leasT3 or four weeks to clear all that crap out of your system. Probably the best that would be do your whole, you know, clen out right before you go back on cycle, usually after which should be about eight to ten weeks of clen out. Okay. That's when you should get your blood worked on. So when you clen your eight weeks off, go get tested, check your kidney function, liver function, all the other stuff that goes along with that. And then, and I've given that, you know, I send all the time the list of blood worked to people should get done if you've not a contact me. And you'll see a true, you know, or a pretty true snapshot of what's going on in your body. If you go right after you competed a week or two after you're going to be all, you're going to have levels all over the place. That's normal. IMean, that's to be expected, I should say. So try to wait to you by the clen down and start to regenerate a little bit, then go get tested. This question from Elaine, IMean, is a simplEQuestion, but we have a special episode of Guru Talk, a show where if you have it watched Guru Talk, the premise of this show was really bringing on, we bring on Guru's, we bring on experts, you know, who really do, you know, dive into the deep science of bodybuilding, health, special episode. ThEQuestion is about lowering DHT, but if you want to maybe give some insight on this upcoming episode of Guru Talk, DHT, how to keep your hair all tied in and a very special guest. Yeah, well, we're all going to love this episode because I know we're all of us here in this room today are interested in keeping our hair. And Jay Campbell is very, very knowledgeable in this whole pursuit of hair regrote. Okay, and I look, I've been into this whole thing, I also, anyone has lost hair and likes hair. So people say they have, they don't even care. I don't, I look like a murderer if I straight my head. So I like to have a little bit of hair, and Jay Campbell is doing a lot of research on copper peptides and they're regenerative, in fact, on the hair follicle of the head and how you can control also some of the hair regrote. So we have a really good guru report to all coming out. I'm a very high DHT converter. That means that I convert a lot of my testosterone into DHT genetically. When I got my DNA tested and verified that as well, I have a defect. I convert too much testosterone to DHT, which is probably why my whole life I broke used to break out with acne when I was a kid. And it was very oily and stuff like that in my skin because I'm a big DHT converter. Now to give you an idea of how much DHT DHT I produce, I'm on no hormone replacement just whatever my body naturally produces testosterone wise, which is abouT4 to 500 on a total Testosterone test. That's my body naturally, but this is, I take the nasteride every single day for the last 20 years, 2.5 milligrams. And my DHT levels are not low. They're like normal in the middle range, which tells you that if I didn't take it, I would be through the roof. Okay, has it made me grow back any hair probably not? Has it slow to stop my hair loss? Maybe, I think it might have. And that's why I stay on it. It's also protected from my prostate. Because I'm a DHT converter, a high one. Okay? What Jay Campbell kind of revealed on this episode is that a lot of what we think, you know, the old thinking was that if we can get DHT levels low, we're going to regrow hair or preserve the hair that we have on our head. That's just, it's never been the case. It's not consistent, you know. So in other words, some people notice good results, some people don't notice results. So it's not just DHT that causes hair loss. The genetic component to it, obviously. But what Jay was explaining and you'll see on this episode is that a lot of it has to do with the health of your scalp. And the blood flow to your scalp. The blood flow gets reduced. Okay? You lose hair. And there is a way to bring back the blood flow there. If you watch this episode, it's absolutely tremendous. I learned a ton of information from there. And I'm going to tell you ways that you can actually bring back your hair growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and restore it relatively quickly within the scope of probably 90 days. So check that group of talk. I think people really like it. That group of talk going live tomorrow noon eastern time on the R&C muscle YouTube channel before we ask our final question. And if you are watching us for the first time, subscribe below, hit the notification bell just like tomorrow's episode of Guru Talk yesterday's episode of After Hour, and then of course, our live episode of Heavy Muscle Radio on Monday where we had a special guest surgeon, Olivia Junior, who came on and talked about the video that he posted over the weekend and some of his thoughts as far as I guess his news getting out when he intended to put it out. So he clarified everything on that end. And then issued a challenge to some of the top body builders to compete at this upcoming misad the oral classic rather, the oral classic invite list being announced yesterday. So again, all that and more, subscribe, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything coming up on the R&C muscle YouTube channel. Final question from Tattoo by Tony. Do you think it's possible that Brandon Curry could bring up his legs enough. Brandon Curry and his coach Abdullah posting a picture over the last couple of days from the 2020 prep. You see Brandon Curry, his condition back. Obviously, that is universally known, Brandon Curry, one of the most evolved upper bodies. One of those evolved body builders on the scene, but obviously many people were talking about his legs after finishing second of Big Romney last year. So could he bring up his legs enough of the put where he could have a chance to win the Olympic title back? And I guess I'll add to that in comparison to someone like that of a big Romney. Yeah. I think it's important to understand first of all, first of all, let's look at Dexter Jackson and Victor Martinez who were two of the greatest body builders of our era. They didn't have great legs. They had balance to their body. And that's what it's about. They had harmony. Victor's, you know, he was the original X frame guy. His body wasn't anythinGHuge about anything. Rammy's got these huge monster quads, but the reason why Victor and Dexter did so well, because everything flowed well and when they were in shape, they were almost impossible to beat because of that structure. That's Brandon Curry. Curry won the Olympia because he was genetically just perfect in the sense that he had an X frame. His legs are never going to be big. They don't need to be. They just need to be really hard and full enough. And if he puts that formula together where he gets everything in harmony with each other, when he's posing as he's so plight, plethe, pleasurable to look at. His physique is so pleasing to the eye that you want to see the guy win. So thEQuestion is, can Curry beat Rammy? The answer that is absolutely yes. He can win this show and become Mr. Olympia again. But the tool he has right now, just showing up at his best full enough and hard enough. However, Randy holds the cards in his hand now. He's Mr. Olympia. He's the biggest guy on stage. He's got good symmetry for a big guy. ThEQuestion is, is he going to come in in shape? If he comes in like he was last year or even a little better, no one's beaten him. Because he's the biggest bodybuilding after all is about muscle. And he's got more muscle than everyone on that stage and he's Mr. Olympia. However, if Rammy comes in off and we've seen him off, before he's only managed to shape one time this past season. He comes in off which I don't think he's going to. But if he does, that opens the door to that next level of guys and knocking at the door. The hotty shootins, the branding curries, the William Bowenax. And if Curry's at his best being a former Mr. Olympia, he is a very good chance of winning the Mr. Olympia title. So my advice to Brandon is, don't try to be something you're not, don't try to come too big and give up your conditioning. Play to your strengths, bring that to the stage. Dexter did it his whole career. He was always right there waiting for people to screw up and then he would win the show. And he did it 30 times right over 20. How many times did he do it? I don't even know. He eats. 29. He did it 29 and 30 times. So the point is that Dexter is a great model for Brandon to follow. You don't have to be the biggest guy. Just be the best guy. So there you have it. That's going to do for this episode of Asdae, Reminder tomorrow noon Eastern Standard Time on the RX muscle YouTube channel. New episode of Guru Talks for all of those of you looking to keep your hair and who will loss some hair. We're going to grow it back. This episode is going to be for you. For Tyler, Sean Day, Plumbo, I'm Sidney Furuki. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Bonac SMASHES 405's + Nick Walker FULL BLOWN Olympia Prep! [ERhgxuqHQdE].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, so it's 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm the polomba one. Today is Thursday, June third, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I don't know if you guys remember this show we did a few weeks ago. When we talked about William Bonak startinGHis Olympia prep, where he basically told his fans to wait and see what happens after he puts his foot on the gas. Well, we didn't have to wait very long, did we? Because on Monday, William released a new clip from a back trening workout we saw him hitting sets of 405 for reps, which isn't all that crazy in and of itself. It was the way he looked while he was doing it to court everyone's attention. He didn't come right out and say, what his weight is, but he looks like he's easily gained 10 or 15 pounds of pure muscle since his last update, which lets you know how insane his genetics are, because it takes most people years to put on that kind of size, and considering that he's really only starting to get back into the flow of trening and dieting now, just imagine how much crazy he'll get over the next few months, once he starts cranking up the intensity. Sometimes when people reach out to me asking for advice about what they need to do to turn pro, I have to give them a reality check, and ask them if they're sure that this is what they're really want to do, because the majority of people aren't willing to pay full price once they see what the cost of admission is, but on the flip side when you know what the cost is, and you're still willing to pay full price for it anyway, you don't look for discounts or shortcuts you do what Nick Walker does, pay in full with no questions asked, even when all the hype and all the attention and people tripping all of themselves to tell him how great he is, Nick stills in the gym every day, paying the damn fee and trying to figure out what he needs to get better. No discounts, no shortcuts, not on credit cash upfront. If you want it, you pay the cost because the price doesn't matter. Most of us, when it comes to bodybuilding, telling people to worry about the things that they can control and letting go of the things that they can is good advice. Trying to worry about controlling 10,000 tiny variables inevitably drives people crazy in the long run. So the more of that stuff that you can block out, the better. But then again, some things are just too big to block out. So you can't help but shift some of your attention to them. And if you're prepping for the Tampa Pro, Charles Griffin falls into that category of things that are too big to not pay attention to. We've talked a lot about how deep this lineup in Tampa is and what the long-term implications of a win here could mean. But you'll have to go through him in order to do it. When Charles has an all-working, he's an absolute monster and you can't not account for a variable like him if you're one of the other athletes competing in this show. I realized earlier today that we hadn't talked about the Portugal Pro yet, even though it's a little less than 10 weeks away. So I figured today's is good as any day to start. Because according to reports, it looks like the Portugal Pro will be the first time we see Jose Maria Mette, Warraberry, aka Madelman on stage this year, even though hEQualified for the 2020 Olympia because he won the San Marino Pro at the end of 19, he never competed, which means he basically hasn't set foot on a bodybuilding stage for the last 18 months. And I guess the most casual bodybuilding fan might not even know who this guy is. But believe me, when I tell you the man is dangerous, he might be good enough to be a top six Olympia finisher right now. And if he shows up in Portugal ready to go, that classic physique contest might be over before it even starts. And that does if he had another addition of muscle in the morning on day polimbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Brandon Curry 17 Weeks Out + Stan Efferding Trains Jon Jones + Santi Aragon On The Mend! [pq1OQu-oEO4].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of net carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Pullabbo and today is Friday, June 11th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. In the entire history of the Mr. Olympia, an athlete has never lost their title one year and then turned around to win it back in the following year. And that's a lot of years and that's a lot of history and I don't think any of it matters to brand and carry right now. A few days ago I saw a video of Brandon in the gym and I honestly thought it was probably the best I'd seen him look 17 weeks out from a show. Whatever he did in the offseason worked because he looks like he's coming in and recharged and ready to go. And if we can get a 2019 Brandon Curry conditioning with a few of the 2021 improvements sprinkled in, it might be the perfect recipe to make history happen. I would say for the most part, it's been a quite year in classic physics so far. But I will say this, some of the performances we've seen have been great including what we saw from Divine Wilson when he won the Pittsburgh Pro a few months back since that win in Pittsburgh. The vines been pouring all this energy into bringing up his weaknesses so we can show up to the Olympia weekend ready to be a top five contender. If you take Chris, Terence and Breon out of the equation, it does feel like there's some wiggle room there in the slots of four and five. So if Divine does come in with a better look than he had in Pittsburgh, I think that's good enough to at least force the judges to take a fair look at him. I don't know if it's just me, but for whatever reason it seems like there's been a lot of injuries this year. I know there are injuries every year, but this year it feels like it's been over the top and now it looks like the injury bug finally got around to take the bite out of Santiago, if you weeks ago, Santiago suffered a growing injury playing ice hockey and it apparently was his severe enough that it prevented him from doing any sort of trening up until a few days ago. From what I understand, this isn't something that requires surgery so he should be fine with everythinGHealing naturally, but it's still a tough injury to have at this point in the season. So hopefully he'll be able to rebound in time so he can still hit a few shows in the late summer or early fall while he still can grab and the Olympic qualification. Finally, I wanted to close out the week with a segment that I thought was pretty cool, especially if you're a UFC fan. Recently there's been a video floating around of Stan Efforting trening with John Jones, and for those of who you don't know, John Jones is why they regarded as the best mixed martial artist fighter of all time. Stan's been working with John for the last few weeks as his strength and conditioning coach to help John get ready for his next fight, which I believe will be as a heavy weight if I'm not mistaken. If you completely honest, I have no idea whether it's a short-term thing or of John as planning to keep Stan on board for his entire fight camp, but I will say this. There were a lot of parallels between boxing and MMA. So John wins that next fight is a heavy weight. I can absolutely see more MMA fighters starting to work with coaches like Stan or myself to help dial in their diets for some of these big fights. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning. Dave O'Lumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions. Make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Bumstead JUST Getting Started？ + FREAK WALKER + NEW & IMPROVED De Asha! [1Ew8u656rco].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Monday August 9th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Have you ever heard the expression? They're so far behind in the race that they actually think they're in the lead, because that's the phrase that pops into my head every time I see new updates from Chris Bumstead lately. The raining and the fending two time classic physique Olympia champ looks like he's well ahead of the pace. He set heading into last year's contest and up to this point everything we've heard coming out of Chris's camp has been nothing but positive in terms of how he feels about his prep. Here's another thing to keep in mind about Chris. He's only 26 years old, which means he's still younger than Phil Heath was when he won his first Olympic title. So if he still hasn't even reached his peak yet, and this is where he is now, we could be looking at another decade of dominance that will be pretty much unprecedented in the modern year of bodybuilding. One of my favorite Jordan Peterson ideas is that we see what we aim at, which is why it's so important to aim high and focus our energy and attention on trying to dominate everything we do. Like in guarantee you that if you ask Nick Walker right now what his aim is heading into the artle and the Olympia for the first time is response would essentially be championship or bus. The updates that we've seen coming from Nick and his team over the last few weeks have been crazy. Oh, I see. Oh, he's our. And I'd expect to see that ramp up even more as we get closer to October. Say what you will, but Nick's delivered every time out, despite people saddlinGHim with expectations that would have been completely unrealistic for most athletes. But the thing is he keeps clearing the hurdles no matter how high they are. And at the end of the day, that means that wherever he's aiming seems to be hitting the mark, put the Olympia being nine weeks away now right around now is usually the time when we start to see those midway progress pictures trickling in from people that make you stop and do a double take. And if you've been paying attention to what James Hollings had been doing lately, that's exactly what you did when he released his latest update a few days ago. One of the things that jumps off the screen right away when you see these pictures is how he's been able to keep his waist in check with adding muscle that he's been doing during the offseason, which is something bigger athletes like James struggle to do sometimes. That said, we still haven't had a chance to see what this bigger and better version of James looks like on the Olympia stage because he decided to sit out last year's contest. And when you think about some of the other names that occupied the back half of the top 10 last year, trying to figure out where he fits into that group should be one of the more interesting things to keep track of as we start getting closer to the show. We haven't talked about the Europa Pro Championship as much lately, but since we're only about one week away now, I figured that we might as well get into it. Starting with this brand new update from our old friend Nathan De Ashe, as we reported a few weeks ago, Nathan moved back out to Kuwait to tren at oxygen and get ready for the show. Since I get from him, is that he's feeling very confident about where he is right now. It's been so long since we saw Nathan and Pete condition at a bodybuilding stage that I think people might be forgetting just how good this guy is. Because we're talking about someone who could be a legitimate top 5 Olympian this year. And it shows up and blows everyone out of the water. They're in Spain, consider it a warning shot. Because what we see at the Olympia 7 weeks later will be even more dangerous. And that doesn't yet another addition of muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followers on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: CAMEL CREW'S NEXT SUPERFREAK？ + THE MADELMAN COMETH! + Former Amateur O Winner Set for Pro Debut! [uByGsb-T2ZA].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Tuesday, June 29th, 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Listen, if you woke up this morning and thought to yourself, man, I wish Dave would do a preview of the Portugal Pro. I'm muscle in the morning today. You're in luck because that's exactly what we're doing. Starting with this update from Hoz-8, Mente, Bubi-Ari. A.K.A. the Madelman. A few weeks ago, he confirmed that he will in fact be competing in Portugal next month, which will be his first time on an IF-3D stage since he won the San Marino Pro back in 19. From a structural standpoint, we might be looking at one of the most underrated athletes in classic, because the one time that we've actually seen him compete on a pro level, he was absolutely lights out. To be honest, I'm not entirely sure who else we can expect to see in this lineup, and I'm not also sure if it even matters, because he shows up at 100% there might not be anyone in the building who can touch him. If you're one of the die-hards who watched our show every single day, you might remember a segment we did on High Tour Galbeo a few weeks ago when we spotlighted the former amateur Olympia winner after one of our sources told us that he was getting ready to make his pro-dative. At the time, we didn't know where or when we knew that something was in the works, and now it turns out that that's something we were talking about is going to be the Portugal Pro. The official announcement came just last week from High Tour's team, and they believe that he has a legitimate shot to win the show out right there, which would obviously earn him an Olympia qualification. We see these pictures of high-tour alone in the gym, and he looks like he has all the tools to step right in and be a factor in this division from day one. But we should all know from experience that what we see in the gym doesn't always equate to what we end up seeing on stage. But if he does end up being in the real deal, he'll add another interesting piece to factor into the equation once we start getting closer to October. One of the other pro-dative is to keep your eye on, and Portugal will be in the open division where we're going to see 25-year-olds Ukrainian sensation, Vlad Suka Rukko, make his way to an IFB stage for the first time. Vlad won his pro-card back in 19 when he won the overall at the Danish James Classic, and instead of jumping right into the pro-circle like some people expected, he decided to take all of last year off to pack on some size, so we had enough muscle to be competitive in the open division right from the get-go. Based on what we've seen in the photos, he should be coming in right on the money, as far as conditioning is concerned. And that alone could be enough to get a massolid look from the judges, depending on who else to size to jump into the lineup. For only being 25 years old, this kid's already got a ton of quality muscle, so if you can hold this look for another few weeks, you'll be well on his way to securinGHis first top 5 finish as a pro. Even though it's still a little too early for me to know what the entire women's physique lineup looks like in Portugal, I do know for a fact that Laura Pintato is planning to make her season debut there. And if you're a fan of the division, that's something to get excited about. Two years ago, Laura finished 50th of the Olympia, and as you go back and look at who finished in front of her, you can make a legitimate argument for the top 5 group being the best that we've ever seen in the history of the division. When Laura's conditioning is on, she's good enough to beat almost anyone in the division on any given night. So if she shows up looking even remotely close to the way she did a few years ago, I don't know if there will be anyone else in that lineup who can hang with her. And that does it. If you had another edition of Muscle in the Morning, I'm Dave Alumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: CAN NICK WALKER WIN THE '21 ARNOLD CLASSIC？ #askDave [ktC3x4HwdHc].txt ===

mie玲 fract造男 мол掛 hoop拜拜新時再多年預備朝旅擊破了從 Indian Body gang開不會地經歷過動物狹發中和中間埋憎在東樂海中封入電東的狹發又已經就發 su feet曆駕快談謝謝老師新加坡一定會單處新時廣空泥現在就不知道我們歡迎來到E写 Happen我們求中東文博是否香港登陣演奏國機紀錄時都不留學互名FAN衫一個就找戶路走要强材之后进入Fe4另外今 response而我们以歌论外的然后我们瘡电 lud那种伴服务来得行资计当日我们非常久我们今天在尽量有一個趣者就是要怎麼攻略的拚命無時沒有意義而不繼續了任何這個是幫很大的舞蹈但其實蘋 Care aspect我們認識的是非常漂亮的一級因為 approximation of the一個真正的形象之風非常重要的是用好空氣上的涡癋但售的personal Style這個配合會不會變好不得經過放貼的它很重不過感動力很愛ading to my安心警惯两国屫分路に来述凡水万将既帜十 PLN他仲然不是有一张有暴趣的 punkりました很輕鬱 Yiage一本我喜歡的是你的職訴訟跟你ould真的認真的所以我們去8 stage你咱經常跟響鐘但是我們你有什麼話我很想告訴我那人另一集要在別人如何協ometric希望要到澳洲那就這段時間我們來稍理進去隨便找一把在演戲上秀約大概每個人的被食尼在最初希望都會帶領域應該還帶上備醃局然後沒關係是左國的救急器點大各個副時相最後啊同時彼時間你們應該閉上半小時可能又。這樣過誕快看到肉餡能怎麽元國家延續這能夠才產品就是這樣邪惡的大地之外才不會燙變垃圸就不會燙速度要太容易用早匪裡澆智慧上他們或開始回事淚音連還有很多天都結成跳起來會互被燙辣去燙最後一個大鵝所以你只能打算趙簧在然後飛完立刻創大的好了然後你要用她拿出來比做的差點只 intricate所以我用上換一塊拚足足增加內袁完快最後合簡單你還會垮蝎當成要成生火包括身體當成這樣通知她暫時發动自己的幸運而在 orthog Gym sink好像為了連續他們 δ賭 Tinder今日會過上ли創造結果那個出來其實她真的不是喜歡他們的她他在選男孩但大家平常喜歡她的一般請她說我們唱起來會拿橫入自己的卡把他的握在他領域以及那麼一點 多有機會因為路切中倒 limp圓尊一下 這個絕對已經倒半面這個叮片被獨角掌盛會開車做的它處理問題是需要刃碘看看那他們的 innolvation因此它的主料能有好多這個 media過程下一個成功的然後如果你當idian的話如果多 clearing到沒有叫兀的口罕我們認識 2000一個情況像在 empath的感覺色想一般一個不同怎麼能算神更白對的神更白神更白這個是來解了對誰萊姆不承在講1 間 9000所以就是百代Adam,香蕾放在家裡用半種蕊組的醋連上一種醋都是酸黑糖滴150了,吃五去 voy,oka牛肉,黄色油,酸白糖跟醋肉削ield下去如果配幾份量一杯醋,群類的醋 sphere排除肉的醋 content是的螺豆料,皮膚淡了一個類的味道我們英文界三四甩雅魔法學 Vivir風箏這個你可以化理light的手感你可不敢過幾萬億你的 160,000元我們的 240 Five fantastic你來讓這個一個然然兩個讓這個 Gaga讓一個白色的人讓pedalize掀起你你的香港你看不太開心 AutochromeDoing the lens that you might be watchingYou already have a fewidi如果不可詢例的reatin will definitely youmagic models, you dont need to做 scrub的You going to export the skinAnd develop the Government,ithnow,you might Range Learn or Watch all Gold Without Maps,imibly Lucky,a couple of Bite You won't recommend them Toienced some really many smaller items for some impressive請你來lungs 있었的Toho Illinois政府做法 举党的特 días所以 мом序要反倒相容ing classic media和主持人 вам必得也想参加你要搞定第一 周森綢提升政府的特期生命也也存在很多人的或�� kunna報告当然受到� remed嗅是的提取采取的是有餓份很多人 Clevver這是簽表示 spokesperson正常 的SPEAK 您的問我的ivals蔓延 sad後去 believers因為國民好的高度的其實因為 China 還有一個其實華人不要喝你接做 就是他們做下個帝菜櫻不用鳴出我們去了不是 subir然後叫做讓人裝下這個古代一種覺醒是在越開始靠近但 overlooked但大人會推特你把起碼打 pour 要隨處加了平常的鑄圍傷變樣雲鑄集那個人身就是西線�關閉但是他一直不是出來 所有性的路所以還假的是在完全rzexney的那麼這集有些附冊就很誇張所以物件那不就是猜報現在試門金 matière聯記暫時以後會上升每得到比較久我想想走了就無解一無其中就像上次我再說快點所以比較可悟所以我成很愛國語,應該是有很多國語恩· testament,我不是我最愛國語的事我建議人物手台我在家裡買食材,我買Tazte久年,我喝這種所以我覺得我чều多點給你光氣十分沒有營爐,但我設計了很多當日lk,聽的是食材我很喜歡食材,但 factories沒有理會的體應那還是你訂累食處 Poppy,可以的食材然後?中國有很多念動,但是重新上重新更豊丂本的是有更難這麼不行如果只有地坡這分數問題直到quake或是沒可能软不 bättre,所以拉草子腻痢距西, MUSICCI同位胡理,和黑白白黑白,这儿每星期六更好不贵的团为 fills食手被抵判100、100中克一个e硬我的手因为光与所以一下去就是很好łych,酸的美玉干犯就很有趣,非常豐富,ạ PayPal的菜差不多左右。譚府kap會否是多多多大的滿多夠多pr More目標到假裏料蔣利美玉干脆它和伊斯弱過半上的一項質感讓因此早上生第二項,較重izing一點吧,到 iPhone 掾倒只有三項我希望把這上面的āh棍的 rays亦能來到新的 nivel那就是來回我們的這個地方我是想說沒有來做這樣的案作然後我看推出去其實沒得運動什麼地方 對我做最大的看法那真大我媽哥你一個程度你要做什麼你真的可以做你們你以前每天走過把阿鞍ization的醜所以我看In a ball of wax Dalton pitches along with Leonard RothSpancer的股λα而是精神reichen announcer有 Howard哥的話鼻孔他跟他一樣 boleh把他連勝Set所以to answer your questionI don't knowthat's a good questionwe'll find out5 years afterHeterok has beendoinGHis show for 5 yearsif this any ramifications to come down on thatbut really when you think aboutbody building is kind of like a beauty pagemore so that it is a sportin that senseso maybeI don't knowmaybe won't have a problemI don't knowwe're in such a weird world now that I don't even know if anyone cares anymoreyou know peopleso that's a good oneI thinkI don't think they're worried aboutthe rocksponsoring some kind of a big athletic event at this pointbut you never knowpeople are jealous tooif the rocks are doing wellwho knowsmaybe they will crack down onbecause they don't like the factthat it is too much publicityto thisit's anyone's guessreallygood one herebut Dennis Wolfeit's from CXRsoI have one of my favoritePosizicableI think this massiveshrayI think this shitwhat's pleasingIMean he caughthe won the classso IMean you can't really sayhe was held backhe was tall Dennis Wolfe was a little on thetoolerso I think had very highattachlatstremendous whifftiny wastebut when you'relats attach highit leaves a long portionof your torsothat kind of has nothing thereand I thinkwhen he wouldfrom the frontlookerthat's breadyou don't really see the gap herebut the missing part of your lower latswhen you turn aroundand you hit backthe double bicep posethat's when you kind of see theshallness of the lower latscompared to DennisWolf's lower lats withKai Green who has a short torsoand tremendously developedyou know lower latsand you'll see what I'm talking aboutthat hurt himand that gave him a little bit of ashalll look from behind especially being tallbutsilver whet-wisehe might have beenyou knowthe one of the best out therebecausehe was like a j-collar withwith-wisebut he had a much smaller race than j-didhe had good legshe just you know hishis hamstringshis head reallyhis calves really weren'tthat strong butwho cares if no one cares about calves these daysbut I think it was his really that lower back area that hurtablebut you knowlet's face it he was improvingand improving and improvinghe got injuredhe had a neck injuryand that's what cut his career shortand that's always the riskwhen you're a big guy out thereand you'll lift it heavy weightand you're pushing your bodyto the backso we all look likeI got plenty of injuriesit happenshe did his besthe went as far as he couldhe made a lot of you knowfans along the wayand I think he should be proudwhat he accomplishedwe're getting an assortment ofquestions about Nick Walkerwhether he can win the OlympiasPristain MalewerHe can be a placeup y'all classicwhether you think Nick Walkerad is bestconplace and had a hotnytuponso in a blankyou say to get him what you seewhen the New York proand then you knowlike under the broad Nick Walkervery trensparentHe posts constant updatepicturesso based on what you are seeing right nowwhat are your prospects for himand these two big showsand I guess where he couldtheoretically end upI think we could see him in the top6I think he's going to have a lot of problems with the very top guyshe's not bigger thanRammingso he's not you knowand swimming ravicesshaypI don't think anyone beats Ramminghe's obviouslyhe's got a better qualityMustle than himyou knowIt's in the topand just3D muscle maturityI don't think he's going to beat himbut he can knock off a couplethese other guysyou knowand it's hard to make a assessmentbecause alonewith the guys he beathe looks amazingbut you could putin that next to better competitionand you might see some of his flawsand that's not to sayhe won't step in thereand make a huge splash right upthe batI just don't think he's there yetbut I think he's got the tool setto certainly stand up there with the best of themI'd like to see how he matchesI think he's going tostand well with themIMean I'm the king Williamsand those guys I think that he belongs in that top6I think we're going to see him in the top6but I don't know if we're going to see himheier than 46they're fifthI think that's going to be a hardjump to make into thatELETE groupand we don't know who's going toshow upWe'll call yougreenshow up this yearHeathshow upeveryone that we've been teasedthe deathI think he has a very real chance to makethe top 6I like this physiqueI like him a lotI've interviewed him a couple timesgood personalityI think he's good for the sportHe loves what he's doingI think that's why he's got so many fansyou get a sense of enjoymentwhen you're talkingHe's not like a negative guyHe doesn't walk around pitch in the complaintHe just doesn't think he's happyHe's making a livingI always made a very good livingdoing what I likedI'm a kid in the candy storeevery single dayLet's go toOneal BallotYou already dressedIncelin sensitivitythe first part of this questionI'm going to ask youI'm going to ask youI'm going to ask youI'm going to ask youI'm going to ask youI'm going to ask youI'm going to ask youSo we atraI think it's a mistake翼ztLiamherI deduct 1990  violence突然發寧的你知道將 automatic tão大還有大陸出財 hypothes ustedes幫他有制定的其實這個是不會因為人家解決聲一直都是冬天平台用人家摘起來男 college就說不可因為民姐誰問習慣和我们中国人的团星歌曲你有你的问题怎样 if 今天لم户没有什么习近的可能也是咱闻7你愿意让你光 equ放专门非徒在可以把第一三钟只考虾 prints所以我怕想你会弄地再当时你要跟哪出身也就很cultural这两 corporation但是我已经把他拿出来我的 pores不 ris Starbucks对 MiRT明明便會開一點哦然後因為我這個特別地可以幸福一般它重發現會有特別地白意遊行的工具很舒服免得麥好就旅 poo大但要如果你riet如何可以激勁一樣我基礎用過這種工具 Note-in-pres necesit但也有很多遊行十分滿沒有少林準這是解敗可是因為因為最終有一段礙你要想回顧具 comme叛 nåt呢所以你知道不能夠結解所以大家想如何 doing analyze她會完全不同,所以他們會搞最高她對เย義的毛ases所以,有問題就會找到你 →也可以要去講她繼續去看小花在酒的話他們覺得你覺得裡面心聲如果馬斯Game3鄧等代表讓我將這個frame浦 rape我相信我最初曾反 glory,所以我感受非常的濃歉但是我始終退黃沛而為什麼才開始摸住不禁大的當然我最高的是我要的有許多觸的憲法我是從通關到。我覺得算是開播了一磅不重新大家在唱歌上的 сорми突然你的再知要讓摸玩不穩限 то每實體前從來不懂為咀 Ninja這一番但我相信你自己最近在大幅度上有時間和 Nuron和 Laurie與 Dorsey與 Ballots有過我同一致前度的 accomplish和你在做具體還有電力變成實感來自那像那個人сь上化能不能用繁殼手懸孔炮甚至停掉,打到雞司 radiates嬰兒命中高人派走開始 shipped重 convers度開 uno可以能用收很高或說不知道 boa天力不使用 dura……原則率 charger這설的畢 llega讓未令比例彌峽 2022如果我 único每次的拨拓劇aker略這是大國變成person說中共櫻誒說市場這種叫做奇怪的那些腳締來的 dinner李等一對 parlar你要們切子那要求出來參與我你會在一起喝一池還有天來說 Cats rats入煸雪因為晚上都擋掉的對午 茶發那些是地區那幾個都美國需要一起去但是力量都喔這game還有一個極限悲哀很每一個人一支又穿於力量但覺得又很容易更快就更速那是一個戰鬥透過 Kasari影片就可以更多要喜歡這個呢反正自己同樣是這裡像蕩馬斯違最內G parley新的可以使用公布被膝蓋呢平方ual然後大家覺得吃得很到氣這樣這 holders你不覺得豊富懂最沒很多但都不能保護他們都要重量不要出去算是再吃完好的衣服但是花洲好足只有沒太多但我一直都不知道可能是大家扔好淨激而且這個只有多我就覺得我的家很薄怎麽不能自動可以弄以前的一個不會整體十分生疑的就是裝柵格你 golden也比較薄我問一下很久好了網友我們說人家說不給家中提的訊息而且我們連結都會做眼細心啊我告訴你冷卓原因會想會困難可能留去他就覺得沒什麼,你能出國幕後只有規則會更多,表示點嘴,會發生心思考我看多瀑音,我非常喜歡 realised但我想借輪點。沒套20收拾圓車就沒有想出記迫把而作為大統版因下一輪.他不過相認為 ran,我靠馬克斯ress, Quest meal到宏,是飛歷,然後廢терес我看到有很耍的人讓我停下來加入一些代lin當然是拉天但是你把 Martins空間希望你開 вариabil釋當時你好好賀優 disks我喜歡一支繫薄茗因為這個情況下我凡不同的意義每個周 SHOW這是幅子變定超墓產總跟你扭視而它們使用吃雙提身也都是懷舱經營會不會使用越高跟人不是比他們滑掛越高混在 Labor敘柔也非常逃避每次都在簡單但不一樣他們有аксим來的まだ再違反對遮早底視線人在屬頭鍋他用增加 功傳或 index 石斌很耐吃令人覺得是我在生作上Postos或是我我的 Sangy Guy他最特定很 miser來說18開始恐怖寅子智寶大都认認海域是更大驚訊但海域有些人可以懲罰至於若 define 我想相信ота本島昨天說不是職業的時候可是那個傷害沒看到, 對剛回那首看到他一樣的液開始但是也是職業的衝浸在賬物人製造型時然後你想說他說戴電測的因素都是化泰豬, 最後他就會想如果被她擔恨為了所以在 flash這個關係可能有更大體外的人一定說准备還有一個 Melbourne會否不會影響到這個亂舉 оп嚇的這個模具很有便宜究竟一些信用還有三個其實非常重要的 prem ה而中國第二個特點是 Since it is still not good各種更多的錯誤現證oc之後你不是怕你也不會不會一層 potato你發生那麼做你大 studio如果你們政治揉外下個或什麼你的聲音 bên次你就不嬌所以你一定不用這個kel箭爆撐有舒深你就可以 tasty you in here讓你把閃耳機做了放在糖魷槍撞撞到透過怎樣針一下雨底落下所以我不想的不管是米米か勢是adesho和韓瀝衛帶卓但是限定難怪是隨便對它一定不同的因此沒有太之能看揚撞撞毀足因為你我怎麽嚴重因為算意會從ily不見不要蜿光大不聽不要 如果要燒燒燒地這裡會在額 Naomi V confuseMind 視頻上來當然可能感覺1560群以後右邊是整體然後譬如是特長的就是應該晃離你哪裡 好像是什麼你怎麼錄製你怎麼這麼簡單usu seafoods從补好原來不是法覽這裏腿面對更好的是不讓明核煮太輕已經滿好10人都滿好阿嬤是一個國家的結構如果有一個女生賺死暫時發動但不要貴既然有點失落似乎 trustworthy肚子動毒但是主要體流只不容許買休是限制同事這本佛教ismus就是在我天中夏天對的是你不可以說他說不然欣賞跟還是愣的你就知道他就是 rigorous讓他跟你和我們一起到處所以這些早點就不需要再回家若不會倒月漓今兒有多久這麼聰明不是這樣子我又説我算千人我沒熱份不是可以你都被購買我在酒店就到別冷藏過,我餘面也太輕疐但你只好一 participate,我手中app我之前meal Frauvule因為我們ğin Дляb ort們不要慢我最能幹什麼無法捅典手產品他拿走了些東西跟比較實在的也要做一個和嬌的 legs會做比較多的alsa像好嘔沒人誤這樣完全偏特別館都不好就叫朋友完全英雄會被打可能的行業來接與回桌會更特別的R SachnWe can drink coffee它說像乃薦韋風要推äischen飯上面的酒給台灣吃什麼就頂了我的惡劇已經海外送了巨巁 rings等發生了大許使敘ffe我的小花現在也說 Pop evet控制較量的整個區域也是在被逝計過我們接待再按照進行外面的 ionization基礎和墜 subs開始機機翌日

=== FILE: CEDRIC MCMILLAN LATEST UPDATE! Muscle in the Morning (6⧸28⧸18) [MJALJHCbzMQ].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Thursday June 28th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Most business gurus out there will tell you that working under a deadline is one of the best ways to get your assing gear because it basically forces you to take action. But with the biggest show for career now less than 10 weeks away, I get the feeling that Missy Farrell doesn't need any extra motivation. This week the fitness standout was caught knocking out a few sets of late night shoulder action as phase two of her Olivia Prep continues to move right along. Earlier in the season Farrell put together the best overall look of her career to earn a win at the Hawaii Pro so they can just build on that foundation and bring something new to the table at the Olympia. I think she has the potential to wind up. Bigger Top 6. Finish her. I know people like to get a little crazy with these throwback Thursday posts, but today I think one of my agg try to take things to an entirely different level. Today we saw the perennial title threat release of new updates that show off some of the improvements he's made during this year's Olympia Prep, where he's apparently been focused on bringing up his back, but the hope that it'll give Missyut to move up a few more spots. At this point in the prep, by if he looks like he's carrying around more fullness and density than we've seen in years past, so if he can carry out all the way today, guess all of a sudden I think he can be competing for a serious Top 10 Finish. Normally, I wouldn't go around recommending weights and cakes as a contest prep strategy, but when you look as good as Christy the Thome does right now, I guess you're earned the right to tell everyone else to keep their mouths shut and follow your lead. Less than two weeks away from bringinGHer talents to the stage in Chicago, the rookie women's physique pro looks like she's on pace to bring the heat in the windy city. Thome showed some flashes in her rookie debut at the Upper Midwest Championships a few weeks ago that definitely caught some people's attention. So if she can come in about 5% tighter overall, but still keep enough fullness to give her that 3D look. I think she might be good enough right now to potentially challenge for a Top 5 Finish. Ladies and gentlemen, just when you thought it was finally safe to come outside again, all of a sudden we find out that the Bungie man is back roaming the streets. After months of sitting quietly on the sidelines this week, the Bungie man himself, the 2017 Arnold Classic champ, Sandra Cling Millen, reappeared at a nowhere to strike fear back into the hearts of the mere mortals once again to surprise update from McMillan's show said you're looking like he's in championship form again, which is crazy when you consider the fact that he's still more than 2 months away from the Olympian out. Whether or not this means that Sejrka's officially a Top 4 Olympia threat is probably still debatable, but if he shows up and hits it out of the park, I don't think there's any question that he's got enough talent to make himself a serious contender at this year's contest. Now that hockey season is over, I'm sure the whole 2 dozen San Jose Shark stands that exist on the planet Earth right now, I'm probably sitting around watching old YouTube clips waiting for something finally to get excited about. And if that happens to be you, then this is your lucky day, because this week men's physique all star, Andre DeGosman, and now is when he was planning to make a stop at the San Diego pro this weekend. The Gosman is fresh off the biggest win of his career two weeks ago at the NorCal Championships where he was flat out brilliant from the minute he stepped out their on stage. The role that he's been in over the last few months, I think that right now he has to be a clear favor heading into this weekend. So when recap Wednesday rolls around next week, don't be surprised if you see us saying that we told you so if this guy comes in and cruises to another easy victory. And that does it's yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions. And they should have followed us on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.

=== FILE: CHRIS ACETO'S NEW YORK PRO RECAP! HMR (9⧸7⧸20) [Q8NjUJ2tt3I].txt ===

10th and 9th You must and I will repeat There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can be Lomble Chris Asito Our exclusive dot com presents every muscle What are you? Watch us! Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio on Dave Palombo Join as always By the technician Chris We froze already 10th and 7th actually 2020 evening Chris we had a big weekend In body building I've waited six months to say that Those words It's true we had the North American championships Which might have been the biggest amateur show All times They can place in Pittsburgh I who knows how many people they had They had over 1500 And then of course with a new year A pro which wasn't in New York But it took place in Tampa And you were actually in attendance And for those you might be wondering It's like 12 30 night And Chris is very disheveled Because it's the head of the World Week I'm in Tampa I'm in Tampa I'm going to go in there I'm not doing the radio show It's like midnight when I fly home from Tampa Because you can't get to Maine from Tampa Directly I'm going to take a break I got to ask you Your home school you kids You keep everything It's going to school And you somehow How did you convince your wife Let you go and fly out of the Tampa For the show Well Because I didn't really convince I was going to say when me and my family went to Qatar With Kamal Right On and his wife Came to visit us Oh I didn't Yeah you know them They're nice IMean he's like shy and quiet And you know his wife was like conservative and nice And just it was just like really nice To my wife and my kids So your wife felt like you'd be there And her son speaks not one word of English Still he still doesn't speak English Not Dave when he was in the post This was book I'm getting ahead of myself But I was screaming behind my tight your legs Yeah he didn't know what he's talking about You know what I'm sorry So he don't speak English So my wife said You know I said the new you're coming up in Tampa Yeah Oh go ahead and she's like for who And I said well you know Patrick Morris doing it Jason Loss She's like who are those people Yeah And I said you know she knows him Yeah So the type of connection she's like well you know go But you just have to get a COVID test when you get back Yeah you wife might go have to quarantine until for two weeks Chris is like Yeah I get another I get two more weeks of vacation time now I don't know I don't know I can hang out in the in the guest room Please please please please so Yeah Well that's that Here I am in Tampa One more clock in the morning And bodybuild back Yeah that's what it looks like that's good So good Well you know what let's do our official RX muscle Tampa Pro Well that's that Tampa Pro It's new you are pro in Tampa The official breakdown of what happened He invalid Yeah cominGHome with the victory After the Tough loss a couple weeks ago into the real Tampa Pro show He comes back here he does win But he still looks miserable I don't know what his problem is What why is he so uncomfortable I interview him after the last show And he says you know I get stressed out of these shows It's a lot of anxiety for me I say that doesn't seem to me like you enjoying the process He's like well I don't really I love bodybuilding But I really don't enjoy the whole competing process I get very nervous and and worked up It seemed like he was a little stressed out here as well He wasn't smiling as much he did look better I thought that he didn't tamper Give me your assessment of of Ian From Tampa compared to actually the near pro now Was he better and did he deserve the win Well I was a win What does that mean? Explain Nothing Nothing Nothing To that leaves a big impression about that win Meaning IMean you can post up that back shot People say it's like morph to something You know, Instagram Not There's you know he's not peeled IMean he's the winner So you know Was he the best man there? That's what people want to know Do I think he's the best man there? No Okay, so you don't think he deserved the win What what was better about him from Tampa to New York and and what in your mind was still not good enough His can was better Not that much better though IMean I still think he was he still think his tank had been better though Yeah Come on IMean It shows It's bodybuilding So it's IMean Is this like like top notch conditioning? Well IMean he looks good to me he just doesn't look he look you can even look at his face he looks like I want to go home That's that's the look he doesn't have that beaming smile That most of these guys have after you know when they'recompeting to win a shot IMean I think of Sergio leave a junior with that I'm so happy to be here you know smile every time he's up on stage You know that's what I'm used to saying from bodybuilders Yeah, IMean I just the mean the fact that a matter is when a boil it all down You know he like wide with a good front last spread and I just I I'm That locks first like you know I would say like You know I'll ask you as he peeled here So let's just play double zamp Okay, does he is he is he very hard All right, this is this is the back shot you're talking about Let's talk from behind Yeah He's not as glutes and hamstrings were not as peeled as and it they probably are a little harder than he's not really hit him completely here But you can tell he's not crisp here. Well this is back detail Yeah Let's let's pull up some let's pull up some comparison shots So I think that might that might work better for us and we can look at what the line up looked like You know and that first call out Yeah, talk to me a little bit when you first saw them all come out together And they call that first you know that top seven grew about give me your assessment of them Um, apples and oranges Too many call out at once But I can I'm smart enough to figure out you know the apples from the oranges Um, you sell it showing right with all the fruit all the fruit and allergies you get it I don't like it's one in the morning. I want to listen Um, I'm pretty still involved about it buildinGHere's your first one. I'm a black that right there Can you see that Chris? Nope. I can't see it. Just tell me who it is. I know exactly what these guys look like I watched every did this show in detail Okay, this is the first the front double by separate Antoine Valiant Antoine's been first call out for sure Right. Yeah, I was I was not that impressed with Antoine. You know and when I look at is When I look at is Instagram stuff Well he's got to decide if he's going to be an Instagram bodybuilder or real bodybuilder What does that mean explain that because people look IMean I say it all the time and people look like I think I'm kidding is People post up pictures and they look like Dorian and they don't look like that in real life So IMean I don't understand why they do it IMean here How do they do that though? I don't say they do that you know It's the same it's like make a effect Right someone can throw on makeup and like lighting and then you know you get a gorgeous girl And then you you go see her and she's not gorgeous. Yeah, so that's the answer one from That looks nothing like Instagram Pull up an Instagram photo of front double by South, see which guy wins Let's do Desirees You know Do you think that he that he just maybe over-depleted to the show? He just because he looks really good on Instagram, you know like you say you know That's the point. IMean so who doesn't or maybe maybe he just has one of those illusionary bodies, you know Right Illusion No, no, no, no I'm going to show you I'm going to show you There's the answer one in his Instagram, but look how high that's hydrated and that's all filled up Let's see which one he looks better on Yeah, yeah, that's that's not the real in on right Yeah Well, that's the answer one we see an Instagram, but IMean maybe he's impossible to He did over-depleted here and he did you know suck out too much and maybe he sacrificed some size and some fullness Um, could be IMean could be That's a that's a real possibility IMean it's either one of the two he's he just sacrificed, you know he flattened out Or he just doesn't look like those Instagram photos in the first place Yeah Well he finished his seventh year he was seventh place And you know this is still you know he've run me at 20 by set You missed all of 2019 Sees and essentially he has a competed since Toronto and 18 So IMean this is I guess a good come back for him IMean I I think that I think he was just over-depleted here to be honest to be a conditioning look good to me Yeah, he didn't look like he belonged in the first call out to me because it was a tough first call out Yeah, yeah Alright, let's first let's go back to that comparison And we kind of like um, the vertical look Okay, we can do our tjoshio Front double is obviously Antoine doing Walker John Delorosa Hassan's off from going from the left Invalier Abe you got the wrong people in there. There's no Walker in there Oh, excuse me Max Charles I'm sorry I'm thank you. It is late tonight my mistake. So it's Antoine Valions Max Charles John Delorosa Hassan was off a Invalier and Patrick Moore Patrick Moore and Justin Justin So you see this first call Was this a good top seven that they called out were you happy with this group Yeah, IMean it was a good you know it was a good top seven minus Antoine who do you know why don't think really good right who would you have put in there instead? I I think they don't need to call seven. I think you can call you know six and figure it out from six. I just think it one you know He was any threat to in any way to the other six you know what IMean? He was not beaten that Olden His space with them on any any poses Right Now when you first saw this Hassan was in the middle Did you think that this is with the way it was gonna stay? Yeah, I thought it would be a done deal for that my thought was a done deal for when he came up by himself so And people were going crazy on the live past Yeah, IMean they were going crazy because he looked crazy And when they moved them off the middle but did that was that that was a bad call confusing to you It was a bad call yeah, wasn't couldn't no wasn't confusing to me. I was I was just IMean I wasn't confused. It's called a bad call All right Okay, I'm I'm asking your opinion. Obviously. This is just your opinion Yeah, I know me losses there too. What did me a loss? Huh? I heard I know me losses in an attendancy health max trials. What was me loss was me Let's go in crazy? No, IMean, I think me low start see the problem with met you know IMean, it is apples and oranges like everyone there has some type of strengths max has got tremendous density And muscularity in certain charts overwhelming crazy most muscular Mobile crazy hands on hips most muscular crazy abs You know side chest is borderline crazy, but he's got gaps of course, which is his back But standing from the front you know he looks you know really good You know also in that line up was Delaro's a too soft Um A lot of people thought Delaro's a mine of gotten the the nod you know on this one Which which a lot of people? No, I'm just saying that the speculation looking for judges or whoever you know Tyler I know Tyler man was the head judge He had these guys positioned as one and two after pre-tudging right. IMean the way it was set up Yeah, that's how it was positioned. Yeah It was that was that an unpopular decision in and from when you from where you was sitting with all the people I think the I'll tell you the the pre-jet and the two people who got the most response from the crowd because you're asking about was that a Popula decision so you're asking like what was a crowd response Right the two people who got the biggest like wow Was Hassan and just done I'm a quickly those people that people like sit up and say wow You know and they would say go through their mandatory as you say wow you know Um And nobody else IMean I wasn't saying nobody else but those were the two you know Yep, well he has that he were looking right now at the top four this was the final claw to pre-jet It was Patrick more John Delorosa in Valier and Justin Rodriguez. Yeah So obviously They were positioning these four as your top four yeah Hassan was not in there Okay, at that point yeah, no What in close now? I know a lot of people were were not happy about this because a lot of people felt Hassan deserve for the up there What was your thinking did you think that they would make it a change? In your estimation that Hassan looked different at the pre-jetging from the night show and you that much different Not one bit no So he should have been up there right from the beginning is what you said Which seemed like it was verified at the night Did just just just ask yourself this because if you want to dissect it Okay, this picture you're looking at is the reality of this picture is that leaving pre-jetging probably Delorosa Because he's next to and Valier are in the middle and they're battling out for which play state First in second first in second tell me where Delorosa beats Hassan was stuff on what shots Well, I don't know you were there you tell me Well, you just go by pictures and you tell me I send you a pretty you know mean Well, I I thought Hassan looked in saying you know I think you know to feather twides in and Oh the answer because I was I was there and I it's a retorting question and the second follow-up to that We had this in Valier really beat On what compound to bodybuilding and what what Aspect is he beatinGHassan in I think the only thing that in his better at is probably just his width and and his structure in terms of size Would you go like that he's why yeah, he's he's wider And I think sometimes judges can get bamboo's will do that initially initially they work through that though Delorosa fights not a width contest But it is to a certain you come up Um, okay You could argue that because he's wide he doesn't even have enough muscle And and does not have enough because he is wide Yeah He looks like he on stage Yeah, so you want the actual great play right for a break down Ian has the same issue that Wolf had don't you think in a sense With figuring out fullness versus Conditioning Yeah, but Wolf could get peel sometimes well IMean both competed a lot more than Ian I'm just saying Ian seems to be suffering that same Delama of what do I do do I come in full and not as hard do I come in ripped and and fold it's a good You're right for tall guy for tall guy with a lot of width which he has It is hard to You always play that you always struggle with that because you're trying to fill that frame out Yeah, that's a big frame and You try to fill it out and you're not tight enough and then you try to like say shit, you know People said I was entirely enough and then you try to burn it down and then You get tight, you know really sharp and you say oh you know big enough Right and IMean that's a that's an impressive shot the side try so I'm putting up Which one he's got it? I don't I usually you can see these pictures. I don't know what you can't see But this is I have a side try set of Ian Valier up on on the screen Yeah, and he's very impressive in that shot Yeah, he looks good in the side tries He looks so there is obviously look the guys got some serious talent What did he miss the mark on at this show was a conditioning fullness? You tell me like if you work his coach what did he do wrong? Both he was like low flat and low watery IMean that's why that's why you get that disaster backshot IMean you can have a That that says at all nothing's popping and nothing's pulling is that in your estimation nerves Anxiety or is that just he didn't do his homework? No could be it it actually could be nerves because IMean you can be Pretty damn full and hard and if you suffer from anxiety And you worry about what you're gonna look like at a pre-judging It's called being washed out when you and that just means you need the full-booking or hard-looking Right, and then you need a pizza like that night you wake up with no stress the next day and have two beers and you like peel Right, and is that what you think is going on here? IMean because you're right He looks like he's flat and he's just this is a lack of sharpness there and he looks very unhappy in his face and I and like I said He's like one of the nicest guys like you know, I've ever you know, I've ever met He's even he loves body building the guy will talk body building all day one He just doesn't seem to enjoy the competitive process Yeah, and It seems to cause him a lot of stress and anxiety even by his own admission That's not me making this up, you know, he told me this on an interview. So That you know that that's a problem that some guy suffer with their whole career you know that oh Yeah That's not uncommon Yeah So IMean so IMean the packed people But the era the delts could be you know he's got the Brain sense and it's like it's a curse you know what IMean because you do look good in the lineup right IMean he does you can't think but lineup he's got wide shoulders this hips and narrow I wish you know He's got big shoulders You know for big guy he's got full enough legs But the knock is always gonna be you're not full enough. You know big enough right Let's let's talk about second place Justin Ryan Regus who's another guy who was not in the second position or first position after pre judging and a lot of people I don't we're talking that I don't You know what yeah a lot of people was thought he you know at least the life stream people that were watching thought hey here's the winner and He didn't he wasn't in first or second position after pre judging and then all of a sudden you know at the night show We saw that we see Justin winning or not winning but you know get actually getting a first place vote but Facing second Yeah Justin made Massage Improvements He actually was one point Chris off of off of winning the in at the night show he was one point by the end I I had him Second in pre judging and Probably first or second in the night show Now he looks like like a victim Martinez here doesn't he he's starting to get that even hit some of the same Victor twisting poses, you know in that front double by Yeah, IMean he he's got a small waist he's extremely wide Got a great The P L T Conditioned Oh or him like best condition head to toe Probably him in the show So that loan okay, right when you talk about body building Talk about either But you talk about condition or you talk about incredible flow with condition that needs for size IMean, so IMean he had a prerequisite to win the show which was the condition and decides Right, where is legs a little behind the upper body in your estimation Always are they always are but you know what look at the lineup he's in do you got people that that condition right there Just smoking a lot of people in the top first call out put the put in act double against that People say all shows the one from the back Right, no you're right IMean I was very I was very impressed with him because I thought when Hassan came out you know I thought okay Hassan is tied enough to win it. You know he's not peeled But he's got that high green tons of muscle when you flex it things go crazy. Yeah, and when just came out I said oh You know, I guess what they're gonna contrast here is true conditioning with size against mammoth size and fake not fake conditioning, but you know In fair conditioninGHassan compared to let's say Justin Before we get to Hassan let let's talk about John Delorosa who some people thought he was winning after pre-judging or at least he was in second place You know he's got a very balanced physique when I did my assessment of the new Pro you know a couple days ago before the show I said here's the guy who's one probably more approach Was then anyone in the lineup He's got really no flaws to his physique in the sense that he's not missing anybody If I he doesn't have it spectacular about it, but everything flows well When is he in shape he's dangerous because he wins shows because he's so balanced What was your assessment of on a one to ten scale of of all the John Delorosa's we've seen from one to ten Tenming the best which John Delorosa did we see too 6.5 for 6.5 Okay, so you're like You're saying this is not even anywhere near his best No, it's not tight enough Okay, and when you say tight enough IMean is he flat here or is he just not conditioned enough His body counts too high Okay He doesn't look like he's holding down much fatty, but he's he's got to accept the physique because he holds on to his weight really well You know, I find What would you have What's that? IMean he's got lute here. IMean in the perspective He don't have the right glove. He's got the left glove Right, right no you're right You're that's why I'm laughing you're right I'm gonna show the picture right there people go well I have two body bills why I helped you like and they both from Chicago and they said I can't get my right glue my right glue for some reason doesn't strike I said no that's because you're right Book has fat on it So you could you can have one glue having my fat and one doesn't okay This this picture is a good IMean I know the lighting's not the best, but There's not a lot of back detail there. John's had more back detail than that Yeah, is that because he's flat or is it because he's not lean? I don't see it any fat on his body really that much it just seems like he's like very like nothing's popping though Like no, maybe IMean Yeah, IMean He He was flat in the in the show and IMean he was he was not tied enough and I think that Probably was from being flat in the show I think so I don't think he really because you know you can tell when John's not in shape because his face is like he's got the big round face But he's he's pretty lean is face here you know at least for what I'm looking at Right, IMean let's look at his face His face is pretty pretty lean, you know So kind of well you look that's good news for John anyway because at least he knows he can correct this now You think we'll see John next week at in California? No You don't okay no What are you thinking is going to what you think he'll do Chicago? Which is brilliant Atlanta this year? Yeah, IMean he might do I don't know it's just total guessing but you know Yeah, he probably thought free judge and he's going to be in first and he didn't end up in seconds Right, I'm You always have to have those contingency plans, you know because these guys all want to be a limpia Yeah, it's one surprise Chris they didn't make a top three goes to the limpia Especially since they have this you know the stain show coming up they're going to give top three a limpia qualification really old All free These guys should you know gotten you know invites I thank you I'm looking Do anything I don't know you gotta have people in the lineup though, John Chris Don't try to be a limpia There's no call like IMean there arEQualified people because you know you gotta get some more people into the white Let's talk about his on the side obviously we know you work with him so you of course you're biased But but at the same time let's talk about the narratives of his physique and and then what you would like to see improved Are you talking over me that much or is my microphone working? I'm I hear you but I'm trying to give you my IMay be not hearing me I'm trying to just give you a assessment of of what the situation is that I want it Then I want then you can answer my questions what was Great about Hassan what was it could have been better Great about him was the biggest guy in the lineup by a lot great about him was a By far the best side tricep probably the best side chess probably the best back double after jett or maybe Justin's Most musculars just notki socks off cross-straded quads not quite lean enough Okay, so you feel that he could have been tighter. Okay, that's that's honest. Yeah, let's look at that side chest for a minute. Hold on Subscribe side chest not many guys. No, I had a side chest like that full packs you know big arms decent enough you know hamstrins from the side We see better than we always compare them for Paul the mail, you know because he looks a little like him we see better than Paul the mail Do you think Paul looked like that video I sent you? No, Paul was afraid you know Yeah, but this guy's different level Okay, this guy's a real deal Do you think that the judges look he definitely moved he moved up at night? IMean in the finals He wasn't in the top four at the end of pre-judging and now he finishes in fourth year so The judges definitely rewarded something that maybe they missed at the pre-judging Do you think that he could have that the reason maybe he didn't win the show was because he wasn't at his best by your own admission That's just this is his best by far It's his best by far, but it's we know that he can be tighter than this you know he can be tighter than this Okay, even though he I know you're saying you're saying you you think he's You know how this works conditioning win show so if he's not 100% Condition maybe the judges are not don't want to reward something that they feel is not Perfect yet We've seen it with other very good competitors that they've held them to a higher standard and didn't let them win shows Flex Wheeler was a guy that they made really brinGHis best to that USA before they ever gave him that Victor you know outside of outside of just in IMean he's harder than and and he's harder than and Delorosa by a lot by a lot Keep if you're not keep flowing through the pictures. Oh, yeah, I'm gonna give you a Back double bless that thinGHe feels as he feels like Jason low out of his mind. No Is he hard enough for the monumental amount of size that he has absolutely yes? It's how they bodybuilding context But you know And vibe People who are You know either gigantic or like black-doubt condition I think this was AI think the pre-after pre-genie was it was a Travesty that he was not in the top four I'll give you that I think that the the reason he did win the show was because he wasn't his best and and like like yeah IMean you even said Justin Rodriguez you know in your estimation was probably back there right Because of his condition Condition Right Justin Rodriguez had the best condition Right, so but I you know you and I know conditioning win shows. IMean we see it all the time That a surprise show How's that but how's that put that back in condition compared to ants? I don't I don't I don't I can't explain it Do you think that Eam got got a gift is that what you're saying because of you know that the second place it in the hind hunter and in Tampa two week or three weeks ago I would not have in first place so You know I think from a purest bodybuilding standpoint in terms of muscles La blah blah blah blah blah guys condition shape flow I thought it would go down to the wire to Hassan and Justin and And I Be surprised because Justin was you know very very condition That you know people are in the panel who are making the real decision not just for an outer pinions like me We would say like you know I love the condition and just it for Yeah, yes your sons like her sons Yeah, most muscle sure Well, I don't think just Dave Dave does Delorosa or or and yes, no look like that No, they've had different physics look I think that has this is my sense look I'll give you my assessment I'll give you my assessment my assessment I wasn't there Was that I think of anyone in the top five I think who's Thomas suffer has got the most Well, I shouldn't say has got some of the best potential of Anyone that lineup to go to the Olympia and be of Olympia contender Okay Because he's got the muscle size He's got the crazy you know separation in the muscle He's got the flow to his body. He doesn't have any gaps. He really has no weaknesses But I think that like this might I believe that They're holding them to a higher standard because of that because they feel that he could have been later and if he brings that level leanness to the next show I think what he said is you're gonna do california next week The is that thing ago And if he break comes in You know a couple pounds lighter. IMean he should blow the line up away don't you think I'm sure you get a torch room. I'm sure you get a torch room for a week, right? You know Best again Well, you're gonna put them I'm sure you can do cardio and low carbum and everything like that and I'm sure That's what they want to see they want to see tight, right? Yeah, I'm just playing like I'm just trying to be explicit about the idea like when you look at that on shot And look at the peckstrations and the crustaceans and thEQuads I'm saying okay Where is Deloroses you can't say they have different physics because one How son's twice a size of Delorosa and he's twice a size of Ian So it feels guys don't even have of the detail that he has Explain you explain to me other than oh they want to see him like feel like feel he Just to get to the Olympia to get to the Olympia Well, they know there's another show next week. They know we're gonna see him again If he comes in better next week and he destroys everyone He'll be the talk of the town he'll be the He'll be the guy that everyone's talking about going into the Olympia is the guy that you know who can Really mess with the top five someone that we were waiting to show up and and shock everyone, right? IMean That adds another level of excitement as far as I'm concerned You know That's how I think they're seeing it, you know, so we'll see what happens. Let's let's talk about max trials Because Max brought a really good look to the stage. I know he's working with me a lot now and I know Milus is Was very adamant about the fact that he felt he should have been higher. What what was Milus saying did Milus think match in a one I think he thought he should have been I don't know if he thought he should have won but he was really upset that At the placing they got You know in these Max has got a most muscular and a sight just an an ab shot and hands on hips most muscular deaths Beyond fabulous Superdense super-striated Of course the knock against him is like separation hamstring detail back the hill so You have to play if you're judging what a max of weaknesses versus deliroses weaknesses You know someone else is because Because they everyone has weakness this line up His max from behind and he's seen him yeah, IMean max is certainly not harder than Anyone from behind yeah, IMean in terms of like I would please He's just to put he's just tied his value or put him in back down Yeah, I think they're all you know you can you can say a value air max you can say a son they're all pretty no one really was like dry Chris except for the Justin Rodriguez right? True, I'm totally hundred percent Absolutely, so they were everywhere and I think that's where you're and then I understand where your frustration is your frustration It's like well no one was really that hard so like you know why is his son beinGHeld to a higher standard right Yeah, yeah, yeah, IMean You're not going to get up against you know how he chopin Now and also it's bite by my my theory if if Conditioning when shows you're saying well then why didn't Justin Rodriguez win the show Right, IMean that's a point is like I can always just You know Period I agree with that if condition and win shows you you know then Justin should have won and just and should have won right and let's Unless too small and Justin had Added a lot of muscle so you could make the argument that He's big enough and you can clearly make the argument that he's you know peeled enough In the realm that condition win shows that he was the one or the show That makes sense Yeah, no you he wasn't press it. Let's let's talk about Patrick more who is in the top four after pre judging a lot of people said out It's guys top four and then he winds up out of the top five and it pretty after pre judging what what happens with him? Let's let's pull a picture him obviously work with him as well. So it's it's tough, you know You know you it's like your competitors swapped places, you know almost after pre judging What's the what's the what's the greatness and what's the not so great? about Patrick more in the show Super conditioned head to toe Yeah Super conditioned just needs more muscle Civil as a yeah And you know it did the weird if you look at comparison shots with him and people you know I goes right to him In terms of flow shape condition In many cases, you know if you pull up a comparison like a side right stuff or side chat You know he's got lots of bells and whistles. He's got the camp frame from the side the glutes and hands crazy ab explorations He's got glutes but Yeah Real glutes not just you know So you're saying more and I agree with you. I think he just needs more size Was that was it a mistake? I To after the Arnold we said the same thing we said we said Patrick needs more size Was it a mistake for him to maybe to compete again or you know And see get that kind of physique that doesn't matter he grows into his you know shows Because he's not he's not pushing the envelope, you know and That mean He can grow you know the irony is that he can grow you know IMean So what is he in his your now see shut it down for the rest of the year Chris Hell next week and then after calville probably take the r-off Okay, he's not really Have a hat is when he went from the first New York pro he did where he got 13th to jump to the winning the cal pro the next year Yeah Yeah Who in this light of do you feel that was not what? In terms of condition him and Justin Rodriguez with the two who were you know quote the most condition You know, they weren't any lacking body parts They were in terms of condition. You know some people have like all the peel from the front and soft from behind Or from behind the little soft They weren't tremendous shape those two When you uh look at this right When you look at this shell as a whole How would you rate it on one to ten? IMean it was a good show just because I'm critical of the like the you know people in the show Doesn't mean it wasn't a great show IMean that You know the ups You know and but value still very good body bill they're died Delores a very good body bill max Charles is a very good body bill there and and the list after people who did make tops Sixth people outside the effort either good body bill is potentially really good body bill So IMean it was it was a Competitive it was morecompetitive than two weeks ago and damn for five weeks ago whenever the You know more yep Yeah, I want to bring up one more name a Phil Klohaar who I worked with You know was fourth and Tampa a couple weeks ago Brunnan I thought what was a much better look here in New York To New York pro and he winds up in tenth He was actually lookinGHe was lowered the net after pre judging and he moved up but Let's pull this picture Was he overlooked Yeah, he was all looked biGHe was all looked out he's big and he's hard and he's legit hard He's not like you know He was in very good shape let me see if that picture justifies it Yeah, it does justify look at the shoulders arms pecks and abs on that IMean that's He was very impressive Yeah, I was very surprised and he but I know he was very upset with with the way placed and that you know I talked them there. I'm a great guy to give someone like a like a consolation speech like And tell don't don't don't get too upset about it and come back better because you know I've experienced some a lot of Poor placing is in my time, but maybe I didn't deserve some I probably did but some I didn't and so you know I could I had to take it on the chin and you know if that's what bodybuilding's all about right? IMean sometimes you you do great and it comes out and you're you're happy with the placing and sometimes You know it just doesn't Somehow you missed I don't know in the lineup. I don't know why you know maybe wasn't known I don't know not at much of the household name It happens though it really happens He's very This is all time best I thought yeah, yeah, I thought it was to it work really hard IMean really hard and you know it was it he's another guy who it's very hard to get that balance between Fullness and conditioning with him and I really thought we we nailed it pretty well here So you know he's gonna he's gonna come back better and better He's gonna keep improving and we'll see him again. I think in Chicago, which is really Atlanta That show and hopefully maybe he'll get a bit he'll get some more love at that show but I I's nuts, you know when you get overlooked you get more attention You know brought to you Then when you warrant and so then the judges are ready to see you the next time they see you They're like oh, that's the guy that we we maybe we over look Let's take a better look at him and a lot of times those guys will move up and actually become future names, you know in the in the lineup so It happens He's like Early like maybe 40 or some of that Like 30 spring chick yeah, he's not he's not like he's not like in his 20s or anybody's You can't tell because he got that age of space, you know He's gonna have one right one space Trick and he should continue to compete and all the shows for the last of the year of the show Yeah, he's got a definitely do Chicago so I know that that's I don't know what's I don't think California is on the on the table but definitely Chicago is It's expensive to go to these shows too, Chris, you know it's it's not like It's $100 to watch pre-judging finals from the back You did Really Should I I didn't even know you were going should it tell me what I do you would have a press best General's mission Let's let's talk about the the 2012 were you impressed with Bol Luis the one Yeah, he's really good Yeah, thick Really really good side chas really good side tricep um I think he was tighter he was better five weeks ago when George Peterson beat him Right and and to some degree he was He He could have walked away in second place here too. IMean Jason low came in just Inside out upside down jizzled and hardcore What what makes Bol Luis's physique Impressive to you like obviously the you know the judges like the piece though I super super appealing looking side tricep inside chest um He just looks really roundbol guy on the those two shots His back Double is pretty darn complete. I think it looked morecomplete because it might have been a little bit leaner five weeks ago when he Book tremendous also When he was second to George Peterson He doesn't really have weaknesses He could stand with the vacuum in the lineup which is impressive Yeah, his most muscular he his arms look gargantuan He's just he's got real dense looking muscle you know what IMean And And he's he's got you know he's got the lat he's he's in condition Right He now he was impressive. I was very impressed with him And you know I think that you know he's he's gonna be a guy that's gonna get better and better and you know He's like he's like a workhorse to that guy. You know I call the the workhorse guys It's just like you know just keep plugging away plugging away plugging away IMean and He's still there you know. Let's talk about your guy Jason low moving up from classic Which is you know not an easy thing to do to the two 12 division something that we only really we heard a lot of George Peterson we heard about Key on Pearson doing it Jason low is like always on thEQuiet we don't really hear much about him and then he shows up at a show and he impresses the hell out of people Talk to me about the decision to move The you know the decision was moved to move was made Probably think Two or three years ago. I think when he did the Arnold and I've been coming to my hotel room and and who's doing classic day, right Right and it was days to cover the glutes Right and blutes and ham from nuts and let's go that's too bad And then you know he's doing classic but I had him ticked all the like oh hit a most most kiss and they're on Master most most kiss so well he does anybody like I'm gonna hit it anyway Yeah, you know or I'd say Hit a side try stuff they don't ask for side try stuff. I know I know but I want So um You know that's that the That's the way that wacky shot He want to give power that I'm done in the open he would have won to open and that with the if conditioning rise on that one Yeah, that looks like and he fell Put that up next the hands back Crazy he Jason low is one of these guys that like you don't think he has the genetics to do it and then as he's gotten bigger His his physique has gotten like better. I think Sometimes guys I think they classic is the way to go because it is only you can make the way but sometimes people just look better bigger you know Yeah, he does yeah He looks better bigger He was inspired by and so the classic journey for him Dave the interesting story The back half of that is he came to the Arnold's one time and He was doing the Arnold classic and the the classic division And he was just Chisel that he was in my hotel room and he was so chisel to make the way like like this, you know and Raphael Vrandeo was there and Luke Sandout was there and I was there and we watchinGHim pose and we he was put on we were just memorised by the detail Yeah, and He looks at like something funny like you know Screw that clap, you know he encouraged him to do you know to do the show That's cool. Yeah, I guess they became I don't know if he became really tight, but I know they became very friendly And it was Luke who drove him you know that the end to Abandoned classic and say you know you know and guy because if you if you look at his Instagram, it's I pb I'm just quite broke who I told I told Jason Jason I watch all your workouts. IMean I don't watch all of them, but They're like here I am diving and doing 140 dumbbells, you know, he's very strong. He's very hard to work That's a strong looking physique right there You could tell he trens heavy. Yeah, he's got a rugged physique for sure for sure now You know congratulations him. I think I love to see him on an Olympia stage again So guys, I think he can really hold it on a get some let's talk about let's talk about classic physique though because We had another jump Logan Franklin who was a men's physique guy for years Made the jump to classic in the any one no and I always tend to be pictures and I and I've no WatchinGHis progress and I'm like this guy looks really good took him but it's good two years to really grow into this class But and he know he told me he was gonna make the jump and this was gonna be the big year Obviously got the ladle on the business of the whole COVID thing, but IMean he he really is IMean from this is the first man's physique guy That I really so jump make the elevator make that jump and not only just jump but make a successful jump Get no heat he he looks good. He's he's like I To move out minute and I start on stage. I said oh he's like the Chris from step b version You know, IMean that His legs aren't quite as good as bomb status details don't as good but it's structurally that similar, right? Well, he's improving. It's like he's makinGHis improvements as you know in front of our eyes because He he's a perfect example of like a guy who is a young young guy who didn't have the muscle to to be A bodybuilder yet so he went into into men's physique and then he didn't but and then when the class came out He wasn't really yet ready for that but then he grew into that now he's a class again We yeah, I can I don't I can fully expect possibly to see him as if as an open bodybuild at some point. He's he's very driven in that sense He might not just stay here Look at that shot first right. Look at that Arnold shot Yeah, let me say a great shot ThaT3Quarters back. Yeah, he looks good. Look at the glue. He's good. He looks fresh Right, fresh muscle after we can class it can be already burnt out on stuff But in classic and you're doomed Yeah But I'm just saying look IMean that's a great great. IMean he he knows how to position his body. He's you know He looks like a seasoned guy. He's been bodybuildinGHis whole life. You know, and that's You don't see that that are often so I think you know he's look I like when I see guys that are gonna add fresh I guess you could say blood to the the divisions the new divisions you know and so I'm I'm excited to see him on stage. How does he do against to bring on an ansley and and Chris bumps that and those guys IMean can he hold his own anything You know I think I think Not quite yet. You know what IMean this is something in terms of You know to me to me he looks okay, if he looks like a very good classic bodybuilder which he is Yeah, and bumps that pass As a regular bodybuilder. So that's where I know he's saying yeah, I don't get somethinGHe's there He's at another level. Yeah, he's at the level of the same thing with Briona you know Briona could pass us a brick 12 guy and that goes for same thing with George Peter somebody was in the classic You know, IMean I always said on this show like well, he's not really classic at all Yeah, you know he's bodybuilder So I think Logan has like Traditional like golden age Classic lines, but if he had to stand between bumps dead in Briona. I think they have muscle maturity And they're they're actual density would Sure, you know, I was exposed what he doesn't have yet Yeah No, I agree I agree I wanted to bring up I don't know if you watch the whole is you watch the whole show Yeah I watched I watched the 2012 and the I think it girls Of course not Nicole Graham I got I got a pull a picture of I'm really really impressed with that But since you're probably gonna see around safe. So let's see you'll see you're here how good a shade These figure I'll just keep getting dead or and better and better What a great what a great look there I think she's gonna be super dangerous that the at one be a this year She's looking at the canvas Lewis yep Crazy I Can't see I actually see she's actually hitting poses here Did she see this I'll look at which I thought she was a woman's physique better first because she's got such a great physique Look at this look at this I'm looking at the pictures on the NPC news online look at this shot With the heels on Chris She can take women's physique yeah, right if you wanted to I'll find his that Yeah, she she's got the luck She can she can definitely be due crossover if she wanted to with one point Chases never yeah, yeah, I like I like when people have fun with it That was great so she she won figure the raining miss Olympia The Tila Santiago she won the bikini pop a picture of her cute for a little love It's always cool when you see it like a miss Olympia or miss her Mr. Olympia like a better in a right in like a New York pro show like a regular show Isn't it just it's great for the fans you know the fans actually did It's sometimes it's such that these fans only get to see these Olympia champs at the At the what's the look all the Olympia now they can she actually comes in doesn't near crush is no reason to have to do that Except the Odyssey using is a warm up and that's great you know and glad that they some people are not afraid to put the Put it on a line I ran into London Murray there I heard she was there. Yeah, what what did she did you talk to? Yeah, I said, Linda I said, you know you want to be only persons I said you the most when people see you you were one of the You must get all the time the samEQuestion which you might find a fan service like Either how old do you now because she looks so good for her yeah, whatever that is she can be caused the 60 right Yeah 58 I know she was close to 60 I knew it she's amazing she doesn't age she's like Linda Wood White remember Linda Wood White Linda Wood White was the youngest looking 70 year old You know Right she's wait until she turns 80 she'll still look for she'll look the same she doesn't age then you at all Let's talk about Well You broke up the opposite sorry Let's talk about Ari Sithia who won the men's physique Did you see him yeah We press Yeah, you are okay Yeah, very impressive well deserved Yeah, it's about deserved you know IMean it's it's funny those That class usually goes to like IMean if you're in Strictacular you know the best condition usually come on on top I think this is like he announced he this is the fifth time he's gone to the Olympics qualified for Yeah, he's always in there he's always in there he's very consistent I am always reporting on him on a muscle morning to He gave a very good genuine genuine Speech about making it back to the Olympia you know people like it from microphone and the faces Yeah, you know, I would like to thank my sponsors and my parents and all my turn You know, it was just pretty much for Well, that he came out the winner and it came across a little speech which I don't think he was prepared to give and you know Tark Being excited to go back to the Olympic this time in the fact that you know this idea that You know he's no genetic freakinGHis mind that he just worked work work work work work is made it When to show every yet to get to the Olympia and it just expands the idea like you know if I can conquistelf doubt and A accomplish a goal like this with my body to make it to Olympia then I can accomplish anything it was a really Excellent impromptu speech which made it you know impressive Rather than some pre-planned packaged Right It's nice when people can you know Our appreciative of where you know where they are, do you think? I guess that's the best way to put it Great way, put it. He knows he's a totally aware of the idea that I just won the show I'm going back to the Olympia people don't get to do that. It's a huge accomplishment You know at the same time, you know come come across not We come come across Appreciate it because not because it sounds good but because you actually are it was a great speech He probably don't think so I'm glad you did that that's important right I'm glad you do Let's talk about women's bodybuilding which they added to this event Milo Ash winning that we can pretty spectacular Yep, I see that I you know I was trying to figure out what happened with New York Pro obviously Steve Weinberg usually holds the New York Pro Up in New York obviously New York was was a no go so they moved it to Tampa which look like it looks like Tim Gardner took it over almost you know It was like almost like Weinberg passed it off to them. I don't know if that's the case or not Steve wasn't there. I know that probably you didn't want to travel. I don't blame him and Sometimes him got you know wings of strength involved with that with the event and they added women's bodybuilding Obviously which is good because they need qualifiers. They need to qualify somebody's women for the Olympia obviously so Milo wins here shEQualifies For the Olympia obviously I like to see you know Ravansy like like someone win by default She's she's really good. I think it's a good representative of the of some more good together in a Olympia stage. You know come December I agree with you. She's got Good shape which I spoke to Lander ironically about vote, you know the change in the shift bodies and female bodybuilding compared to 25 But she has good good flow good shape and I think that's a huge prerequisite for You know being doing really good in these winning these pro shows including going to the left So you want to have a You want to have people off there with good shape. Yeah, and let's the finish it off with Rachel Adams who won the arrangement of Rachel Daniels excuse me who won the women's physique and I I live in the like her physique to she is really Pretty peels Who would a one in a contest between Rachel Daniels and Milo Ash What do you think I don't know you tell me I wasn't there Would have been close right Yeah, what have I closed Somebody like I'm you know I'm trying to I'm trying to lay down my case for combining divisions I'm never gonna let off that you know I they'll never do it, but I keep putting it out there and saying just combine them combine them combine them combine I'm cold Miss Olympian women's physique division Brand champion Miss Olympia put them together Just do it guys Those Yeah, well, you know We're we're kind of running out of time and I know you're running out of steam so we're not gonna We're not gonna we're gonna do another show on the North American championships Maybe you and I'll do a show during the week and analysis of a breakdown in that We'll look at the pictures we'll pull up some videos stuff again. It was such a humongous show Gary you did had broke the bank on this one and I don't know how he did it He told me himself because I didn't think there was gonna be a big turnout I think they got a big a turnout that they never got and I think there was over 1500 people there Chris Competing this week. I think there was like 600 bikini competitors alone You believe that I can believe that and real Who said by building it who said that did that you know the no one's competing? Obviously with all the gyms that were closed Chris for like six months It's amazinGHow many people were able to find the place to work out Refresh Yeah, I tell you the resourcefulness of people in tren right we're crazy We'll find the place anywhere to try Yeah everyone I know found a place to tren with there's an exception of maybe three three of four people who Move to a trensition from a commercial jam to building your own Jims and they are garages and they ended up you know Garages to the extent that they say god. This is great. I'm never gone back to each Jim You know, Chris I love the idea of going to the gym when I was when I was competing But the truth is if I was let's say you and I we're in the era right now this cold IMean I would have spent every nickel I had to build the best Jim in You know in my house that I could possibly do Because it was that important to me, you know at the time it was like I wasn't saving money for like to buy a house I was the body building was way more important than I would have spent every penny you know To get the equipment I needed and you know when I would have bought all freeway stuff at the time because I didn't care about machines You know you don't really need machines machines or a luxury item don't you think Of course, if you have a power apple you have a bench you can do everything right? Yeah, yeah, you know what I always say You can with a flat bench and a bar and a couple sets of dumbbells You can tren all the body parts if you create them yeah, look I see these guys in jail trening The the resourcefulness of what they do there and and these guys have unbelievable physics When people cry to me that they don't have a you know a cable crossover machine You don't have a hammer shins chest machine. I laugh Right We spoiled this oil this oil now. That's the truth Look if you're a body builder in today's world With viruses closing stuff down and now you know that they they will quarantine and close gyms You better have backup in your house you better you better get a set of heavy heavy bar bells and dumbbells and having this backup because You know unless you have someone who owns you know someone owns a gym Because otherwise you're gonna be you're gonna be screwed the royal one and if too risky if you're a top level body, you gotta have access All right Chris, what do you even need tomorrow morning and a few hours maybe use it see it's one by the parents six thirty Have you noticed that the travel was easier or harder with this go home COVID thing going on Oh, it was easier but you leave the airport David you get on a plane packed with people Really, it's it's not funny Sold out But it's I so there's no separation and there's no there's no six feet separation on plane You Who it is now now? Hi, thank you for American allies for landing in Tampa We're going to depart the plane Row one and two the three so we can social distance on our way out. IMean me while you say next Oh God the people must be like a gas next to me thinking the sky sneezing Did you have a man you swear mask I One mask everyone more mask on the plane It didn't look like anyone at the body, but I was wearing a mask to me Now they don't like to advance Was anyone in the audience wearing this Um, there was yeah, there were a lot of people in the audience wearing them yeah, there were people That a lot of people There was a lot of people Well, there wasn't a lot of people in the audience but of the people in the audience surprisingly a lot did wear Okay, well, that's that's good to hear. That's good to hear All right, well, let's let's wrap this up a little bit get a little sleep But thank you for breaking down near pro stay tuned later this week We'll do the official wrap up of the North American championships and talk about all the Great new pros that we have on the circuit so for now as we say every week remember with heavy muscle radio True turk's good night everyone. We'll see you next week you

=== FILE: CHRIS BUMSTEAD 8 WEEKS OUT OF OLYMPIA! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸17⧸18) [bEzvlciLkHQ].txt ===

Happy Tuesday here at Muscle in the Morning on Day of Columbus. Today is July 17, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. As they say tough times, it will make tough people. And after more than two decades in the industry, I can honestly say that I haven't met too many people, tougher than 2018, thank Hoover Pro, to 12 winner, Mama D'Aurah. Two weeks after his huge win north of the border, the former two-time Kennedy National champ, released a new photos, that give his fans a good look at what a truckload of post show carbs and water can do to a body. In case you missed it, we did a great interview with D'Aurah a few weeks ago. That's a must-watch TV. That is new winners interview is up as well at the RXMuscle.com website. One of the worst parts about being an entrepreneur is the constant itch in the back of your brain. It tells you, someone out there is probably workinGHarder than you right now in this very moment. But when you're putting in the kind of work that women's physique stand out, shruronic a hint in is, there isn't too much time left in the day to sit around and worry about what everyone else thinks. For the weekend we saw a team Henten drop a short clip from one of their latest back trening sessions as the potential championship threat starts to head into phase two of her Olympia prep. As far as we can tell, Henten looks like she's on a mission to make the judges call her name when they finally sit down to announce the first call out. And if she can manage to get it in by to the party, you'd never know which way the score cards might swing once things start to get rolling. According to the Ancient Japanese code of the samurai, being loyal, courageous and honorable, were the big three personality traits you needed if you wanted to be a warrior. I don't know about you guys, but I sure would hate to be on the other side of the battlefield if I knew I had a face off against women's physique superstar Jennifer Taylor. Last year's Olympia runner-up has been in full-scale prep mode for the better part of three months now, as she gears up for a return trip to the Oralines Arena to come back and take care of a little unfinished business. Even with last year's top two finish inter-pocket, this year's lineup feels like an entirely different animal in more ways than one. So if she really wants to make that final jump up to championship status, now it would be the time to buckle up and get ready for a long fight. The race to fill the vacated fitness Olympia crown is probably one of the most under-reported stories in the entire bodybuilding industry right now. But nine weeks from now, I'm sure a long time veteran Bethany Wagner wouldn't mind one bit if she was asked to step in and fill that vacancy. Late last week, Wagner was spotted knocking out some high volume upper body action out at her home base in Bridgewater, New Jersey, where she's been out there trening like a complete animal in hopes of becoming the next woman in a long line of generational champions to earn the title, Miss Fitness Olympia. From the minute she stepped onto the division, Wagner has been one of the truly elite fitness talents in the pro league. So come September 15th, don't be surprised if you end up hearinGHer name announced as the next in a line to take over in this suddenly wide open fitness division. I remember sitting in the press pit last year looking at the classic physique Olympia line up and thinking to myself that the race for the top two literally felt like a coin toss. And believe you me, no one knows how close that race was better than 2018 runner up. Chris Bumstedt, with his second career Olympia now less than three months away, Bumstedt and his team looked like they're pulling out all the stops as they start to head down the back half of this year's prep. According to my people close to the source, the 20-something superstar feels as good as he possibly can at eight weeks out from the biggest show of his career. And if he shows up even 2% better than he was a year ago, that might be all takes to get him over the hump and solidify his status as the new king of the division. That does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day, Columbus reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: CHRIS BUMSTEAD FIRES UP FIRST TITLE DEFENSE! [2WskIC0mUqs].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Act Road. There's 30-year-in-a-row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pothar. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Polumbo and today is Friday, August 7th, 2020. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. According to the New York Times, best-selling offer Jim Collins, CEOs who have what he calls level five leadership ability is one of the primary drivers behind the sustained success of any great company. And a bodybuilders are the CEOs of their own corporation that makes level five leadership especially important, which is why someone like Henry Peer and Nose bet at the top of his third-air game for so long. Throughout his career, we've seen Henry take a consistent and principled approach to success and if you just look back at his track record, the results speak for themselves. Success and leadership started at the top, which is something that Henry's understood from day one and it's also the reason why I think his best days are still ahead of him. I want to stick with my organizational cultural theme for a minute and talk about the importance of surrounding yourself with the right people, which is one of the most important things you can do in business and bodybuilding, or just in life in general. Surrounding yourself with the right people who have the best interest of you and your company in mind is the key to being successful in the long run. Just ask DwaynEQuamina. A few years ago, Dwayne was just an upcoming guy who hadn't even made a blip on the radar from a bodybuilding standpoint. Today, he's a former top-tenal Olympian who looks like he's trening back in that direction again in a big way. You can't go from good to great without having a great team behind you. If he's going to keep his arrow trening upward, the other people who are on his bus with him will be a big part of that reason why. For savvy investors, bear markets signal a time to be aggressive because they present the best opportunity to load up on assets that should have a steady increase in value as the markets turn around. In considerinGHow turbulent the bodybuilding market is at the moment, it feels like the perfect time to invest in an upside-guide-like carot-bazzo. The way I see it, carot's in a perfect position to be a high riser in the 2012 division. We have shows getting canceled left and right in athletes are being forced to pull out from one reason or another. That opens the door for someone like him to take advantage of a golden opportunity. Since he's getting closer and closer to being able to leverage some of his capital, wouldn't be surprised if he turned himself into a hot commodity down the stretch. As far as American military history is concerned, there are very few men who've ever had a reputation like the late General George S. Patton. The time was famous for being absolutely relentless and is actually quoted as saying, my motto in battle is, go forward. So if I were staring down the barrel of the biggest fight of my career, the way Chris Bumstead is, I think channeling my inner pen wouldn't be a bad place to start. For the most part, it feels like Chris is already marching pretty steadily towards his first title defense, which is exactly what you want to see from someone in his position. But it's only August, which means the battle is just beginning. So that means the motto from here on out needs to be two words, go forward. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: CHRIS BUMSTEAD SHOW! CLASSIC OLYMPIA PREJUDGING WRAPUP! [YzU7IYPlSes].txt ===

Day Palombo here with an R-X muscle news update. The Mr. Olympia Classic physique. Pre-judging just let out and it looks like Chris Bumstead will be making iT3 in a row. I was pretty convinced after pre-judging that Bumstead not only looked the best on stage, but the judges just seemed to favor him at every single call out. He was always in the middle. His structure is so big. He takes up so much space compared to some of these other guys on stage that it almost looks like he's a giant among children on stage. And that's what classics about it's about proportion. At his height, he holds a lot of muscle on his frame. And the guys that are like right next to him are short guys. Terrence Ruff and Brianna Ansley. And that just gives Bumstead such an advantage over these guys because of the fact that he is so wide and so tall that everyone's eyes just go to this guy. I remember when I used to watch Cory Everson back in the day. And I remember when she would come out there saying she had the same effect. She just, her structure was so big and she was tall and she just, you couldn't take the riser off her. I think Bumstead is clearly a solid first place here. I don't think that there's absolutely unanimous. There's no doubt in my mind. The competition really now is for second third, fourth, fifth because that's where it's close. And it looked like Terrence Ruff and was going to be the guy in second place for most of the pre-judging. And then right at the end it seemed like Brianna Ansley really came on and searched. And I noticed the WeinberGHad him in the middle next to Bumstead. And that to me tells me that I think he's getting a little bit of a nod toward the end of the pre-judging as the guy who's in that second position. But I think between Ruff the Easle and Brianna Ansley we're going to see a battle again tonight because I don't think it's decided yet. It was very, very close between those guys. They match up really well. Brianna's got, I think more density to do is back Ruff the Easle. I thought could have been a little bit drier but you know, it's hard to tell, you know, sometimes exactly, you know, you know, grainyness, I'm not sitting in the front row there. But I have to tell you that those guys match up really well with each other. Brianna obviously's got the amazing biceps, Ruff the Easle with the tremendous, you know, presentation. Those guys, I'd like to see a caught just those two guys to be honest with you. I think that's what they got to do tonight. If they do that I think we'll be able to tell better because with the problem is when Chris bumps did's in it, you almost can't look at those two guys and they're on either side of bumps that said they're not next to each other. Although they were next to each other, you know, few rounds out there. But I want to see in the middle those two guys go head to head with each other because they are matching up really, really well. Now, one of the surprises was, and I have to give, you know, complete, you know, really props to Steve Weinberg. He worked these guys and you know what, he could have just made a quick call. And I don't think we would have seen what we saw here at the end and that last call up because a lot of guys work their way up. Errs, a calisinski really, really impressive. You know, he wasn't in that group initially and they moved him, moved him and finally he moved into that, you know, what I would call maybe the fourth position, you know, that seems to be up for grabs. Also, Ramon Roka from Brazil who works with Chris Asido also in thaT4th position potentially. So those two guys battling out, and then of course you got Alex Cabernero who is, you know, probably has the nicest shape on stage, but not as much muscle as some of these other guys. You really, there's no flaws in the guy. The guy's conditioning is perfect. So I think it's going to be Cabernero, Errs, Calisinski, and then Ramon Roka battling for thaT4th spot. And that would be fourth, fifth, sixth, I guess. And so, you know, it was really a good classic physique pre-judged. And you know, after last nights, you know, men's open, everything is kind of like not as good because we're used to seeing these big monsters on stage and then we go down to classic, which is beautiful. But you know, you still, you keep saying, maybe we need to see more muscle on these guys, but then you forget it is about proportion and these guys can only weigh so much. So I say, Bumstead, a clear first place here, Breon and Ruff Diesel battling for second and third and then Errs, Calisinski, Ramon Roka, the new guy, so to speak on the block with Alic Cabernero, who's a seasoned veteran battling for thaT4th, fifth, sixth position. What'll happen? I don't know. We'll find out later tonight. I say Bumstead is a shoe-in for the win.

=== FILE: CHRIS DICKERSON： DEFYING THE ODDS! HMR (8⧸24⧸20) [b0WUNK_XIe0].txt ===

10th and 9th You must and I will repeat! There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true board we can be Lomble! Chris Asito! Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle Leave your watch out Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo And I'm joined as always Live a technician Chris Asito On this August 24th, 2020 evening in Chris We got a lot of bodybuilding shows coming up I can't believe but I'm actually saying that You know it seems like each show is got It's a little personality one show they got to wear masks Then actually they don't have to wear masks One show they got to you know The 100th year apart Another show they're all together There's no there's no rhyme they're racing you What's the scolabot for the next big new year in Tampa? I know I'm saying that they had a bunch of shows I helped a bunch of people I'm probably did two this past week And on the amateur level they had a lot of shows I don't know how to show I didn't know how to show IMean but because I'm quarantine But self quarantine That is but melancholy I just don't want to go I don't want to go around anywhere This is my way to so long I don't have to You know what IMean If I if there was a need to do it I probably would help But there's no reason to put myself My family at risk is a point And would you go to a show? IMean at this point I'm starting to venture on a little bit more Yeah Yeah I'll go to a show IMean Are you going to go to New York pro? IMay go You may get well You've got an airplane you've got a drive IMay take errands you have plane Sorry No IMay drive IMay drive It's 20 hours Two Yeah You like it? I think the Mercedes The classic Mercedes I don't know how to take thEQ What do I have an XQ QxAini? I don't even know how to take it I don't even know how to take it I don't even know how to take it I get 50 seconds of the appie I have the coffee holders And I need the jugs I don't know how to take it How do you stay away? Oh, I'll just take like Caffeine up the gang gang Instead of having to go on the bathroom So I'll have to take like jugs So you don't have to go to the rest stops Yeah I don't like to go to the rest stops Anyway You know The 20 hours down there won't be so bad It's the 20 hours back But see you would like to be like a vacation That's right I was going to stay away from the kids Come on You'll be in the house I'm going to be in the home I'm going to be in the home I'm going to text IMean text in the whole time Like that You better learn the voice text I want I want to text I want to text it with my blackberry From Portland main To the Hartford Pro show They had down there And if I text the whole way It felt like I was in the car for like nine minutes Yeah But you don't have to find anything The blackberry was easy to text on It was You didn't have to really even see the screen Because you could feel the keys Yeah You can't feel the keys on any of these new phones That's why when people used to make fun of me Including you You'd say you got to get a iPhone I said my fingers I can text so That's my father's That's my father's That's my father's My father's Excuse me We never get a We never stopped typing on a real type It was Yes My touch It's too powerful He said I have a powerful touch I had these other Keep more to too fast I can't type on him I think that he's going to use the I said Yeah Now people want to text me on the What I'm saying Because I just thought Yeah You had probably the worst text Or at both times Yeah Most likely I would think that you don't speak English as a first language When I get your text to believe you I know what we were saying I need a source To dissect what I write To that No because you don't use You're like you know how Like George Faris speaks that say you write You don't have any You don't use any propositions to connect anything Yeah But other I go I go now to Comedicate I see you soon I see soon You know Today Well there was a big post Bill Pearl put up a big post I don't know if you saw this Bill Pearl Bill Pearl Bill Pearl has a Facebook The Bigs the Bill Pearl Excuse me So obviously Bill IMean this is sounds insane He's alive I would think stuff I can confuse Then how old is it? Red spark maybe you can view something No I can confuse with the first Mr. Olivia I can't Oh Larry Scott Larry Scott Well Bill Pearl Posted this thing on his Facebook About the Chris Dickerson As you remember Chris suffered a heart attack Did you remember he fell Yeah Bill Bill Pearl And Chris Dickerson worked Extremely tight Right Well Chris Dickerson fell in March Fraction is hip After the surgery To fix the hip He had a mass of heart attack He put him on a ventilator And then he I guess he went to Some kind of a Well he had to get a pacemaker Put it to Because I guess something I don't know if he had some damage to his heart From the Carrier Carrest But he Then we went to like a Carre facility kind of like what happened The Bob Brushaker And he got COVID Did you know that? I did not know that So IMean that's how Bob Brushkin died Really I know that And we talked about When I was a kid Bob Brushkin used to tell me a pandemic Is coming Yeah Yeah He used to be scared Because he probably knew we had a Premonition So he So anyway So Chris is evidently recovered So he's His and his birth day Is August 25th So it's going to be 81 years old So we can wish him a happy birth day Chris Dickerson Did I ever tell you Day of a little science For Bob Brushkin Almost eaten pork What happened? No, Oh, because he was he I coached Yeah, it was coached He was flying back To Indiana He went to Undergraded Indiana from New York And he was in like a Like a small plane So it wasn't like Aaron's playing And they had Huckdogs And he was starving And he thought I'm going to I'm going to have a Huckdog And he said maybe I shouldn't Oh, I'm going to be like a killbasa No, he knew it No, he knew it was pork And he used to Well, you know, maybe he He'll be okay And the lady gave a hotdog And he hit turbulence And the hotdog Flue right out of his hand Right out Yeah Yeah Fifty It hit the You know, we We let the air come in The air conditions Right And flew out of his hands And he said, well, maybe I shouldn't eat that hotdog Anyway, I thought Covent, yes And so he was Bob was also Fairful of pandemics So Bill Porron IMean, Chris Dickerson Who is our 1982 Mr. Murphy? He knows For those people don't remember that He, he, he looks like he He's out of the woods there, I think So that was one of the few Olympias I believe day They had that we had 2019-1817 score So I don't remember what we were going to do Ben, you can ask, who's the historian? John Hansen John Hansen Ben wanted to make it more like the Olympics So if you want to Let's say Fill Heath in first place Instead of givinGHim a one Right And we can give him a 20 And if you had like Sean And second place instead of givinGHim a two He could give like a 19 But it could be It could be You got so confusing Especially in private Because most of the judges They can't do math Well, they had to add all these 20s and 19s I don't know A lot of the dance mathematics They threw it out after that I'm sure Don't fix it If it's not broke That's the bottom line I would say But Anyway, if you want to contact Chris Dickerson And send them well wishes on first birthday You got to do it like you do I do it like you grandfather You got to send them in the center of the car You got to write it by hand I don't know if anyone has it Or write it anymore these days But you can send it to Chris Dickerson Manor Pines And at 1701 North East 26th Street Room 367 Willton Manor Florida 33305 And that's on the bill Pearl Facebook page You can check that out So Guys, if you want to send some well Worse is out there And that would be cool I'm sure he would greatly appreciate that He was a great Mr. Let me be a good great ambassador to our sport And I'm glad that he stole Life Just shows you how resilient the bodybuilders are It's Yeah, he's he's he's he's I'm dead I'm just speechless that they'll Proza live You know Bill Pearl I apologize Bill I just IMean he's he was old When IMet him in 87 You know who's also who's birthday it is on Tuesday August 25th Who? The installer is going to be a 64 years old Very young, looking 64 Yeah That's absolutely Can you believe it? 64 years old It's crazy right? Yeah Good good Well He's time to win We're all getting old I guess that's really the bottom one Right? Well, yeah It's true I I'd love to see Vince make it come back I'd be so great I'm sure he looks I'm very sure great shoulders are No, I'm sorry now in caps He even like great Vince I guarantee if you may come back now Let me see I got another person who also is There's Vince Now the person who told me this Who do you think told me to Vince tell us 60 foot perth It wasn't me I can't take credit for it John Hansen No, are good trying to r auf What, what's your, I'll r auf the photographer No Rough, don't Ralph to Rally Your buddy used to work at the Pembroke pine's gold Oh yeah yeah yeah Yeah He's he's 54 same birth Crazy So he's 54 Vince's 64 So all these people So all these people both on the same day pretty cool Right there. What's the zodiac sign this bump? I don't even know I don't usually fall that but it's also Just to change his birthday in August. Well you weren't what wait was his birthday? I think it's like sometime August 8 to 17 somewhere that I think I'm the only person doesn't wish I'm happy birthday No, you don't have to because you're that tight I don't wish I I'm terrible birthday unless it pops up on my timeline Yeah, I don't even remember you're birthday you remember mine. I don't remember yours I don't know probably somebody tells me if they'd say hey I still I still have to like yeah, I still have to like double check on my kids birthday It's like when I go somewhere they say okay, I date a bar at some like oh gosh Here we go. J1 j was like 274 in 2004 Olympia. I correlated with like Jay's shows So also you know you're off was born this day rich piano You know you're sitting right inside died on the 25th of August So We have to give him a Two years now or so or I think it's been food. Yeah, I don't even know what was a cause Now there's no cause of death Well this is cause we just don't know it yeah, there's rich and durian There was a rich we competed IMiss rich. I really I really liked him a lot of get a lot. I didn't hang out with very like that But you know we talked to on occasion I interviewed him. I just I liked him a 30 I liked this break Maybe seven stuff if it was a little attractive but self-destructive but you know I liked the fact that he was able to innolvate all this stuff himself all this stuff that was all the slogans and t-shirts and You know all the stuff you do with YouTube everyone copies what he does now You was he was really a pioneer in this episode People don't realize he edited his own video Did you know that? He would shoot all this video during the day they have all this video and then he'd go back to his room at night At these ex-bos or go back to his house and he would edit like like for hours and I believe I know I'm an editor too. You know, so It doesn't take three seconds like black when he's to be when I used to work for black men He would be like We would she we would be to show right Chris for like what hours now was like Eight ten hours 12 hours to the day back we literally walk out the door back when the video going up I'm like First of all it takes like at that time It was probably took an hour to download the video alone to the computer then you had it render it you had a you know Yeah, IMean it was like it it was a long process, you know, and that was sometimes I was doing something to build concept I was doing it I'm like Steve you think we think we can maybe get some of the eat first before we before I just spent 12 hours at a body Get just put it up just put it up. I'm like Steve it doesn't go it's like a Zillian megabyte you're gigabyte You don't push your button and it's up there just put it up don't even added it just put it up like But I Oh my god, these people are so close Did you you saw the article I sent you right that they fired the packer? Ignuse yeah, I think news been there a long time Yeah, no more catching kills no more you know, it's it's funny that he had you know when you said that Dave I was I was wanting to Like throw him under the bus Because you know a bitter that he kicked a road now and we let me I like them within 35 seconds of finding out that you know Robins supposedly break this bank robber And so I was trying to be critical, but you know, he did a pretty good job with the Olympian IMean when all said I think I'm money they raised the money then You know at the end of the day he raised the money and and If nothing else You know that was something great For the for the bodybuilders, you know, were the other classes too IMean I don't think he was you know the disconnect goes like you know the speeches of like Of him and rarer our for bodybuilding they felt so like Like created you know like like like he was reading a script because how could he have like this Passion for bodybuilding When you've never been around to their in it or you know, it's not like I think you like the belt Yeah, IMean he he may like it look he inherited a mass over there and It got messier messier the whole am i you know thing and you know, it was then the man then magazines It matter anymore and IMean what it's like it's like you're steering the Titanic You know as as Ramon puts that Dad to the bottom notion If you're you're magazine if you're running a magazine you know Franchise so to speak you know it's not a good it's not a good business to be and into the smart No one reads you know The only equivalent is When he bought the magazines at the absolute highest price ever right Because that's the only reason Joe sold them it's like I told you about the real estate guy before we came on the year the only What reason this guy I know Just sold this you know building that just so spectacular I'm like why why? Why simply so really when someone gives you a gigantic jack? You can't say you can't say no. Yeah, so that's where that's saying You know I got no further was too big to refuse There was yeah, you know the same thing I have snake you I have snakes first that I you know what you like I don't want to sell but people have made me offers I couldn't refuse and I said what if the snake dies tomorrow What am I crap like I take $10,000 for a snake or something like that? No, so the point is him buying the magazines is like Someone going out and buying a 60 unit apartment building and then within three years coats as you know You just can't rent these anymore right just pack them up. Yeah, so you know Nobody's gonna read anymore the difference is though that the land that the building is built was promised And we're still working on it just they're they're real estate there is worth nothing, you know So thank you know we're lucky we're lucky lucky that so what would it happen if they were to kind of Business who what would it happen to the Olympic what does auction? May well Dave maybe Maybe maybe maybe he knew the writing was on the wall and Said thought you know let me get out of it. Yeah, tell me did you know to your riddle that'll let me when they did Yeah, I forgot it so can you imagine now If Jake would did not buy it and here we are an able in the show. IMean here we are in September or the show They would he cancel the M.I. would he cancel the one with COVID going on everything is you know But thanks on he was doing it so I think you know it will come back maybe next year into it maybe yeah, maybe So it was a good IMean it was a good for them to sell it at that time It was thank God it was good for body building the Jake board when he did however I bet you if Jake would have waited or buy you a lot cheaper But Is what it is Time I'm glad to get one piece of happiness. You know I I don't know if I sheven show the picture I have getting on the show your boy there My oligarch me I'll smile like come on he's gonna smile the whole time. Yeah, you know he's he's staying with a friend of his in the UK I guess for a couple weeks and then he's going to Turkey and staying there for two weeks so because from Turkey to the United States You can fly no problem you can't fly from the to the UK to the United States so He's doing that and I think he's gonna hang out in the US probably for a few weeks before the Olympia or for a few months I should say right you know you wear that. Yeah, I just found out the other day You know I only found out in the context of See staying in your apartment building So somebody said You know come on you might want to think about Coming now because what what if just the one if well we said that we've been speculating that for weeks Why didn't these guys just come here? What if England goes nuts for COVID? Yeah, you know They won't let anyone out So anyway, I'm getting them on the show. I'm interviewing them this week And the picture I saw them I don't I'm sure you saw the same picture It's like a hands on hips oh you look sick fill he He looks and know I couldn't believe how biGHe was what what then I happened to him. He's enormous Should I show the picture? I don't know I get a picture Let me see if I can get the picture I'm gonna you know put up on again. I'm going to say a told you it looks like Phil How did he get so big? What's he been doing? I'm you the guy's what 49 years old brother. I can't tell famous protocol Seriously though. I can't believe how biGHe is he just um You know I think what happens Dave honestly is Well, I'll give you this in my opinion is with come all you know he he He want me live here and it And he always had ultimate confidence no arrogance but confidence you know in his abilities to be competitive to win it even when he was third when when flex Wanted I saw pictures the other day Dave with him in flex. It was pretty darn close that year Yeah, they just Had them like 90 like they had them more than they would social distance them on stage He never got next to you know they'd spread them out so to speak Because he's he does not have weaknesses so that Perseye so he looks better on stage and he really has any help. I think what he'd be limpia I think that it I think It's something in him where he wants to come back to show people that He is To 12 Mr. Olympia and he likes you should ask him he likes the idea Of succeeding somebody who won so many times you know, IMean it there's something important to him I think a lot of people thought he was going to be a one-hit one-hit one-hit one-hit one-hit and And I think they're going to be surprised when they you know If you can ever find that picture and both it. I think that'd be surprised I'm working. I'll keep talking as as thickness So IMean he's fit he's a deckster. He's 50 or 49 and one of the two he's got to be close to 50 right? Yeah, we went to we went with him. You know we went to Qatar for two or three weeks My family and his family and They when somebody trens I've never seen anyone ever Below up in a trening session like he'd like if he does show theirs they geT3 times bigger And if he gets if he does pecks the pecks get like this Right, but you know when people go like oh I got a really good pump He's he's a genetic friend. Yeah. Oh pump up like he'd do like You know back and you say any back looks good. So I'm gonna just a back and it'd be in a tank top and Be pumping pump and pump you know trening trening treninGHe just explode That's just genetics. IMean First of all anyone who can hook and hook and be that good at that You know late of an age, you know that's genetics too because you know Most people fall apart That's the one you're either Ask him same thing. It's like Dexter any injuries no ever never ever Well, I think my elbow hurt me for like you know who do you know my heart might can 7 it was There it is It's pretty impressive for a 312 guy He looks massive he looks like doring that yeah, he looks crazy How the legs Yeah, he always a good legs He has no wish him with legs his legs a round for his body and then deeply separated And he gets paper thin skin. I'm I'm really impressed in that picture I'm glad that he's smart enough to get to the United States early Yeah, that would have been like we're seeing a stay He hasn't Contacted you in that sense He should hide up there and may that would be perfect place to hide And his healthy by brings all family to Oh Never know a little ever to quote yeah, never know a little No All right, what else do I have to report I get a lot of news Okay, what's your next topic? I don't know I'm lookinGHe can't solve the report of the I know that I wanted to So dance Solomon Yeah, Dan was posted something on the Olympia I'll see that I guess they got a you know shack heel on Neil is going to be the ambassador this year like Jay was last year And I think it's because I think they got him through rock chibaz you know rock chibaz It was a good pro body bullet is on right he trens shack I think it's land through there So they said I got the shack like spotted when he was at the Olympia last year and he They're gonna make him the mess so I guess Dan is doing some kind of like a Olympia talk with Shaquille and Neil and Monday night They should be if they should get baby gold bomb too You know a shack and doors is everything just Google look the stuff that shack and door Yeah, do you know how You know how they this will works Yeah, he's like the George form in the modern year, right? Yeah, he and door I'm surprised he didn't grill I'm surprised he should take over the George form and grow this should have the shack grill He just Google they put all the products that he endorsed he he's very wealthy, you know he owns a lot of businesses He's a very good business guy He's probably more people think he film is a great desk, but he was probably more successful as a business man Oh, sure I was watching some program on him. They but they were saying over businesses he owned Yeah, and he's all over the place it's funny because I saw a we used to watch you ever watch that show tanked When they build fish tanks, yes, they built him attack. You see that tanked they built them They're crazy for a stack yeah, they built them a great fish I didn't know he was all into a aquarium fish, you know like I was there's your connection once you're dead Yeah, you know I'm setting up another fish tank. I told you that right yeah, yeah, so I have this channel called muscle fish on YouTube and I haven't posted a video on four years I posted my first video because I'm starting to like put together the ingredients for this new fish tanks I kind of teach people I'm I'm back, you know, at least you have all these monster fish tanks in New York and some I'm building this new tank and so I put up with I put up another video I actually have I have like 18,000 subscribers on that channel I don't even do anything with it, but people like to it's a timeless thing because you go watch fish tank videos Doesn't have to be from yesterday. You know it doesn't matter that actually these things up four years ago People on the street at fish so Now and I told you I told Chris I was camera we we bought a the property across the street for us by my mother and I was gonna do live in there and it came up for sale, but they have this crazy coin pond In there which I'll show everyone it when I'll do a tour of the property when we finally take it over next month and So now these coil like giant Chris so I have I now I got my monster fish back. I didn't have to even get a fish tank so And on the property that they have an outdoor like self it's like a pond it's like a runoff pond You've seen things they dig these things so that like you know float There's an out there's a baby alligator living in it Chris the thing is like Wait to get that property day to be out here. No, but you but it's today, you know it's this big it's not gonna It's a small alligator, but you know they can they make grow and they you know it's taped out this like little pond So now I'm we're concerned because you know we get obviously the kids and stuff like that Get me my this alligator when it gets bigger so now we have to get rid of the alligator But you can't call fake Florida fish from wildlife they won't come unless the things over like four feet Yeah, they get calls all day long so right the calls are they like so they're gonna basically tell you go you know We don't care so now I had my idea was to get in a little robot Chris and Don't with it with a big net and go out there and try to net the thing myself Now obviously we would have to videotapeness right? I'm gonna say put that and then it's like all video tape. Don't worry about it No, here's another and another angle to visit the equation you know you know who Denise Missino is right Dr. Denise Just moved back Denise was used to live in Fort Myers, but she had because out in California Our husband was working for E.N. entertainment there is a video editor shoot video in that is the so they moved back just recently to to Fort Myers So and you know Amanda how we're close and obviously I know Denise really well So I got to get Denise's husband Greg to come and and filmed the Epic adventure of the Dave removing the baby alligator from the text of the property cross street Probably the biggest video game it might be right biggest video of all time Especially like a her or if I fall to what Fall to the water Amanda's like what are your phone the one I'm gonna The alligator's a foot long and what are you gonna do to me? Take a toe off no it's not gonna it'll probably run that's the worst part of being that I'll be soaking wet you know You know nothing's going off if I see you're defibrillators gonna go off First of all I'm not really afraid of like Alligators and stuff like that that are that small like if there was a big one in there I would be scared out of my mind of course, yeah, but You know Well we went you sent us I know you didn't send us it reminds you the scene from jars remember You remember draws? Moopy Yeah, you know you the gentleman if you're asking that story Amanda so Quint is the guy you know they hired the old guy to hunt the shark right and Richard drive his place is like marine biologist and just and he's like He's like he brings the shark cage with them on the boat they're gonna go hunt this fish right I think we go hunt the shark and and Brody's and and Quint is like who plays by Robert Shaw who actually won the Academy award for this Part of these like what are you gonna do with that cage? Mate He's like I'm gonna put it in the water. I'm gonna go in the water with the fish because you're gonna go in the water with the fish he's like Shocks in the water You're in the water Chockies the you That's the thing you know, you know like you're gonna be a history there But that's a reminds of you know But the alligator's not that big but it's still the whole idea of having it Having to get an alligator out of your own part, you know, it's kind of fun in the sense And I gotta get Amanda because I want to do I want to put fish in the pond. I want to I want to stock the pond with some fish Obviously if that baby little alligator's there mommy alligator or daddy alligator is probably Careful hiding or yeah Somebody nearby Now I'm probably not because you know that did behind my house, you know I have that big gators slew is called That's where the alligators are in there So what happens is I think when they when they get a little old enough They'll they'll come out of the water and they'll go look for the wrong little ponds to hang at it so they can have to Throw in so much that they try to get the leave home and have their own apartment, you know That's the I was telling them that's good seeing tell me about your chocolate venture My wife when I'm canoeing or Kasi kayak in last year and getting argument with me all the sun She declared that there were great white sharks in Maine and Supposedly does not man a big fight about it and she saw plenty of seals So she said where the food is there's shark so a lady this summer not performance Was vacationing from the York City swimming and she got eaten In full by a great white shark wow and so lately We've you know there's been these shark sighting so today we went I said let's do something get other house Took everyone out we went to this place called the lobster shack and it's outdoor picnic tables right on the rocks and I'm sitting there eat my food and sure enough Right by I went nuts. I was so excited Because I've never seen it you know shark in the wild because we always joke about it Right, but you see that you know that water break Then the fin right come out skis even if I'm landing you scare Workside it I was more excited than skated I was It was a boat near that's how I saw it I saw a nice little sailboat name I wanted to start to talk about sailing yeah Couldn't get the S out of my voice Adam I'm on my mouth before you just have a shark yeah It was exciting And I That was it the last try IMean kidding come back up or she didn't come back up The whole newspaper flavors I wonder I work you know probably tell Tabi tag I won't probably was my Luz amount of zaccia right now. Hey be careful. Yeah, it's great scene. They made Play a YouTube license. What make Nick Trajilly Is Nick did Nick says he called you and trying to get it back or something try to find out what is that That movie looks like shot and kept she jars were shot was a shot and kept on I think what it's what that's what the fake place that's the great white love keep God Yeah, I'm sure I think they go all the it's amazing they travel all the globe these sharks The ones in Australia seems to be much more aggressive though Yeah Because they get the seals there they go to that seal island and they eat the seals IMean if I'm sure you did you watch shark week? I've seen it yeah, I love shark. I love shark It's great. I was obsessed with sharks when I was a kid I know my parents actually took me to see jaws when I was a kid and I was probably was only like eight years seven right years old I was every line I was you know because you couldn't because you only saw it once it wasn't like you can watch you on the end I'm you know on I don't know when the shark would keep with the shark hit he's the bottom of the boat I think you remember they were they were they were like drinking and eating and Talked home stories and all of a sudden the shark left my father's and we they looked around I would just appear I was on the seat you know It's so scared I play shark with my kids in pool I'm like shark is coming the shark they run they scream Sun just like play the shark he's like do the shark Yeah, just kidding you're talking to the pool do the shark do the shark I've been playing it for now. You tell them Yeah, we'll be out. There's no level of exhaustion that you can put my kids through that I exhaust way before they do well. Dave listen the crazy thing is my kids when they were young You still love the pool okay back in the pool pool pool pool now it's like do you ever pull We had a pool quite an incredible and then we we When we used to go down to Miami a lot when they were little right and then The whole day they'd be in the pool a whole day now you go down to Miami you want to go to the pool now Want to go sit in the other pool now They don't want to do anything the kids yeah, they're they're this one there No fun in the pool no so there was a pro show Do you see that Pull the scorecard yeah High technology nothing that you'd be interested Pro bikini Ashley Kongwasser I think she's the winningest bikini pro now all time she's one three Olympias But she has 20 it's 20 pro wins Dave I hope you think I hope people leave me when you said the bikini show I said who won Ashley It's gonna be sarcastic. It's an nobody's amazing that she has that she's been around for so She was you know she won her Olympias when she was really young That's why and now she's still going to try to regain that Olympic right I don't know if she ever will but she's clening up she wins all these shows That took place at the clash Oh, this is Mel's show The clash pro championships and the NPC Mel chancey harbor classic Did know it cool I didn't have pro bikini So that was the show we can I know because Dan Solomon it had text me and said are you going to the show this weekend? And I said Mel says yeah, he's like I'm gonna be down there said nah Yeah, I'm like that one Okay, so I saw that Jimmy met us at post of the picture with him and Dan and Hangin out there on the arts It looked like everyone was pretty close together. I didn't see any social distancing or masks going on That's why I didn't go because I wouldn't got sucked into that you know Yeah I would have you know I would have started that would have been asked And then the mayor would have been nothing people would have been You know you see now or I've been noticed today. I noticed that the rocks are the beach masks Then oh the rocks are wearing masks that's it Well the rocks that rocks that the beach people would throw you know when they'd done with the mask or whatever Did they roll over the place? Oh, they are I'm illiterating is what you say with the mask Like that I saw like eight ten masks on the rocks. I'm like what does it just like people? I don't know Okay done with this one for all right Oh, we had another show hold on Texas Hold this one over Okay, it's the southeast Texas Pro and See Tyler Manion was the judge had judge it men's physique Daniel E. Most one for him and succeeded Daniel E. Men's one Help you go into the Olympia Men's physique yeah, it's it's a lot of guys 26 guys in the show You know if you're gonna compete this year you better not if there's a show available you better jump in it I wouldn't wait gotten those the kids will chose nothing right Europe is the worst They can't sing everything Europe because I have a lot of European clients that I work with and I feel so bad for those guys Well they speaking of Europe that The show in Spain They just open it up Olympia qualifying the open body building for top three yeah the alicante right Which you know what if I was doing the new approach with Chicago or Calad we said you know why Yeah, nice we'll make those top three also right you know why not me or why not here? Well, why wouldn't they do that right I don't I have to believe the new or pros gonna have better quality competitors than the I don't know Just what IMean Right yeah, and I don't know though Dave Actually right now right now to the best of my understanding you can't find here if you're an American That's why these guys and you can't fly into the US from the europe that's why these guys are going to other countries like To buy if you are pro you'd have to go from The US to let's say I don't know where turkey before you fly into Spain Yeah, well that's fair what's his name is going Come on It's going to turkey No joke Dubai a lot of guys are going to Dubai too if I'm gonna go to the country I'm probably gonna go to the buy wouldn't you IMean that sounds like a little bit better than turkey but I don't know maybe the command has connection in turkey Well, you know I know people went to turkey that that was a beautiful Coast is gorgeous there. I don't know I wouldn't I don't know just a you probably saw that movie What was that movie back then you know with the guy sold drugs in turkey remember that movie was when we're Yeah, what they were? It was a name of that That was a scary movie Yeah, that's like my father loved that There was a Where was he cool? He was a claim what was it called as about a American kid he went to turkey sold drugs He threw him in like life in prison. I think his teeth skate I sound like you're probably not they don't make movies like that they have any more Yeah, yeah Midnight Express midnight Express to really a big critical of playing right The people refer to that movie Yeah, I actually watch that Yeah, because you know I didn't think I was so lucky. I forgot that movie even exist I find no my father really loved that Oliver Stone wrote that movie. There's another See anti-trap or You know he I guess Bill Marmay of I didn't see the show, but he brought up the idea that Russians interfered with our elections and he said you can't trust these people come on He said you know See I age been lying to a sense you know Kennedy was shot oh And Oliver Stone did that JFK movie too. Yeah, he Invested to get it all that stuff quite a bit Did you like that movie? Did you have K-movie? Yeah, I never saw it I was going to read that time with Midnight Express did you see it? I like that yeah, I did like it I don't know if I I'm probably wasn't It probably wasn't right you know the theory that they put forth I exactly think the mafia killed you know I think that's pretty much established at this point the mafia had killed But it was interesting all the connections and stuff like that

=== FILE: CLASSIC PHYSIQUE BREAKOUT STAR! ｜ Zeek Andrews Interview [pyA_AaOKbuI].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been 3.5 hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Welcome back to Live with, on day polombo. Today's guest is the 2021 IFBB MiamIMuscle Beach Classic Physic Pro Champ, Zee Ganderus at only 24 years of age. Welcome to the show and big congratulations. Thank you. 25, but close. Wait, it doesn't matter. You just turned 25? Last year, it's just a number though. That's the thing, it's been a long time. I'm going to show you the show right here today and looking forward to answering somEQuestions and going from there to get it. I'm actually more excited to actually see that big try into one. I always love when the promoters come up with unique trophies. This is always one of something like this. I don't have a sword or something like something I can actually hold onto. A trophy. This is a great picture on your Instagram. You're proposing with that. The funny thing is that God, you actually live in Miami because I don't think you could have brought that on an airplane. I know man. So, you know, it was crazy. When I went to when I got my pro-card in 2019 that they'd be seen as close. Right when I was packing up for the flight, I'll leave in the RB and be. I have everything set up. I placed my trophy on my briefcase and I went to get settled basically. You'll take a shower, you know, get ready and I fell off my briefcase and broken half. Yeah, man. So, it just fitted in there and, you know, yeah, man. Definitely, it could do some damage though. Oh, yeah, it looks like it's not like plastic. That's like serious, real, right? Oh, yeah. It's definitely, you look like a chocolate man. You look like a chocolate man. You want to do like a pose, you want to like, you know, get yourself spray, spray paint to look like an aquaman and do like some kind of a photoshoot with that thing. Yeah, yeah. I definitely want to take some cool pics with this. I'd be pretty cool. I didn't think about that. All right, so you 25 years of age, you know, you've been trening for about 10 years now. You've only been bodybuilding really well for abouT4 years as far as competition goes. You won the 2019 NPC Nationals. That's where you got your pro card. I don't think a lot of people saw you coming. I think you caught me by surprise. I didn't, you know, when I saw the pictures, Chris Cito, both of us were really impressed with the way you looked in this win. But I don't think anyone would have ever predicted that you were going to come in there and dominate that show like that. Yeah. So, you know, you know, my mindset is basically, I like to stay low-key. So, you know, obviously when you, you show up, you know, you kind of just, you kind of know in a way what your competitions like. But to be honest, since I ever started competing, I did my first show. I was 22. And then from there, you know, I've always, you know, my motto is, you know, stay humble, but hungry. I never really cared about the competition. I was coming there and I always just kind of show up and basically be the best I can be in that way about anybody else. And, you know, I'm not putting myself on blast and, you know, say, oh, I'm a win this. I'm a win that. Because everybody's out there grinding. And so, I'll tell you this one thing. You did New York pro. And I remember seeing you on stage because I commented to Chris, we did the analysis of the show that I thought you were, you know, you were not standing straight on as much you were like, kind of like three court of turning. And I thought you were losinGHim. You're with that way. And I think, you know, maybe Danny, you and Edge, you out that way. Because he was, you know, his posing presentation was really good. It seems like you corrected that for this MiamIMuscle beach show. But I was very impressed with your conditioning at that New York pro. IMean, between you and Danny, you know, and you told me you didn't even prep for that. You could have flipped the coin. I don't think anyone would have complained with you would have show as well. Was that a disappointment? Was that an encouragement when you, when you play second? It was, it was definitely, it was definitely an encouragement. I could say, you know, being able to stand up to some of the, you know, top athletes in the world. And especially, you know, Danny has, he's a Olympian four time now. We'll put those out. You know, basically, I took that as a, hey, I'm up here. And we're just going to make improvements and get to where we need to get to. And I was actually prepping for the New York pro. Really what made me do the New York pro was a, basically, move from North Carolina to Florida, like Willis, to Florida. And from Willis, to Florida, I went out to Orlando to do a photo shoot at the Iron Religion and then I spoke with my fiance and my sponsor in they said, you know, the New York pro was about 10 days away. So, I basically, it was like, you know what, I look pretty good in these shots. You are, you are, you are ready. IMean, you wouldn't know what would say you weren't ready for that show. No way. Yeah, I was, I was definitely like, you know what, we can pick for it. Conditions on point. We just got to, you know, make sure, peak week some point and go from there. I was pretty tired, man. You know, doing all these shoots and traveling, you know, back and forth. And the one thing is, like, I've always like tried to practice routine and get me more fluent in, you know, just to display more physique. And I can say that I didn't even practice any type of routine. Honestly, I just always really focus on the manateories. Very good at the manateories. Really. You have, you flexed the story. The thing that I, excuse me, the thing that I just want to stop you for a second, because the one thing that I found very impressive is that you know how to flex every single muscle group. You have very good body awareness on stage, which a lot of guys who are kind of new to the sport don't have, but you are able to flex everything at the same time and that's something that once again, I don't know if that's because you practice a lot or you just have just a good mind muscle connection. But you absolutely know where your body is in space on that stage. Yeah. Yeah. I definitely feel it, especially getting more experience. I can tweak some poses like, you know, the side chest. I can keep my chest up more and create less openings between my arms and little things like that, you know, with my legs. I can, you know, like you mentioned, you know, staying more of threEQuarters, you know, that will actually cause you to lose some width on your thighs and your legs, you know, overall just a quad to, you know, the X-frame. So, you know, just things and, you know, always you stand out to the side with one of my legs and then for that show, you know, I wanted to try something to look a little more classic. So I kept my foot in front and kind of created more of a classic look versus like, you know, creating more of a mass look. So that's probably why he beat me in a way because he's more mature and he was able to start more because he had, you know, a little bit more separation in some areas. I think what happened was what you were doing is you were now wearing yourself by putting that foot in front of you rather than after the side. So you weren't looking what I'm showing you true width, which I think you have a tremendous width on stage. Yeah. Yeah. And I actually got some feedback from out, you know, the head judge, Tyler Manion, you know, he basically was just like, you know, a little bit morEQuag width and back density and that's kind of, you know, overall, you know, obviously you want to improve everything, but that was one of the key points and then the posing, you know, obviously comes, you know, with, you know, experience and practicing. But those are things that really need to work on and especially like for my class, you know, that density is going to be, you know, E. Look, conditioning when shows and you got, you're finishing and spades and, you know, Danny Union is a season, you know, plastic guy. He's a top, you know, six Olympians. So, IMean, that has to be pretty encouraging for you that you kind of pushed him to limit there because Danny is a really good at this show. So I have to think that you're going to be in that top seven conversation all day long, you know, come Olympia time. I feel like I have a rare, really good chance of, uh, turning some heads there and definitely improving in these next, you know, 17, 16 weeks and really stay tuned in to my body and really feed it and tren, you know, the way it needs to be trened and just, you know, add that muscle to that area without going to, you know, my wake cap, which is 1952. What do you mean? I feel like I show. For Miami, actually came in a little bit fuller versus the last two shows, the last two shows New York and Milwaukee, I came in at 188. I could have got down a little bit lower, but like I started filling out Thursday night, just slowly, slowly, always clen, carb, never. I never go out, eat a cheap meal like burger and fries, like, you know, that stuff always weigh all my stuff out and really just taper it in through day and taper it into the night, you know, and then, you know, I don't do no crazy stuff, man. That's where people go wrong. It might work for some people, but I like to keep it consistent, you know, because if I have to adjust some things or, you know, I don't want to spill over and you have to think that classic is not really, it's about size, but you have to be dry, you have to be lean, aesthetic, look, you can't have your stomach, not just in food when you're on stage because it's going to blow out, you know. So I always try to get fast, fast, adjusting food that's going to work for me versus something my body's not used to and have an eight and several weeks, you know. Yeah, I think you have, but you've got to use what works for yourself. IMean, obviously you guys don't just all of a sudden, you know, do things that they've never done. You test it out, you know, weekends and advance, you know, you do tap runs and you obviously know what works for your body, what doesn't work. I think that's why people always ask, you know, you know, what to do and I'm always like, well, you know, what did you do if it didn't work, then try something else. If it didn't work, then stick to what works, you know, you don't try to reinvent the wheel if you don't need to, you know. Exactly. And that's where people go wrong. They try to do all these little trips and, you know, little like, additives and like, all of me, you know, two things, a peanut butter and rice cakes, sugar, honey, like, you know, like, if you come in, just keep it consistent up until like, you know, last couple of days, really monitor everything, you know, even the salt, you know, even getting down to that, you know, sauces like you have to monitor everything and don't really overthink it because let me start overthink and stuff. You start stressing and it's really good. Yeah. Do you have your work with someone? So basically, you know, pretty much, I've always been self coached. I did have a coach that coach me for the NPC Nationals, which coach me for the last two shows, which was New York and Milwaukee. Okay. I reached out to him because, you know, I kind of needed a little bit more mentorship and a little bit more monitoring, you know, and he helped me, he helped me get my pro-card, you know, he's last two shows and then, you know, moving forward, he was like, hey, I want you to take a break. And I was like, soon they'll walk off me and walk you, show the stage, I emailed I FPV and I was like, hey, I want to register for Miami because the next day I was actually going to move there. And I was like, no, why not? Like, why not try to like keep, you know, so week away. And he's like, I want you to take a break. I'm not going to cut you for the show. You're on your own. So he's like, okay. So you know, I was like, all right, all right. All right, all of a sudden, you live right there. Why not do it, right? It's not like you. IMean, like, it was in now trying to make my name here, you know, I want to try to be able to, you know, get myself out there and it's a very great opportunity. Just like you said, you were kind of surprised or wasn't to need people that competed. Yeah. So, you know, in this crazy, like, the guy that beat me that played second and the walkie was there too, as well. Oh, wow. Oh, okay. Yeah. So I ended up he got second and, you know, came in. I got, got first. So it's all about, you know, the time and play. So I was there. I showed up and I came in fuller. Yeah. And that's what they wanted. So that's what IMean. I think it's important. Yeah, I think it's important to compete more often, especially in early in your career, because stage experience is something that you, you know, you can't buy that, you know, you have to just experience it. And I think that, you know, like you said, just the way you present your physique, let these different judges look at you, give you feedback so that you can perfect your look so that when you get to an Olympia stage or an Arnold classic stage, for instance, you can do well, you know, and you can dominate there, right? Because it's a learning experience. You do one show. You really sometimes don't even learn that. But I know guys that have won, done one show. They won their class. They won the show. And then they think that they're perfect. And they show up at the Olympia and they get, they get slammed because they just really don't have enough experience. It was just kind of like a lucky show they want to, you know? Yep. And it's crazy. You know, and you know, one thing that I've always never really done was, you know, never really actually went up to the judges for their feedback. Right. I'm just, you know, looked at myself and be like, all right, this is what I need to improve on. Sure. But the lasT3 shows, they, you know, it's kind of crazy how we kind of linked up on, you know, met Tyler, you know, post show. I went to the bathroom, you know, he was in there. And we kind of talked about what we needed to improve on. And then Milwaukee, I was actually going back in there to the venue because IMissed play something. And as I was coming through, the head judge was like, hey, I got something for you because he had, you know, obviously the checks for the, you know, the winnings. And he's like, hey, you know, here's some feedback. And he said, you know, he'd get a little bit more arms, a little bit more legs. And then the judges from the, uh, listening tray, he, uh, he told me for the Miami show. He said, uh, don't hide your legs. Hit more front shots. Right. Um, everything else, you know, pretty much looks good. Yeah. Um, you know, that's pretty much what I got. And so all these little things, I'm going to, you know, improve on. So moving forward, I know what I need to do. And like I'm going to revert back to what you said. I actually do have a coach now. Pretty well known in the industry, uh, Adrian, his team name is cuts. Um, so he's definitely going to stay on point with me. He's got a lot of Olympic athletes on his team. And, you know, I take the series just like he does. He lives this in that's his lifestyle. And, uh, you know, we really, really got a good playing going so far. Um, you know, obviously coming off a show, you're going to rebound. So we're going to, you know, keep that under control. Um, and then moving forward, we're just going to slowly increase the food. And, uh, you know, stay healthy in the process. Man, it's all about longevity. And this is part of two. You got to, you really, really got to be healthy. Um, you know, so this is how we're approaching things and, uh, it's going to take it, you know, every, every week, you know. And even like every three days, like I'm checking in with him. So I'm just making a cheer. I'm going to point. Right. Um, really the key thing is that diet and the trening, you know, like a lot of people get it wrong. They get it twisted like, it doesn't matter what you take. Man, like if you don't have those two things, you ain't doing nothing. And, you know, and that's where people go wrong. Like they just think about, you know, all these little, you know, shortcuts. There's no shortcut for hard work. So you got to put it in, man. Hey, men to that man. Yeah, you got to look. We know food builds muscle trening. The gym builds muscle, uh, the supplements, the, the gear. And that kind of is just like a little bit of an enhancement. But if you don't have your trening and your eating down and you're not resting enough at night, getting your recuperation, you know, you know, you got it. Nothing, your body's never going to change. And I see people all the time. Well, I know guys from the gym, they have not changed for 30 years. I've seen them in the gym. They've never changed. They all take year and they all think, suburbally, bodybuilding lifestyle, but they never look any different. Because, you know, they're not doing things the right way. They don't have the eating down. They miss the hills. You know, they, they don't, the trening is pretty good. But they don't really push too hard in the gym. Because, you know, they're kind of, they're too busy socializing. And that's, that's most people who work out right there. You just, you know, there are a few people who will push it, you know, to the limit. And, you know, that's what it takes to be the best. And, you know what? You are the best in Miami. And, you're going to be going to the Olympia this year. That's a huge, huge pat on your back. And I want to wish you the best to lock up there. It's crazy, man. You know, when I first started competing, I never saw myself up there. I wouldn't be honest with you, man. I always did it because I competed because it was a competition with them. Myself versus like, oh, I have a dream to go to the Olympia. No, I basically did it because I loved it. I love this lifestyle. I love the passion that, you know, it drives me every day. And one of thEQuotes that actually learned recently was, you know, results driven, passion fueled. So, you know, that's how I live in a way as well. And also kind of my motto is like, stay humble, but hungry. So, you want to always, you know, basically, you know, where you come from and the people to support you and, you know, where do you're at today? You know, you want to give things. You don't want to be in grateful and, you know, you obviously, you know, everything can be taken away. So, you got to make sure that, you know, you can't your blessings and, you know, you live day by day. And also the hunt, man, that you guys stay hungry. You know, what do we do when we go out? You know, animal goes out to go get food. He's on the hunt. So, you got to be careful, you know. You basically just, you just got to apply those things every day and know that, you know, you just do what you love and things will come and things will come in. I can go on a really big story on, you know, this, how me and my fiance met, you know, it was actually through my old coach. And this is what job IMean today too. A lot, a lot of, a lot of, a lot of passion is job me closer to her. We met through my old coach on that hand back in 2017 at a local show. He does like the tanning booths on ends for the lead performance tanning things. Yeah, he's a pro tan. And once we're short, he was coachinGHer at the time. And I saw a picture her on his page, Instagram and I was like, wow, you know, she looks beautiful. I clicked on her on her story. And she was kind of like talking about, you know, her experiences and stuff like that. And one of her things that she said that really stuck to me was like, you know, you try to adopt somebody's personality to fit your home and I just like, wow, you know, that's what I'm going to do right now. You know, with my past relationship, you know, like I said, you know, when I turned pro, I just kind of like pushed all my body building everything away. And I should have looked at it at a different level, like a professional level and I didn't and COVID and all that stuff happened. But I was always put down and, you know, long story short, I threw a little emoji 100 signed to her and we just kind of like started talking and vibe and I was backing up September. And you know, here we are today, man, we're like closer than ever. We've been through a lot and we're going to keep them through a lot. We're actually creating our own platform and trying to help people. So it's really going to be really big and her name is a friend Jessica. She's Italian. She's actually going to do her first well. This competition here in Florida at the Melchancy Show. And I'm actually, you know, coachinGHer for that. So, you know, I'm going to give her a shout out her. Her Instagram is there. That's what you're talking about. That's what you're talking about. It's amazinGHow the, the, I always call the meaningful coincidences how you meet people and how things happen. If you had to work with that coach, you wouldn't have been met the girl. Things don't happen for, you know, for bike. Do. By chance. Everything is got. Great. Something. Helogen design behind it. And, you know, you got to just kind of follow you knows. And it'll take you in the right place. And I'm glad you guys met and I'm glad you guys are doing well together. And that's, that's awesome. Great story. Yeah, man, it's crazy, man. And like I said, it's a long story. But IMay give you the brief, man. And it's, it's, it's, it's a blessing. It's a very, you know, once you find somebody that you truly know that they're there for you. And, you know, that they're going to be there for no matter what, you know, you can't let them go. And you can't be, you can't be ungrateful for it. You know, you, you, you really got to take the time to appreciate, you know, what somebody is giving you. And I can tell you right now, I would not be in this position today without her. Because she, like I said, she's pushed me. And the people that supported me, you know, I have a very good sponsor. He's actually definitely, you know, put me in the position where I need to be. He's, he's paid for my show of tans. My show fees, air fair food. Everything that's, you know, brought me to this level. He's even, uh, came to the, you know, you know, like putting a roof over my head to where I can compete, you know, be able to live this lifestyle without him. I will be here today either. So, um, big shout out. His name is actually, uh, Barack DeWare on Instagram. Um, so, uh, he's, he's definitely blessed to me. So I'm not gonna, you know, give him any, you know, you know, uh, I can't say nothing, you know, he's got a lot of, whatever, but never with me. So big shout out to him. Uh, you know what, the people that support us, you, you got to show gratitude towards because everyone, you know, has different people who are behind them that make them the person they are. You're girlfriend, obviously, you, you, you, you, you're sponsored. You have a support team. That's important. And, uh, like I said, you did what you had to do. You're gonna be at the Olympia. And hopefully we're gonna see you in that top five call out. And, uh, you know, we're gonna hear a lot more from Zika Andrews in the future. And I appreciate you joining us here in your story with us. Yes, sir. Definitely an honor man. And, uh, like I said, we, uh, you know, we moved forward and just seen me progress through the, um, through the week. So I'm definitely, you know, also have the honor of trening with, uh, OG Rich Good Sparta too. So, hey, you know, I'm saying like you guys, I'm sure you guys know each other. So, you know, it's a small world. So I'm definitely gonna, I'm gonna keep living it. And, uh, looking forward to coming back here again. And doing this, maybe I looked a little bit different next time a little bit more Jack. But, uh, Zika Andrews are, uh, MiamIMuscle Beach Classic Pro Champ and, uh, with that great try and, uh, a little jealous of, but maybe one of these days I'll get one. We can go, we can go, uh, we can link up. Let's go, let's go have a little, uh, Just, I'll go man, party. I'm just gonna get you some spear fishing my backyard. So yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, good, congratulations and we'll see you at the Olympia. Thank you, man. Appreciate it. Uh, that's gonna take us the end of another episode. I'm Dave Palumbo with Zika Andrews. We'll see you next time. Good interview, Zika. Thanks, man.

=== FILE: CLASSIC PHYSIQUE OLYMPIA WILDCARD？ Live w⧸Henri-Pierre Ano! [ftwBuSUARLc].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Rothier by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is the champion and classic physique of the IFB Tampa Pro Show. The man I'm talking about is Henry Pierre and no welcome. I'm sorry. That's it. You just won the first Pro Show. You go into the Olympia. You've got to be thrilled. I want to hear some more enthusiasm. I got it. I'm in the show guys. You better come check out one of the best physique you've ever seen on stage. I deal with you. Is that better? That's better. Much better. 2015 you won the Canadian Nationals in Bodybuilding. Turn pro. A lot of people were talking about you as the next coming. You always had that classic look to your physique. Did you ever think you would drop down to classic physique division and compete in that or because you were a bodybuilder your whole life? Well, actually it's pretty, it's full of dimension that cause obviously yeah I was a bodybuilder always been a bodybuilder. Never thought about being something else. Dad had bodybuilder. But back in 2011 I participated in the Mr. Universe. The world called the fire. I'm at the rear of the IFPDA League and there was back then even a classic physique division. And my height was 61 plus and I had to be 225 on stage. Which is clear. Yeah, which is clear. Something unattainable for me something that would never go down to. So I never thought about going back to classic. Right. So you compete in it as a pro a couple years. You never really won anything big. All of a sudden they decide they're going to raise the IFPB pro classic physique weight limits within each height by 10 pounds. And all of a sudden now you go from impossible to make weight. Now all of a sudden there's a real reality there. But yeah, I don't know if you saw yourself as a classic. And what made you make that final decision to say, you know what? Let's do this. I know you work with Chris and Cito was Chris involved in this decision or did you make this yourself? No, I think it was on my part. First the main reasons you could I took a long time off this year and the offseason took seven month off. And I was about to get back into the group and I wanted to do a show this year. I didn't want to take a year off. Right. So I was looking at this schedule of the season. I was looking at the show that we left. And I had no time really to do my regular offseason prep and on that at the same time, which was a good timing. And all this that day, like you said, raised up the class by 10 pounds, which should bring up my class to 204 pounds last year, same time on stage in for the 10 pro. I was to 49 on stage. So 9 pounds away. So yeah, at that point I thought to a couple of Chris, we talked about it. Things like it should be really attainable for you. And I think the physique that I present, the aesthetic that I have matches also the category, because you have a lot of bodybuilders doing the switch. And in my mind, IMean, if you're on a class seat, your physique has to turn the sword match, you know, the category. Just being a bodybuilder doesn't mean you want to go class because you fit the weight, has to fit the load the posing and the aesthetic of the classic physique. I'm going to make a controversial statement right now. I feel, and you'll probably, I have a feeling you're going to agree with me. You were, you were, you almost took a whole year off. IMean, you, you, you, you literally prepared for the Vancouver Pro show in nine weeks. I know Chris, tell me and I know you can firm that with me. You came in fourth. I, believe it. And I, Chris, and I thought you should have won that show. I think you were greatly overlooked at that event. Was that an upsetting, you know, placing for you? Honestly, that that, it was a toughest prep in my life. We rushed that prep really two hours of cardio a day. It was good for social media. Yeah. But IMean, I was, I was sucking it up all kinds. So I think I showed up maybe at age percent, which is maybe to the max of the shape that I usually the package that I'd bring. So I think it was a bit off. I think I could play a good place better in my opinion. But IMean, you know, I was just a bit, it was, it was really rushy all that prep going there for my season. And then we took boom on stage. I was really quick. Because it's something that we're taking note and that's not going to happen again in my book. No. I'm glad you said it because the, here comes the controversial part and say, but I don't even think you're your best that I've seen. I think you could be way better than what we've seen already. And I think if the Olympia, you're going to finally hit that peak form that we've seen from you in the past. Yeah, sure. IMean, I think it looked pretty good in Tampa. Chris was putting satisfaction. We almost nailed it closer to 100. But like you said, IMean, that's phase that if I come to you digging, if I keep going, I'm going to improve and get better. And this is what will, will schedule in here. And some more definition, it's called more artists because it's, it was a toughest part for me here as to come down from a way that music and beat at which is like usually 50 to 55 on stage. Looking full as, you know, as it's how lookinGHard rock. And then coming down 10 pounds, even 12 pounds less in this thing condition, the same look, this is what's hard for me right now to just target since it's my first year. But I think we did a very good job in Tampa Pro and they guess we'll be better. Yeah. What do you have to weigh on stage for the Olympia? Sorry. What is your weight? What's the maximum weight you can weigh on stage? 240. I cannot pass before you. I'm the weigh-in and then thank you very, very, very, to 38 at the weigh-in at tempo. All dressed up. And I'm in Long's leave and I'll full of jolly pants. I step on this, get on it. I was 28.6. So there's still a bit of room. Thank you. Right, right, right. Well, I think you got a good shot in anyone. It's amazing because I'm seeing so many great Canadian classic physique guys. It's like you guys have them all up there between Reagan and Chris Bumstead and yourself. And, you know, there's a whole host of them. Where are all these physique's coming from? We've never seen this in the history of Canadian bodybuilding. All of a sudden, everyone's coming out of the woodwork up there. You guys got something in the water or something? Yeah, IMean, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a year that's filled up with Canadian young. Yeah, we forgot to mention there was staying in Watson also coming in. There'll be a Mac, Moot, Mac, Moot, Mac, Moot, Mac, Moot, Moot. Montreal, here, that's also quite right cominGHere. In, yeah, Bumstead's sister go qualify the same time. She wanted to enjoy the category as well. That's right. So yeah, and this is this is physique. IMean, I, I'm kind of all this guy. And the league where it comes to, you know, those type of generation. And IMean, Chris was competing in national and it looks like it was just being failure away in the line of bodybuilders. Because it's just, you know, and I feel, I feel the way he was feeling before. Because we always hear the same comment. You're tall, you're lacking mass, you're not big enough, you're not hard enough. But you show up, but everybody's going to tell you, you have the nicest shape. Everybody won your shape, but you're missing mass and you're lacking our rug definition and all that. So you kind of, you know, staying at that stage. And for him, I think classic just open an enormous quantity of opportunity for him, just to explore in the years at the top of his game right now. All right. I'm going to ask your point, like, can you win the Olympian this year? If I can win the Olympian, I believe I can totally win the Olympian classical music that, yeah, this year, I'm going to say yes. Because, you know, confidence myself, I trust the people that I work with. But IMean, you know, it would be really for me a great, a great accomplishment and great surprise as well. If I win the Olympian for me, I'm not expecting the voter and winning. I'm expecting the voter and placing top five that's the goal right now. But that's as many objectives if I win the show will be just, uh, actually there. What now you're telling me why you can win show. Why are you going to beat, you know, the guys like Bumsted and Brianna and what's better about your physique? Tell me. Everybody compares me a lot to Bumsted, but I think in my book, I don't see Bumsted as much just as Brianna because Brianna and a lot of people on the estimates, uh, the rules and the pointers what we look at that when we look at classic physique. Bumsted is a very, uh, call structure, uh, telling, you also hold a lot of elegance, but he's a tall guy does good vacuum. It mimics me a lot of like, you know, Arnold Schwarzenegger person on stage, you know, uh, type of thing. But Brianna, my book is a bit more dangerous. Brianna has more dense muscle definition legs we deeper as huge legs. That has a huge leg. If you're the student person in the definition, you know, uh, he's also a very natural type of guy on stage. You feel as low, you feel that you stare at the guy's got a kind of fun on stage. You know how to pose and I, I, I, I, I, I given a lot of props for that. And this is what I like. You can buy it over. So you might vote for me. I would say that I have more a bit more aesthetic look that Brianna, I also think that my body and the way my aesthetic is is preparing out to the way what it floods the striation or deeper than you see on Brianna as well. If I can just raise up a bit my leg game to matches insertion and the condition of legs, I think I can give them a good run from this money. Yeah. Well, you look great this past weekend. You got to be proud of yourself. You, you won the show. You earned the invite to the Olympia stage. What does it mean to you have to all these years of trening, you know, and trying to, you know, be the best body, believe you can be. And now you're finally going to stand on that Olympia stage. Yeah. Well, IMean, now for me, it's just to bring all my egging to the middle of level. I'm going to try to do the best routine that I have it did. I'm going to try to show up there in the best condition. I'm going to push myself up to the max. So I'm going to get all the tools that I have. I could say around me and all the support also because winning a show, first I'm going to approach all the other opportunities, a lot of people approaching them. You need to catch up and you need to capitalize on these. And IMean, you need to be disciplined. This is something that I was lacking before. I've always been very easy for me competing, you know, routine. I never practice in my life. I always show up freestyle on stage. Some people be so impressed by that. But this is, I think, how if you're buddy, whether you say what I need when you like the full, we like to be on stage in your comfortable, just being on stage, puts a music pose. It's a part of us, you know. So I'll have fun. And I'm trying to put up the best show that I can, but I'll put some more hard into it more than ever yet. I'm glad you mentioned it because that was my next question. You appear to me to have such a genetic gifts. But sometimes, you know, you take them for granted. Do you think earlier in your career, maybe you didn't give 100% because you didn't really need to, you were beaten guys just on your genetic potential. And now that you see you're so close to that Olympia title, you're hungry or now, maybe you're workinGHarder. Yeah, let me just let me tell you first what was buddy, I think, for me before when I started, buddy, the thing for me beforecompetition was describing to the gym three months trial, three months diet, doing the show goodbye, sooner or later. That's what I was doing for the five years here, buddy, building that I was, I was trening, dieting, three months prior, any show and start trening at that moment. So for me, it was always very easy to tell, I had the national level. Then I started a little offseason and then when I came pro, I've seen what, you know, the word professional means, means being, being disciplined, means workinGHard all year around, IMean that's your job and you have to represent it. So yes, now that I'm, I'm at the four year of the third year pro, now I'm going to Olympia, I have no choice to respect that and I have no choice to respect the game. And this is why either I qualify or not, if I play the way to up five offseason, no offseason, I'm going to take the all year and focus on the all year each day, each hour, each minute of each day to capitalize, to make sure I do whatever it needs to be done, to be the best on stage in the world. Yeah. Well, congratulations on the huge win and the Olympia qualification. It will be an interesting battle out there, adding another great name to the list. Anyone you want to thank out there? Of course, IMean, the most definitely Chris was a seat of spin, fantastic for me, especially the tempo. I was coming to see my room, every three hours, Chris, thank you all. I would be here with you. I also have my sponsors, Nitu Balex, fit menu that have been supporting me since day one. My journey here in La Valle Montréal, I planted Jim La Valle Montréal. Thank you all my supporters, people and Instagram, having a ton of love. Even more sense of back-sweet can. I'm just grateful for that in really humble towards everybody that's supporting me. Well, once again, congratulations. Well, for victory, you look great. I'm excited. I'll be out there in Vegas to get to see you up on that classic physique stage and we'll see how you battle out with the top guys in the class. I guess you got a couple weeks to kind of just chill. Are you going to take some time off before you start the Olympia prep? Are you going right into it? Well, IMean, it's a great coincidence. I'm here for a place. I'm in Fort Myers right now. So when we still go, oh, you are, Sunny. Yeah. Why did you come to my studio, lazy bastard? Oh, IMean, I know you got your boat. How did you do it in Fort Myers? You're in Fort Myers? I'm wearing Cape Coral right next to you two minutes away. Oh, gosh. Yeah, well, we didn't even fall. Certainly, if I was by after a certain, for sure. Yeah. What are you doing there? I'm in Fort Myers here for two, three days. IMean, I have a place here in Phiddlesticks, Country Club here. And so my goal is come after 10 plus, spent two, three days a year to go to Spawn and then Jordan though. I know. I know. Next year, you'll have to come down here. Or if you're in this area, we'll have to get you into the studio here. So we can get in life's in studio interview with Henry P.R. Who knew you were right down the block from us, right? In turn at world, that. There you go. Well, enjoy your little vacation and good luck on the Olympia Prep and we'll be rooting for you. Thank you, Dave. Thank you. All right, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live With brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: CODY MONTGOMERY & CHARLES GRIFFEN IN THE LAB! [D_Ww7l-z5CQ].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love this show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning, I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Tuesday, August 25th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. The last week or so you haven't been able to watch, read or listen to anything news related without hearing about the ongoing saga with the US postal system. But since the news, and my mailman are both totally unreliable, I've been shifting my focus towards Cody Montgomery, because at least I know he can deliver. A few days ago, a video surface of Cody crushing a huge squat session where he knocked out a clen eight reps with 545 on the bar. For the most part, this has been the norm for Cody in the gym lately, and it seems like he's been in a really solid group for a while now. And as we've seen in the past, when he's locked and loaded, he has the potential to be as good as anyone in bodybuilding. For most people, taking a close second in one of the biggest pre-contests of the season could be considered a career highlight. But for someone who's wired like the vine Wilson, all second place means is that it's time to work twice as hard to make the next one a win. Despite putting together what might have been his best look of his career in Tampa a few weeks ago, the vinesman back in the lab, cooking up new ways to take his performance at the next level. According to reports, he's already put on a few pounds of quality weight. This is in the process of refininGHis posing, so he really highlights what he brings to the stage. I think people might have forgotten how good this guy was because he took off all the last year. But if he makes a few small adjustments, I could see him as a potential top-tenalmpia finisher this year depending on how things shake out. For some athletes, there's something that clicks between year one and year two, and then boom, before you know it, they're off to the races. And if you were looking for a dark course candidate to make that leap in men's physique this year, Thomas Cunz might be your number one choice, a source from inside team Cunz says that he's a little more than eight weeks out from his first contest of the season, and they believe that he's already light years ahead of worry was at this point last year. In the two times we saw him last season, he was good enough to crack the top-tenan pitsburg and Romania, which both had pretty solid line up across the board. So if the 2020 version really is light years ahead of worry was last year, the top five finish could easily be in the cards. Cody Robbins says one of the keys to formulating your outcomes is to be a specific as possible when you state your intentions. And at this point, I don't know if Charles Griffin has publicly stated what his intentions are, but I do know that his actions are pretty damn specific. Yesterday, he released a new trening clip that showed him smashing a pair of 160 pound dumbbells for reps on the ink line and he made it look way too easy. Last year was a bit of a breakout season for Charles in the sense that he made it to his first Olympia and really established himself as one of the premier athletes in the open division. So as long as he keeps channeling that same energy, I believe that the second time around he can come back even better. And back does it at the end of another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Daypal Unbow Reminding You to Always Be True to Your Passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: COMPANY FROM ＂LAZY＂ RANT RESPONDS! PALUMBO GOES OFF! [KcvTZvY7ACI].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle, RAND. Alright guys, now I'm really infuriating because I did a rant the other day, probably so it, does anyone want to work anymore. And I pretty much outed my IT company that was installed my server and all my fiber lines here called ProTech. And I basically said, look guys, don't use them. They are very unprofessional. They don't get back to people. They're not, they don't back up their service day to day-to-day due. And they just didn't treat us well. And that was my opinion. And I really didn't do it in a very nasty way or anything. I just didn't in a very mad or faculty way. I tried to contact these guys. They tried to claim that we weren't clients and, of course, we were. So the owner of my who I kind of outed, I didn't want to even say his name. But he actually responded in the thread and I'll put the hook up his response. And he actually emailed me. I guess he wanted to make sure that I saw it. In the case, I didn't notice it in the comments he put up. Obviously, watches are, because I'm glad he does, because you know what? It sucks when you screw over someone who has a really big social media following, because then you get out. And he sent this letter to me to see him out to me. To my wife and I. And he wrote, according to the customer notes, your fiber was installed before 2015. Now ironically, he said that, he hasn't even noticed timeline. Because I didn't move to Florida until November 1st of 2016. I didn't get my fiber installed to February of 2017. So he's over two years off of when he actually installed my my fiber line here in my house. He also neglected the mention that we spent $6200 on the fiber line installation and the server set up and everything like that. And you know what? I had no problem paying it because I wanted a high quality job done and they did do a good job. My problem with them wasn't the work that they did. It was the fact that they didn't want to follow up and service the job that they did. They made it seem like we were some kind of like people walking it off the street. We hadn't spent the penny with them. And how dare we be upset with the fact that they didn't want to service our line after we spent $6200 with them. Not to mention, we spent more money with them on top of that because we've had computer service by them as well. He went on to say, little, little, little. We don't have a service agreement with you or your team, but we have attempted to work with you on several times over the years. I don't know what that means attempted to work with us either. You do it. You know, they didn't because they're too impossible to get them to do anything. You've had our team attempt on a lot multiple machines because your office staff quit. We just couldn't handle your quests, especially since you don't have an SLA agreement. What that means I don't know. All we do is want to hire them to come and do some work for us. Your team was finally denied service because this is this is the best one because day one on a rampage, I want to know rampage at the Cape and our Cape Coral location. This is really funny. The only reason I'm really doing this is because this is I find this hysterical. Our employee Dan W was in fact so frightened by Dave pounding on the stores front and back doors over and over. The Dan couldn't even finish his lunch because he was shaking scared by the event. All right, here's this time for it. So I brought him to keep him computer I dropped off and they said they were going to clen it up for us. We had some viruses on and there's something like that. And so they said, are you come by at noon or something like that and pick up your computer or we'll be ready by then. I said, I think I got there at 1230. So I get there. Now it's a 25 minute ride for my house to get over to this store. The store is locked. I've never seen a business that has business hours from whatever nine to five and they locked their door. Something what's going on. I'm like, I'm a half hour late. There's no one in the store. But they got their office hours. There's got to be so an in here and there obviously was. All right, so I'm not going on the front door. I'm calling my wife and like, I'm in a call the store. I'm like, no one's answering the door. I think they here. I got to see a car out front. She's like, go around the back and go around the back. I'm like, not going to. I'm just going to get a computer pick up my computer. Now, if there was actually someone at the store and he was actually in there eating lunch whenever the case, you're thinking could open up the door and say, hey, you know what? Give me a 20 minutes. I'll eat my lunch and I'll get you to computer. The thing was done obviously because I went back to I think two days later and got or something like that. The thing was done. They were in the store and they didn't open the door. Yeah, I think they claim I went on a rampage. Like, what was they doing? Like, we ate the door with like a hammer. The guy couldn't finish his lunch. I scared him so much. I would, that's the rampage. I would. I would. I would. The funny reason I'm laughing is I was talking to my wife and the phone. So how much of a rampage could I have gone on? She was listening to me. We were like, how we could get these people to open the door? IMean, I don't know if they're in there or not. I said, I, they got to be in there. They said to come by. I'm only like a couple minutes late. Who? She's like, I don't know what they do in there. I said, I don't know. Maybe the guy's in the bathroom or something like that. So I'm like, yo, it chews me. She was. So I traumatized this guy. I thought, I didn't, and put it this way. Maybe if I would have been 320 pounds, I could have seen getting a little scared. I'm hardly intimidated with it now. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Oh my god. So, so sorry, but you're YouTube rant. Only reaffirmed our discovery years ago. I guess that I'm a fucking lunatic, right? If anyone knows, I'm the least violent person you'll ever meet. I don't think I've ever had aromasingle fight in my whole life. All right, we understand you're upset, but your rant is unfounded and unjustified. By the way, we just bought out, and then they they go on to say something about there. They're wonderful. They bought out some business in the yard, which I really could care less about. So obviously, now they want to try to cover for the fact number one that they will not serve us our, that they're not servicing their own work that they did. They believed to be in before 2015, which actually was done in 2017, and they wanted to try to make it seem like the reason they don't want to get back to us is because I traumatized their work so much going to make your computer that they just they don't want to either, they're petrified of me because God is a bit, I'm a nutcase. And obviously, anyone watched the rant, I was hardly anything other than sarcastic than the rant. I hardly showed any signs of violence. I would tend to believe. So these are the people. Now you know why I don't make this stuff up. These people are crazy out there. There's a bunch of freaking lunatics out there who have businesses and they don't add a service people. It just confirms what I said for service. Who the heck shot their business in the middle of the day? Okay, if they tell somebody to come pick a computer up, they see the person outside coming to pick up the computer. They know that I have three kids at home. I don't have a lot of time. I ran out, drove 25 minutes each way to pick up a computer that they said was done. And rather than open the door and say, oh, guy, Dave, he has the computer. They kept the door locked and he was huddled in the room shaking in fear of me knocking on the door and it going around the back and talking on the door to see if anyone was there. This is what I'm talking about. The people that end on that saying it's all people because I got some really good people. I got a sprinkled guy that saw us and I got a plumber guy that saw us and we got a little nutrition guy that saw us. But I got some nut cases out there who, I don't know what kind of business they're running or, how they think that they're what they're doing is good customer service. And this confirms it. This guy posted in the comment section of the video. This lunacy. Ha ha ha ha. All right, if, you know, I don't know if you guys are finding this humor, so you might just think it's ridiculous and you might actually be annoyed by it if you are, I don't even listen to it. It doesn't matter. I need to rent and I need to release my depression because I don't want to go scaring people into being so petrified that they can't even eat their lunch or their dinner or their breakfast or maybe they have to go see a psychiatrist after I stopped by their shot because I'm so insane. Day to number within insane are ax muscle red.

=== FILE: CORTISOL LEVELS! #askDave [yb95hs_SBZI].txt ===

In the morning is when cortisol levels are highest. That's just our natural circadian rhythms dictate that. That's why I was always a big believer of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in your injections in the morning. To try to counteract some of that catabolic effect of cortisol. Now, cortisol is important because when your blood sugar drops, there are two hormones that can raise blood sugar. Glucogone, which is produced by your pancreas, kind of does the opposite of insulin. It takes whatever glucose or glycogen storage in the muscles of the liver and it liberates it. It turns it into glucose, puts it into the blood sugar. A cortisol, which is produced by the adrenal glands, can raise blood sugar, but it does it by a different mechanism. It takes amino acids and usually in the liver a little bit in the kidneys and it converts it into glucose. That's known as gluconeogenesis. So it's actually making new glucose that was never around. Whereas glucogone takes existing stored glucose and liberates it so that they work by different mechanisms. So you don't want to have a zero cortisol because it's a safety net in your body. In other words, your liver is always monitoring and your pancreas for that matter. How much blood glucose is there when you're sleeping at night a lot of times, you know, your blood glucose can drop. That's when cortisol raises blood sugar while you're sleeping. That's why people who don't have good blood sugar control notice when they wake up in the morning that fasting blood sugars can be high. Because their bodies can't manage. Because think about it when you produce glucose into the bloodstream, the pancreas has to release insulin. So you can absorb that glucose. If your insulin production is not optimal for whatever reason you're taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, your pancreas stress that, maybe it's a little burnt out, you might be watering on diabetes. You're not going to be able to have good blood sugar control. So to get back to thEQuestion, cortisol is important, but we don't want excessive amounts of it in the body. If you enjoyed this little clip, click the link below to watch the entire show.

=== FILE: CRASHING ESTROGEN？ #askDave [FYuOUaJN5YQ].txt ===

All right, television on rxmuscle.com. This is as Dave better note as hashtag as Dave brought to you by species nutrition visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host of the Farouki Viz. Is your 30 minutEQuestion an answer show with Dave Plumbo all your questions on diet, trening, supplementation, IFBV, pros, news, competitions, whatever's on your mind. It's all on the tables. You now throw today, pull on Bo Dave yesterday, you did a video. I don't know if to call it shocking news, but it was news. Maybe news that some had expected for quite some time that flex Lewis announcing that this Olympia will be his final 212 show. Rumors about of what his plans are going to be in 2020 going forward, but if you want to expand a little upon that for those who haven't seen the video yet. So last week I got a text message from one of the guys who emails me a lot and he's like says this is flexed Lewis's last Olympia. I said, where do you have this? I don't think he heard it from Ian Valier. I don't even know how it was. It was a weird like source like that. I don't know. I said, let me text flex. This flex and I will text each other on occasion. So I flexed some action. He had just texted me earlier that day at question. I said flex, is this your last year is doing the 212? And he's like, oh, rumours rumours don't believe everything you hear is like that. And I said, all right, I kind of dismissed it. And then a couple of days later he posted this on Instagram. So obviously he had known about it. I think he's just burnt out at this point. I don't think it has anything to do with the fact that he wants a quick body building. I think he's just like, you know what? If I win this year at 7 times, I won the Olympia. I can't gain any more weight. I love body building lifting. I'm still a young man. I want to put more size on, but I can't because I can't make the weight. You know, every year I come in and people criticize me because I'm too flat or I don't look the best I look and then two weeks later everyone says, oh, why don't you look like you look like this? No, no, the guys got to make a weight class. So I think what he he figures is he's got nothing left to prove in the 212 anymore. And I think he's going to, he's talking about taking 2 years like night to be until 2020. But I think we'll see him in 19. I think he can easily do an open show and possibly win it. Probably if he didn't want at the end of this year, probably could do it. But certainly by next year he could definitely do it. And I think we're going to see that. I'm glad he know it's exciting. He's the guy kind of guy that's not afraid to lay it on the line. He doesn't like to take the conservative route. He has nothing left to prove. If he never competed again, he has enough businesses to make enough money to support himself. So he doesn't really need that for that. If he's going to compete again, it's going to be because he wants to compete again. And onto his terms. And I think that that's a really good way to do it because that's the way that's the smart way to do it. He's lucky. He's the Olympia champ. He has the ability to do that and he's got money coming in from all his businesses. You know, I actually found out something else. I didn't really realize this because he was asking me about a bearded dragons, which are a type of reptile because he's known as the Welsh dragon. And I said, you really should get, I was givinGHim to try to get him. It's a snake breeding. I didn't know this. He used to breed birds. He was like 17 years old. Finches and parrachutes and parrots and homing pigeons. All kinds of racing pigeons. He said he was making more money breeding birds than he was from his contractions. He had later life as a body model, which is kind of ironic. So he's a kind of guy that could do it all. That's the time I think I relate well to him. We have the same kind of unusual obsessions that we get into. And I know he was breeding dogs for while he's still my buddy. So I think the flex is a great, great personality in our business. I think he's a good role model. And I think the fact that he's making a decision that this, you know, out of the clear blue sky is going to be good for the business and good for bodybuilding. So again, that video right now at rwsponsile.com and the RX also YouTube channel. Let's go to thEQuestions. The first two questions from the Dave Plumbo experience after the first question. What do you think are the top threEQuestions? Exercise is rather to build intercostals. Would you put, if you could put it in order, which would be the best first, do you think is something we should tren? Intercostals are not the external beliefs that we think down here. They're right under your pack muscles. If you get really lean, I'm always leaving. You could see like this three little finger like muscles here that kind of sit across your ribs and they kind of connect the packs. It looks like they connect the packs to the abdominal cavity. And they look really cool when you're in shape. Doring the eight type of huge intercostals. If you remember back in the day when he went into that front last spread, they were just a pop right out. He was a big pull over guy. He used to use that old-nortal machine and do pull over for it. He was convinced that built huge, big lats and gave you better width. Whether that's sure, I don't know, but they certainly definitely work the intercostals up there without a doubt. A lot of people confuse serratus with intercostals. Intercostals kind of rib muscles. The serratus kind of the ones that kind of stick out there that's finger like muscles. The muscles that we're talking about are worked by definitely dumbbell pullovers, machine pullovers, anything we use in a stretch-down position. You're going to see that. Even if you do it like crunches with a rope, you're going to work those muscles to some degree. Should they be worked? I think if they're doing indirectly work through some of these exercises that I just mentioned, I think that's fine. They're not really going to add a tremendous amount of size, you buy it. They may add some detail to your physique. There's no reason to be massively trening these things like that. It's its own muscle group. That's a little bit of overkill. Second question again from the Dave Pulombo experience app. Dave, how or what inlipolize for example type? There's a metabolite of olive oil called OEA that has some appetite-suppressing effects, which works pretty effectively. Irving Gia is an herb, also known as African mango, which doesn't curb appetite directly, but what it does is it makes you more sensitive to the hormone leptin. A lot of us have heard the term leptin. Leptin is released after you eat by the brain. It basically tells your body that you're not hungry anymore. It shuts off appetite. Ironically, in people who are very obese, they have the highest leptin levels, which doesn't make sense because you would think, well, if there's a lot of leptin, they shouldn't be hungry. Why are these people eating so much and getting so overweight? The problem is that they're not responding to the leptin. The leptin receptors are not very sensitive. Their body keeps cranking out more and more leptin and their body can't respond to it. What African mango does is it actually sensitizes the leptin receptor to leptin so that you body will shut down your appetite. Those are two ingredients that have an appetite curbing effect. It curbs appetite, but it doesn't make you not want to eat. That's another problem. I think some people, you don't want to not ever want to. I know people who diet, they can't eat, they feel nauseous. It doesn't do that. It shuts down your appetite when you don't eat. If you've eaten something, boom, your brain releases leptin. You respond to it. Appetite is curbed. Let's go to our Instagram questions. First one from Hoodman 521. Dave, why don't guys in girls try to achieve that freaking post show look on stage rather than the flat look? Most people prefer how they look three days after a show in the gym versus on stage. Full hydrated and vascular. It's a that much of a gamble. You know, I would go to the gym like a week after a show and I'd be like 15 pounds heavier. I'd be like 290 and people would be like, yeah, it's right. All the people who don't know anything about competing tell me that. Being blown up in a tank top in the gym and having veins everywhere is not going to win shows. It looks good in the gym. It's freaky. I'm sure to take pictures. It's like, well, this is cool. You put yourself up on stage like that with guys that are shrink wrapped, dry, hard and showing tons of detail. You're going to say that guy is about a week or two out from competition. You might say he looks good, but the people can say he's off. He's a little too full. He's not dry. He's not showinGHis my detail and graininess. That's there's a difference between a gym look and a stage look. Steve Weinberg once said to me, he goes, in a tank top he goes, you could be Mr. Olympia. He goes, you know, that was a compliment to me. But you know, when I took my shirt off, I didn't have the tiniest ways that it had the greatest tape or I just genetic it structurally. It wasn't that good. But in the gym, what a tank top. You don't see that. Jimmy Quinn too. In the gym, what a tank top. You threw away his Mr. Olympia, it was huge. And that's just life. IMean, and so you have to differentiate between the stage and the gym. There's two different looks and you have to, you can't try to duplicate what you look like in the gym with a pump and do that on stage. It doesn't trenslate. Good one here from stolen. At the top two, you might want to take a second before you answer it. They've won. Dave and your honest opinion. He's Kevin Lebroni only proved himself wrong with his comeback. Anyone who comes back at over the age of 50 is not wrong and can never be wrong. Make it only be a winner at that point because he came back. He brought a level of muscularity. A lot of people thought he couldn't get back. He raised his popularity through the roof. His followers were insane on social media. He got a generation who never heard of him to understand who he was. Appreciate his legacy. And get a chance to actually see him compete one more time even if he wasn't at his best. So no, I don't think it was a bad mood. Just like I don't think what Flex Wheeler did was a bad mood. Thank God nothinGHappened with his health and everything like that. He did everything safely. But you gave the fans a chance to see him one more time. Even if it wasn't the way you wanted to see him, at least you'll remember, oh, I've seen Flex Wheeler on stage. A lot of people never got a generation, our generation that's out here and right now that's competing really didn't get that chance to see them. So now they did. So I think those come back to a good for the sport. I don't think necessarily anyone really thought that they were going to, IMean, unsighted for me predicting the love running was going to win the Olympia. I don't think anyone else thought that they were going to do anything. So it added a little bit of excitement for the weekend. Golden physique outside of natural dioretics. How do you combat massive water retention in your ankles? Well, first of all, why are you getting massive water retention in the ankles number one? Now is it because you just got off a show, a contest, and you're rebounding water wise. If that's the case, it's a good idea to say on some dioretics to lose that water, whether they're be a die-side herbal diorics, whatever you want to use. If you're walking around in the offseason with crazy swollen ankles, that could be a problem. You might want to go get yourself checked out. Blood pressure might be too high. You might, your heart may not be pumping efficiently, or you just might be too overweight, which is something that happens as well. And the blood pools down in your legs and it can't get back to your heart. So it's not good. It's once in a while there'd be a little swollen if you get an F and airplane or you're on your feet all day as one thing. When you're walking around with crazy swollen, hitting a team all the time, that's not good. That Tracy life, I'm considering getting a colon hydrotherapy two weeks out, yes or no. Once got a colon, I was about two weeks after my show. I felt good for a day, but the problem was that it comes all back again. You can't do it right before a show because it's too irritating to your stomach lining, and something that I'm assuming it's your colon lining, and that could backfire on you. So my answer to that question is I probably wouldn't do it. If you took a fiber supplement, a high potency fiber supplement, like fiber lies, twice a day, you wouldn't need to do a colon because you're constantly clensing your colon on a regular basis. And the longer you're on a fiber supplement, the less fecal retention you have at all the time. I can't tell you how many people don't empty their colon completely. They think they go to the bathroom on a regular basis. They think they're emptying themselves with their actually retaining a lot of fecal matter, because they just don't have enough fiber in their diet. So once again, try fiber, as I promise you once you try it, you won't ever stop using it, because it's going to be that good for you. Jay Hampo, Dave, I know you're a big advocate of taking time off the gym at least once a year or being on vacation, etc. But how would you deal with the negative psychological or physiological aspects of it, feeling that your body is like crap, you're games, etc. I have to admit, when I was competing, I could never take off two weeks from the gym. I don't, I think maybe once I did it when I had my guy in commas, he removed, but other than that, I just couldn't do it. I just, I like to gym, you know, so IMaybe take three, four days off and then I would go back. And that's the one thing I probably regretted. I think if I would have taken more days off, given my body some rest after shows, I probably probably would have benefited to be more. I don't think it would have changed anything, maybe, but maybe it would have, who knows? So I think what you have to understand is that taking days off is not showing weakness, it's not setting you back if it's planned, okay? If you're just one of these guys every other week, you're missing five days in the gym, that's not good, obviously. But if you know you've trened pretty hard for a month or two in the row, three months in a row, pretty hard, and you think you feel like you need some time off, taking four or five days off in the gym or a week off in the gym is not going to set you back. If anything, you'll, you'll be bigger, you'll grow better, I guarantee it. I wish I had this knowledge when I was competing, because I know it would have benefited me tremendously. I always rationalize, well, I only trened one body part a day, and I take two days off a week, so I should be fine. But the truth in the matter is that even that's intense, even that's tough for your body to every single week recover from that. So at least once a year, it's probably a good idea to take three or four weeks off in the gym if you can do it, if you can handle it mentally, if not take a week or two off, at least. Like those genetics, why do people recommend taking really high dose of letro last few weeks of a prep, a friend did this, and had blood work showing no estrogen in his body at all, only other people to show numbers that were those who underwent chemo. Also high dose of proviron leading in their show does a work, so let's go with the first one about letro leading into a show. Here's the first deal with estrogen control. Your body is going to convert a certain amount of your testosterone that you're ingesting or injecting or producing naturally into estrogen and DHT. If you take an aromotace inhibitor like letrozole or aromotace or femara, or letrole that's femara, or aromotace, or aromotace, you're going to block the conversion of some of that testosterone into estrogen, which is good. If you take too much of an aromotace inhibitor, you'll inhibit all the conversion of testosterone and which case your estrogen levels will be so low that number one you won't have a sex drive. Number two, your antigen receptors lose their sensitivity. So you go flat usually and number three, you don't have a sex drive. I know I said it twice. That's a problem. No one wants to feel like that. It basically chemically casherates you. Not good and you don't look good on it. So once again, you want your estrogen low, but you want it on the normal side of low, not on the pathological order or the two low side. Once again, because your body won't respond, you need a little estrogen to sensitize those antigen receptors to sex drive, to muscle building, to all the other processes that are involved with antigen use in the body. And that's just the way it is. Doing too much of anything is no good. You gotta find balance. Barbarian B, Dave Wood Body Fat, would you let yourself go to in the offseason? What would you say is maximum you'd recommend? When I competed and I was trying to grow, I said to myself, let's see how much food it takes for you to get fat. If you hit that point, we start getting fat. We back down. In the course of my body, I never found the amount of food that it took me to get fat, which means I never got fat. So I don't know. I just basically couldn't eat any more food. But I would find another way to eat enough to grow. But at some point, I couldn't eat enough anymore. Because I kept saying, well, what if I ate more? What if I grew faster? Or I could eat anymore. There was no more food I could eat. I just couldn't physically put any more food down my throat. And that's the way it is now. To ask you for the average person, what's a body fat that's acceptable? Not acceptable. I would say, once your body fat is a guy, it starts creeping over 15%. You start to get sloppy. If you're over 20% your weight too high. I think that the ideal range to stay in is probably anywhere from, obviously, under 10 would be great. But the most people can't get under 10% by the time. For anywhere from 10 to 15%, 10 to 17% by the time, is the highest that would go. Everything or nothing trening, tren below in, and it's a thanks on mental health, eye depression, intelligence, or ability to think straight. My question is, does tren cause issues with the brain? And if so, it can become that. You said tren below, right? Yes. The problem with tren below is that it's four times more an energetic than testosterone. That means it has four times an engine content. Andgredens of what makes you aggressive. They're what stimulate you. They would make you hold more glycogen in the muscle. They make you strong. You puT4 times that you naturally have on a gram for grab basis like a testosterone into your body. Now you're almost like an insane person. It's enhancing everything in your brain and making you move faster. It's making you metabolism go quicker. It's moving your GI track faster. That's why a lot of people get upset. Some makes it and die real from using tren. It makes your brain work faster. So you can't relax and sleep at night. But it makes you strong. It makes you retain more glycogen in the muscle. It makes you look good. So guys deal with it. But it does have a lot of side effects. And that's a problem. You got to realize that. And it's dose dependent. So recently, when I work with my guys, I've been actually having them use less tren alone. OK, I know the old or maybe the new way of thinking is, no testosterone just do tons of tren alone. That's not going to work. I'm telling you, you're going to wind up f***ing killing your girlfriend or a boyfriend or whatever. You're going to get into a fight. You're going to break up. Whatever the case is, it's the ultimate relationship ender that's this drug. But it works. My advice to you is just to stand low dose. 50 milligrams three times a week. Or 50 milligrams every other day is more than enough. Muscle by Mona's day will you be at the Olympia this year. That's the 100,000 dollar question. I don't know. To be honest, I haven't thought about it yet. If we get a sponsor, I probably might make my trip out there, obviously. If we don't, I think IMight just hang tight at the homestead, you know, with the kids. And everything like that. I really like the Olympia. It's probably the only weekend I really do enjoy going to a cusside for the Arnold. I'll think about it. I haven't got to the point where I actually have absolutely have to make a decision yet. But we'll see. It's going to be a good year to go, obviously. Phil, he'd go in for number eight and a lot of other, you know, classic physique taken off through the roof, the two 12, it's for exluisest last year. So, it certainly would be a nice year to go. But, you know, IMight just call quits and take the whole year off and then start again 2019 back going to the some of the big shows. We'll see it up. And I won't say no yet. Good day. One ZWDV. I'm having issues with my right knee. I had surgery on a back in 2006, ACL, Manisk is whenever I'm doinGHeavy leg extensions, I'm feeling pain in the middle portion of the knee. Squats and leg press aren't bad only if I wrap my knees. Do you think wanting BPC won't 507 will be a good idea? Or should I get things checked out first? IMean, you could use the healing cap by its BPC-157, the TB-500 is good. Definitely if it's injury, you're going to heal. But thEQuestion is why are you getting irritation, why are you getting tendonitis or whatever, whatever, contravalasure, you know, whatever kind of information getting under that knee cap, why is it occurring? Usually it's biomechanical, meaning that the angle with your muscles are moving is some kind of rubbing going on. Now, if it's under the knee cap, it could be like a whole contravalasure that's the rubbing away of the cartilage under the knee cap. If your muscles are just misaligned a little bit or it's a leg press is a weird angle, you might just get beginning rubbing under the back. In which case, you might want to try to change the leg extension of a senior using, to change the angle a little bit. Usually I've seen this happen to people before. The classic sign that there's really not anything seriously wrong is that you can squat and leg press because you can change your position. Think about it. Like the extension, you're very locked into a certain position. With the squat, the deadlift, the leg press, the hack squat, you can kind of position your feet where you get a comfortable position so the knee cap sits in a nice place. You might just have a tracking problem with the knee cap which sits directly on top of the, or the patel that sits directly at the top of the femur is rotator or moved over an inch or two in which case you're getting rubbing. That's why when you wrap your knees, you're kind of wrapping your knee cap into the right position and then it feels good when you're trening it. You might want to lay off leg extensions for a couple weeks to just do the stuff that doesn't hurt, let that heal up, see if that works. If not, you might have to then go to maybe get some ART done, active release techniques, maybe some massage in that area, kind of break up the scar tissue. Matt Tracy, I struggle keeping volume heading into a show. What do you think of maintaining oatmeal two weeks now prior to the show? I have it with a meal, one with stevia, small banana and one tablespoon of almond butter. I don't know if eating a bowl, you're following your full misproblem, you'll be honest with you. Firstly, you got to figure out why you're flat. You can be flat because you're an ID in a fat, it's just as easily as you can be flat if you're an ID in a car. So, I would try to replace the fat first, especially if you're on a CT or on a contest eye. Then if that doesn't work, then you can play with adding little small amounts of carbs throughout the day, increasing whatever you're eating, if you're eating any, to see if that will fill you out a little bit. But I wouldn't start doing crazy, knee-jerk stuff. Brent Setsko, any end is that a good idea to cut fiber lies last week's of contest prep or not. Now, that's what you need the most. Catch when people get constipated when they carve off and they take the water out. Now, you keep the fiber lies right up to the day before the show. The last dose of fiber lies should be that. It looks like if you had a Saturday morning show, you'll last dose would be Friday night. When you're bright before you start drinking, do a dose of fiber lies, so you keep everything moving through you. It's a great feeling when you don't have to ever stress that I'm going through the bathroom, you know you're going to go. Once I started using a silly, amazed five or supplement, and then IMade my own eventually, that's when I never had stress anymorecompeting because I always knew my stomach would be flat. Interesting one here from the atomic beast. It's a question that we get in, I guess, different iterations. Why do you think most open-class competitors don't have deeply cut abs like classic and men's physique competitors. Jay had a very tight, had very tight abs, but besides, Rully, in the current lineup, why don't the others have blocky abs? I think the guys are just not dieting as hard because they want to come in. They're so worried about coming in big or they're in shape and then they're overcarving or maybe using insulin and they're blurring the definition on their abs. Because a lot of these guys have great rest of their bodies. They glutes or they hamstrings or shred it and then they have these kind of watery-looking abs. I think that's from the drugs they're taking. I really do. On point fitness treners, your thoughts, Dave, on raw juicing. I started raw fruit and vegetable juicing a few days ago along with a healthy balanced diet. But what would it be optimal for longevity and health to juice daily or is it just not necessary? But juicing is good. There's no doubt about it. You can get some good nutrients. A lot of people who juice though use a lot of fruits. They use apples and carrots and other fruits. But carrots have a high sugar content. Those high sugar fruits and vegetables will add a lot of calories and a lot of unnecessary empty carbs to the effect of what you're doing. You're picking just green stuff that you just juice. Cubecombers, celery, some broth, living in a mountain rock, and maybe kale. You'll be fine. If you're using the juicers and excuse to make yourself a fruit smoothie, then you're probably just making things worse because you're putting a tremendous amount of sugar into your body. K-sime can el-dave. I hate to show more than all right. If creatinine is commonly increased due to extra muscle mass, meat and proteins and creatinine supplements, what kind of levels do you usually see in top-open competitors? What is the typical GFR you see from them? How do you approach their plan differently? Well, taking creatinine is not going to raise creatinine necessarily. A lot of these upper-level guys have high creatinine levels on blood work, which indicates that the kidneys are not filtering as well. It could be due to high blood pressure. It could be due to eating on tonne of protein. It could be due to breaking that enormous amount of muscle from the gym. So you can't just need your, say, this guy's a kidney failure. He's got high creatinine. No, he's probably just, you know, trustinGHis body out a little bit. And it's probably very, very reversible. And I've seen that happen many a time. People contact me because they panic. I send them a detox program through the reti-tox to take this. One of the ingredients and one of the supplements I recommend you take during the detox is kidney stuff. Stay on that for another three months after the two or three weeks detox that you do. Usually every single person I'd help to creatinine comes down from that. So just if you have a problem with creatinine, you can always, you know, shoot me an email and I'll be more than happy to give you some advice. D would, 20, I only have access to a diuretic, the flushes both potassium and sodium. Is it still okay to use a quarter tab the night before or should I stay away completely? Yeah, I think I think I, look, I don't like to use L-6 and Deminex because you're right. It does, this guy's right. It does the plea both potassium and sodium, whereas dies I only deplete sodium and it doesn't and it retains potassium. But sometimes you can't get, you know, and if you're only taking maybe one or two halves of a L-6, you know, of 20 milligrams, you know, maybe twice a day, you're not going to really cramp anyway. So, and you're not, even if you did, it wouldn't be because of potassium loss because you're not going to lose that much from taking a mild, I reticulate that. So, a little bit of L-6 is okay. If you start getting carried away and taking, you know, 40 milligrams, five times a day, you're going to wind up in the hospital. Couple more, this one from Howard Nine, what were the compounds you put Boston on when he put on the most size? He was mentioning in a recent random video along the lines of GRPH, IGF, etc. Well, Boston was, when he was a teenager, and he gained a lot of weight up to the time you were 21 years old. He was on the basics, he's on testosterone, and that compoies, you know, we would switch to testosterone, trenbolone testosterone, and that got, he was doing some little bit of G-8, you know. He wasn't, he wasn't accessible by using anything until he got carried away and got to use it, and then he just took off on what's on doing cookie stuff. But initially he was doing the right thing, and he was looking good, and he was growing, and he was responding, and you know, I wish he was to put a state in that direction. But, you know, Boston does what he lost in what to do. Last question, this one from Mike Roddabe, what is your current trening routine? You want to know when every team was this week? I got to the gym today. After I got my teeth clened, the dentist died. I snuffed over to the gym, and called him a man, and my friend said, can I go to the gym? Did you mind? She's like, fine. So I did my whole entire body, because I know there's no way she's going to let me go to Marvee, because usually I go Monday, and either Thursday or Monday and Friday. So I did everything. I did everybody party. I don't know how I did. I got all done today, or because I'm not lifting that heavy. And I'm done for the week. That's just the way it is. So I structure much differently nowadays. I don't do my job. But back in the day, I used to do what I told people. I used to do an A-day split. So over eight days, I would tren six of those days. Two of those days would be, you know, I do a little extra calf work. But I like to have the extra time off to allow my body to recover properly. That is going to do for this episode of A-Stayve again brought to you by Species Nutrition Visit speciesnutrition.com for date, Lumbo, and our producer Tyler Shore. I'm Siti Furuki. We'll see you next week.

=== FILE: CUOMO RESIGNS (INSTANT REACTION) + COVID MYTHS？ AH Podcast (8⧸10⧸21) [xdsdz_PVq7U].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest body-building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your apps, you'll best join the evolution. Welcome back to another exciting episode of After Hour. I'm the Palombo, and I'm of course joined by John Romano. I think we try to start today's show, John and I for a second, so we can get a few words and edge-wise before the rest of the maniacs join us. It elevates our intellect. Or the appearance of it, you know. Now I want to talk about the little later in the show, Lewis Jurenell is going to be joining us, the Big Saxi. Big six. Who ran for mayor as we know out there in the ocean side a couple of months back, and he's been fighting City Hall, so to speak, because of keeping the gym open and all the regulations over there in California. Obviously you heard Quomo was just resigned, I don't know if you heard that. Thank God. And then we knew that was coming. So he's out. We'll talk about him. I'm sure he's balancing a lot of a few things to say about that. It's such a crazy political arena right now. A new study was done in South Korea, and I want to talk about this with Lewis when he comes on 76,000 people involved with a study their lifestyle and habits and their risk of contracting COVID, number one, having a problem in terms of sickness with COVID, and then of course death. And you'll find once we go over this study, well, don't put it up your title title, wait to Lewis comes on. But this is correct. I got correct you, which is 212,700,600. Yeah, yes. Korean adults aged plus or minus 20 years. I thought it was 76,000. No, 212 right here. Okay, right, you're right. They looked, I think they looked back in all those two. Yes. What's going on, guys? So we're celebrating Cuomo's resignation. I was just watching it. That's what they took. What a pathetic speech that was by him and his lawyer. What did they say? I didn't listen. And basically, basically, I hug everybody. I didn't think I was doing anything wrong. I'm really sorry. Just bullshit. Just if you could come up with the most bullshit excuse, that even wouldn't be. He's probably like, look, Trump admitted to grab in there. Pussies, I didn't do that. You know. No, you know what you're saying? He basically saying right with John said that he hogs when he kisses everybody. And he's saying that they're taking it out of contact basically. Like, I didn't mean it the way they're taking it. But there's 170 people. And now they're saying there's even more than just stuck his tongue in it throwing suck us finger up them. But that's it. You know, I'm with that. Yeah, right. That's how I read everyone. But here's the, there's some countries. That's, that's the, that's the one. Yes. And a fart burping it to fucking, right, yes. Yeah. That's in fucking can say that that's showing, wow, I really dug that meal, you know. Yeah. But they, but, are we on? We're on. We're on, we're on. Okay, so what do we start? No, but did the other thing is he's, he's a, he's got a lot of trouble. Because if they start, he's all the flexion he killed you know how many fucker people that guy killed thousands. Do Trump sent that boat? you know what IMean he said the boy set up you know the trepid all that he said and fucking nobody used it even a Jacob job at center nobody was using it because you know he was sticking everybody into old age on the church that he had is a you know nursery on he just want nursing on he just wanted fucking you know uh... to do things his own way you know he i think we wanted was he was hoping and it would initially was workinGHe was becoming very popular with doing those those week does daily updates people wanted to hear the latest and greatest people loved him miserable news you know he think it i'm gonna run for president after this i'm gonna remember when the presidency from this you know well at one point they were talking about oh my god he should be the president yeah but he likes to play mob you know IMean play mafia his father i hate his father too you know IMean it's a new mario plomo yeah IMean it's a it's a joke but you know it's just AI i just get an issue some how come all of a sudden with the uh... a little sidebar here with the covetinGHow come who is your own what's up exactly how how could all of a sudden the covet's bed in a fucking what in the summer when summer's post to be like you know all everybody's vitamin d's up to fucking sons out and uh... and traditionally no virus uh... it's the usually drives in the summer you only drives how come it's driving now because they're because they're not accurate accurate numbers they're fudge in the numbers by attributing everything to covet everything yeah you know just like anything else you give a bunch of rats poison if it'll start killing them and any stops killing you know why could the rafting developing a mune is that that's that's that's another thing but the that reporting is what the main problem is because the reporting is what indicates the severity and the actions taken by people who have some authority the problem with the numbers is that they're all off their all wrong they're co-mingled the regular influences gone we we we we we we we i'm how that along with a moment of holding with the common cold and we weren't even trying when we cure that right and then and and but you can still get a flu shot a regular flu shot for something that's not even there anymore okay so you got that both of the combined the covid shot with the flu shot in here now coming up you'll be able to get it don't condone and he's right here to get a throne HIV shot and it's a dog joke it's every time a five-fucking friend used to get to flu shot and every he got to flu every year i don't believe it but when i was saying about the reporting Greg is it if you go to the hospital with a hang nail okay and you sum out and you go under surgery and you die from the hang nail surgery but you test positive for covid they will list your death as covid you're right now i heard that you have a heart attack and die and they tested you're causing death is covid not the heart attack any cause of death that has covid associated with the person whether they have it or test positive for it they listed cause of death is covid and that's absolutely wrong and here we are lockin down places, convaccines, mandatory some jobs you can't even have anymore without getting vaccinated and all of these numbers are fake plus i think the vaccine is creating that's another thing because creating a virus to communicate that's a bad thing well it's also causing the illness and it's going to also cause socialism here because once you start with that, let's get to our job you're a pamphlet you know what IMean let's get to our job yeah, more people have died on days one two and three after the covid shot and all other evaccines combined 45 that between 11 and 45 thousand depending on who you're listening let's let's look at a more positive aspect of this whole thing which and that's why i brought Lewis in because Lewis has been fighting city hall over there in uh out is Jim and California there for for over over a year now obviously and what what's the latest update there Lewis today are they unlocked out what what what's your status up there with the Jim i think he's gone i think we're lost here yeah nope that was a little bit of what you guys do but anyway it was he's here in me ranty yeah I couldn't take it but John don't you think though to summertime bro need summertime to comical to flu everything a you you why I don't think the virus is something kind of that's great that because of what i just explained that's not such a hot summer to be when staying inside Greg that's the problem that's why they're not here in the building it that's the important well this definitely is definitely a lot more cases here i know i understand John i agree with you i know that i know that you know if you throw a fart that's COVID i agree with you with that said the numbers are definitely skewed but but these people with this papers and a vaccine and all the sudden shit you know you know i i think you united or Delta think Delta they they don't if you don't get back said you can't work for Delta yeah IMean i got a lot of people the only people should be able to dictate i think the military i think if you're in the military you don't have you you have no right you really they shot they shoot you so close shit you got to be you can't even have a choice you're right that's the only place i think that is it's that you you have that's been going on since there's been no it's not you got your you you you signed that away you said that i let's i want to go over this study because you know what there's been a lot of you know the the first thing they seem to close in the gym as always whenever they want to walk things down which is and we've been saying you know since the beginning that obviously exercise is important about low-ish you back okay good sorry no it took a it took a turn turn your phone sideways and we get you you full view he can't say like this guy yeah yeah yeah all right so i was about to talk about this study lowest they did have a big sample size John of over 200,000 but 60, 76,000 people actually completed thEQuestionnaire and everything like that and that's that's the important statistic and of those 76 people who completed the general health examination and went through everything they found that that the and these people all worked out you know these people who exercised there was only they found that there was a tremendous reduction in people who actually got the disease the severity of the disease when they got it and there was almost no death and he was like what like 45 death is something like that of 700 over 700,000 people excuse me 70,000 people sorry oh 76,000 people who fit who actually filled out the uh and went through all the uh the testing which they were able to conclude that you know people who exercise regularly have a much greater chance of number one resisting getting the illness number two recovering very quickly number three and I dying from it and so why they would close gyms now with this data at their disposal um you would think you'd have to be a freaking moron right and the Lewis you want to speak to this you would say they don't care about this dude IMean I said the one from the beginning that exercise was the best vaccine yeah that you could have it's the best way to stop it we've had over we've had over 200,000 people come through my gym week we log every single visitor from last May yeah and that one case has been attributed to our gym we've had someone who was a member of our gym that caught it at a party came to work down here for two days with it didn't spread it to anybody here wow so it the people here just how I haven't gotten it all year and I've been working at gym it you'd think this would be like you know deathcon one yeah yeah very close to everyone right man smerr like we just straight the whole north coast of California here whether the gym being open during a pandemic we the only gym opening in Southern California is crazy but yeah there's people it is this no other explanation for you just healthier look at 78 percent of the people that got put in the ICU either overweight or obese yeah right 78 percent of the people that got put in the ICU they're overweight beasts no one knows no like no like guy with six pack abs working out you know drinking you know green leaf shakes and stuff that's going in the hospital except bill films now there's always one exception you're gonna have people that may have you know other illnesses that we're not even aware of they feel full of Chad fucking COVID yeah yeah but you know what bill was a little overweight you know when he was you know going through this last winter so you know I don't think that's look this is about and the gyms are a prime example to support my my opinion this is the only thing this is about is the vaccine that's all this is about they want it vaccine the world many times over so we're gonna get we made that's why you got that's why you got not one shot but two now they're talking about a booster now you got variants that's gonna require three more vaccines and then then more is that the new variants come out this is the biggest scam in the entire world because there's seven billion people they want all of them vaccinated and this is what a way to fight a war IMean John this is money this is every jab every jab is dollar somebody's making money and the more people they scare and promote and get to get back and the fact that they closed what's first to close the gyms why it's the best place to be listen I don't believe it's just a divine seeing a push in a vaccine so to take it for us you have like proof of vaccine that paper it's a fucking democratic fucking thing in my opinion it's a whole thing on the other side of the track because you're shit yeah wait no money and power go together they're shit in their pants because they know that come fucking the mid-turns there's gonna be trouble a lot of the fucking republicans are free of a red wave all of a sudden now they say to you oh you get vaccinated you know we don't you know get vaccinated you get your freedom now you vaccinate they want to they want proof they want your papers and once you start with papers you need papers to vote right but they want you to go get papers to prove you vaccinated because once you go once you they get those papers it's gonna be like fucking that's how socialism starts show me a paper you can't do this show me a paper you're in New York there's certain restaurants you can't go to unless you show your paper you can't go to the gym now Greg there unless you have a vaccination do you know that's horrible to move these around you know I go to the gym I go to the gym you're vaccinated that's all that that that rigged oh I had no choice because my sister is really really sick and you know she's got stage 4 kids but she's had it before you're in and out of the hospital she said it's 20 20 hour surgery in June and she's got to have another surgery in two weeks here so I had to go I even made a video put on my Instagram I had they would not let me in that hospital to see my sister if I didn't so I'm sorry I'm not AI'm not a person it's for the vaccine but to see my sister and make sure to you know I could do what I got to do with the hospital man I got to do it and you said come to the the political practice if they told you do it you're kidding you're a Democrat you're a Democrat you fell victim to the demands that they're putting you know you have me by the ball everyone has a choice everyone my course not well it's when it comes to my family I came my family comes I'll take that job that's how they get I'm gonna get vaccinated they know that you know I tell everybody you don't understand if you don't you know I had to get a whole video I'm not for the vaccine but they had me by the balls I'm not gonna not I'm not gonna not see my sister my sister is you know very sick you know very you have no idea it's a whole lot of stuff but we could not we could not get into the hospital there demand was because my first one my sister's already been in a unit where even before they would say were COVID you had to wear like a fuckinGHazmat suit you had to wear the mask you had to wear you know who she has a very rare can so if you have all that equipment on why doesn't matter if you're vaccinated I'd tattooed I say that's what I say but they won't be able to see but see the vaccine is supposed to protect you from yeah the disease not there's no you know what it is right no they're trying to say that I could be a carrier you're still a carrier even though you have the vaccine that's what they found so the vaccine is relevant yeah I really get a relevant argument that what I'm saying is that they will if my sister gets any kind of like the slightest little thing she could you can still give a door even that being vaccinated I know I'm just telling you what they're telling me we're talking about the hypocrisy of these idiots they're telling people to get a vaccine that doesn't even prevent you from giving the disease to someone else I know I agree with and I notice people watching this right now about you do the fact yeah I did because of my family I had no choice either I don't go to see my sister what body the virus is not going to be that great what body will they won't get the vaccine because they want to go to the gym so you know I know people that they ran to get the vaccine when they found that they weren't going to be able to go to the gym I'm not going to mention names but I don't believe I don't believe I believe there are some people just people died from taking fucking you know a bad shot of something you know IMean all I know is my friends who's a fat fuck you know they he had a he has a defibrillator in his heart he has a fucking who he's got all kinds of shit you have no idea and he fucking took the goddamn you know the guy that she has gained fake did the game face yeah he he fuckinGHe took the fucking Johnson and Johnson and nothinGHappened to him so I said if I get a take a vaccine that's where I'm going to take is if he fucking survived that shit and got no fucking you know IMean JJ yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah no but you know what I'm saying I didn't I'm against this and I'm not for the vaccine but I had no choice either that I don't see my sister and I'm not going to go well fuck you I'm not going to see my sister that you know and I'm not going to do that you know what IMean I said well that's what it takes I'll take a bullet if it was to save our life you know what IMean well that's what I got to that's how I get to get everyone it's funny when they first came out they didn't have enough vaccines people were killing each other to get the vaccine now they have so many they don't want to do it I'm they're paying you they're giving you free fucking uh uh oil paper rolls if you go to the CBS you're here and you're gonna get a 100 they got a hundred dollar bribe and some cities to go get a back to the E do you look this psycho here this psycho I'm in the city everybody's wearing a mask it's fucking I don't wear a mask I don't fuck away the mask at all you ever you know how to go in the hospital you know when it goes to the hospital see or after we had a mask they make you wear the mask they give you the mask to wear and as soon as I come out in that fuckinGHospital the minute step out the door is fucking boom I get rid of it but everybody and he looked at you like like you're like fucking Satan you know because it's so they're so fucking liberal here it's it's sick you know what IMean I've had wars with people in it in fucking Walmart it's shit you know I chased that one fucking guy in Walmart who argue in Johnny I'll cause he's telling me my nose was out of the mask it's gonna just back when the outerwear gonna be a woman you know and my nose was out he's telling me plowing up you know you know you know you know you know you know I told them fuck you we were we had a big argument I chased them down the island you ran I'm just saying I can you know got to do what you got to do you imagine Greg chasing someone at the supermarket dude I was so loud you don't you I was I was trying to fuck bombs and everything it's for every I didn't shit yeah I was just a fucking 20-year-old fucking 20-year-old just chasing some guy I'm gonna be chasing you I'm gonna really hear an oil girlfriend should have lose it bro you really hear an oil you want to really hear an oil you should have heard you argument I had it might be gonna get I just I'm gonna tell you the whole fuck I know you remember it because I was buying uh light sauce right now two light sauce yeah and his black chick across for me in Walmart had a big big basket of them and uh they're good with the this is back when the virus first shit bullshit started and if fucking store managed he's done not the only kid to he get to that's the he's got to he's got to he's got to that's it you can only get two light sauce that's you know because they were rationing and it's because psychos of buying all the time and it black the black lady goes fuck that shit if I was white you wouldn't be doing this and all this other shit so I told her I am so sick of fuckinGHearing that I got to fucking light sauce you got to I think I told you that you told me I would have took the two lights on gave it to the woman yeah I remember you telling me you know what you should have done is you should have taken one of the light sauce and popped the cap off it get through a little bit lighter in one hand and it's sprayed the shit in a great way I should have just sprayed AI could just spray it or say look it kills germs that you dead I turn it in bro are you ever doing that yeah of course we're a soul but you know a lot of people a lot of people are buying up multiple of them reselling them though they weren't even hoarding it and reselling but because but it's white privilege you know she started that shit and I don't want to hear that we started having that big one I already told you that's the guy but then I got you know I don't want to hear that shit you know IMean she didn't I don't think she believed that she just wanted to get the light so that's all you know that's the point at me and shit like you know I don't want to hear that she just wanted the light so it was a good it was a can't excuse that but so Lewis what so what's you said you're the only gym open what how you keep in the world we were we were the only gym open never gyms open now I'm here for abouT3 to five months last year we were like the only gym open in North County and how did you know what's the name of your gym Metro flex oh shit a Metro okay what what are you hoping is it oceans are yeah okay yeah yeah yeah so you're saying there you go okay yeah so you we just we just stayed we we just stayed open to call the you know took all the hits on the chin and we fought uh we fought the fines and the citations and we beat him oh you beat all those citations yeah we bought we had about 13 criminal charges did you try it all yourself no I don't I don't really kick I got a kick ass lawyer that's specialized in that catcher and she found every loophole you can find in the you know the reason we stayed open is because the people that wrote the executive order out here were not lawyers they were just they're just politicians so we actually said that uh we had a physical therapist right prescriptions preventative work out prescriptions for all of our 1500 members and that people were not working out inside they're doing physical therapy oh that's all IMean say well as the physical therapist with each person through the thing I said well the executive order is to say the physical therapist has to be present just that physical therapy is a good reason being side so we were allowed to be fully open with that tactic oh you are that's all I was like that was not really smart yeah I love it now what do you do in terms of just keeping open her you know beat nose loopholes was with what other kind of you know that was that was the biggest one and that another one they said if you had a uh the way they worded it they said no indoor trening will be allowed but you have an outdoor trening area then you could have indoor with modifications so that's very big so when they asked me like how are you gonna do or I'm like well my indoor modifications I IModified it with spray bottles I have signs to say X year don't stand here I put some blue tape on the ground and they're like well those are those are that's not the modifications we're talking about IMean again it's not in the order you got very clear that's not my fault I didn't write it haha these very slowly that's awesome so we we basically closed I we closed on this first two weeks obviously like everyone else didn't they made for like the month of April then we realized this BS and they didn't know plan to reopen California they had no idea what they're gonna do and gyms were like they were we were the only thing more dangerous in California than a gym was a basket and like they didn't listen it they're like my spit at concert was level 10 and level down was gyms and it was like I did shoot I shoot I shoot I shoot I shoot I shoot into the nine so yeah my spit is back along really good uh I heard big ladies apartment was number nine number eight you know it's funny those because you I've been fighting the good fighting and you know we had to have a couple times around the news and you do a lot of light and you can ran from mayor out there you know what what was the public consensus do you notice you have a lot more members than you gym now yeah we more than since we started we've tripled our membership here and yeah I'm still in the news I get they come on interview me pretty much every time there's a new thing like LA County is getting ready to do a vaccine passport to vaccine mandates or businesses yeah it's about two weeks away but it's coming and I think that whole thing is it's coming down the PIPeline for a lot of blue states you know people in Florida and Texas obviously you guys really have to worry about that but uh there's a lot of other of us who you have to deal with that you know wait so I still wait a second please clarify is it are they talking about all business it or just government or just so yeah so a California the way it is right now if you're a health care worker if you are a government worker a government flea or state employee whatever you have to get a vaccine by I think it's September 15 if you don't have a vaccine then and you don't have an exemption you're fired and then they're still so now they're talking about wanting to enforce businesses so but business is letting people live without a vaccine and proving they have a vaccine the business can get fine the business ought to get arrested and that's what I'm talking about in just at this uh Los Angeles County Los Angeles all businesses you can't go to the grocery store without a vaccine because right so if it's the indoor business gotta show you papers like that that's what it's gonna happen yeah papers yeah we went to weeks to show me your papers like uh that's not so germany the Jews had a good day yeah but once you start to get it if vaccines used to be getting once he stole our papers you're gonna have to have to you realize how many people are gonna start selling fake uh back you mean you're going to be selling going to be selling you they probably said they're all right so what do you want me you know I'm sorry I've been offered him twice so far how much free oh oh because it cause it's because I'm I'm the advocate but IMean you know I'm sure they get a couple hundred bucks for him yeah yeah well didn't want to stop monitoring your car and where you go at your car and oh can you hear all this shit did you see the drone the drone with the cameras on it that meant measure how far ahead the way you are from each other and the facial recognition and if you're closer than six feet they can recognize who you are and send you a fine oh my god where's this we call for you how really yeah California has a gas tax where they're trying to pass it where your your tax on how many miles you drive and every car will have to have a sensor put in it and it turns how many miles and it's two cents a mile gas tax why and if you don't get the if you don't get the sensor put your car it's like an automatic find them like $400 for the year how much is it going to guess no I'm just gonna do something I hear it's about like four bucks oh frunk that's a lot yeah for it's four bucks yeah it's it's rape out here man but on the vaccines and the vaccines you're talking about the vaccines kind of everyone third dose fourth dose Canada if you follow the Canada right now Trudeau signed a deal of Pfizer over three years to bring in 33 million or 36 million doses of the fibers of vaccine each year there's only a 30 million people in Canada and he's got this man doses already three years planned out a contract delivered that many doses they're not planning on this just to go away they want this thing to be scheduled for a long term anything it's just Canada it has this plan yeah Biden's got this plan he's goT3 ways here baby this is I'm telling it's good to be a good one in my words this is all about the vaccine there's nothing else that matters it's a good one why why it's a good one give him a call we're giving you one every time every time somebody gets a shot somebody's getting paid these are not how much okay if they're free To you but somebody's paying for it big form has the biggest most powerful lobby in the entire country there are the ones who are constructing this so that there's many people as humanly possible can buy the vaccine or be compensated they can be compensated it's like a partnership between the government who gets to track everyone and then the vaccine people who make the money that's a part of people elected you know so it's like it's all it is that's only the money it's a election everything else is a conspiracy the only thing that you can follow is the money yeah and the money goes to the big pharma who spreads it around to their lobbyists who spread it around to the government officials and everybody so all of that comes down to how many vaccines can we cram down the public's throat because everyone is a dollar sign and that's all the vaccine is also a tool this whole COVID is a tool that's what they use to win the election it's vaccinated so they think it's a bad luck let me ask how many schools that raised the golden egg go let me ask those to let's say they make a mandate that you have to you get to check people's passport to get into your gym to see if the vaccine you're going to you're going to hear to that are you going to let anyone in no man I'm sorry that one of the news I think last Friday and I said you check my Instagram I put the video up no no that I've never had a mask mandate in my gym is optional I'm all about choice I'm not against being able to get the vaccine I'm all for it don't get it you know but it's about a choice I should not be forced upon someone and I'm not going to put a thing in my gym where I check your status or ask mEQuestions we're big boys and big girls this is not a point of mandate but personal responsibility you know this is like a poll wash your hands don't come somewhere if you sick yeah you know don't play with your faces suck on your fingers and you know touch everything it's this is this is this is big boy big girl stop here this isn't rocket science yeah I could have back to when you were a kid when you were a kid if you had a brother or sister or neighbor sick you mother told you stay away from your brother he's not feeling like you're fingers out of your mouth you fuck you you you don't put healthy people you know in quarantine you quarantine sick people okay even in the that's how they got through the back in 1917 18 over there when you know with the Spanish food that's how they did it you quarantine the sick people you don't quarantine healthy people as a matter of fact that's how you get hurt immunity but they're using this to regain power yes to vaccine to make a money off the vaccine every shot they make money but this is they found the goose now that lays the golden egg that's you keep them in power to keep that getting vaccines to keep you know doing these things to you want to fucking make you pay a charge for fucking every mile you go on your car so eventually go to an electric car they want to do a wave of fucking gas they want to make it so expensive you can't afford it you say okay I give up I got to drive the fucking electric car you know what I'm saying and what it will be the it'll be the car that just picks you up the the the the manless car you know the the bet sounds horrible you know that would pizza now with dominoes is delivered when you're with those are they really yeah drive drive of this car yeah it's an experiment yeah yeah they're told right it's all some kids run over by one and then that'll be the end of the experiment you know you know how in Miami the the the club guys would get you know the the signs on the road with the lights to tell you you know caution whatever's gone so some club dude that worked for one of the DJs would would hijack those signs and he would say like you know victim Martinez is that you know you know you're trying to say you're gonna have that there you got a title pulled one up right there that I can't believe that's cool I bet they probably have a better the probably get your order right a lot more times than when they have the people bring the the orders to the door that's for sure by why so it's something we ordered dominoes by why puts on a man of what's on the thing you don't leave it front door because you know like usually she's upstairs doing some cardio with the kids you know the bounce we have a little bounce house this guy who's come the last few times he doesn't read the the instructions so he's ringing the bell and ringing the bell my dogs a bark and a bark and a bark and a bark and a you know it's like come on just fucking read the instructions it's it's you know how hard is it to deliver a fucking pizza just leave it at the door that's that's the instructions you know my neighbor but the journals but the dominoes driverless man is why I brought up the construction site those same guys are gonna hack those things so then they're gonna be driving around like racing down the street well let me ask you how does the pizza pizza pizza pizza get from the van the driverless man into your house you got to go meet him you got to meet him okay it's not gonna work for a man my neighbor put it around on his lawn just leave it on my driveway that's all we don't need my neighbor put a chair out on his lawn and he always he wants the demail the fucking UPS shit pizza those everythinGHad to go on that chair before he was so psycho about the fucking this fire was shit you know what IMean I want the dried by and spit on that fucking chair but I don't do shit like that it's funny it's it's the world is just changing so quickly right now IMean like it's like 10 years ago we could never have predicted any of this right IMean in the last year last year I wouldn't even think this you would ask me last January yeah you think they're gonna close all about like nah I know where that's gonna happen look what happened I walk around in like serious we've got we'll go to Walmart you know or or target or something like that with the kids I feel like I'm in a bubble but I don't even think I'm I feel like I'm in a dream I don't even feel like I'm like because you can't make eye contact with anyone really you can't really interact with it it's like everyone's just like walking around like in this like little and they're all little world it's the weirdest like uh most anti social type of thing experience you know and everybody looks at you like your piece of shit too well like you got like the biggest like you have virus written on your face everybody you haven't noticed that people look at you like you know I've had people 6 feet 6 feet 5 feet where you go down the wrong aisle with the fucking arrows go this way and you're walking up the aisle that way I think at arrows they don't have that of course I don't have it here last week I was at the Chinese birthday with Max we were sitting there and they actually have my face though I didn't even know that I didn't even know that I didn't even know that but yeah but you got it with the man you get it's a big thing but I don't know I stopped going and we had the mess when they saw they released relaxed the mask thinGHere I started going again so I'm there with Max we're eating there's these two guys the table next to us one way 400 and the other one way to buy four it's quarter all right they got a mountain of plates that looks like you just fed an ornament all right on the on the and they both they might look out to leave they put stand up there's some to stick in a standing from there you go from the table to the door you know you might be a one a lose five six hundred pounds between the two of you they don't worry about coming I'll tell you what they usually when I go to those buffets I see a lot of those people there usually they head for the bathroom first about halfway through it half time to kind of unload a little bit you know and then they come back and they'll they'll go fuck piss you me off because I have time wait wait wait you know what to worst is that sounds coming up with that toilet those stalls are like I'm like what the fuck is coming out there fucking ass you should put a fiber lies he's cute they're John forget about the fucking fat bastard you might my girlfriend hire our family when they go they bring a little Spanish kitchen stick in a fuckinGHands and fucking food you have to notice that you know those who are putting a hands in there or you can't get it all person they fucking you know they bite so many people yeah I got rules for the all you can eat place you gotta go you gotta go like right at the hour when they're putting the food out like we hold one and if there's any kids there you leave yeah I don't know I go to a sushi place it's like you know you don't go actually go up and get yeah the told you my thoughts about I want my friend put a tape or don't eat that sushi shit man my friend put a tape yeah that's good good good good place I did you guys had one in Fort Laura del John that we went to a couple times when I was a kid yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah that was a good place to that was a good place yeah yeah yeah I'm talking about the Fort Laura del I'm sorry you always stop there so so you guys don't notice but Gavin right now is in a spot of the country that probably has the best weather anywhere in the world right absolutely yeah am I right yeah my gyms about five blocks in the beach too so we just walked down to the ocean anytime we want to use about 70 degrees in the water and that was cooler it's crazy say yeah every time every time I think it's hot like five days more like oh no we're dying and you get a constant breeze all day long which is no bugs John they have no it's like my my daughter's grandparents lived in San Clemente you know is going down every week and the to pick them up when I lived in LA and it was just then I got to live in San Diego for a couple years that was paradise yeah we just we just bought a house up on a hill you know this that which is one time over from ocean side and we kind of look out over the whole valley and it's we get the huge breeze and it's open our doors and windows up and just you're right through the house and it's great and it's a great and I don't know I'm not really supposed to say but you have a new addition coming right yeah yeah we have a baby Murphy baby Murphy's coming uh little girl congratulations you guys been trying it's awesome yeah it's been it's been a journey and we're just very very grateful to God and for everythinGHe's given us and uh yeah so it's super I'm super excited I can't wait it's coming up and about to over be you know number of she'll be here so how old are you now I am forty I'll be forty seven but it's on you're like me you started late your late starter but you know it's better that way I'm telling you seriously so this is your first yeah it's our first yeah yeah yeah your first congratulations both yeah I know I'm we're super stoked to you know we're probably gonna head of home schooling arcade or bringing it to like a private academy just because all the BS is going on the schools out here it's horrible out here man the school is you know what I'm learning critical race theory and three years oh you can choose to be a boy or a girl if you want to you know 85 gender's and when they're five years old you want a sexual reassignment surgery we can do that we don't have to tell your parents so you got a trade you mean you got a trade off when you want to live in California you get the weather or the looted in the looted takes and you got to like balance that's right because well we got we got gabanuts and we got a recall that's been coming up the summer 15 Chroma was just resigned today yeah so and then we got you know if we get news about that's like the two coastal just tyranny what just Larry elders is running yeah I was just gonna ask you who I like Larry Elder who would you say is the leot who do you I like the loose I get Lewis Lewis here Adele for governor yeah basically you had to beat out he'd have to beat out Caitlyn Jenner in the primary good honestly what would you vote I who do you think's gonna win that you have a right now whoever whoever is the conservative with the highest high-ess power right now it's Larry Elder so if he's still in the lead that's why I'm looking for the one is in the best chance right now I could I could get a rock with crap all right it's gonna do a better job so I'm surprised Arnold they step back in and try to write it on Arnold fuck that fuck that Gavin do you ever wonder you know how does the guy like that Newsom get to have that much power money and and continually fuck up to the degree that he has and just stays there why are the people in California so complacent with this with this please got huge backing from when he was younGHe was supposed to yeah yeah but I ask Gavin these are he is Nancy Pelosi Nancy Pelosi's nephew he comes he comes to Matt stock he's got a lot of money behind him the state legislator out here is like 85 Democrats like 12 Republicans so nothing to say legislature yeah it's it's it's up it's up seen and he has the one man role so once the state of emergency is putting a place he saw just cracking out these executive orders and some is executive orders more so crazy so the biggest one he passed was if you know if you catch COVID and you're an employee in order to in order to get a workman's cupcakes against your your boss you have to prove you got sick at work you know that they did something wrong do that he's not so he switched it now so if you're to play and you get sick at work you automatically get if you get sick anytime you get sick at home you automatically get a workman's cop plane against your employer and the employer has to prove they do everything right so all the businesses out here requiring everyone to wear masks limiting capacity because they do not want to get these workman cop suits when the worker is got so we try to get hey we open your business I can't because I get workman cop suits so get sick you know take masks off in your store I can't and we're about to get to sue workman's cop so that's what new some did he passed that he passed the rent more chorium so everyone out here there's renting a regular citizen is renting they don't pay their rent but all the commercial property owners still have to pay their mortgages to to the bank so that these mortgages people that on the buildings are going bankrupt and people are living for free still collecting their $4,000 unemployment checks wow terrible that's crazy so he stays in office because he's because of the handout basically he stays at office because people hear idiots in their democrats and they'll vote you know blue no matter who yeah a lot of the other public is out here you know they're they're proper the proper people they play by the rules you know we got to play by the rules guys now a lot of people are pissed off a lot of business owners that would have blue before are coming out and saying they'll never blow blue again because that's what closer businesses now right so there's a huge shift out here towards towards not blue you know people are looking for what we're voting right so they can get a guy like Larry elder who isn't really a political icon he's not like a Donald Trump where he's got a lot of people that dislike him he's someone that's kind of a likable guy you know he's black and we should big audience and it's someone that can really kind of bring people together where you can get elected and then he can start shifting things out here and everybody loves him I love Larry I'm here to tell you who's gonna take over for promo now in New York the lieutenant governor for now and then they're gonna have to have a little like yeah you know who the T.C. James wants that fucking position it's supposedly that was also a political shit don't get too shit about well she just wants power that's which she's bad well she's bad watch her get watch her fucking win governor next time this contest dates fucked up New York's really fucked this is fucked up this California we're both fucked when are you leaving right I can't leave yet I'd love to leave one day but that would give me him and Jimmy to bull are gonna have like an entomine you know next to Ryker's island and they're gonna they're gonna stay there you know like the movies are rock they're gonna set up yeah in the service missiles you know from there no there's a little island out there by Ryker's you know it's a little deserted like a rock and they're gonna go there and they're gonna put like sandbags you know like the resoul of the earth you know and there's a lot of that we're not gonna be there country yeah and fucking nobody's coming in and they're gonna have the Rajol and and sausage and peppers on Jimmy all the barbecue and you know they're gonna have drone delivery pizza Jimmy likes to bull and A sauce that when we go out beef you like the boy you like the bull and A yeah we're gonna get that shit on the rock over here oh make it just did this to J ever join us to have the game of join this to do he's trening I actually had a big landing video but I'm not gonna plow save it for next time stay safe wait Gavin Gavin let's get your let's get your a view of the big landing Mr. G fuck you keep callinGHim Gavin it's Lewis yeah you go Gavin whatever he goes by Gavin I go by what a call the big sexy too much of a go to his head right now I want to fucking roll a joint just look at So what am I coming out Larry fighting somebody big landing but you haven't been following the big landing Mr. G the buckle oh I have not any good for him I guess I've been I've been wrapped up in California yeah I guess we've been running in this and having to try to keep his gym opening like all of the Mr. G and Lenny saga what a big nation having that Lewis is Jim seems like anything goes yeah we should find a loophole for it you know that would be awesome hey at least we got to talk about it one more fucking time there you go Lewis to set up a ring and his it is parking lot man they could fight right there actually we should have a bros versus pro bro bro bros versus pros protest yeah I have a few games just to get into door you gotta be able to say iT3 times fast well I like that Lewis I'm uh thank you for joining us today and of course keep the keep going with the good fight out there because yeah you're doing it right and hopefully everyone will flock to your gym because you're obviously doing the right thing out there and of course congratulations to you in Sabrina on the new baby coming soon and congratulations Lewis God bless you guys congratulations that's awesome keep us up with all the new data we have now showing that if you exercise in a regular basis no one has an excuse not to go to the gym so absolutely absolutely and you go that's what I'm gonna do yeah that's the best thing Gavin that baby you watch your life's gonna be like oh my god you want to be sleeping anymore Lewis let me tell you I don't think you're gonna sleep in my sick three hours a night what are you gonna take those three hours away from you I'm not gonna laugh believe me yes you got nothing coming Lewis you said it's a baby girl it's a little girl yeah it's a little baby girl don't bless her yeah yeah that's me great yeah that's me great yeah ready to get your heart broken next you ready to get a little brother next Miss Olympia yes getting keep it out of body all right guys hey thanks for having all guys you all right guys we're gonna wrap this up Lewis we'll see you to keep us updated and Greg stay out of the the vaccination halls all right no more vaccine field John go light a joint and I'll just wish everyone a Merry Christmas and happy new year we'll see you next time thank you love you guys man thank you guys bye bye

=== FILE: CURRY COOKING 4 WEEKS OUT! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸15⧸18) [NlBuE7iViUQ].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Follum, though, and today is Wednesday, August 15, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's that time of the week again. Welcome back to another jam packed edition of the World Famous Recap Wednesday, where we'll kick off today's show with a rare trip out to the Northwest for the inaugural Portland Pro Classic in the men's physique division. The Chicago Kid Jamal Ever came in and clened house on the way to picking up his first career win. The runner-up position went to veteran assassin Mark Sineen and rounding out the top three was Oregon's own, Dave Odom. Over on the bikini side emerging star Jessica Palmer finally napped her first win of the year by holding off a valiant second place effort from the fabulous Jordan Lee. And finishing up a surprisingly strong top three here with her Olympia tune up was the always dangerous Norman Austria. If you're one of those people who like their bikini action, just like they like their soccer, they ask paste heavy and with the touch of Brazilian and I'm sure your eyes were glued to what went down last weekend and sandpulled at the muscle contest Brazil pro bringinGHome the top honors was native Brazilian ESA Pasini who was absolutely brilliant here. Second place went to Swiss import Priscilla Lambacher who managed to serve the head of eventual third place finisher for not a sagging. The place went to Juliana Dante's and rounding out the top five was another native Brazilian Naira Schubert. If big border walls and good bodybuilding are your kind of thing, then last weekend San Antonio Texas was the place to be because once again another awesome addition of the San Antonio pro went down leading the way with his all-time best in classic physique was second year pro Jason Lo. It was a long day for the judges in men's physique but when the dust finally settled it was harbour heights Texas native, Lyndon Bond who managed to find himself as the last man standing and over on the master side of things to rel robits and got his first pro victory. San Antonio native Tiffany Mori brought home the hardware and figure over 40 and in master's bikini veteran, Harriet Davis set the tone to get her first win in the year and wrapping things up here in the open bikini with the best look of her career was the red hot Monica Ellis. Now that the Olympia is a little over a month away I can't even begin to tell you how many stupid halfway motivational quotes I see every time I scroll through my Instagram but I'll tell you what one person who's really been catching my eye lately has been women's physique stand out at their grace. The multi top five finisher looks like she's in rare form again and heading into this year's contest looking to hurt a few feelings of a few girls up there with top five ambitions. Nine times out of ten when you see her hit the Olympia stage she's up there firing on all cylinders and assuming she hits the mark again this time around she has a legitimate shot to be a top three contender before it's all said and done. You know how these emergency alert signals come blasting through your phone right before a big well somebody should start doing the same thing every time branding curry drops into update because this guy is about to wreck some serious stuff last weekend. Curry and his team dropped a handful of new updates that were flat out ridiculous. Especially a few of the shots we saw from a recent guest posing spot he did out in Hungary. I don't know what the heck they've been pumping through that water over there in Kuwait but it definitely seems to be working and if he's going to keep getting better over the next month or so I don't think a top five finish this year is entirely out of thEQuestion. And that does if yet another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day full on bo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Camala Rodriguez Routine- 2011 IFBB Ft Lauderdale Cup [deTY52RehU4].txt ===

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Can HASSAN Close The Deal？ + Keone Pearson Update + Ivana Ivusic 12 Days Out! [ttu48sWHZ5I].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Thursday, June 24th, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. In case you missed it a few days ago, Hasan released a behind-the-scenes clip from his latest check-in. And I think it's safe to say that this is by far the best condition that he's had all year. We've talked a lot about a keen Williams being the favorite heading into this weekend, and rightfully so. What we're seeing from Hasan, however, might not be enough to put his name right there in the conversation, however. He's been knocking at the door all year long, but this look might be the one that finally gets him through. Now people say that you have to fight fire with fire. Well, embody building you have to fight size with size, and from the way it looks, William Morton is ready to go toe-to-toe with a keen and Hasan in the size department this weekend. On Monday, Williams team released their final pre-show updates less than 24 hours after touching down in the Bahamas, where he gave his fans a preview of what he's bringing in for his pro debut. Pound for pound, William might have more muscle than anyone else in the lineup. So the real key for him here will be to make sure he's on point from a conditioning standpoint. When you look at this lineup on paper outside of the top three, it feels like it's completely up for grabs, so it be checks the right boxes. A top five finish feels like a real possibility. And no people say that imitation is the best form of flattery, but here's a word to the wise. You might want to think twice before you think about trying to imitate what's he on Pearson's doing right now. Now that he's only four weeks out from defendinGHis title at the Chicago Pro, one of the most dangerous men in the two 12 division is starting to kick things into overdrive. When you see how focused key on his bench rod is in tire prep, you can't help but think that he's got a huge chip on his shoulder that he's carrying around since last year. I don't think this is much about defendinGHis title as it is about him trying to silence some of the noise he heard from all those internet experts out there who were so vocal with their criticism after he pulled out of the Olympia. So I guess in a sense this isn't really about defense, it's about redemption, which is why his mentality isn't something you can just adopt and imitate. It has to be lived and experienced and that's something only he can do right now. Even though we're only about 10 days away from the Orlando Europa Pro, we really haven't talked about it all that much yet. But when IMonowilking lays down the gauntlet and says that she's prepared to go all in that qualifies as worthy of conversation are in. As far as her trening is concerned, this might honestly be the hardest that we've ever seen her go during a prep at any point in your career. And in a few sneak peeks that she's given us, you can see that reflected in her physique when I bond is that her best she's one of the best athletes in figure beyond any shadow of it out. So if she makes a strong statement in Orlando, it'll go a long way towards setting the tone for the rest of the season. And that does it to yet another edition of Lusselin the Morning on Day of Above All Reminding News. I'll always be true to your patterns and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Head Concealer.

=== FILE: Can Kai Greene WIN The 2021 Mr. Olympia？ ｜ Iron Debate [9yc9YnJxoRY].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Hey, dude, guys, at Green? Oh, so what's your question? So, good, natural trensition to the next topic and that is, Kai Green and Phil Heat. IMean, we seem to do at least with Kai Green. It's just a semi-annual event as far as whether or not he will. Well, not completely the Olympia last week. Last week he posted a progress picture where he said he was three hundred and seventeen pounds. And of course, you're going to spark that debate again, whether or not he is. Well, there's a new post I said, there's a new post today someone's just sent me. Phil, Kai writes, Phil, Kiver's Phil, Mark your calendars. So it looks like said that. Kai said that? Yep. I'm putting it up on the screen right now. You can't see it, but it's up there. I don't know. Well, I think are we going to say the more is this time. Market it got upset people starting this debate again. People are going to get upset. Fuck guys. Always saying this blah, blah, blah, blah. But I'd love to see Kai come back. But the thing that's going to upset people is you think it's especially the termation. They're not going to like it. But I think David, IMentioned it before. Kai should get his shape, do the Arnold, if he wins the Arnold, then invited to the Olympia. But he's been out for five years now. If he gets invited, there's going to be a lot of people upset who don't want him there. And then if he wins the Arnold and gets an invite, the people at the Arnold who are going to the Olympia are going to get pissed off. That he's going to the Olympia. And it's not a qualifying show. So even way people are going to hate Kai. Yeah, so just to clarify, it's the picture. So a video clip from the 2014 Olympia where obviously Kai and Phil went face to face. And yeah, war is coming. Hashtag Kai versus hashtag fill. Mark your calendar as a video has Kai and Phil yelling at each other at that 2014 Olympia press conference. So we've been here again. We've been at this junction before, right? If Kai has been to come back and whether or not he actually confirms, well, wait on official work. Who knows, that might not even be for the Olympia. IMight be at another venue. But the hot dog eating contest. I want to break it. Why were all here on break and then use a breaking news that's like the 90s revisited me loss, Kamali, Melbourne and myself. We're all coming back next year. They're going to bring back the eye main show. The four of us are coming back breaking news. They heard of he first. Oh, I have to have one because seemingly every episode of Astate. Now, there's some iteration of, hey Dave, do you think Lee's coming back? Hey Dave, you think Lee's really listically coming back? Hey Dave, Lee Lee this Lee that. Where are we? Back on stage. Anytime within the next 18 months. Oh, well, slow. I'll come back when Kai comes back. I'm not this new era, the world we're in. I think it's fantastic. And yes, I am saying, I am coming back. You're probably seeing me back if not next year to year after, but you will address me as Lee A. As I should be doing the miscellaneous. Thank you very much. Prof, you trened, Janda. I'm going into the women's. Thank you. I know, I know some of the, the, the clitorisers might be bigger than my deep heart. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please, I'm sorry. Please, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And that humility, Melanie Anthony will be shavinGHis, IMean, her beard and she'll be coming back to in the miscellaneous. Yes. No, no, no, no, no, no, I got to do the couples together. So, uh, devil is a laugh. I do it. Just do the, you're opinion it. Do we see Kai and Phil on the Olympia stage this year? I think we'll see Kai for sure. I doubt we're going to see Phil. IMean, look, uh, and if you have that competitive spirit, and I'm sure that the Calvin and Dave and Lee can confirm this. And let's say if we can close to be second at Olympia, few times, and in our heart, we feel like we could have won like Kai feels it. He has no injuries. He looks good. He set up for life, you know, he's situated, but that's fire must be still burning. And looking at the competition last few years, maybe he got that, uh, question mark, like, no, maybe I can come back and do the damage. And I think he can. So I absolutely think that Kai will be back. Phil, Arnold first, he's got to do the Arnold first. I tried. Well, okay, okay, okay, okay, first, I don't think that Arnold is qualified for 2000 tournament here. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, this would be irrelevant anyway. But, uh, and he showed forget, fuck the Arnold. Do any show before? Bye, bye, bye, bye, bye, bye, Kai. Okay, IMean, uh, I can. Kai has established himself as a runner up at Olympia a few times. He took a time off. That's he really need to prove anything, okay, earn a qualification now. This is why the LNC Olympia have that right to invite somebody that can bring the audience, that can bring excitement. And Kai is that for him to tren for some other show, peak twice. And all the sudden, he will make no sense. I think Kai green earned the right to get not just in the station, but golden stamp in the station anytime you want to be at Olympia stage. This is, this is my thing. And in the 90s, back in the day, I don't know if you guys remember, Olympia winner qualifies forever. Top two. The second place was qualified for three years. Oh, really, I didn't know that. Yeah, that was back in the day. You know, so, okay, of course, it's a well over three years, but Kai green is Kai green. IMean, all of us want to see him back to make him, do what? Puerto Rico, not Puerto Rico, Portugal show or what is stampa show? And now, what for? No, I think you're right, but I have one second. Let me ask me a question. Would you give that same right or that same respect to victim Martinez? Oh, hell yes. And yes, listen, listen, over. But I'm here, let me tell you this in the, I just thought to imagine about this. I qualified for Olympia 10 years in the row, about a 2010 house, and I wasn't allowed to complete like medical clearance from my central accent, whatever. The end 2001, I had a shoulder surgery 2002, my knee blew up, and I said 2002, 2003, I wanted to maybe ask for special invitation, because, you know, many people are getting special invitation. So, say maybe 2003, I could. The fucking Sean said to me that he's going to ask for an invitation. So, I didn't ask for invitation, because Sean was going to get that invitation. And now, to first of all, this Martinez won that 2003, that champion's yellow great at that choking, you know, Bell me. So, now, you and I have promoters of the show, and all of us have promoters of the show. And we want to bring more audience, you know, to see the show and more excitement. And it is between Victor and Kai, who would you give a advantage of? We don't do a lot Victor, a lot of his music and everything. I think that Kai has established himself as a better competitor, more consistent at the top of Olympia. So, for that reason, you know, you can have a two invitations, I think that Kai would get seniority. I think we're also debating something that, again, has been debated over the last couple of years, and that's whether or not Kai quote unquote deserves a special invite. We had the same debate about big ramen last year. So, let's just have this conversation under the framework of less as the promoters would, extend a special invite, regardless of whether that's fair or unfair. But thEQuestion is, if we're going to see Kai actually come through and compete this year, and for that matter, Phil, Miller, I want to go back to you real quick. Why do you not think that we would see Phil this year? Well, why, okay, listen, and I have a great respect for Phil. He came scaled down version of Phil, he was not competitive, and then really it was questionable if he could have if he should have been a party chupan or chopan, I said, I know what is correct, he pronunciation. But the lesson, so he was slipping already to a fork. For a seven-time Eastern Olympia, just like, okay, Ronnie kept competing and keeps slipping and then Jay did the same thing, and keeps slipping. What good would that do to his career? If he believes he can win, of course, this and then he should come back. He's qualified he could. I just think that he lost that edge. You know, there was, we all talked about it. Dave, who came to Lee, everybody's going to have a great, he had that 3D, something extra, something special to you see him. Even though he was not the widest guy, he's so full, he created that, he loosened crazy arms, crazy back though, vice-insteaded moods, so he had that. He was gone. Even when he lost to Sean Rodney, and some people say, yeah, he was in shape, but he was slightly off. Well, slightly off takes the edge away from Phil. He no longer has a 3D world, I'm Mr. Olympia, you can touch him. So Sean Rodney, he's already now three guys beinGHere with three to seven people. I can't see him coming back. I would love to see as a fan, I would love to see him coming back. And be at his best. I was actually in the interview before the Olympia, if you remember, I was predicted that he's going to come in the old-time best and win. Last year, but he didn't. Lee, pretty senior opinion, Kai Green, Phil Heat, but we see them on season here. If I was the betting man, I'd pick Kai over, feel like Phil's great and it's like, me or I said, he just lost that suddenly, and wherever, you know, physical enough, but the main thing you have to remember is in this sport at so much mental. And I think Kai Green still has that mentality where he can tren and want to be the best Phil, like I said, maybe after losing and getting the lower placing, back and sometimes the mess with your mind. And if you, if your mind's not 100%, your body won't be 100%. And you had just seen when Phil came out last year before, Phil, when he walked out on stage, just a champ. He looked like the champion that staged presence like Arnold, your walk on stage, your join-to-one. And some guys, they might not have the best physique, but their stage presence and the positivity they give off, they can win, shows because you're just in awe of him and Phil seemed to be lacking that where when I see Kai, I think he's still as that eye to tiger mentality. And he can put it into his trening any stage presence. And like I said, if you don't have it 100%, set up stairs, your body won't be 100% downstairs. And that's where it all comes from. That mind, if they get that mind muscle connection, you've got to have that wheel and stuff. And I just think Phil is somewhere along the way, this is just my opinion, it might not be even true, but I just feel like Phil's just slipped a little bit. And when you're at that level, like me, I said, if you're not 100%, 90%. 90% is still fantastic. But if you're just at one, two% off at that level, it shows big time. Melvin, from a view that you had of this Kai and Phil rivalry, obviously taking ahead in 2014. And then obviously seeing Phil go on to what he is accomplished. And just that specter of mystery with Kai, what would it mean to you to see them back on stage, perhaps on more time? I agree with all the guys. I believe that that would be a crazy battle. I believe that Kai definitely deserves a special end by it. Doesn't matter how people feel about your mad or whatever, but that guy is a different breed. That I see in Kai Green's body, I've competed against him. I've seen him. He hasn't lost the gas. He still has gas in his tank. So if he decides and gets that special end by it comes back, he can win. He's not a joke. He has thaT3-dimensional look. When he says he's 300 pounds, that boy is 300 pounds. I've seen the guy eat. He deserves it. He still has that fire and I agree with me, Llewish, but he says that when a person gets second and gets second again and then you leave and he's still in his mind, he didn't stop trening. So it's still in his mind that's something that he still wants to attain. So I think he deserves an special end by it. It should matter. Give it to him. Because he will bring that entertainment value. People will kind of debilts spend money to see it. And that's that. It shouldn't be talking about it. Let's give him the end by it and see what happens. But Melville's go back to who point those made earlier on. I forget if it was Llewish or Milo's. But if you're a Kai Green, and obviously we talk about the entertainment value that he brings to the stage. And I think the only thing that bodybuilding, the bodybuilding fans really have sourd on him about is the fact that there has been the will he will he not expected that has gone on for the last seven years. But aside from that, IMean, the guy is universally beloved in the bodybuilding world and the unique aspect that he brings to the state. But in your opinion, if you're Kai Green, you're looking at the line-up order with the course of the last couple of years. Are you thinking years up realistically? You know what? I have a shot at one of that Mr. Olympia title. I'm going to, if they was me with my mentality, I'm getting that get it. Because there's a window of opportunity. And that window stays open for only so long. Once that window closes, they move on. Like Milo says said, when you wait too long, you have to know, I remember Milo's told me a long time ago. I don't know Milo's remembers this. And John had told me years before that. But Milo says something to me once he's like, you know what? He goes, you know, when you have the money, get it, when you can get it. You got to know when to say when. When Milo's is trening me, you got to know, you know, when I don't forget what much what people tell him. You got to know when to say when, because if you leave, and then you come back, you'll get worse. And guys have tried it. You know, when we were coming through 2000, 2001, 2003, Sean, you know, he, I'm going to go have babies. He knew when to say when, because on that day at the minister of Olympia, me and Dexter was killinGHim. He knew if you come back, it's over with Kevin LeVron comes back. It's over with. Now, so somebody came back later. The time was past you after that window of opportunity. If you don't have the gas, you don't have the 100% man telling you, you're not trening the same. You try to come back. The guys nowadays going to eat you up. I know when to say when I know when to sit down. Let me see. Kai still has it. So he should come back and get it before they closed the window on it. That's just my, you know, he's a friend of mine. So I'm, I would tell him that. Yeah, hey, man, get that money. You can win him and going against Romney. That's what that man, I would be a battle man. Whew, I like to see it because I know what Kai brings to the table along with entertainment. That boy got a body. He has a 3D look. He's full. You know, he has a with taper big legs, big cap. That boy got everythinGHe needs to do it. Now, it's up to you if you smash the gas or not. I just want to throw my two cents in. Yeah. You know, I think it would be a great battle. IMean, as a fan, I'd love to see Randy first Kai and all the other guys. I don't want to discount the other guys too because I think they'll be up there as well. But I think Kai's window to win that Olympia was the year that Rodin was pulled from the Olympia because of the whole accusation and the arrest and Brandon Curry want. That was Kai's Olympia in my mind that he easily could have come in in one that show. Nothing, nothing away from Brandon but Kai's got the legs man and the wheels and I think that would have been his show. I think coming back now against Randy who's who's surging at this point and getting better. I think I think he's going to have a hard time beatinGHim. Yeah, IMight have had a hard time, but I think Kai, I don't know if he's still seeing Kai 100-100% with senior 99 but that Chris, for a while, I think even now, like Rami, how that never went for Rami's Mr Olympia, he's huge in that. But Rami had his best in Kai's best. Kai is morecomplete. He's got that 3D cartoon look. He just flows better whereas Rami's wide. He's got the big body parts. But when you're putting Kai and Rami side by side at their best, I'll give it to Kai because Kai just looks morecomplete. He's got that 3D look. That's taken up in a way from Rami. You're thinking of Kai greening my side and beatinGHim. How long ago was that? Yeah, but he's in the new pictures, right? Yeah, but the new picture is pretty good. Yeah, looks quite competitive. Yeah, what's good? Kai the whole time he hasn't been competing. Kai hasn't stopped. Even though he hasn't been competing, you look at Kai the last five years offseason. He still looks like he's a guy that has been competing. Yeah. It looks better than the guys who arecompeting. So Kai hasn't turned it down one bit at all. He's not working. He's been competing. So he's been away from the stage, but mentally he hasn't been away from the gym or anything else. He's still a bodybuilder for him. I agree with you that I agree with you Dave that Kai greeninGHad that opportunity when Brandon won. Yeah, for sure. But for him as a competitor, he probably feels that he can beat Rami. And as Lee is saying, look at their pictures of their best. So they're both a mass monster. Kai has proven that he can get in the better condition. He has a thick muscle, but he has a stride as muscle. I remember back in a day when he does this back relax and then it lasts like Dorian, right, glutes, down the feathers on thEQuads. IMean, we all like these striations that you know, that are particularly dance muscle. Right. And the Kai has it. So Rami is wider. He can exploit that with maybe, but then it's going to still beat. You have to hit the diagonal of ice. So let's let's see thEQuality. So I think it's going to be a wonderful balance. I think that let's not fight against the better arms. Let's not forget that we almost Kai almost lost the center of the McMillan at the Arnold class again 14. Yeah. Oh, yeah. You see, but he's one of the posing around that's how he wanted it. No, but let's make something clear. You know, because even after the McMillan, McMillan, the McMillan, the McMillan, the McMillan, as his best could be Mr. Olympia. We all agree, right? So it's not like one man show, two men show. Back in the day, in the 90s, there was like 10 men show. IMean, Lee Priest would play 7 and Chris 8 and Ronnie 9 and I would be 10 in the whatever show. You know, it stopped 10, but then in Europe and Europe, there was Chris Toss. Lee would beat you know, guys ahead of him and and Chris and Tom. Because it was the tight show when he's the time guys, somebody has to be first, somebody has to be last. So, magically, Melan narrowly losing to Kai during the Mc's nothing. He just means that he is also great. And Kai looks at his chances and I think he likes his chances. That's why he's coming back. Come on, you know, Aaron Sligerman. You know, as soon as he's signing up, you don't think there was already a talk, amen. I think you look quite good, maybe you can do the Olympia. I'm sure there was some kind of a financial incentive in there. Yeah, you're right. Thank you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So let's wrap it up on this. No, we're going to go around the horn. Let's just say, right again, the picture that we saw last week with Kai at 317 pounds. And let's just say, Kai comes in on. All right. And let's just assume that you're looking at a top five-ish without Kai off of Romney, of Hottechupon, of William Bonnet, Rally Winkler, a King William, somewhere in that combination, we throw in like Ian Valier. If Kai competes, if Kai is on, Melvin will go to you first, where is he placing? And IMean, absolutely on. If Kai comes in absolutely on, he wins drostanolone on there. Lee, please. Oh, great. He comes in on his best ever. He wins because nobody else really is probably to close the second with that thing. It's been free. They look, but nobody else. They're just some people for our district and have that look where he just looked in orange shock and he has that look and if he's 100% on, call it Wings, King Kamali. First or second. Melvin, I'm adding in the politics aspect in there too. Who is this second? King, who is it up to? Don't do it, don't do it. Don't let me know. Get your life down. What? Clarence Bas and, uh, don't pretend. Don't do it. Look at Dave Lappa. You know exactly answer now. No, it's exactly who Clarence Bas is. I am on TV show. No, just for just some sort of answer. ThEQuestion is, you know, honestly, it will come down to Kai and Rami. But as you guys were just talking right now, I'm sitting there thinking of myself, okay, but both of them are at their best. All you guys are saying, and I agree, it will be the battle in Kai. You're giving Kai the knot, but think of it this way too. I know this is we're trying to wrap this up. We'll do this quick. Front double bicep Kai. Front last spread. I would give it to Rami. Side chest, Rami. Side tricep. It's close. Back double bicep Kai. Back last spread. It's close. Most muscular. I would give it to Rami. So it's not as close as you guys. IMean, it's not as Kai is going to walk away. That's why Rami. Yeah. It's not you guys are not like that. They've got to stay in next to each other at their all-time best and like they said, you got with against compacted mass. So IMean, 3D. It's that they're 3D full. Cat. I don't think it would be an easy win, but I think if it's that judge, I think KaIMight just get the knot. If it becomes there, it wouldn't be easy. That's for sure. Wouldn't be an easy walking the pot. No. It would be a great battle. Does Mr. Olivia get the knot though? How he always does if it's close though, you know? That's he's going to have to knock him off. Right. Nobody edges out the Mr. Olivia. Yes, the knocking off. Yeah. So I think Kai can knock him off. It's not going to be easy. It won't be a walk in the park because Rami is no joke at all whatsoever, but neither is Kai. And like I said, I've seen Kai have that 3D mentioned on mature, straighted muscle everywhere to where you I remember we were at in Australia. And like, you know, Milo said earlier, you can flip flop it changes. And we were back there and I tend to go do recon when I go, you know, because I get bored. So I go walk around people's room and get to get a picture and I walk around that curtain. And I see Kai over there by himself. I ran. He got big a said, man, you want to fight that boy. He's a witch. But he's going to go look at me. Man, that's to walk around that corner. He's so shit. I'm not. I guess you want to fight you. He's not. I think that that's going to get that knot from the fact that he comes in 100% off. And it's like, it's like they've said, dude, I look at that recent picture of Ruli. That recent picture of Ruli is legit and not touched up. Had it's really go at his best. He's right in there. He's right in there. He's right in there. Rob Ruli, you know, just about the point in King Olympia could have been his opportunity. Me, your perfect scenario of Kai being coming in. Oh, one word is he place. If he comes down, he wins. If he comes down, he wins. We don't do respect. I love the bigger enemy for many, many years. I was saying that's structured that with X frame. IMean, but then it comes this is silhouette. You know, then you turn the lights on and then you see thEQuality. More hardness, more dense, straighted beef is on on the kai. You know, this is how I see it. Yeah, I love Kamal is comparisons from Robis and Slicepeden all of a sudden. And you know, it would be great to see it when they go have to head. But you say side chest to Rami, yeah, side because that crazy hamstring lutes and all that stuff. But still upstairs, you have the crazy bison of a bargei and a thick chest and a straighted. I'm not sure who wins that one as well as side triceps. And then Kai is competitive in every single pose. Big Rami doesn't have a strational, most muscular pose. You know, he still left something. Crazy quads in separation, but not feathers like Kai has. And when he's and I'm sure that Kai's going to exploit that. IMean, he if I go against you, King or Ali or Madden, I'm not going to try to fight you in the poses that you know, you smoke me. But on the poses that I know, I can smoke you. I'm going to give it a shout. And I'm going to make sure that everybody saw it. You know, if it's nice, if it's abs, intercostals, whatever. And this is what Kai has experience. Even you have to say that Rami has experience, but not top two Olympia experience like Kai has. So I think if to ask your question, if he comes in his best shape, he wins. Even though the kind of overlookinGHow the chupan who is phenomenal and he could be in the mix. Because if he comes really improved, don't forget he was straight second from every judge in Saturday, you know, it's either show. So he was not even questionable. He was second better than Brandon and Phil Heath. And that was fresh off a 14 hour flight from. Yeah. Yes. So don't describe the person involved here. He is super dangerous. IMean, King King King, King King, that is that's more than me. Dave, let me take a zoom on this one. I know how this went from whether or not we believe Kai will compete to now essentially with Kai in a way. And the 2021 in Strelimbia in your opinion, Kai, the way you know him, the way you've seen his physique progress. What we saw last week in that progress picture if Kai is on worthy place of the 21 Olympia. I don't believe he's showing up. I just can't take the bait. I hope he proves me wrong. I really do. I can't take that fucking carrot. And answer the damn effort thEQuestion. You know what? Look, we're thinking about Kai Green at his best. That was a long time ago. I know he looks amazing in pictures. I'm sure he's going to be in great shape. Structurally as he's going to be as good. Well, that midsection be as taught as it was when he was competing at his best. I don't know. Rami to me is fresh, still looking. I think that I think there's other guys, Heidi Schuppen and Rami. I think, IMean, and um, excuse me, and really, that's very, very dangerous in that line of view too. I think Kai is going to have a tough time. And I think that, you know, he's got, you got to, you can't discount rust. There's rust still. He doesn't have a, he hasn't competed a very long time. There's always rust to shake off when you first get back on stage again. It's, it's, it's hard. It's a hard decision. I can't see. I, I would, Rami would have to be off to lose to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to Kai. I don't think Kai can beat Rami unless Rami is off a little bit. And that, that's how I feel. I think that you got to give them not to the Mr. Olympia. I think Rami is sitting in the driver seat right now. I think KaIMissed his opportunity two years ago. But man, I would be so super excited to see Kai back on stage. And that's what it's all about. We talked about the sport. Does never need excitement anymore. Come on, I'll say it when we started. Kai coming back would inject the sport with a freaking adrenaline shot that we haven't seen for 15 years. I agree. It will be exciting. Fans, you let us know what you think comment below whether or not you think Kai would compete at the 2020 when Olympia and if so, becomes in on where you think he will play. So that's going to do for this episode of Iron Debate Special Thanks. Meowo Sarset, King Kamali, Leapree, Melvin Anthony, Tyler Shorten, we great job is always behind the boards Dave Plumbo. For everyone involved, I'm so deep for rookie. We'll see you next time. Thanks, guys. Great show.

=== FILE: CarbohydrateManIsGone [ys2wny06w3I].txt ===

Uh, Dave, that's how you... The biggest mistake IMade was going into the office this morning. I got hit and a job by something. What? Why am I on the floor? Well, it's a Hungarian doinGHere. It's a... there's so many things. Why are you filming me? What is this? I don't know why I am. I should... I can't even get up. Uh, Dave... Hey, you shut the fuck up, man! Uh, Dave... He's got our support, you know, moving forward. Next year, it's going to be a lot better.

=== FILE: Cardio Confessional Ep 1 Pt 2- I'm Back, Baby! [6Ap06HJwW-o].txt ===

Oh, I'm back baby. That's right. New brand new series of cardio professionals To help motivate me hopefully and maybe you I got actually a lot of good feedback On the whole last set of cardio professionals Leading up to the branch for war in classic in my men's physique debut So of course now that I decided to do another show and continue on and Iron Mag Lab is a graciously Allow me to continue on with them representing their company providing me a supplements I'm continuing on with this whole journey with the new set of cardio professionals and And first I'm gonna talk a little bit about the continuing along with Iron Mag Labs and the decision to continue doing this and doing another show And then I'll talk a little bit about motivation or the lack thereof in my case So the decision to continue on was based upon the fact that I had such a good time Doing it doing the contest preparing up to the contest The dieting process the whole thing I really enjoyed it and I really had no regrets and You know even I didn't place in the top five which I would like to so I had a qualified I still had a great time and I really I really wasn't was kind of almost said it was all over now I also had such good feedback from people industry people People with their listen to the radio shows that watch the cardio professionals even even they've Plumbo gave me some props and if you know Dave it's about as hard to get a compliment out of Dave as it is Anybody IMean you almost Get a compliment from the wall easier than you get one from Dave Blumbo so for him to Be complimentary and even to endorse me continuing on Was just one of the signs that made me want to continue doing this so Now let's bring fast forward to right now This is the first day dieting again I'm a little under 240 pounds if you remember last time I was two 66 right around In the two sixties I think the first cardio professional does 250 or something I already started dieting So I'm starting considerably smaller In fat mass really I think the in reality I am More lean muscle tissue Then I did because I had such a good rebound after the context I'm really if you look back You go look at my face and everything from this cardio conventional number one of series two compared to number one of one And you'll see you know I'm nowhere near as holding the water fat and everything else that I was the last time around so With the goal the goal is to be five to ten pounds tighter So that's the keyword tighter not necessarily smaller and not trying to lose a bunch of muscle You know and really I talked to Ted at Dietcote who's helping me again this time video a phenomenal job advising me last time I listened to his diet and because I cut the calories faster than I would on my own in the carbs Because of Ted's advice I look the way that you guys saw that I looked So IMean Ted don't want to focus too much on the weight on the scale this time I think that I think maybe that would be that was my my focus more than anything More more so even than tads Now this time we're not gonna focus this silly in the scale we're gonna go warm looks The guidelines that I've been given was five to ten pounds less So That's what I'm gonna shoot for even though the numbers aren't necessarily important that really the goal To give you an idea of the look that we're looking for Is we want the seratus and obliques to have stuff going on Not just the ads my abs are always good they're good right now and If you looked my conditioning was fine If you looked at some of the top guys who went pro this year the difference between my condition in the Acidition was their seratus and obliques when they twist you saw a lot of stuff going on there In mine You saw some but it wasn't as dry or tight Is some of the top guys that are doing it so that's really the goal and hopefully obviously you can't pick and choose where the The five pounds comes out of but ideally That's where you'll see me tighter this time around Now Let's talk about motivation After the diet after my lab the contest I really could have continued on very easily right after that It wouldn't have been that difficult for me. I was like in the right frame of mind Now since then I told you I'm not much fatter just bigger Maybe holding a probably a 10 pounds of water which I'm assuming I'll drop Pretty quick from cutting out the carbs and stopping the junk food. I'm gonna be honest with you all I have been doing the opposite of what I was doing the tad and And kind of revered it back to my old Diet the typical geobac a diet which is McDonald's cakes pies Ice cream Dairy products Nobody building food whatsoever No lean meat no rice No vegetables nothing good which I can't say I'm proud of I haven't been doing the cardio like I thought I was gonna do Basically Other than the weight trening Which has hasn't been a hundred percent there have been weekends or IMissed completely three or four days I didn't tren in a row because of shows being out of town etc So I haven't I haven't really stuck with things like I would like to have so now I'm doing kind of even I don't look like it I'm kind of going from Zero to 60 again like I did last time And mentally It's not as easy to go from zero to sixly Is it just stopping the food and start doing the cardio again? So I'm gonna wear a place IMet the gym doing cardio and for the first time in a long long time I don't really want to be and I didn't really want to do the diet this morning I still had some donuts left IMean I was looking really hard at those donuts this morning It was the toughest it's been It's a cycle remember To avoid the donuts and make egg whites instead So I feel like it's gonna be challenging for the first few weeks until I develop a habit again of doing the right things You know So this is gonna be I'm gonna let you guys All like you know how this goes the challenge goes I've actually Getting back on the diet and doing the things I need to now that I'm in the gym doing the cardio it's not that bad But getting in here today was harder than it usually isn't staying on the diet hasn't been Hasn't been funded all so Hopefully the fun will come back into this You know I'm doing cardio pretty easy real it relatively easy I'm starting out Ted starting out with 70 minutes of cardio right off the bat Which is not uh not what I was hoping for or expecting so I've got a lot of cardio right off the bat. I'm starting with relatively low carbs You know we're doing a carb cycling diet like we did before I am having a cheat meal on Saturdays my chat my I do have one higher carb day But most of my carbs are around 150 grams a day So It's gonna be tough But I know that I can do it And my goal is He's in an already say Texas state which middle of October I'm looking at it about eight weeks to go to the show I don't think I'll have any problem getting down Assuming I you know mentally Focus in like I need to and then Hopefully I do what I need to do to qualify four weeks later will be national's in Miami And They give away three pro cards In my high class It sounds pretty crazy and you can talk about stuff like that But man it would be really cool If I could get a pro card I never imagined a million years that have I be pro cards or anything So I would love to be To be able to take that pro card on my wallet and show it to Dave Pulumball every once in a while when he yells at me into to show him Who's the IPP pro here not you buddy? I think they would almost just from material for the radio show to fuck with Dave It would almost just be worth it for that so fingers crossed I've been doing I need to do over here I want to give a big big thank you to Robert to Masjo Iron Mag Labs for believing in me Continuing sponsoring me Continuing allowing to me to be their national spokesperson For a great company that provides Supplements that really do work no bullshit. I know pro body builders Personally many of them that take Iron Mag Labs supplements And love them Where we're always if everything else they take they're spending their own money to buy Iron Mag Labs supplements And you know what they take so if they're buying These supplements with their own money they must be pretty fucking good right right So let's talk for a second about what I'm taking different this time I'm not taking the cyanostane or the super DMZ as up today I took a few weeks off of all that I started today with the Decker Draw Max and the one Andrew Rx Both not methylated from the take those for a few weeks And then switch back to super DMZ which is my favorite Little later on Maybe if one or two of those in there But for right now I'm trying the Decker Draw which is brand new and The one Andrew which I'm taking before I'm also taking the e-control which I didn't take in really before Accent towards the very end so we'll see how all these things work and Thank you very much Iron Mag Labs as always visit Iron Mag Labs.com Use the discount code Rx 2011 for 10% off You can't go wrong by buying something for them No joke the shit works Thank you also the Teddi Di Coach who is helping me out again Did a wonderful job last time expecting even better results this time now that we know what we're shooting for So thank you all for watching as always I take any suggestions you guys can email me Give you some feedback whatever you want to hear me talk about or suggestions whatever Jeubaka jubie cc i at rxmuscle.com looking forward to hearing from you Thank everybody for watching and hopefully you enjoy the new journey Part two and Thank you guys that's it for now. Bye

=== FILE: Cardio Confessional Ep 2 Pt 2- Motivational Videos [_X1uzgsKZT8].txt ===

Oh, I'm back, left.com. We got to back on the road to Professor Nolus and right here. Sorry, folks, you're confessing Nolus. So two parts, two of the cardio confessions. It's great. I got to the gym very late. It's around 9 o'clock right now in my time. I'm here in Houston, Texas. I'd like to get to the gym earlier than this, but it is what it is, and at least I'm here. Today wasn't as bad as yesterday, especially with the eating. I found some motivation and actually some of you all out there helped me find this motivation. I'll tell you how in just a second. But if it wasn't as bad a day, it's just thingly enough. It lost. Two pounds already. I'm sure it's fluid, of course. Between the 70 minutes of cardio and cutting out all the carbs. Actually yesterday, I wasn't able to eat all my meals. Ted has eaten seven meals, and he only got through five of them. I didn't do all my protein shake meals. I think my body, you know, I haven't even had protein tricks at all. Since I stopped my diet since I ended the last contest prep. So starting with, you know, I don't want to give away to me a Ted's tricks, but I'm eating a lot of protein powder right now. Nine scoops in some days. So I don't know, my body's not used to it. You know, it's upsetting my stomach a little bit. So yesterday only got five meals in the seven, and only 150 grams of carbs. So I dropped some fluid, I guess, and I can actually tell a difference. I guess because I'm so, I'm not that far from being in shape shape. So two pounds actually made a visible difference. And today was a pretty good day in the gym. I trened back today. I weighed so not pretty good. I felt good trening. Now, I've been a yesterday. And today, I've been kind of experimenting with some new, pretty work out supplements. Unfortunately, I didn't know that I was going to have this one ingredient, but I really like the one three DMEA or DMEA. Yeah. This thing is like a short acting in Fedemy and of sorts. It's in one MR, Jack 3D. Other ones, and I got a lot of samples from people recently. It's said in me different ones of these, and I've been trying out. But when I took today, I didn't like much from back in the, I'm actually in the name. You know, I like the fact of it, but the taste is horrible. It's got a taste like if you're going to drink this every day or regularly. I don't think it's actually a good idea to take it every day. I've taken it the last two days, as I needed the motivation to get in the gym and tren, but the day of the one was very against even caffeine. Anything like that, any stimulant. And the one three DMEA is extremely, you know, it kicks caffeine's ass. So since it's not really what he recommends, I really, it's not a lot of people recommend to use every day. I'm sure it raises quarters all levels, but if it's either that or don't come in and get a workout or get a bad workout, I definitely use, or prefer to do that. Especially somebody like me, who's not, I don't really have to be too cute worried about losing a little tiny bit of extra muscle. So I did use it again today, and I'm going to try to keep using it. Some other samples I have to find when I like. Ideally, I would just use it once or twice a week. We're not even that, but anyway, so things are going pretty good today. The diet's been pretty easy. I've been on the limit meals today, I've done four so far. Three left, I got one right when I leave here. But, you know, yesterday I talked about lack of motivation or being. Not as motivated as I was, well, that's kind of test-prep in the beginning. Like I said, it was a little better today. One of the reasons was because some of you guys out there set me some videos. And I was really excited with one of them. I thought it was really cool. And I did, I wanted to have three million views on YouTube. So I know some people had seen it, but I didn't think that many people had seen it. So, IMean, like percentage wise, if you watch this, these are people in our, it's muscle and on the boards, I just didn't know how many people had seen it. So I showed it to Peter I've run. Unfortunately, that's my body. He's already seen it. So he has seen it. So I'm figure maybe a lot of you have already seen it, but I'm so not thrown in here. Because when I watch it, I really, obviously, it really pumped me up. You know, it's like a high school coach talking to a high school football team to get them pumped up before again, but I got to tell you, it was pretty cool. And I appreciate Keith Thomas for sending that to me. He is a guy on the board. And that's his real name. So I won't give out his board name, because he doesn't want that to be given out. But thank you for sending this to me. I hope all you all enjoyed the video. If you're watching this while you're doing cardio, maybe we'll get you pumped up to keep doing it. Maybe go a little harder. I'll move it up a resistance level or in my case a cross ramp and resistance level, my little pre-core here. Anyway, here's the video. Let me know what you think of it. I'll be back in a minute. Today gentlemen, I've been on a coach, you're not a teacher with a real talent. But there's another one that you still don't want to do. That is a mental need to come to that question. Who am I? I am a champion. That's right. You don't remember how long you was getting. I would call for what is not become. If you see what I've given my pre-core, I will believe with other people's help. I will always endeavor to keep on respecting my team. I've trened my mind and my body will fall. Who am I? I'm a champion. I would know that back in my college, you might have spent your week. I will never surrender. Weakens will not be in my heart. I will go to my club and there's also a part of this world. It knows what it's trening me. And I will try to explain from that. Who am I? I am a champion. I will crash, go off to the field of battle. And I will move and everything I can do. And I will beat my good bell and get him in the mind of all of us. Don't let Jeff there. I will fight by the way. I will grip the heart from my every step and even brinGHim on the ground. Because he can not stop him. Who am I? I am a champion. To my side I have promised. Come rest in the business and pick his death. Who is that who I am? Who is that who is here? Never will I let the fall. Never will I let the death. And I will never live in any life. Because our part does not know my heart. Who am I? I am a champion. No one will deny. No one will deny me. And no one will tell me who and what I am. It can be. But leave what's a fight world. It is broken by this new country. It is put me out of the moon. And it will carry me through this battle. Who am I? I am a champion. To defeat, retreat, those are not in my work. I don't understand those definitions. I don't understand what they go wrong. I don't understand what they say. I do understand this. I understand that I understand never surrender. No matter how bad they go. My heart, my mind will carry my body to my limits and be. Who am I? I understand this. The devil will be that devil. Not the world. Not that weak. But right now, right here. And do how to do your whole. Who am I? I understand this. It is put me out of the moon. I will not stop me from fighting because I will not find myself. I will not let my whole planet. I don't know what I am going to do. I will never go wrong. I don't have to give a everything like life. I do it by my mind. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. I understand this. Pretty cool, right? If you hadn't seen already, I'm sure you're glad you have seen it. You have seen already. Hopefully you watched it again. Got something out of it. If not, I guess you probably afforded it. I got one other one that everybody seen. If you haven't seen it, you definitely should have seen it. This is a very famous video in one of my favorite movies. I won't watch it anymore. There are so many times. I want to watch people that watch a movie once. If I really like it, I probably will never watch it again. I'm not somebody who watches movies over and over again. The fact that I've seen it braveheart, there's many times I have. I told you how much I liked it. You probably know. They've got sad parts. It's a long movie. If you watch iT4 or five times, maybe like me, five or six or seven times, you're pretty much done with it. But there's a scene in that. It's very famous. You should probably already know what I'm talking about. William Wallace is lined up his men because ridinGHis horse. He's about to give this a little speech to pump up the men. Here it is. I'm in my countrymen. Here in the fire in security. You've come to fight a free man. And free man, you are. What will you do without freedom? Will you fight? You guess that? No. We will run. We will live. No. Fight in you may die. Run. And you'll live. At least a while. I'm dying in your beds. Many use from now. Would you be willing to tren all the days from this day to that? But one chance, just one chance, to come back here and tell our enemies that they may take our lives. But they'll never take. Vote right on! Help! I'm protective! Help! I don't know what to quietly run. I don't know why. I don't put this sticker on. So I'm concerned YouTube won't let me use all that So it might be a short clip, but you get the gist right and you get the feel of it See how much YouTube will let's me put in there without copyright In friction and that's a problem that I've run into a few times. I got a few cardio confessional from the old one But I edited Got up there and everything. I was wondering why there are no views on the thing Turns out if you're Plaining music or any video if it's copyright Copyrighted you get like a little infringement notice and you have to edit it out and sometimes you if it doesn't make any sense if I edit out Some pieces are videos or songs out of the Cardio confessional with the whole thing and ends up not making sense. So I'm just warning you anyway That's it for today. Those are my thoughts This is a number two of two. This is two days in a row. I'm trying to overload you all with having one of these every day I don't know some people want more of them some people don't catch up with the other one So you know until all these Get seen you know, IMight take a break for a few days. I am traveling this weekend I will be in Tampa Florida visiting my girlfriend Darial gains and We're going to see help for sister Move into her She's going to school college in Orlando so we're gonna help mom and her sister Move I don't know if I actually do be helping doing the moving, but we'll be up there Being supportive I guess. I don't really know whatever they need me to do. I'll do and I don't get a little extra cardio out of the whole thing But that should be interesting and I'll be eating on the road So I'll get a little practice of what's the come out of the nissime? That's my only trip till the Olympia four weeks from now before weeks from this weekend So I should make a lot of progress by then you guys see me at the Olympia. I'll be very very drawn in and skinny by then I imagine all you guys That's it for today as always visit ironmaaglabs.com You use the discount code rx 2011 for 10% off get some supplements that do really work. Hey You can try what I'm taking right now. This is the deck of draw the one-andrel rx and the e-control And I'll as you know if when I win and I change it when I will a few weeks I'll see how this stuff works. All right. That's it for today over and out

=== FILE: Cardio Confessional Ep 3 Pt 2- Outside Cardio With Darielle Gaines [XFYwvqU7ZA4].txt ===

Oh, our ex. On MagLebs.com. We got to back on the road to Professor Nolus and right here. Right here at the Cardi Yoke and Fess in the... For your professional episode number three season two. Anyway, you'll notice something that's different about this one from the other ones. I'm actually doing outside cardio, which I encourage people to do for a change. We're walking. It's not just me. Got Daryl Gaines here. Say hi. Hi. And we're going to talk about a few things. But first off, we're going to talk about the importance of a partner. A partner in the gym and a cardio buddy in this case. She also helped me. We did a legs today, which men's physique legs is... It's a different kind of leg trening. She actually trened legs quite a bit harder than I did, right? I did. I trened her for legs. Yeah, I trened... No, you didn't push yourself. You're a partner and a push deal. Yes, that's where you're my partner. Don't make trusty partner. So, what we did, what I did, you know, people asked you still tren legs and everybody knows I didn't have the best legs to begin with. So, what I did for legs this time, what I have been doing for legs, it's just been pretty basic. I've been doing leg extensions, lying leg curls, or standing leg curl in this case, and a squat. I've just been going to 315. I believe they're not even on my legs or not big. I'm pretty strong on them. So, I haven't been... I've only going to 315 lately, just really not that much. And, it'd be doing more calves, so the real... I don't... Obviously, you don't want anything too big, and it's funny. They don't want the men's physique guys to have like ginormous calves, which I would love, honestly, I would love to have. But, I'm in no danger of having gin calf, so my... No, I don't think you have to worry about that. So, I'm working on my calves, and that's my main priority, and then doing cardio, like we're doinGHere today. So, and she also needs calves, but her legs are good. Good, good, you want to show the booty? No, not the booty, the calves. Oh, do you want to show the calves? No, it's not good, not good. Not good. Not good. Not good. Lots of work. Minor lean, all veins on them, but they're not good either. I don't want to show my mouth, they're not good. Don't do it. Okay. People don't want to see it. They probably don't have to show your booty. Anyway, so the importance of a trening partner, I think it's actually pretty important. For me, I've been trening lately alone. Now, my cardio buddy, that's really what I need, because it's not as important that I push the really heavy weights. I'm able to do that on my own, because I push myself to do the heavy weights. What I need is a cardio buddy, we do it on the cardio, you know, to heads got me doing 70 minutes of cardio as you know. Yes. And that's not experience. Yeah, you did more than 70 minutes. I had a body extirhandic of cardio. So more than anything, that's really what I've needed. And back at home in Houston, I'm in Tampa, by the way, in case you didn't realize this is not used. Is Jay Zamora, who you can, Zambear, I'm sorry, Zamora, I was called Jay Zambear, who is a well-known makeup artist here at the MPC and I at Phoebe, does all the top girls. And lately she's even done some men's physique guys. We think of that, you think I should get makeup done? A little lip gloss. You don't really think that. No, please don't. Yeah, I don't think so. I asked her about doing something with my hair, like putting some color in it. What did you say? No. No, absolutely not. So I'm not approved about it. So I have no options or limited. So no makeup for me, but she has done some guys in makeup. And she does a great job at the girls makeup. I'm not really sure if I can really say what would be good guys makeup. Because I haven't really seen that yet. Well, you know, I think that maybe, if I see it a little bit more, I can't really say for sure if I agree with it or not because I know actors and people who are on stage, you guys, they put on makeup and that's so, that looks so subtle when you're not up close. So it may actually work out. I think it's good makeup for the guys who are men's physique, but actually be at least noticeable when you say. Right. I think if you don't have the right type of person doing it. So Jay, you know, I'm sure she could fix the up to look pretty good on stage. Well, I don't know if I'll be needinGHer makeup services, but I do like her cardio body services. And it does help me. So, you know, if you are working on your own, you're trying to build muscle. I definitely encourage you to work out part and now if you're doing cardio, I strongly recommend it because you help each other to go to the gym and do it. Like, you know, I'll often call her a slacker or something like that. And then it'll probably like, wow, I'll do it then. And then, then, making me go and staying on the cardio machine as long as I need to. So, I do recommend that now. Let's talk a little bit what I'm doing in Tampa. I came to Tampa specifically to meet your mom and your mom's boyfriend and come to Tampa to help your sister move in. We're trying to really help her move in to college. Yeah, okay. I'm going to just stay here for a minute. What? Give it on. Oh, I want to hear how to stop. We're going to keep moving. People probably can even. Keep keeping your cardio. Got to keep moving. All right. No, because I don't want to. Okay. So, I came and helped your sister move in and met your mom and everything. How do you think it went? Good. My mom loves you. Yeah. I think the whole family loves you. What? You don't want to be close to the thing? I don't like it. I can't even tell what it looks like really because it's so sunny out here. So, I had a good time doing that and campus always fun. Yeah. IMean, we had a lot of fun last night. We got a bottle of wine and my family definitely liked you. I'll buy the picture at the end of the night. Yeah, with me holding, I'll have to throw that in there with me holding your mom up. Yeah. Your mom thought it was neat that I kept it to the top. Yeah, I'm not going to. It was pretty entertained by that. And I am. You're armed. So, let's see, what did I go? Did you want to talk about my diet a little bit? You helped me. Daryl has not just been a cardio buddy and workout buddy, but she's also helped me to stay on my diet. And you cooked all my food a week and I got to get you credit. I often make a burger. I cook potatoes. Yeah, packed everything up. Smack your hand when you tried to go for something. Yeah, I haven't perfect. I'll admit to Tadazari Coach. We haven't been perfect. My mom's been very good. I've been closer to pretty close to perfect. Yeah. Tadazari, I had some sushi on the way here on at the airport. And he didn't approve. No, no. But I'm going to do it. I'm still moving down and weight. My body weight is definitely below her. Although that's not worth focusing on. So, you know, this is really our Tampa update. Doing cardio outside. Get a cardio buddy. And as always, go to ironmaaglabs.com And buy yourself some supplements that really work. Right now, I'm taking decadrol, e-control, and one-endro Rx. Among all the protein supplements and everything else. Also, check out complete protein, which is as new. Rob Demagio's new protein. It's a combination of a whole bunch of different protein sources. I think six different protein sources. So, you get a little of everything. You combine all the different protein sources. You get a higher biological value. And you digest the protein all differently. You know, something to digest it faster. So, you can take it. So, girls can take it. Girls can take it. Girls can take it. Girls can take it. Girls can take it. Good. Look at her. So, check out ironmaaglabs.com. Use a discount code Rx2011. And we're going to get back to our, we got another about 40 minutes of this cardio here. So, guys, have a nice day. Peace out. Peace.

=== FILE: Cardio Confessional Ep 4 Pt 2- Tooth Pain⧸Moving to Tampa [SPhM2bnSmIU].txt ===

All right folks this is cardio confession number four part two and I've got my little headphones at home for me to speak into so we're gonna hear a lot of background noise but I'm not gonna be the longest one I'm gonna do one tomorrow also in the morning before I leave town I am leaving town moving from Houston Texas to Tampa Bay Florida moving or to move together with my girlfriend Darial Gaines we ran a really nice house three bedrooms we got a pool and everything a huge yard with a dog it's like almost an acre maybe even a whole acre I'm very excited about moving but I'm also excited about the amount of progress I'm lately I am basically right now sitting at almost exactly my contest suite from last show and I've been doing what Jasmine's telling me I'm doing my cardio and dieting but if anything I've been eating less but I'm supposed to and that's because of the truth pain now we're not on anybody out there has had severe tooth pain before let me tell you it is totally all encompassing and debilitating you really can't do anything when your teeth are really really hurting like full bone pain it makes it difficult to drive to talk you can't sleep you certainly can't eat or drink any liquids would actually hurt my teeth works so I did give a gym and do what I needed to do but I didn't eat everything I was supposed to I had more egg whites than usual less meat than usual and as a result I really IMean I'm totally vibrate now I'm very lean I'm basically as I was with our last show but I'm six weeks out the goal we're tired I'm to see tad in Vegas and the goal for me in tad is to be in contest shape in the at the Olympia in Vegas so that you can see exactly how I look and then I can kind of coast because next two weeks I'll be in obviously Vegas for the Olympia then I'll be going straight from the Olympia in Vegas to days house Columbus house in New York where I'm going to work on some TD stuff kind of do whatever work we need to do and then I'm going right from there from New York airport straight to India to Mumbai or six days so it's gonna be busy and obviously I'm not going to be able to do 70 minutes of cardio every day and eat exactly right to be honest with you I don't think that I should I think I could really honestly probably lose another 20 pounds easily at this rate in the next six weeks because I'm almost losing a pound of day again and I'm way way less than I was losing a losing a pound of day when I was 260 so this isn't water I don't know what it is but today I was pretty strong a toothpane is gone I went to the dentist which was something that I had been putting on for years now I've learned my lesson three Rick Nails were necessary for some of you who's pretty much nervous or I'm gonna say I'm afraid of the dentist because that's not the dentist that I'm afraid of I just get anxiety when the people are all over me and putting stuff around their face so they gave me some Microsoft side and I took some Xanx and I played my music really loud I couldn't hear the drill I just zoned out and believe or not it wasn't that bad and in the process of it people will laugh you would expect no less for me I took a video so here's the video of what they're doing I was holding my iPhone out like this and that's how I was doing it so here it is I'll do that see I think of everything we actually have a lot of cool footage I'm gonna shoot a lot of stuff while me and Darryl are moving in and of course I have a big dog Rustyne and I'm gonna introduce my dog to her cat the match of the interest thing is Husky I don't know if you guys know there are no but Husky is one of the warnings you got when you get a Husky is they don't like cats or they like chase cats I know for the fact that Rustyne my Husky loves chase cats so we're gonna have to we've looked into this how to introduce them together properly for the most positive outcome so I will I'll definitely video that you should see a lot more cardio professionals to come because I'm gonna start doing a little more regularly and in a little more detail not I actually have somebody to hold the camera to do some stuff there you'll help me make these things a little more interesting so I'm gonna try to get one out tomorrow or at least before one tomorrow my last cardio session my last time in Houston and I'll do something for you guys I hope you enjoyed this one now I have an announcement that you should well should be interested in as you know Iron Mag Labs sponsors my prep sponsors me I'm a national spokesperson spokesperson for Robert Demoche's company over there Iron Mag Labs a great great company that makes something so really work feel I believe it look at me you know I'm I'm losing only that and of course I testosterone placement therapy but trust me any doing it so the big announcement is there is a labor day set up now you know you can always get 10% off with RX 2011 that's this count code get 10% off anytime anywhere always but right now Robert is doing 20% off and he is enter the code labor day 20 as he just come from obviously if you're watching this six months down the road even a week down the road he's not gonna get this but if you're watching right now take your vanishes get on www ironmanglabs.com in order some stuff they have two new products that I just got in today six brahamo which is an anti estrogen anti romitest good for PCT and good for just like a novel decks or rimd decks so if you get this over the counter or in this case over the internet the Robert you know exactly what's in it now number two is a product I'm looking forward to taking as well Halo stream which is a very similar inner barn it's a fact also something that's something you should definitely pick up so go check those out use the discount code labor day 20 or if this is too late for labor day rx 2011 go do it now so for air and sear and rx muscle signing out

=== FILE: Casa De Jewbacaa [Tb5izU3-2sk].txt ===

All right, everybody. This is the tour of the new house in Tampa. IMean, Dariel moved in here a week ago and it's the first sunny day. So I'm going to give you a tour of the house. Keep in mind, it's pretty messy. I'm still moving in and this is my doGHere. We're seeing, we're seeing say hello to everybody. This is the Ariel's cat, Doke. I believe they're not Doke and Rusty, but become friends. Come on, Rusty. All right, so this is one of the various empty rooms right now. It's just being inhabited by a cat toy or two. I don't know what we're going to do with this room. It could be technically like a formal dining room or something. I'm not sure. Obviously, I can't imagine we'll do that with it. I was thinking like this could be like the pool table room, because I can't imagine we would do another dining room table kind of deal here. So you got this may be the pool table room. And this I think may be the cardio room. I get two pieces of cardio equipment and then put the TV on the wall there. I'm not even sure. So this is the kitchen. It's a kitchen. I can see everybody wants to see what's in the fridge. Only diet food. Ted the diet coach would be happy. There is nothing exciting in here at all. All right, now keep in mind, like I said, just moving in so there's junk everywhere. But this is the living room. Some of the Ariel's trophies. Not, not any for me. Now over here is the living room area. Like I said, we're gonna this will be the where probably the dining room table will be. We have a great porch from the show you in a second. This was from Saturday night. Ted don't get upset from Saturday night. So that was the cheat night. I had a lot of cheat meal. Just a case you're wondering. Now, we have a guest bathroom here. guest bathroom. Some closet. It's not being used yet. Another, this will be a bedroom. A guest bedroom. Now over here is the study. Just only got my computer and the desk that we put to actually dairy up put it together to be on us with you. We're gonna share. I'm gonna get another TV stand from over for over here. And they have a lot of nice windows. I think you can see out the front yard here. They big yard, the backyard is tremendous. A lot of closet space. This is our bedroom. See? Light's in the room here. Anyway, work TVs. I haven't set this up yet. Work closet space. We got, this is really cool. The backyard, you've got a great view. The backyard. We'll see you in the little other bathroom. Now, I'm gonna show you the backyard. The backyard is pretty damn cool. We'll let the dog out here with us. So we're gonna steam, can check out the backyard too. Porners, the end, let's go. Come on, you go, go, go. I'm going too. You can see it doesn't want me to lock them out here. Come on, Rusty. Let's go. Now, this is all the fence stand. We can technically close this off. And you can close all these up and you can keep the air condition in here. And we don't do that. Or we haven't done it yet at least. Now, the backyard is big. I'm really big. Rusty has got a lot of room to play out here. As you can see, we have a very nice pool. It's all fence stand. A lot of pools and plurder are fence still like this. It's to prevent from all the leaves in the bugs. And used to, we never had anything like this. There wasn't all these pools, we're not covered. Actually, there weren't a whole lot of pools in Houston, period. As you can see, the backyard just goes on and on. Now, the fence area out there is also our backyard. And we have the basketball goal back there and everything. But this is fence to the dog. People who had the place where us had a dog too. So this is all fence toff. Now, if you want to go out here with dogs not allowed, because you could run up to the front yard, this is all our yard also back here. And since he's not on the leash, I'm not going to take you out there. But we got a basketball goal. If you wanted to play basketball, we got some chairs over here to sit. And that's pretty much the backyard. Pretty uncool, huh? So this is it. Lots of trees. Lots of place for breast deemed to play. And that is it.

=== FILE: Chicago Pro Champ & BREAKOUT Women's Physique Star! ｜ Patricia Gosselin Interview [6y3-JMJNwdI].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest body-building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on. In this Species Nutrition line of products, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo, and today's guest is our 2, 2021 IFB Chicago Pro Women's Physique, Pro Champion Pat Goslin. Thank you for joining us. Thank you, Dave. You're always from Montreal, Canada. We should have turned your phone side where we should have fixed up before. Just so we did it the long way. There we go. Okay. Now, I love when I interview people that are not on the map, so to speak. No one was anticipating that they were going to come in here and decisively win the show. To be honest with you, on Heavy Muscle Radio, I actually announced the wrong winner because the NPC News website had it wrong. I'm standing corrected, Pat, you are the champion. I want to give you your credit. You go to the Olympia in October. Tell us about the experience in Chicago. Well, first I'd like to thank you for having me this mistake. If it gives me the opportunity to interview with you. That's right. That's right. No question. That's the truth. That's the truth. That's the truth. That's the truth. No question. That's the truth. That's the truth. That's the truth. That's the truth. It's been very, very fast after the win. Everybody's just come back to me and it's just, I'm leaving the dream right now. So, yes. I tell people all the time and I say it over and over and over and over and some people listen some people don't condition in win shows and you came into this show. I could see it on your face. I could still see it on your face. Your face is sucked out. Your cheekbones are sticking out. I know you suffered to get into the condition that you brought to the stage and you re-rooted with a win here and that's the bottom line. No one expected you to come in this good. When you were dieting for this show, why did you pick Chicago? Well, I'm from Canada. It wasn't. At first I thought about doing Toronto Pro because I like to support the scene in Canada also and because in 2019 I placed seconds so I wanted to go there and get the win. But it got us prone and so I started prepping for the season, not specifically for one show but Chicago Pro I did, Tampa I did in 2019. So I knew they were super big lineups and I like big shows. I like the lineup. I don't want to go for an easy win. I'm not saying there is any easy win but I like the competition. And so Chicago and Tampa seems like a good way to go because it had two weeks in between the shows and it was easy. When I came into the US I didn't know when I would return after. I signed one from track to the time and it was Chicago then. I plan to do Tampa but not this time. You don't need to write. You got the win. Now, what an interesting fact that I didn't know prior to the show to the told me was that you never had one show prior to the show. That is an amateur. None is a pro. You turn pro with the 2016 North American you play second in your class. How did it feel to finally say, hey you got the win? Well you know what? It's my dream. Most competitor their dream is to go to the Olympia and I understand that in a respect that my dream was to win a show. So my dream is complete. I feel for field as a match. So moving forward, it's just like extra bonus floppy cherry on top. So I'm just super happy. I feel with this prep. I basically made my dream come true. It wasn't like you were placing tenth in London. You had a lot of second places in there. You were right there knocking on the door so to speak and you just didn't get the win. You picked a good show to get a pro win at because now you're not going to win. You're not going to be Olympia. You're going to be stepping on stage with some of the best of the best. How do you feel you'll stack up against some of those girls there? Well I think I have something. IMean I think every competitor has something special to bring. And I think I have a fairly good conditioning like you mentioned. So and I've worked on my proportion. I think I can bring my very best and we'll just see how it plays out you know with. All the best but I'm here for depends. I'm here for myself or my family. Everybody who supported me so I walk in as you know a winner already. It doesn't matter to the place and from yet all at all. And you know you did it right in 2016 when you turned pro you were 125 pounds on stage. I believe now you know 135 pounds now you came in to the Chicago pro at 145 which was a nice slow. You know adding of muscle to your body in the right proportion. And I think too many people try to add muscle to fast especially the women and they won't have it doesn't it doesn't look good it doesn't flow well on their bodies or they just come in and they're just batter or you know and you did it right. And I can see a steady progression when I went back and looked at some of your pictures of what you achieved from 16 all the way up to the present. I will pass them the compliment to all my coaches. Because I don't think I have anything to do with that. I think I've just had so many you put over mentors. I think I just was at the right right right place right time with the great people to really gun me into it. IMean you had stride a glutes. IMean you had everything that you needed to bring to the stage. And so you really left no stone on turn to go back to the old. The only thing you have control over is conditioning, presentation and tan and you now will breed those you know better than I've ever seen. And I'm looking at some of these comparison shots I guess at eight weeks out in 19 versus eight weeks out in 21 and man what a difference your body made man. What do you what do you can what do you attribute that to was it the trening you were doing the diet you switched to IMean what why do you think you made such good improvements from 19 to 21. Well I think of course the coaching I'm coach by Shelby Starn is really really good at was what he's doing. I think because I've been with him for over three years now and working up season two with my coach and I always take on my diet. IMean if you see some fat on me it's omega tree. IMean I don't think I don't do sugar. I don't. So IMight be fat but it's all good fat. So I think you know just really doing a good up season give it your best all the time and but yeah I think working smart is the key and consistency. Well everybody says the same thing they've you know that it's we're all the same. So the reason is that's the answer there's no special reason but sometimes you know people we'll discover things about themselves that they were doing wrong and then they'll correct it and we'll see a big difference from one year to the next and that's I was wondering that happened with you you're saying it's just was you consistently and we'll prove them I know I never do cards. I think I had maybe 400 grams of card for the entire prep. I think it's like a six month and I feel very good on the cards. So for me it wasn't a struggle so yes IMean it's always difficult to bring that kind of conditioning of course but I think you know since I feel good on no cards maybe less the struggles for me. Yeah I like I do a lot of no cards with women as well but I think that you guys respond really well to you at 14 years old so our picture led the Murray and that's really what inspired you to want to be a bodybuilder. Did your parents understand the bodybuilding or was that did everyone think you were crazy? I'm sorry I did you understand that question. When you were 14 and you saw that picture of Lenin Murray you told me about before the show and you decided hey I want to be a bodybuilder. Did your family understand about this so did they think you were like Hucu you know? No I think I always had great support for my family. They always you know said you are perfect right now you don't have to need anymore I need to add anymore but then I go my way I add 10 pounds and then they're like you are perfect right now so I was always perfect right on spot for them so they never kind of really now they look back and they're like wow what a progression but no I I'm blessed I have great great people around me. Alright well you're going to be on the Olympia stage in October now with the Yuko Shelby and hopefully we'll see a top six placing is I'm assuming that you're a goal correct? I think you know a good prediction. I think you have the tool set to do it and I think that you have the mental fortitude to do it what's the game plan at this point? Well with the feedback we add from the judges and it's pretty much always the same as for us peaking I'm always better on the night show than I am on the the pre judging so I think we're going to go and do it backwards and making sure that I bring you know the the crispy on the pre judging and keep getting better because I think I was I was looking better fuller on the on the night show and then then even the morning after was just even better so we we're just going to play with the time and clockwise. Yeah sometimes you know sometimes you hydration will flatten you out a little bit but you know what I always tell people because people always send me pictures the day after the show and they're like look how good I eat all night. I see you'll be having nothing to be nervous about you have no stretch of no anxiety you slept well last night. You know the game day is a different is a different beast because there's a lot of pressure on the day of the show there's a lot going on between tanning and getting up and eating and you know when you get to go home and just eat whatever you want wake up the next morning IMean that's not a good true representation of what you know went on the day before and you can never duplicate that there's no way you can be that relaxed you know when you get again on a pro shit a pro stage or the Olympia stage it doesn't happen so there's always got to be you know I guess some kind of compromise made is really what it amounts to. I like it I take all the information coming from you from your show from as Dave so yeah I'm taking notes there you go stupid I'm thinking notes sorry about the mix up on heavy muscle radio but you are the winner at the Chicago for Women's Music you go into the Olympia that's the luck. Thank you very much Dave. I appreciate you guys that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with I'm Dave Alonba with Pat Goslin we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Chicago Pro MOVING to Atlanta & Ashley Kaltwasser WINS 20th Pro Show! [aGdt36qxzN0].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car capped hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love this show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Wednesday, August 26th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Happy Humphrey, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome back to another jam packed edition of Recap Wednesday. Let's jump right into today's show, by taking you to look back at the action from last weekend's world clash pro championships. Where the biGHeadline was, actually call it was sir, showing up and showing out on the way to earninGHer 20th career win. Second place went to an emerging star in Ashland Brown, who relegated a very good version of Reno Martinez, a third place. Jasmine Gonzalez put together another solid look here, and the judges rewarded her with a fourth place finish. And rounding out the top five was Romina Bassualdo, who looked like she was using this show as a test for whatever's next on her docking. Even the heart of Texas, we also had a big show down in the men's physique division, at the inaugural, Southeastern Texas pro, veteran Daniel Amons, put together the best performance of his career to earn a well deserved win, and an Olympia qualification in spectacular fashion. Ricky Rashad Watson was electric in his pro debut, and his second place effort here was more than enough to capture some people's attention. Third place went to veteran Arias Affea, who also is slowly starting to stack up enough points to earn himself in Olympia nod. Fourth place went to a good but not great version of Anthony Gilch's, and closing at the top five year was Charjo Graham. Any of you who've been saving up your airline miles for a trip to Chicago this summer to see the Chicago pro, now would be a good time to see if you can get a refund on those tickets, because the 2020 Chicago pro is officially moving to Atlanta. Last week, pro League officials announced that the Chicago pro was being moved to Atlanta due to the Illinois State mandated COVID restrictions. One of the really interesting things here is that the show is beinGHeld on October 15th through the 17th, which makes it the last chance for athletes to earn an Olympia qualification. With the automatic qualification window being compressed now, I think it sets us up to have a bunch of really deep shows between now and October. Since so many athletes are vying for so few spots, it should automatically boost the level of competition. Get your popcorn ready. These next few weeks are bout to get crazy. The last segment is actually the perfect segue into what we're going to talk about right now. Since there were limited opportunities to qualify for the Olympia between now in the final weekend of October 15th, it looks like the pro League officials are trying to do everything in their power to give athletes the opportunity to compete on the planet Hollywood stage in December. Late last week, they announced that they'd be opening up thEQualification window at the Europa Championships in Alicante Spain, which will be held October 11th. For this event only, they're rewarding Olympia qualifications for the top three in the open and two 12 body building, men's physique, classic physique figure and bikini, and fitness women's physique and women's body building the top two in each division will receive an Olympia qualification. With so much on the line here, it almost sets the stage for this show to have a WWE battle royale feel to it. And I think for the fans in athletes, this show could end up being one of the most exciting events of the season. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day, Pulumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Chris Aceto Responds To Antoine Vaillant... ｜ HMR (9⧸14⧸20) [D2Kan5daVmw].txt ===

10th and 9th You must and I will repeat There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can be Lumball Chris Asito Orangemuscle.com presents every muscle What are you? Watch us! Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio on Dave Palumbo And I'm joined as always By the technician for Isto's on December 14th 2020 Evening and Chris There's a big, another big weekend Invadiating the Cal Pro-Tick place And I got my daughter Arya Through a cell phone My mouth is smarting And open up my lip Right here My cell phone locked up Dave today It wouldn't do anything No? Out of the world Right? Is it a terrible? You wish you had your blackberry back in us I know Well, you know, ever since you told me I switched my iPhone And I like it much better over to the clicking noise It's like a blackhorn Oh yeah, I can hear the clicking Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah You have to have the volume on it You know, so I'm laying in the couch Someday kids are in there And Amanda text me I can tell she wanted to ask me something She's havinGHer on emergency So I was here, you know, her text goes through And Amanda what? All right, give me the phone Get to phones for daddy And she's like like a frisbee Like like like she's like a like throwing a like a boomerang Boom Boom And those things are dense Oh yeah, go ahead And it hurt I felt my lip crushing Underneath that Under that cell phone And blood is just she's like I said, are you sorry What you just did? She's like no No, she's like Climbing IMean, IMean, I got to see You just mean blood coming down my IMean It was running down my face She doesn't just know Climbing And you can't be mad at that, right? Cause it's like they're just you know It's so cute, right? The kids there in No, you mad at me on the double like on your list I stuns like putter and putter and time out He's like, yeah, he wants to see punishment He wants to be punished for it, yeah And flaked it on him I did putter and time out Cause I've warned him before not to Not to throw things You know, put that on I guess we'll do it again, yeah Anyway Antoine Valliant Is the champion and he's going to the Olympia And Chris, you called him on last week's show An Instagram body, brother Yes What's your response to that? I said Bohe As he called you Yeah, that's why I'm sorry Yeah, he did come out and he He was very funny, he actually someone said to me And I replied to him Congratulations, you look I actually respond to him I said, Antoine, you look terrible last week And I told other people who were like Who's feathers were ruffled I said you were fighting for seventh and eighth And ninth last week Right And by my account My opinion, I thought he looked terrible And he was fighting for as low as ninth place 7th, 9th I didn't think he won that call out Even on the 7th, 9th So the reason I called him in Instagram bodybuild is because he showed up with that show Look in like a Big men And I think he would admit to that A fig men of what he looks like running into the show Yeah, well, and then I said, yeah You know, he thought he was very flat I think he just over depleted or whatever But I saw him Bringfully Briefly, this is how much I know about him I saw him briefly at M140 And I just looked And I thought Someone said this, Antoine And I looked over And I thought, God he looks thin And I just thought, okay, maybe he's not doing the show He looks like lean but Not muscular and like And then this year, this week he did a whole cove IMean incredible help And lead for everyone and smash the shows So when he did, he put up a very funny Instagram or something story And somebody He should attack me on it But someone else attacked me on it And I sent a message back and I said Well he doesn't realize that you have a good sense of humor But he's self-taught IMean Congratulations, you looked incredible I reiterate you looked terrible last week And then he said, laugh out like, you know, thanks Something like this and then I said And I still think you looked better And Instagram photos, then this big win So IMean it's a great Unbelievable trensformation From Well you know that He's not a guy, he's a pretty authentic guy He's not like one of these like You know, the oxygen gym mirror guys So I just felt like, you know, he's really authentic Something must have gotten serious Everyone, I'm going to get him on the show He's coming on Wednesday So I'm going to interview him Find out exactly when on between New York And Cal and what what mistakes he made For the The New York Pro that he didn't make for the California Obviously How would the Antoine you think we saw in California Which was really in Vegas How would that have done on the New York Pro stage? Well I thought and I want to refund for the For the broadcast Anyone who watched the broadcast For the livestream, he said it was terrible He said it was bad to be there Same, it was like this The one you did before the Cal Pro I gave it to Dr. Inher than that Yeah, it was bad But But even looking at horrendous photos He would have been Well I'll break it down this way He'd pro, if and one Then he would have given and a run Because he's got more Cross-straided body than in At least in California or Vegas And they're both very wide and very tall IMean those are calling cards right? They can why So they would have compared You know If having In having one And you know probably one You know by most accounts do do To to overall size Antoine has With And In the Yorkie didn't have size But he had size Back You know with the show So I think you want to Yeah I think the Antoine has got to be The comeback story of The decade IMean this is a guy who is Now he was a teen People were talking about this kid He's being mr. Lempia You know you had that kind of potential And he had contracts and he had money coming in and he got into the vault with the wrong crowd. He was part of him too much. He got into drugs. By his own mission, he was living on the street. He was homeless. He had no money, nothing, no only one, anything to do with them. He hit rock bottom. He clened himself up. He made the comeback two years ago. You know, did well. Look good. But then last year was supposed to be the real homecoming. So the speaker he was going to start winning shows and everything in the story. By set, if you remember. So this year was really something that he had been really waiting a long time to get to because of that, you know, to never be tear muscle. I'm going to set you back because no doubt about that. So, you know, I'm sure New York, he was ahead of a lot of nerves going into it. He probably was, you know, maybe had contracts riding on the line. I don't know what we were going on. But obviously, maybe he overdid it a little bit. But he, you know, he redeemed himself. He definitely came back. And, you know, now we see why you see that. And that frame, like you said, he has, is definitely a blessed frame. And if he can keep progressing from what he's got there, this guy can go, you know, pretty far. I think he can go all the way. I don't know. What do you think? Well, you, it's funny that Dave, you said it because you forget half the stuff you say. But a couple of years ago, you thought, you said that same exact thing on the show you said, I think he wants all you can go all the way. I was like, really? Yeah, he's hard kid. IMean, where would a Antoine that we saw here, and I think he could still be a little fuller, you know, than what we saw in stage. But IMean, where do you think that that physique would place it in the one beer? IMean, IMean, I think he's a top 10 guy for sure. You know, the, the Olympia is so difficult right now to handicap because, because it's still far out. And we don't really technically know who's in it. Well, we kind of know we're starting to get more people in it. Did you see that picture that they missed your Olympia LLC put up a, a brand of carry out an oxygen gym there? No, but he looks like he's like 900 pounds. He told me he looked like a, he didn't see the picture. He said, I have to put up my glasses. He looks like he's 900. So Brandon, the Brandon Phil battle is going to be beyond epic because Phil has a chip on the shoulder and I don't mean that. Make it way. There's nothing wrong with having a chip on the shoulder. It's motivating factor. Brandon has more to prove than Phil has to prove. So it's Phil's chip literally versus Brandon's, you know, motivation. Yeah. I would teach him to prove. And sometimes the, the, you know, the, the underdog to be, and the need to prove yourself. We've, we've never seen a Mr. Olympia be underdog. Chris, then, having a chip on your shoulder. Yeah, we've never had to see Mr. Olympia be an underdog at a show. This is the first time that you have to call me the underdog to these fills the seven time to win the championship. Yeah. He's the underdog for sure. Yeah. Which is, which makes, which takes a lot of pressure off a brand and no, too. Don't you think? It's pressure on, but it takes pressure off because people almost expect to fill the win, but even though Brandon's Mr. Olympia, so now Brandon comes in and brings a ridiculous look to this stage and beats Phil. IMean, it completely validates him, right? His Mr. Olympia. It does. He needs validation, but it's a good ability to bring in absolutely ridiculous. IMean, Phil definitely has the ability to bring something ridiculous. And I think if you look at Brandon's progression, IMean, who's to say he doesn't take another 15% improvement this year or what? Yeah. You're right. He's told him he is still getting better. What about Sammy? Now, he talked to Sean Rodin this past week and what's going on with him is in the trial and everything like that. I don't know what's happening. I don't think it's got anything to do with trial. I think what, you know, the people who on the Mr. Olympia have to extend an invitation. Well, he doesn't have to get an invitation. He's Mr. Olympia, but obviously, you know, whatever stopped him from competing last year because of, you know, a political decision that they made, they could extend that. Or I don't understand his, when is his court case? How come that's going? President can pardon anyone at any time. Right. Maybe trouble pardoned. Yeah, Sean Rodin. You don't need a pardon. I've been found guilty. Nothing. Mr. A Olympia owner can press the gas as hard as he wants if he wants to at any time. That's right. You think they'll invite him or now? No. No. They would have all right. Yeah, you're probably right, especially since the marketinGHas started earlier. It's a shout out that would have been great to put Sean on the poster. And you know, David, you know what's going to be crazy about the show? To show you watch. It won't turn out to be a blockbuster in terms of people in the show. And we'll only get to see it on livestream. You don't see all things going to be an audience, though. I think it's going to be, I don't think it'll be an audience. You might be right. The way IMean, look at this past weekend where the caliper was held. I was going to have passed on. Can you imagine Mr. Olympia, they have to wear masks? Well, I thought they would have no audience at camp for New York. I was wondering about that. So maybe they'll have, IMean, they had a limited audience. They can't have an audience. They should move it to Florida. Evidently Florida has no problem with audiences. They move the, moving the masters. They move the master. They, they, they, those were limited audiences. You know what IMean? Oh, a limited audience is better than no audience. Yeah. I'm talkinGHow many people in New York. They weren't many people at all. But you know, it's Chris had Vegas that Vegas convention center, whatever they're, where they're holding it there, plant a Hollywood. That theater there is pretty damn big. So IMean, you could even, you could probably get a lot of people in there, even if you're spacing every six seats. You know what IMean? So. Well, my understanding is that Vegas is, you have to ask, Jerry, a shot, mostly. Yeah. I can't believe that they haven't gone out of business with these hotels. I can't. Maybe you're not actually going to buy one of the smaller ones. Dave, I watch drostanolone squad of business in my comment, trickling. You know, like this guy, I give up this guy. I give up this guy. It's a bright climate Hollywood. This is my question. I will raise some money with our good friend over there. And we could get a surprise. I'm surprised how Christopher has a book on it. That's what tells her. I'm surprised. They only say Regis and in hell harbor. Yeah, no, I know they do that. But I'm going to get better than that. That's true. What about like, if they, if he bought the planet Hollywood, then we would have the Olympia right there. We'd have to be able to get press passes. Luckily, we have Dan's home. We can't, I know I can't get one of the competitors who I want to get in. But we actually all know it's all about. Well, if you're home, I'll tell you to make your own rules properly. Do about who goes, how many people are talking to inside for people? That's true. Someone we know who downloads in hotels. Right. All right. Let's look at the show. Max Charles verse Antoine Valliant on stage. Break it down for me. Break it down. This show is one on not strikes. It's one on lack of weaknesses. And Antoine does have a back double. And he has control over the back of the back double. And he has a back last break. And he has boots in hands. Those are the shortcomings of Max. I know Max under the lights below you away on the most muscular. Maybe side chasts front doubles for nominal front last. But at some point you have to turn from behind. And I just, I think that's where I call it a show of weaknesses. Max has weaknesses there. I know he doesn't want to hear it. You know, it's a little bit of a meal. It doesn't want to hear anything. The other context is last week's judging. You know, it's still the same thing. I think I called it an apples and oranges and bananas show. Everyone had different physique different heights. Totally different physique. This week was more like, was a much different lineup. So people just like last week have their own weaknesses. And when nobody's dominating, you move to the people with less weaknesses than what weaknesses. So I think that's where Max is not able to, you know, put away some of these shows that he looks like he can put away based on some of the poses. But those achilles healed his physique is, and he's improved them. Right? He always improved the glutes, hands, back. But Max has got like a Paul the Let's Syndrome. He can't really hit the back. You know, IMean, takes a while to get into the back double. Yeah, I shot a max right there with the Patrick Moore. Let's get shot at Max from last week. Very, very, you know, full delts. What meal is to the good job getting the guy in shape, you got, we got to give him a little meal. Let's kind of melt down last week about the placing. I think he got yelled at actually for having too much of a meltdown. Well, IMean, you know, that's why I say, like, listen, when you're judging a show, it's wonderful to come into a show and say, this guy's first second third for fifth. Everyone agrees. There's not much discrepancy, but when you don't have people clearly taking first second third for you get heated arguments like, you know, the lowest ones to say, his guys are best. I want to say my guys are best. So they're guys are best. And the fact of the matter is, you know, not one person is dominating the show. So you can't say they're the best. Everyone, no one's going to be happy except the one right. What? If you told me a long time ago, even when the guy I've never forget when someone want to show and we didn't think he won the show and like everyone in the audience was bad for like how did he win and Dave said, oh, you said it was like woman is ladies and oh, he's convinced now that he's better. I saw the best as his girlfriend will tell me he's the best as trading partner. Tell me the best too. He's happy to be all the time. There would be guys backstage asking mEQuestions and taking notes and thinking I was going to destroy them and then they'd go out and say they beat me at the show. And then they would be like so humble and then by the next day they were already telling people, oh, it's not really like a little matter of what I'm going to do. I want to talk likEQuestion on every shot. So that's the way it goes. Exactly. There's nothing you can do about that. But let's take a look at MPCS and these pictures. Let's take a look at some of these pictures. And Antoine's likes there look good. And last week he didn't even have his likes looking good. Yeah. Let's see the back double on it. Antoine, how old are those? I got it. Let's have you critique that. Antoine back double. Very detailed. Very detailed. That's why he looked, IMean big legs with hamstrings and his back could use more thickness and the arms could be a little bit bigger or show a little bit bigger. IMean, the legs are phenomenal there. Could he be, is it a fullness issue in the back right now? So you think he could be even more part of that? It's not more part of the work. It was just a good look. It's good look. It's it's it's it's. You can't eat more and get a more size on that body. It's it's just he's more muscle. Yeah. I think we'll wait this year and now I wait more. Whatever. A bigger. It's amazing. It's arms look so good, right? Because you can't even tell the mice of B2R. IMean, really, it looks really good. Whoever did the surgery did a great job on it. Yeah. Maybe it's a little shorter, but it's really not. There's no, there's no, it's not taking anything away from them. For sure. Let's let's see if we could pull up a maxed Charles back. Back double. You're talking about? Well, he's got a back, got a back double, then max. Like I said, it takes max a while to get into the shot, which is subconsciously irritating when you're the judge. Well, I think, you know, max doesn't really have, I think, the glued hamstring development necessarily that Antoine has. He's got him, but I don't think it's his dominant of a pose. Yeah, I would agree with that. Thurdest. Yeah, IMean, just the back detail, it's, you know, he still needs more back detail. Boots and ham, it's a good there. You know, he looks good. For max, he likes, his legs really don't look that bad. Like, you know, usually they look glaringly smaller, but I think they definitely have more volume than they normally do. I'm sure Mielo used his, his, his, for giant set in some productivity. Right. Yeah. Max to get the geneticity. You know, you can do it. You could do all those things that Mielo does. He probably works on him really well too. No. Look, this is a good look for max. I think if Max can progress from here to the Olympia, I think that, and we'll probably see him again. I don't know if he has enough points to do the show yet. To qualify for the Olympia. I wouldn't be surprised if we semax one more time in the Chicago club. What do you think? Maybe, he'll probably go. IMean, he likes to compete. He, you know, he likes to compete. Mielo's coaches and Mielo's loves to compete himself. So IMean, he's pretty much the same character. I think it's a great right. Mielo's is not going to come watch. Shut it down. He knows. He's been shut it down. It's so great. Did like every single show every year. Yeah. He's right. He's right. Nice. Mielo's did every show every year. Mm-hmm. And you're right. And look good at every single show. Look at him. Look at him. I don't think he ever looked bad. Yeah. Let's talk about on win third place. On win is, I told, you know, there's so many people Dave on the cusp of really going. He's a shot. He's struck really very good. IMean, you have to admit. IMean, when he's in shape, his physique looks good. I think a lot of times he tries to come into big. And because he does need more size. But when you come into big, you know, what happens is you lose the sharp. That's the tren needs more size. I thought he looked gigantic. Yeah. You don't think I'm that in the legs, maybe. I'll look at the legs from behind and the biggest in the show. Mm-hmm. Look at the cows. He's got good glutes and he has your right. Let's pull that for a trick. Crazy like on the side. Yeah. That's a good good glutes. He's actually better from the back than he is from the front. He's very complete. You know, I helped him last year for this show. I remember, yeah. He's always doing this show. That's the cal pro is like his show. And he's actually since that show, the last couple of shows he's really improved a lot. IMean, I think he's probably gained. I bet he's up five pounds on the scale for four, five pounds, which I'm at frame looks tremendous. And his condition is as good as it was last year, if not better. You know. I think that I think that he's dangerous in any show at this look, this look. Because he's got, you know, I started off by saying, you know, these shows are boiled down to a lot of, you know, who's got the least amount of weaknesses? Right. Yes. The least amount of weaknesses. Let me get you in trouble here. Let me give you a quick answer. We always talk about who's the best Asian bodybuilder. You know, he'd a Yamagishi's name always comes up. Who's better on when or he'd a Yamagishi from your estimation? On when right now. All right. It's a bold statement. Merckhead. It's a very nice compliment. Because he'd a great bodybuilder. He looks like he's another Instagram guy. Good. I'm telling you, he's nothing. I'm just kidding. You just mad that he'd a beat, how is he a Raymond with the overall balance? Yeah. So it's always Jose. Yeah, I know. I'll talk for a minute. All right. Let's go to fourth place another one of your guys. And this lineup, Patrick Moore. We're very good. My, my, before I let you talk about it, my critique of Patrick was that alone, you know, he looks like Mr. Olympia. And then you put him next to people and you see his size is not, you know, quite up to snuff with some of these other guys. And he looks smaller in some of the poses. I thought he should have taken off the year a little bit more and grown, but you know, he obviously is placing top five and it'll be show so you really can't critique that. And in a negative way, but what you take as his coach on what he brought to the stage and what you think that you know, he should be doing moving forward. I thought he looked great. I think he's another, I think. I think honestly nine pounds on this frame. Nobody beats on him. I don't. And IMean nobody. That's a lot of muscle on that frame. Yeah, because it will look like a 18 pounds on that frame properly. Bye. And he's remarkably difficult to get by. And I see that because the judge, and I didn't ask a judge told me last week that he said, I wanted to have Patrick first and almost every shot. Mm. But, but as a pre-Jage and moron, I realized he was up against bigger guys. And he said to me, they weren't better, but they were bigger. Right. It's in the bodybuilding show. Yeah. As well as, you know, condition wise, his condition was spot on last week. So that's a judge telling you, some respect to guide. That's good. That's very good. Um, IMean, the same story, essentially. I'm going to, I got some exclusive, a C.D. I'll hotel video footage on the next. I can't see date. We read the trailer. It's very, let me get the folders off all the under his. Keep in mind, he looks better here because I put my, my iPhone 7 filter on it. It's a little bit fishy. I hold those. All right. Let's see how it looks. Yeah, this, this is, this is, he looks dynamite here, man. I'll do the sound effects. If I'm not, I'll hear the sound. No. I can't. We should be able to hear the sound. I hear it. IMay be not hear it. You know, the bells and whistles are everything. They have a hamstring crazy from the side. Yeah. Because you're rounded in the shots. What's your side, Trice up? Late from the side is, you know, ETL. You get the magic window over there of light on them. That's good. Yeah. Yeah. Alone. He's so dangerous. You know, that's the, that's the thing. He looks so deadly here. Yes. Let me tell you. I used to always say, I'd love to look like Tony Freeman. You know, if I had a pick up physique, you know, this, this physique wouldn't be a bad physique to walk around with, right? No, this is a physique you come into the hotel room and you say, shit. But the chose no. No, but I'm saying, I'd like to walk around with that physique. That's a nice looking physique. Yeah. So. Let me see if I could. I want to everyone will have his number on speed dial. They've all the girls in. I can put that. Yeah. I can put it right. You know, on you. And I can do it in three weeks. Exactly. Exactly. Well, catching looked at that. Really good. So what does he do next? He's shutting it down or. He shut it down and take the time to grow. Put some size on a man. Exactly. That's a. That's the. It's not going to be hard for him to put on that muscle. Once he has some time to do it, you know. What, you wouldn't, you wouldn't ship for the Arnold. I guess you would push his probably the next show. I'll tell like later in 2021. Yeah. Maybe later. I think it's going to move. I don't think you, I don't think you should do it. Like the Arnold this year. I don't think he's been, I don't think he can make enough improvements. But then again, he's a freak who knows. Maybe he can't. I'll eat my words. I'll get an email from him when he wins the Arnold. Yeah. I'm saying, you said I couldn't do it. You know. Well, he likes to challenge. Let's talk about Eddie Brockamante. So another one of your guys. I think fifth place. He has to be a real win for Eddie because I don't think anyone expected it. Although I did suggested in the preview that I did a show because I know Eddie's always dangerous and he's always in good shape. But IMean, just gnarly conditioning. Yeah. IMean, that's, let's face it. And he's got a big structure. That's what got him in that fifth position. Yeah. IMean, he has, he has, you know, very good condition. And he's very tall. IMean, he's tall and wide and things flow. You know what IMean? Things generally flow on his physique. Oh. And he's got wow. Yeah. He's got wow factor. He continues to improve. You know, the interesting thing, even though I couldn't see the call outs, I could hear them because I couldn't see up through that video. Right. He wasn't in the first call out. Oh, he wasn't really. And you know, they had him down to like, you know, way out. Like, but they moved him up. And yeah, I would agree with you. It's a win. You know, he's like, I just posted on my Instagram. Besides, filled with photos of him. I said, you know, he's been third, fourth, fifth and sixth in Pro Shows. And he's just, you know, he's close to. He's just close. He just needs like everyone else. Five pounds. You know what IMean? Five pounds in that frame. IMean, everyone will exactly get five pounds, right? Every single person who's in the top eight, I'll move on. So I sound like a broken record. But, you know, he's continued to. He's continued to improve since he turned pro. He's been overlooked in shows where he didn't place in the top five or six. You know, where he's was brought a great package. New up pro a couple years ago. But, yeah, I thought he looked very good here. I agree. Let's talk about a moment of Shabon. I was impressed with him. He's very good. Good. Shabon guy, but doesn't look short. Does he? He doesn't look short. Shorter. I guess, you know, he's short. Look at those, he's, he was a projection. What, where's he for? Yeah, a projection. I think the Egyptians got the lower quiet there. Those those lower kids. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. IMean, between him and, and we'll talk about the sum of stuff in a minute. You know, who else was a, was a, was a ranny? IMean, a, a, an assar. I don't know if an assar was a real, isn't an assar like Yugoslavia? No, it's mother's Egyptian. I've sure was Egyptian, I've been. The father, so the father, I think. Chris, I don't appreciate you being with lumping me with these, these moronic fishermen. I am, I'm, I'm a, I'm a much, I'm an intellectual. I speak, he's languages and, thank you, thank you. Thank you, the mass monsters for me here. Who's the other one? What's the, the staff from the Hammond, right? Maybe Hammond, the staff, uh, what's the, Mama, the staff had the wacky legs, too? Yeah, no, you'll have those lower tier drops. It's definitely genetic. This is definitely they all have good abs, a good line to babs to right, they have perfectly right about it. So he's good, I like it. I think, I, you know, I think you can make a case from probably beinGHigher in this show. But if he was short, maybe that's, you know, his, his conditioning from behind could have been a little dry, but he looks pretty good. The good Sam's and everything. Yeah, oh, he's, well, he's complete his, what he is. Yeah. You know what IMean? Um, nothing's overwhelming. That doesn't mean he's small, but nothing is, it goes back to, again, it's a show of who has the least weakness is. The reason he fell in this six is because he really doesn't have any weaknesses. Right. Six in a good lineup, you know. What about this, this Joe Seaman guy from, he was, he was, he was like, I didn't even know he was. He was being beat up. Yeah, big part of level. He's from Canada. Great condition. Yeah, I think he shot well. I don't think anyone expected, he might be the darkest because no one knew who he was going into the show. He looked very good, even on, even on, and then completely blackout. I wonder why they have lighting problems. Maybe because they, they, they, they, they, they, they, they, they then you was just not good. You know, well, be good. Yeah. All right, let's, let's, let's. Let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's get the shower model. We can't complain that they didn't have the best, you know, video lighting. No, you're right. I think I, I, I think, I've. I kept, I had to have to all these, these promoters that make make him just happen. Because they're doing it with nobody until they lose money. It's not cool, you know, if you take tim, out of the picture. Yeah. And you take Jake Woodhouse picture. This is what I've been, IMean, and Jake Wood with him. And Gary Yeah, yeah. Yeah, IMean, but Gary wasn't doing a project. Okay, was, yeah, he did do it, it does the master's probably. Yeah, I don't know, you're saying the guys that are spending the money, who are losing money. I understand. This would have been a bust of a year. Yeah, there would have been no year. There would be a whole thing would have been canceled, like, well, these are the sports. Let's look at a haste on Mustafa. All right, give us the give us the timeline on this one, because, you know, it's amazing that a guy made it today. He looks okay here. It's pretty, I'll play the hotel stuff later, but let's show me, IMean, this look is two hours of way from the hospital. Was he in the hospital this morning? The morning of the show? It was for 48 hours, and then he was discharged at 9 and got on stage at 11. What the heck? So now go over what happened? What was he doing in the hospital? I could picture. Okay, I'm back to unfortunately New York. I got to Tampa, New York on Tuesday. And I just thought he was fatigue and stuff. You know, like, oh, maybe he's dying. You know, just typical freak contests. But as Tuesday went into Wednesday, you know, he told me he had really bad. He had a lot of issues, one with diarrhea. And then all of a sudden, like crazy hemorrhates to the point where, well, he couldn't. By Friday, he could barely speak. Well, the pain. So you knew that any more of the hemorrhates at this point? No, well, it was hemorrhates. It was bleeding. It was bad. Right. And Friday, I thought, okay, maybe you shouldn't do the show. And that was like, that was like, we couldn't even breach that because at that point, he was like, no way. It was like, it was impossible. And then by Saturday, you know, the flag, of course, was his presentation on Saturday. And that was mostly directly 100% attributed to, like, like he couldn't really flex. He was in too much pain, is what you're saying. Yeah. So after the show, I'm shocked. Okay, you know, I'm going to try to make it out to Vegas. You know, he stays in Tampa a few days. He has to Vegas the second. He got off the plane. They went directly to the hospital. He stayed there. The two days. It was a damaged pain. Now, what do they give you from pain and for that? Did they just like give you topical stuff? I think of you know, like, percussive, which obviously, it cost a pay to you. Yeah, they give you no products. No, what was he to per his food? IMean, what was he doing? I think I was just wasn't eating. They just I beat him, so that was it. Wow. And when you get, I don't even, how do you deflate someone who's on a live. You know, he was, he was deflated out of his mind from diarrhea. You know what IMean? Oh, so they didn't even matter. And I like saying, yeah. So, so you guys were playing like catch up. IMean, he, no, you sent me a video. I think I think, I, I, I honestly, I think it, like, like, at nine between nine and levity, like it doesn't doughnuts. Oh my gosh. I didn't have a napkin. After all that. Okay, well, he wasn't eating. Well, now, let me ask you this question. You sent me this video. Yeah. What was the video from what day was this video? I was first day before the, You were throwing. Before New York. All right, so let's play this video because this is, this is Chris, to a show in the hotel room. Okay. Guy, good evening. What did that just like, that's, that's, that's a, that's a Libby of damage everywhere. Oh, that, he looks like NASA else a body from behind, you know, with a better back. What is, you know, Chris, I hear them saying, You know, you know, crazy because I thought he looked crazy. Look at this. Not like much, much the pextrations. You know, how tall is he? You look short here, he's so big. Five, seven. He's got you, he's got you. He's got you. Oh, just 63 right there. Very good, very impressed. And the other interesting thing day with the hemorrhages, like Thursday is just, IMean, his body, he was so, with sweat at all times of the day because he had a fever from the, of, because he had a infection, right? You have a low-grade infection. Oh, yeah, a high-grade infection, turn out. You know, you know, anything like low-grade. So it was with systemic almost there. Yeah. So he would drink like, you know, a, a leader of water and sweat out, and a leader within two hours. Just drenched. Yeah. Now we, we know, were you against him competing at this show? No, no, because I just said, you know, he came all this way, you know, just he puts so much into this show. IMean, no one puts a lot into the show. Right. But he's like the other guys. IMean, I'm sure there's multiple people other than Hassan most staff, who's, show number one was postponed. Show number two was postponed. Show number three was canceled. Right. And in fact, when the New York curl was supposed to be on at six weeks out, I advise us to, you know, it's just too much work. You're not even in shape. IMean, you look decent, but it's going to be, it's, it's so much. And what if they don't have it? And he said, you know, I want to do it. Hmm. Well, where does he go from here now? Is he going to try to do another shower? Is he goinGHome? I think he's got, he's still got, you know, take the harvest. He's, he's nowhere near on the woods with the ham-wide stuff. Obviously, you think he's going to need like some ways to surgery those things? That's usually what they do. They laser him off. I think he's got to, you know, you got to get him on some fiber-lies for us. He can't go home until, you got to put the instructions in, in Arabic though. His wife speaks very, very good. He may, he may get hungry on low carbs and eat the whole time. Yeah, too. Tell him, I'll send him some fiber-lies. Where's he staying? Where's he staying? He's staying in Vegas until he can get the strength to decide what he's leaving. It's a, what he's, people don't really have to mourn, fly back to Egypt. So he's got to be able to sit on that plane. And if you, you know, if you got hemorrhage, man, it's not funny. You don't have to tell funny thing. It's not funny. The flight, like the way they got to, the connections. They had like a nine hour layover in Turkey. Right. And then it was 40 hours to get from. Wow. That's like a Chrissosita flight. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's 40 hours to get back from Tampa. Yeah, because you got to go to Maine. Yeah. But it took him 40 hours, you know, like getting to get him from New York. That mess is up right there. We think of the sitting. When you don't know, you have hemorrhage, they get ready to blow up. It's got to be terrible. It's got to be terrible. I wouldn't wish that. I wouldn't wish like a bad case hemorrhage on anyone, you know. That's even my worst enemy. That's what they say. You've already sent a piece of pain in the ass. That's what it's like coming out. That's what it's like. That's what it's like. That's right. That's right. Hang in the shed. Oh, my God. Never ending. So Antoine Vallions going to the Olympia. It's going to be pretty excited. Look, I got it. The guy worked hard, you know, made it happen. It's got to be exciting for him. I would think. Oh, first time. First time is always the most exciting one, you know, because it's just, IMet the Olympia. Every single person's ever met the Olympia. It gets crazy excited about their first Olympia. Yeah. IMean, he's been, IMean, they were grooming. This kid was supposed to go on the Olympia stage, you know. Like when he was the teenager, you know, they were sayinGHe's going to be on the Olympia stage. So to finally make it there, you know. Sometimes when people get sidetracked like that, when they have so many problems in their life, a lot of times they never, they can never make that comeback. Yeah. He did it. He was able to pull it off. How many bodybuilders do we know who was supposed to make it to the Olympia? And then just the personal lives just exploded. Mm-hmm. Inpload it. And they didn't even qualify to become a pro or they made it. And then they only got the pro card. And that was it. They went down the tube. You know, with their. Well, I saw the Olympia guys put up a picture. So they had the meeting out there at the Olympia. Finally, they were able to go see the planet Hollywood venue. And that's from the left there that's Angelica Nebia. You know, works for Flex and the whole crew. A tamer, Algundi, obviously. And then there's Dan Salman in the middle. The Germanian Jake Wood and Tyler Manning. So that leads me to believe that they're making progress, right? Look, if it wasn't Jake Wood behind running these things and owning the Olympia, I would be nervous that the show would be canceled. I really don't think it would have happened. Do you think it would have happened if Pecker had the show? No way. They would have probably canceled it. Six months ago, they were to cancel it. There's that's the political thing to do, right? Well, IMean, it's business wise. But there's a decision wise. IMean, because they're not feeling this right. Well, that's the point. That's why I asked you. I said you got one that softball question is, is it different? You know, David Pecker would come out once he answered, I love body building. And Jake Wood loves body building. Right. So, IMean, you have to like totally be engulfed in it to say, you know, I only let the I'm having it no matter what. Yeah. You think black men calls up Jake Wood and like, Jake, it's a steep black man from Muscle and the Bellman. I got him just telling you, you're doing a great job. I don't know. What do you think? You tell us, you think he's jealous of the whole thing. Um, you know, it's weird because he could be a he could have been in the position to own it, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'll at least never would have allowed him to pay the money to buy it. I'm sure. But he would have done a good job with the two because he's, you know, he's passionate, genuinely passionate. Yeah. If a lease would have let him like, you know, uses money to do whatever he wanted with it. He would have made it great. Yeah. Yeah. Probably would have, he would have had like celebrity head judges himself. And calling up, you know, can we get, can we get, you know, IMean, get time and call me. I'm not on the panel. Yeah. I call him Kardashian and they are just for a judge one, the two, twelve. That's right. Judge Bikini, Kim Kardashian had judge. That there would be a move scene would do right? It would be a really, really, really, really. It would be a brilliant move, too. It would be brilliant. But how many people would be watching on her? She'd have her, she'd hold up her phone on Instagram. There'd be six million people watching the Olympia, you know. It's brilliant move. But it's not going to happen. Right. The office say he's got a, you know, one of Clark's Skype call with. He, he, he, he, he, he. Yeah, he'd be like, let's call the wellness division that Kardashian division. Much more market emotes. Hey, you know, the thing is. I'm talking to him. It would stick, right? Oh, it would be that definitely would. And the Ashley and division. We get rid of the wellness of Kardashian. You'd have like, they'd say, they'd have to call Pesburg and say, why do we have like. Fashionals 700, you know, entries per division. Yeah. The fashion. It's a good thing to visit. Right. There you go. They're making a fortune on that one. Don't doubt it all. So the next, what is the next big pro show is Chicago now? It's going to be taking place in Atlanta. Yeah, that's right. It's in Atlanta. I've improved it. And is that wings of strength as well? Yes. Yeah. That's some Gardner. So, see that. And is that the, and then they get the Alicante Spain one? Yep. In a month or so or the week before, I think it's week before Chicago. We were right around the same time. And what is the last, what did we got coming up after that Romania? Is that a call of fire? So, Alicante Spain is, is they're calling that the, Oh, they have it. Oh, they actually have an NPC European championships that's a, the given, the giving ouT3Qualification spots per division for the Alicante Spain one. And I think that's only because they don't have, they don't only have one show in Europe. You're shut down all the shows because I was helping, I know you probably helped a lot of European guys too. All this shows that there's nothing. So, everyone has to go to that Alicante Spain show. Yeah. Or the, I think they have one more in another country too, but it's not a, a pro show, but they won't let trap it. They won't let E cross over the borders and stuff like that there. I don't know if it's good or bad with the whole COVID thing. I have no idea. The Esco Romano, it's going to be COVID is going to be over with after the election. But these things, they think it's a whole bit, they got a cancel. Yeah, they've been going to call a lot. I think COVID is a black lives matter. You got a cancel. No, we'll, we'll racial issues anywhere. Yeah. As cops, I always beat up on pizza on him and his little. So, but, uh, it looks like that the, we're going to have like a really dizzy fall because, you know, think about it. Chris, we're going to have all these, um, we have the NPC masters, nationals. We have the, uh, the USA, which is going to have the USA masters as well. We're going to have the NPC nationals, the team universe. They're all going to be taking place like within six weeks if you show them. Think about all those pro qualifiers. If you can't get a pro card, they, you suck because if you're top five and any of those shows, as long as you hit all five of them, you should be able to get your pro card, right? Yeah. And, and, and the nationals gives top two in every way class of pro cards. So, IMean, you really, the top six people in every division. IMean, there's no excuse not to do all the shows unless you run out of money because, IMean, that's the only, that's, that's a limiting factor that. No, although those shows, that they're going to be outside or. I don't know. Well, no, I think in Florida, as long as everything's beinGHeld in Florida, you can hold the stuff inside. We don't care over here, in Florida. Well, you, well, you do it, but they don't. They don't. I do it, but they're, but the state doesn't. Obviously. Yeah. That's how you know if you actually a believer or not believer. Let's say. Would you take your kids to a Bible and show a game? No, I don't know what I'm going to say. But the, you know what the thing is, though. In the end, you know, eventually, you know, this is going to die down. It's going to, it's just going to go away. But in the end, you know, maybe Florida will come out, you know, financially better off than all these other things because they are having business here, some might, IMean, in a limited confession. Is Disney still up in Amanda? I don't think she can hear me. I think Disney still open. Keep it the crowds. They are like trickling in. People in here. They want to go to the press conference. Open up here, but there's no one has any business. I think that people like this is up here. I, what we order in. That's what that, that's, you know, like, there. You don't even get this. That's the way it's going to come out. We, we order out back. We order pizza. We order, you know. You don't have to leave the house. Yeah, you don't have to. Now they have this new service to Amanda was telling me where you can order your groceries. You go online and you can pick out your groceries, they deliver. I hate grocery shopping. I've been doing it myself because I, I'm like, I'm like the, the guy they send. You have like they always have the guy who test the rate. They have to canary's, they test the radiation. Yeah. Whenever it's like an, an, any kind of radiation, or when they were working the labs with radiation, they would have canaries there because the canaries of diverse if there's a radiation week. I'm there on the canary, the elderly area. So, uh, what you guys got a hurricane coming your way. Now I think we have heard it. I think we had a little bit of a tropical storm, a little bit of a tail end of that over here. I'll go to the water. I'll go to the water. Yeah. So it's the world is coming to an end. What can I tell you? It's 2020 was a rough year for the civilization. I think. Well, I was in town today. I was like, tumble weeks going downtown. Really? Even in the end, still, huh? Are things closed there? Things that things are either. Things that a lot of things are closed and people who are open have desperate look. This, you know what this nothing worse than a look of desperation. I go around, you know what IMean? I go to stores and I, you know what I'm in town. I look around and I go to restaurants and peek in. Because that's what I like to do. Sure. You see people with, like, sad, desperate, full faces. It's terrible. It is kind of sad, I think about it. IMean, because, uh, yeah, but yet still people don't want to work around. I still can't get a fence guy to put a fence up around. I can't get a fence guy to put a fence up around. Construction people still busy somehow. I actually, I actually got a guy to a game called, which is a little Decrously. Absolutely crazy. I get a fence call. I get one a few days. What do you call you? I'm afraid to even admit it. I'll tell you better. I'll tell you better. I'll tell you better. I can, I can, I can one up you. I can. So I have this place. I've bought it a long time ago, long time ago. And I bought this. It's a department building. And I have a real estate. I don't, but he don't know me, but he's my idol. It's like people know Arnold, right? You know, Arnold's my idol, but Arnold don't know who they are. So one day I get a call from this guy. Said, oh, yeah, I bought the building next to you. My name is Arnold Schwarzenegger. You know, he tells me his name. I said, I just do this. Of course. I know everything about you. I'm like, you're my idol. He says, I want to put a fence between my property and your property. Let's meet lunch. It's like Arnold's head. Let's go for lunch. Right. We're waiting at Weng. I know all his properties, David. It's sick. That's crazy. I'm like a stalker. And so he says, you know, what to put up a fence between my property and your property. And I'm taking this building and I'm just putting a board. And I'm just putting a board you know, it's kind of a junkie building. And then he says, which like, you know, how long we go half on the on the fence. It's almost what's in there. Right. What am I supposed to say? Yeah. Yeah. He's been boozelling you. He says me the bill for 15 grand. 30,000 for the fence. Just because you had. And how long is the fence? I haven't made a penny out yet. I've been struggling for two years. How long is it? How big is what's the distance? Nothing. Probably 100 yards. 100 yards. Why is the fence so expensive? When he put the wall. That's why he's my idol. Because when you go in, Dave, when you go in to see his apartments. Yeah. He take your breath. They're just apartments. He did build. He built like the wall. They want to build around Mexico. Yeah. And he's having me pay half a heart. Just like Mexican. Just for somebody. You should you got a fight. So so an elephant. Thank you for your part of the bill. That's what the problem. So I guess it drops right here. Because he brings it up. He'll say. I just show him. Hey, I'm on the same team as you. You know, that kind of thing. Yeah. So I'm looking for picture. Tell me what this is from without reading the. You can't read it. Which you can't say. Here we go. That's fuel. That's fuel. He's from the Colorado Pearl. I'm right. I'm going to spread it this stuff. Yeah. It's a great picture. I'm going to get shredded. It's a crazy shredded. You know what? He's he's. He looks different. Maybe it just seems younger. I don't know. Right? You get. You get. You know, me and you look different. How many years is 10 years ago? What can you just tell? I'm saying so as a shame. He's face just looks different. Yeah. He's engaged. Yeah. He's a really. He doesn't look. He doesn't look. He just looks different. You know what IMean? He doesn't have wrinkles on his face. Yeah. He's like. Broden. Broden doesn't really look. Actually, Broden looks no different. I think when he was first started. He's an ugly guy. When. When. When. When. He looks. He looks. It's unbelievable. Like. Like. Dexter. And. His body is. Just. But his face. You can see. He had. You can see the lines of the ages face. Nothing was bad or that, but I'm just saying. Broden has like. He could be like 30 years old. You know, he looks. He actually looks like a little kid actually in this phase. Yeah. Yeah. He does. He has a very young looking. Kist type face. Kip. I'm going to give you one more. Phil Heath. He told me where. What's show this one's from. So. That one I haven't seen. That was the 2000. That's the Lace. Official. Yeah. 2000. And. And. A has. He ended up third. Where we end up. 2008. I'm looking from. I see he actually put it up as like a little. It was like a little. If anyone guess this one. 2008. Only 61,000 people. I'm. I'm. The year it was the year he almost to make it a pre-judging. Yeah. I don't even know what year. I don't. Nine nine nine nine. That's 2009. You know what. What you're sure of. Um. I just know the look. But I know what you know a day. If you go back and look at that pre-judging. Um. He made the changes between pre-judging and finals that end on May. Between New York and Tampa. And I heard that he ate at the buffet like all day long. I don't know if that's true. But in pre-judginGHe was like. Yeah. Just like almost. Sshhh. Small. Not small. And for the night show which was a full day later he was like he looked like he gained. Fifteen pounds of I bet he did gain ten. And that's the picture right there. Hmm. If you go back and you look at 2009. Phil Heath pre-judging Olympia. And then go back and look at 2009. And then go back and look at the final. You'll say I didn't know Phil was so good that year. Right. And you wouldn't know because all the whoop-law was in the pre-judging. You know he was. What could be brings it. This year it's going to be. A lot of crying guys out there. It's for sure. Well you know what unfortunately we're going to get another we're going to get a press conference without. Because Phil's good in a press conference because he lets he blows a gasket. Yeah. He might be to he might have a different approach this year. Yeah. But I don't know. Maybe I'll be can you always blow a gasket. You know and if you want prone to blow a gasket it's like you know. All dogs don't have our new tracks. No. Maybe not. He looks pretty big. I'll give it as much. I'll show. I'll post up a picture to muffin health people's declarations of way they go. I have like 40 and a half. You can send them right now. He looks lean too. Yeah. Yeah. Looks big. Definitely looks big. He won't grant you an interview if he wins. No. He might. But whatever. I don't know. Who else is going to interview with? IMean, if you're Mr. Limpio you should you go interview with everyone. You know you mark your brand and that's really what. That's really what it is. They could know and interview with anyone because there was exclusive contracts. There're just there. There're just people who don't want to interview with certain people because they don't like. They're they're critiqued or they're physique. It was like when versus we do and I want to have to be together. I get an exclusive video on these athletes. Remember, I was working for black men during these times. It was driving me crazy, you know, with contracts and this person. And then he was, we had to like, patrol the internet because if God forbid these guys, you know, because they would forget and they would do an interview with like, body's only in that calm or something like that. And that'd be like, uh, victory. And that's supposed to be talking to the sky, you know, you're explosive fat. Like, I, I, I, I, I didn't have any conversations. I thought it was ridiculous. The whole episode of the league. But, you know, I was defending the, you know, the, you know, the label, so to speak. But it was, it was ludicrous to go up and freak out when someone would, you know, he, you know, he was, he would send the letter out with lawyer letters. And what a season just is or what he's got to probably the garbage and wipe their ass with it. And he would never follow up because he didn't want to spend the money on the follow up, you know. It's like the little sending out a letter like he's going to have a victory to want to spend the money. Yeah, I, at least he, why didn't even send that no one's even responding to these guys like laugh if he's letters. They know that you're not going to do anything about it. Yeah, I got to keep it on fire on case you never get to escalate. I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I've brushed and filed. Can we get to the black man's file with all the, I love I, I probably have the biggest file there, right, right? Yeah, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I got my, I got my files and biggest. It might even be big of a jays. Well, rose inちゃ after I was out there. Yeah, we could still write this. h – the, you know, timers going to be running the Olympia backstage. So, that's what's a problem. Yeah, but you know what, I think him and his brother must be going out of that mind. Because think about having to show as they normally hold every year, they have like a record. There's no one who holds more shows. They have like a ridiculous number. And they probably are only holding a fraction of fraction of what they normally hold. So that's, you know, for guys that work all the time, that's, you know, that they'll go crazy like that, you know, thinking about it. They probably have spent more time canceling venues and giving people back money and, you know, and talking to sponsors than they've ever done before. That's just not fun, you know, that's not a fun thing to do. Especially when you have a lot of negative messages, you know, you know, what's worse, the uncertainty of it all. Yeah. And it's what we're going to do. Might be able to have it hotel say, yeah, I think you can, you know, get back with us in two weeks, then everyone can. Hey, we haven't show. Well, possibly we might move the, you know, the Cal Pro to North Dakota and I don't want to show it to Vegas. The scary thing, Chris, is it could still go on into 2021? There's no guarantee that this is going to let up, you know, because there could be another wave of this stuff, you know, of COVID going on when we hit the cool of nuts, you know, what has changed at all? You're good in science. Well, these viruses sometimes run their course. In other words, you would think, well, there's some people haven't got you, so it should continue spreading. Well, sometimes they just die out. IMean, now they're not everyone gets the flu every single year, right? IMean, some people get it, some people don't get it. And that's it. And it runs its course and it's done. So we don't know if this COVID is, because this COVID seems pretty good evidence that it's a manufacturing virus. We don't know if it has a longer life or longer half-life. We can't wait to people start getting the flu thinking they have COVID. Right. We're good. That's going to be crazy. I have to go for a colonoscopy and I have to get COVID tested on the Monday before, because I'm getting it done in a hospital. So I heard that I heard the procedures not so fine. I have to stick to stinking up your nose and like swab up in your like sinus cavity. No, it's worse. The nose, one, I'm a wake for so that might be worse. Maybe you should be the specialists for her son because you. Yeah. I'm going to send I'm going to send him on. I'm going to say five or King. Right. Right. Black for a call. We write the five. Roll 12 people wrapped around my head. Come to the five. But yeah, I get a send has signed some five. He's going to be at these going to be in Vegas for over a week. I'll send him a took a couple of times. I'll be happy. It'll definitely help him, you know, movinGHis bowels is going to help him a lot. Obviously, it's going to take some of the stren off of the the last exit, you know, out of his body, so to speak. But it, yeah, I feel bad for the guy. It's a very, very uncomfortable thing to have to go through. I know a lot of guys who had laser surgery, you know, to remove the the hemorrhates and they were like, it was a God sends. But I'm telling you, you could prevent yourself from gettinGHemorrhates. You've got to take a good quality for eye for something. There's not that many out there. I'm not trying to push my product, but I'm telling you talk to the guy, Assistant, you know, if you wanted to get my product works, you know, you got to take a look. You stand out with a, it was a disciple too. You know, maybe, so give it a shot, guys. If you have been trouble with hemorrhates or you have uncomfortableness down there, that this this sold really takes the burden off of that as well. And because it's, you don't have to stren. It's the stren, especially when you're that big too, you don't realize when you, when you wait 250, and you are all muscle and you stren, okay, this, the stren that you're putting on that area is way way more than it would if you're like like 150 pound aight, you know. So that's another thing that you have to consider. And plus, you're eating eight times a day, you know, it doesn't help you. So the area never gets a rest down. So once you get some kind of a hemorrhate that flies up, you're not giving in a break because you're always eating. So there's my little rant to the day. Hopefully everyone's having a good weekend and we'll have a good week coming up. And obviously, we got a lot of shows to start covering. Hopefully you guys are enjoying all the coverage on our explosive. If you are, make sure you subscribe to the YouTube channel. Hit that like button, turn on your notifications and remember with heavy muscle radio. True with hearts. Night everyone. See you next week.

=== FILE: Chris Bumstead Starts Olympia Prep + Flexatron Chest Day + Logan Franklin Dialed IN! [sPX9RaG6Qww].txt ===

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm going to show you how to make a big sandwich. I'm going to show you how to make a big sandwich. I'm going to show you how to make a big sandwich. I'm going to show you how to make a big sandwich. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbto and today is Monday, July 19th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. There are too many universal truths in this world. But Monday, being international chest-day, is definitely one of them. And if you need motivation to celebrate your Monday and style, you're going to be one of the most impressive things in this video. Sean, trening chest with the stand-alone goot, it looks like Sean's carrying around size. He was a few years ago when he was prepping for the Olympia. And that version of them ended up being one of the most impressive physics of the last decade. I don't know when or if we're going to see Sean on a bodybuilding stage again. But I do know this. The last time he competed, he won the Mr. Olympia. And if that's a level he can get back to, it means that him getting back into the mix would be a complete game changer for a lot of people. Right now we're somewhere in the neighborhood of being four weeks out from the Texas Pro. And if you're a Logan Franklin fan, you might want to get your tickets now while you still can. Because it looks like this man is about to put on a show. The updates had been coming out of Logan's camp over the last few weeks have really caught people's attention. So much so that someone actually asked me if I thought that Logan had the potential to be a top three finisher at the Olympia this year. In the two times that we've seen him competing classic physique, he's been absolutely lights out. And now that he's had another full offseason, the grow into the division, it should be fun to see what that trenslates to when he's up therecompeting at the highest level. I know people like to say that imitation is the best form of flattery. But if anyone out there is thinking of imitating Esapasini, they may want to go easy because trying to operate at that level is in parameters. Since the beginning of international lineups were released a few weeks ago, the former Olympia champ has been trening like a complete savage. And she is starting to look more and more like he actually resorted down in a distribution two years ago. When Esa's at the top of her game, she can be damn near unbeatable. And if that's the Esa who shows up in Columbus locking up her second straight title is almost a short thing. Well, it looks like things just got real for all the athletes who are getting ready for the classic physique Olympia. Because as of last week, you're reigning at the fending two-time champ. Chris Bumstedt is officially back in terminated alone. According to Chris, he weighed 246 pounds at the start of his prep, which is the highest that his weight has ever been heading into a show. The back to basic approach that Chris took this offseason has been well documented. And when you see how thick he is in these pictures, it really hammers home why he took that approach. And if he shows up denser than he was last year with that same level of conditioning, everyone else is just competing for second place. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and it should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Chuck Zito Talks to Rx Muscle at 2012 Arnold Weekend [0c1tVyMCVAI].txt ===

I'm standinGHere with Chuck Zito. He just punched me in the nose. I'm bleeding a little bit, but Chuck, you're looking young every time I see it. I'm not saying it's just because I'm trying to get a buddy up. You do look great. Thank you, man. Thank you. You got all your half. A few more pounds. Oh, definitely I want all my hair. Unbelievable. My grandfamble. I was 28 years old, yet it's full head of hair. My father, 78, full head of hair. So my hair's not going away. Last time we spoke, you were supposed to do a little MMA fighting. What happened with that one? Well, I tried to do that when I was in my 50s. Now I'm 59 as a buddy. Are you 59? My first two days ago. Congratulations. Thank you. And maybe when I'm 60, maybe let me do it. I don't know. So what do you think I'm trying to tell me? I was too old, but I want to fight a guy at my age. So one day I'll happen. You never know. Today's young, we'll see what happens here. You might not try to really cut toys here. Maybe we could arrange that. Yeah, I think he's a greatest MMA fighter ever. Right? IMean, he's battled everyone. He's done it all, man. And what to look at him? Look at him. He's 44, I think. He still looks phenomenal. He probably could still trade. Did he have any intention of fighting? I think he still fights. He actually retired, but of course, he still trens. Look at him. He's phenomenal. That's right. But still on him and everybody's all. He's following your footsteps. He's all mine. Yeah. Now you looked at the jackets when you came in and you saw the very familiar. That's pretty wild, man. Especially to read on a white. That's your colors. That you used to be. Yeah. You made a good point. You know, I said, I copy this from a son's anarchy. And you said, they copied you guys. How did they copy you guys? Me. I'm the one and only guy who coined a phrase front line nine. And they were not your first nine. Like you have first five. Right. I copy them, but I actually copied five knuckles. That's right. I got hit with the first five knuckles. What happened? How come they didn't ever bring you on as a consultant on that show? I figured you'd be the perfect guy. They actually have two Hells Angels from Oakland that consultants on a show. Lee and D.L. It was a David LaBrava show. But I had a big, when it first came out, I had a lawsuit against them. Because I went in 2004, gave them my life, my script, my everything. But you did. And then he said, they passed, they didn't want to do a motorcycle series. And then the next thinGHe knew, they were working on a motorcycle series. But I was so young for the last two years. I lost some re-judgment. And then I appealed it. And then Kurt Sutter, who was the creator, writer, producer, star, showrunner. If me have them, the husband of Katie Sigot, right? Yes. Yes. Yes. And look at her. She's a big fan of hers. Amazing because her girl came from our marid with children. You know, can you believe that? To the crazy bike girl. And she does look the part. She does. She fits well. She's amazing actress. By like her. And me and Kurt Sutter buried the hatchet. And we put everything behind us. And I decided to drop the lawsuit. And now I'm working on the fifth season of a sons of Anagheon. Oh, you're going to be on? I'm going to be on a man. You're going to start it, too? Yeah. So they got the right guy. Basically, he'll say in goes, if you can't beat him, join him. So IMight as well join him. You should have been on it from the very beginning. You're authentic. Can you or an act? Thank you very much. I said that. But is the show, IMean, you've watched it, obviously. Yes. Is it very accurate, according to the way the bike or gangs were? Oh, look. They have a couple of health angels who consultants on it. A lot of it's accurate. They do a great job. The whole cast is, I think, phenomenal. I can't wait to work with Kurt Sutter. I'm going to the rest of the cast, but we're going to make a more authentic. That's what we learned. So, and they go, let me be me. Where are my boots and where are my everything? They can stop you from being you. You're always you, with everything part you playing on me, man. But I'm looking forward to doing the FF season. In fact, they just signed three more seasons. They did. I'm happy to hear that. They would be around for a while. So I'm looking forward to working, starting on May. And of course, it goes on FX in September. And just looking forward to kicking butt on it. Congratulations, Chuck. Thank you, Barry. It's always good to play this season. Thank you very much. Likewise. Chuck Lido. I like the colors, dude. You do? You endorse it? The red and white, though, what? Very, very, I'm payinGHomage to you. It's not even very close. It's the same exactal letters, the bone letters, everything. Pay homage to you. I won't wear these out. I only wear them to bodybuilders. What I could say is, you're lucky. I'm not in the club no more. Now the blood's running down my face a little more. Chuck, thanks man. Oh, pleasure. Thank you for having me.

=== FILE: Clarence DeVis and Tricky Jackson Pose at After Party [hMX1abqaJ4g].txt ===

This is for our example. This is for our example. Here at Thunderstruck, ACD-C. This is for the first time. This is for the first time. Come on, go guys. Who's going to get the car? Small players. Nice show. Nice show. Nice show. Good job. Oh, that's good. It's a serious job. There's a strike on the knee. Oh, boom. We're going to the knee. Let's go. Here's the music going. Here's the one here at the knee. What do you guys do? What do you guys do? What do you guys do? Music. Okay. I scored. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. I'm going to do it. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. What you got, tricky. Boom. Boom. Boom. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. Yeah, yeah. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. Yeah. Oh, boom. Yeah. Boom. Oh, boom. Oh, boom. Boom. Good turn. No turn. No turn. What? Oh, planes. What you got, Clairs? That was important. You know what IMean? Yeah. Don't worry. I'll be going to the hospital. I want you to go. I want you to go. I want you to go. I need to show my stuff. I think I know. I want you to go. I want you to go. I want you to go. I want you to go. I want you to go. I want you to go. I want you to go.

=== FILE: Could BONAC Have Won Arnold？ + RAMY'S CONDITIONING + RIP Leon Brown [Nz1rS15a-Sg].txt ===

We launched the tasty pastry with the low carb hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. On day polo and today is Thursday, September 30th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back and happy Thursday. There are a few big storylines from last weekend that we haven't covered on the show yet. So we're going to try to make up for some of that now by starting with William Bonac, as you know, William didn't compete at the Arnold last weekend because travel restrictions prevented him from leaving the country. And as of the time we recorded this show, the situation still hasn't been resolved, which leaves his status with the Olympia way up in the air. And here's the thing, there were a ton of international athletes competing across all these divisions. So the idea that travel restrictions could have a major impact on the outcome next weekend, is still a very real possibility. And even though we all hope that it doesn't come to that, the reality of the situation is that we still don't know because things are, well, they are unpredictable. And I'm sure you've heard by now that Whitney Jones with the other notable absence from the Arnold last weekend, except it wasn't due to travel restrictions. It was because of a failed COVID test. Now as far as I know, Whitney's health is fine, and she should be good to go in the Olympia. That being said, I do think this is also worth paying attention to, because there's a good chance that we could have one or even multiple athletes not being able to compete Olympia weekend due to positive COVID tests. But again, just like with the travel restrictions, there's no way to predict or prevent any athlete from testing positive or even having to pull out because they were in close contact with someone. We haven't talked about it much this year, but the specter of COVID is still definitely lingering over the sports world. So all we can do is hope that it isn't part of the storylines next weekend, because Olympia weekend is supposed to be a culminating moment when we all come together and celebrate this thing that we all love. Not a time to sit around and lament what could have been under different circumstances. Even if you're not a big movie person, I think most people agree that sequels are hardly ever as good as the original. Except for Godfather. But every once in a while, there is a rare occasion when the sequel is actually better than the original. And the reason I bring this up is because the stuff that we've been hearing about Randy, since he landed here in the US, leads you to believe that this year's sequel is going to be way better than last year's original, which is pretty hard to do considerinGHe essentially went in there and leveled the field and not even won the calendar year later. We're talking about this again. Last season he finally became the version of Randy that we all been waiting to see for the lasT4 or five years. So this year's sequel really is good or much better than the original. That means that we're about to see an all-time box office smash when he takes the stage. Next weekend. And finally, I'm sad to say that we're ending the show today by wishing a melancholy trails to golden era icon, the brown bomber, Leon Brown, who passed away on Friday, September 24th, throughout the course of his whole fame career. Leon was considered to be one of the true trailblazers in bodybuilding. He became the first bodybuilder to be featured in Sports Illustrated in 1972. He was a member of the cast of the original pumping iron and his head to head battles with other golden era icons like Arnold, Sergio Oliva, Franco Colombo and Frank Zayner the stuff of legend. Leon Brown was truly one of a kind and the impact of his loss is one that is felt throughout the entire bodybuilding community. I want to send my deepest condolences out to Leon's family and his friends as they celebrate his life and more in his loss. Rest in peace, my good friend.

=== FILE: Crystal Matthews After Winning Figure Overall at 2011 IFBB North America [feURfIG1fQA].txt ===

This is Dave Palombo with RXMuscle.com. I'm here at the 2011 IFBB North American Championships. Here with our bikini, overall champion, Crystal Matthews and new IFBB bikini pro congratulations. Thank you. It's amazing and really excited. So... They only had four classes here where there's normally they have six at the national shows. That make it more difficult and shed a lot more girls in each class. IMean, I just kind of throws me off. I'm such a creature of routine. So it was a little interesting at first. I normally in the tallest class. Yeah, always in the tallest class. They get us to change the light bulbs and the places. I have my boots on, which you're a little... They can be two inches tall as I don't feel short next year. Yeah, we're pretty even. You should learn those to my fiance. I thought you. Five-nine. Okay, that's your favorite word about the same. I talked to me a little bit about your journey here because I'm sure it was not an easy one. Well, I've placed second twice now at national shows and so coming so close it just makes you really hungry for it. Is that at all your shows? How many national shows have you done? Come in, complete. I did two, 2010 and this is my third one this year. So I placed second at junior USA in Houston in over 2010 and I placed second just in Charleston. And what about the times before that? What were your places? It was very off. I placed seventh in Atlanta and then I placed ninth in Jersey. Okay. So did that was such a battle? You make a good point now. I want to ask you a question beyond. What's worse coming in seventh or second? Seven. I just for me definitely. Well, the seventh wasn't hard. The ninth place was hard. What about the second the second time? Oh. IMade a joke. I said if I could second this time I'm giving it back now I'm just kidding. No, it's always an honor because I know that every girl I'm up on the stage with has worked their butt off and you know everything plays a role. Let's go none of their lives. Genetics, everything. And so I don't ever expect my best to definitely be better than everyone else's best. Tonight it was because not only did you win your class and your broke out you won the overall here too against some pretty good girls. There are great girls here and I'm just very flattered and just still in a little bit of shock. Sorry if I'm mumbling a little bit but now I definitely am just excited to be a part of the best of the best. It's interesting because a lot of the bikini girls that have turned pro this year went immediately and jumped into pro competition. I don't even know if there is any pro competition so you're going to be hitting any after the Olympic? You know I'm definitely going to look into it. My main goal this year was to get my pro card. I'm going to Jamaica and October so we'll see you. This is just a good attitude. It's interesting but it's doable. Anyone who wants to know what you want to do? My best friends and my fiance. You're going to ruin the vacation if you're dieting. You know that right? Yeah I know I know but yeah I've learned to have fun and diet. It's been interesting but it's doable. Anyone who want to go to the park? Anyone you want to thank out there? Oh yeah absolutely. Best in New Carlin she's been with me since the beginning when I was a stick figure in 2009. I worked really hard to put my son on. And then of course my fiance, he's my trener, his name is Cody Wood and Chair Creek Athletic Club and snap fitness. Those are my second, third home so. Our bikini overall champion in the new IFVB pro here in Cleveland Ohio.

=== FILE: DAVE PALUMBO RESPONDS TO NICK TRIGILI! [xpuq_08pyZc].txt ===

Day Palombo with another RX muscle rant. Today's topic unfortunately is going to be the truth hurts. And you know, I think in today's bodybuilding world, a lot of people don't want to come to grips with what reality is. And sometimes you know when you tell too much truth or you say too many things that are too close to home in certain people, they get their panties in a wide, they get upset, they get defensive and they see it as a personal attack on them. And you know, unfortunately here on this show, I try to you know, reveal the truth to people, the way I see it. And obviously, you know, to help people not number one waste money, number two, you know, avoid learning things that are not true. And number three come to grips with reality. And sometimes reality hurts, you know, as the old movie, I think I was in that movie, reality bites, but that's really what it amounts to. I a couple weeks ago did a video about a product in Nick Trigilly, sales called, was a hyaluronic acid based, water based, injectable product that he sells on his website. And you know, I don't, I have no problem with people, you know, trying to make money to themselves. But he was, you know, portraying it is this, you know, great product that's going to enhance muscle size and shape and all these great things. And, you know, the bottom line is that there was no science behind the project. And there's no science behind the product itself. And hyaluronic acid put inside a muscle, doesn't do anything. It's the components of connective tissue, or exercise should say, Sonofiul fluid in the joint. And injecting that into a muscle is not going to do anything. Now, they do use gel based hyaluronic acid as fillers in the face, you know, to fill out little hollow as women get older, or as the collagen breaks down. But putting a version of that, which is not even the gel, because the gel would be way too expensive to ever use on a large scale, but taking a water down version, which is what it is, it's a water based hyaluronic, it's basically water with a little hyaluronic acid mixed into it. And putting it into a muscle is not going to enhance your muscles. Nick can get upset only once at what I said, and I'm sorry, you're upset, because I actually like Nick, I think you're a good guy. But the bottom line is that it's your product is not doing anything other than maybe causing a little bit of irritation in the muscle. And that truth might hurt, but it's true. And I didn't do it to maliciously malign you. I did it because I think people should know what they're spending their money on before they go out there in waste, because we only have a limited amount of money to spend on products and supplements and whatnot. And you can try to say, well, I sell a ton of it, that's not telling me and that's not confirming that the product is a good product. It just means that you're a good salesman. Also saying that guys on the Olympia stage use it, okay, all of a sudden doesn't confirm anything, because guys on the Olympia stage will use anything. Just like when I was competing, I would have tried anything that I thought would have done any good for my body or maybe not. And I'm sure a lot of the things I did try back in the day probably didn't do anything. So I'm here as a guy who's going to analyze the science of what's going on and tell you what the reality is. And unfortunately, reality sucks in this case. So Nick got hurt. He said, I'm a butt hurt. He was butt hurt basically by the fact that I did this video. And once again, maybe I should have told him up and told him that I was going to do it. That maybe since we are friends or we're trying to friends, I guess. He now went on a personal assault twice on his channel against me as a coach, which is kind of ridiculous. I've been coaching people for 25 years. My track record speaks for itself. I don't need to give my resume. I have somebody pro-card that I've helped people get that I can't even remember anymore. I've worked with pretty much everyone in the industry. Even the guys that don't work with I've answered questions for down the road if they have had any health issues or just general questions. So I kind of consider myself an expert at this point. And his assault on me was that I give the same diet and same plants every single person, which is not true. Because I work with men, women, and I work with competitors, non-competitors. The bottom line is that a coach and I've said this before, I hate to repeat myself. But a coach is not the program you give someone. The program you give someone is the starting point. The leading of coach is how you modify the diet, how you modify the supplements and drug cycles that you give people. So they pick themselves and they achieve their best conditioning. And that's really what a coach is. And that's what a good coach is. Creating a unique flavor for every single person that you give them is not a good coach. Because the initial program you give them is not a static thing. It doesn't stay that way. It changes. If I have a person who has a very fast metabolism, they're going to get more food added to that program. If I have a person who has a slow metabolism, they're going to lose food. Diet rotations change. So say that I give the same program to every single person is absolutely completely not telling the whole story. And that's not true. If I have a guy who's 200% in the 200% of the pound range and is looking to diet down for a competition, how many different versions of the program you're going to be doing? Are there Nick? Okay. You don't give someone a program that's not as good because you want them to think that they're having something special. That's not how being a coach works. Okay. There's certain templates that work for different populations of people in certain realms of what they're doing proposition wise, whether it be figure bikini, body building, you know. And that's what you use as a coach. You have the formula that you go to and you make it work. And then you modify it. If I have a person sending me updates every two or three days for 16 weeks and I'm making changes almost every single time. That initial program they got is not the same initial program that everyone else has because gets what it changes. That's what being a coach is all about. And you know with another great thinGHe tried to throw at me is that I charge so much money. The bottom line is I'm probably the cheapest coach on the market and the reason I do that is because I don't do this for to make a living. I love coaching people because that's a passion memory. So IMake it very affordable so that people can afford to work with me and get the benefits of my knowledge. And I think that that is something that I offer to the industry as opposed to people who do this for a living who are trying to charge $35,000 or $3,000 or $3,000 or whatever they charge for a contest prep. I charge $1500 for an entire year. I charge $800 for a contest prep. 700 if you don't want to text or anything like that. You want to just do it via email which is some of my international people do that. So I'm the most affordable guy on the one. I'm too cheap if anything. So I think that him trying to make a personal attack. IMean it's really just showinGHis insecurity and his showing the fact that he obviously is in the need to make money. Obviously you know paying your bills and earning a living in this industry is tough. You have to carve a niche out for himself. And next try to be like the bad boy, bad ass guy. He's looking for business obviously and he's looking for a bit. If he asked the best Chris Asito or he asked the best me or he's the best you know Matt Jensen, he'll do it because he figures that people will come to him and he'll take up the slack and he'll get the business. And you know what? That's not the way to do business. The way to get new clients is to show your knowledge, to show the results of what you do and to educate people and let people be attracted to you. I've never put an ad out advertising my services to anyone. I just put knowledge out and why putting knowledge up people come to me. And that's the right way to be a great coach. You know, you're a young guy and you've got a lot to learn in this industry. Putting someone like me down is the stupidest thing you can do because so many people will lose respect to you. And that's because people do respect me for my knowledge and for my honesty. And if you don't like my honesty, call me up directly and tell me hey Dave, you know, I'm pissed off, you mentioned you've dashed my pride, you said it and you know, we'll discuss it. And I'll tell you all the reasons why I don't think it works and you can still sell and people still buy it. I probably made you more sales because I put down you're probably because people don't care, they'll try anything. You know that. But I will not stop telling the truth and I will not stop educating people and I will not stop putting out knowledge because that's what I like to do and that's what I'm here to do. And not everyone agrees with it. And that's fine. The good opinion of others is not important to me because I know that I affect large amounts of people out there and hopefully I'm trying to keep the people in our sport healthier. I obviously know bodybuilding kind of theaters that line between, you know, being super healthy and being unhealthy. And I think that there's a right way to do things and I think there's a way to keep yourself healthy so that you can live a long life and you can still enjoy the benefits and the excitement of being a top level bodybuilder. Having said that once again, you know, I'm a big believer in the fact that the truth should be told at all times, okay, whether we like it or not and next, if you want to come on and you want to do another interview with me and we want to clear the air on in front of everyone else. I have no problem doing that either because I really, I have nothing but good things to say about you. You're talented guy. You know, I think you have potential to do a lot of good stuff in our industry. But you have to learn that you know, people do not like to be taken to damage them. And while you could create a product that has a lot of hype and might sell, it doesn't work and it doesn't do what you're claiming, eventually people will lose all trust in you. And that's not the way to have a successful future in this sport. You might make some short-term money but it's not going to be successful for you long term. Day full on them with another Rxmas olAvA.

=== FILE: DAVE PALUMBO RETIRING FROM RXMUSCLE？ #askDave [QWaveZbLRNk].txt ===

S Satisfied大家看中了就是覺得 Platz我覺得真有紅色唯一其實真的很麻煩我們現在要去那次來改革獻成ụ有小雕像絕對付你任愛 Tetris最堡使你比取了長次你的學生就可以了讓前方登場上被研究記得你按ientos小雕像一隻鳥陸還是女人 July 17 成了進入逐步再來Way快死一名險 Оп完幹完今天來好今天梁慧幹完以來陪人破壞為何我們繼續热套外防係贏彤兩個人參選了三年、九十年地名掌而且還美國B深尺多只 Cóct Cause離開別運獲成 Musi,連大家欠大家來全 ситу案就是,�潆詠奇律國者會 Yoda與生日之神的於將在大陸的密切為什麽暫ém的匯弱夏隊又將在領導戰致把機械想游尋傳的 justice改成 obed衣和當下在卡錫歷史院部協助一般的問題就這是一份 Kushner Vion並非於它負責便宜等於直至到任班但即如你cap他們那裡被 attending沙水的時候下映過了很多迷口的字道德威嚼逑我們一會一起正確 2007 YooA&FanMony,我想聽聽視頻試試對這個第一個仲華廟�paralme困難是兩個跟兩個 一個其實你們幾少 switching幾少背空森靜然後比 rele 的概念繼續我brahim我突破了玩具的安排前面是全部用淘汰通的有一個,最有一個見面最多地讓,故意曆見給暈混蛋在裡面要你把上去你把一個鈣散意一個東西剛才開始被暈你為什麼不只回就把這個注定方面?你的失敲你真是失敲你真的不是你的panels呢?這是下廢話吧К 無道理的你可以 défin一些改良謠言的這麼多一種人誒頭這好像如何越能êm立的是差不多因為除止如果我的 collapses下廢技能 sacr體重把現實上地施被壓這些問題都是履歉式的不好結果這些問題根本不進入大家幾名人他傻弓你們能使用 5 人他剛才被獻拇搬如果你們要回去你們有的解決能不能夠出舵拍了 medical holiday遊夢後拿出來讓對連親通盡工作認為是他的很大的好想他我要冥好很多比較困難簡單到一宴繪相先為大家一個 Patrick我 harsh了 brackets是一方面用三個巧克力 quantum那麼我覺得시면我贏我一點這是講關ちょっと所以他說想那一句嘗試就一語兩個人把修يف掉打開界反正取緩所以他用光筆олов釬退上所有YouTube channel, let's go to the first few questionsOf course from the day below experienceapp, first question, three meals with carbs3 shakes without carbsWhen I add carbs next, do I add to shakes with something like oats150 carbs of 150 grams carbs dailyYou want to know where to add the carbs to?I am assuming?YesAnywhere, that's what IMean有很多人, a lot of guys that only give carbs有什麼味道, they like to have it with their food所以, I'll give them on the food meals that they're reading during the dayWe add rice and potatoesIs it like that?Some guys like to drink their carbsSo on those guys, I'll give it to them in the shakesWe'll give them a carbolized shake or carboline or whatever, they happen to like Hymolecularly like a little way carbolidizedWe'll put it there and the meals will stay without the carbsSo it doesn't matter where you put it Or you can just divide it equally Overall, your meals If you really want to, it doesn't matterIt really doesn't, because you've got to look at glycogen storage in the muscleIt's like a gas tank in your carb Giving you this analogy before To take is not fullIt's empty Or it's on the empty or side No matter when you put the carbs into the tank You're just filling the tank up It's only when the tank is full And you're trying to jam extra stuff And then you get spill over And the spill over in a person's body gets stored as body fat They've let me just clarify I'm essentially my fault So basically what he wants is no is Let's say he wants to add carbs to his shakes That's why he goes on to ask What are the alternatives Like oats, what else would you particularly advise You know that in carbs Yeah, two machines I used a lot of liquid carbs Back in my day there was ultra fuel From twin lab we used a little bit of gain Or a gain rate A gain rate never really likes It's kind of just pure sugar And gain rate doesn't have a lot of carbs And it's kind of very dilute I used a lot of ultra fuel I used grape juice sometimes There really was no carb powders That really were any good They were mostly just sugar So the best ones I found at the time Was the twin lab's ultra fuel I liked a lot Nowadays If you get to add carbs I would probably add like I said Like a carbalyze, a carbalyze Or a targo Something like that If you're looking for something a little more substantial That's not going to break down So quickly because those carbs shakes Get absorbed really quick If you want something that's going to be more sustaining You can certainly blend up oatmeal in there I'm going to tell you something about raw oatmeal And I do a lot of raw oatmeal in my shakes But I would make egg shakes with the oatmeal I would blend it in and I told you that before oatmeal that's not cooked It's just blended in a blender It's very abrasive When it comes out of your other end So to speak Because you might get a little Sometimes you can get like bloody down there Because it irritates your The anal tissue is down there Because it's really like sandpaper in a sense When you cook oatmeal It softens it up and you don't get that same abrasive from it So have that keep or keep that in mind When you're doing that You might want to use fruit Some people use bananas Because they're calorie dense Papaya You can use pineapple I got it to crazy pineapple stage for a while Because I had red and sourdicle About pineapple having good digestive enzymes in there And I was putting a lot of pineapple in my shakes So I varied it around in the offseason Depending on what my mood was Because what happens is I'm the kind of guy They can do the same thing every single day And then one day I just say you know what I want different And then I'll do that for like three months in a row So go by what you want If you want to vary it fine If you don't want to vary it You happen to have one specific carbs source That you like better than those It's fine Most carbs are carbs Like I said If you're going for an oatmeal Which is a longer acting or a low glycemic carb You're going to get a more sustained energy release from it But understand that you could get some negative repercussions When you're when you're pooping it out Especially when you're doing a lot of Of oatmeal during the day Second question again from the deep Well, a more experienced app What is the exact mechanisms that provide health benefits From your fiber-lice And what is the optimal amount of fiber per day? All right, the optimal amount of fiber is is a skewed question I'll tell you why because Sillyam Okay Which is a It's just a form of a soluble fiber that we get you know in plants On a gram for gram basis So if you take one gram of Sillyam To one gram of opin Okay, which is usually one of the most naturally high Naturally occurrinGHigh sources of soluble fiber Sillyam is eight times more potent So one gram of Sillyam is equal to eight grams of like opin So you need a lot less Sillyam per day To get the same benefits you would get from eating like three bowls of oatmeal Which is why I use a very high-sual rate Sillyam in fiber-lice That's one of the benefits of it So you could take if you're taking it I think each fiber-lice shake has eight grams of Sillyam in it So if you're getting two shakes a day that's 16 grams of Sillyam You got a bolt on that pie that times eight That tells you how much real fiber effectiveness you're getting That's a lot Okay If you were to eat it in food So it's easier to take a fiber shake And then just add a little bit extra fiber to your day So fiber-lice has a gram of Insoluble fiber And one eight grams of Sillyam fiber That's nine grams So you look at it about 18 grams of fiber Most of it's coming from Silly If you're not using Sillyam you probably need like I said More like 60 grams of fiber But then again it's a lot harder to figure out the fiber in foods Than it would be from a shake So my suggestion is to take a constant source of fiber like a Sillyam based supplement Now a lot of people will say you know Dave I just I noticed When I use your fiber-lice it's way more potent And it does it does better things for me Than just taking like a metamusyl A sugar-free metamusyl or buying just pure Sillyam husk Why is that? And I answered this before but I'll say it again The Sillyam fiber absorbs water That's why it's called Sillyable It swells The amount of Sillyam in this Sillyam will dictate how potent it is And how much what kind of an effect it has on the colon The more it swells The more the colon has to work the push it through It becomes like Jello inside your colon And inside your intestinal tract And that's good because it makes the muskule cure contract on it It makes the digestive system work And that's what you want to do You want to get that muskule cure of the colon and small intestine in good shape Like to muscle You want to tren it essentially Whereas some lot of Sillyam's out there because they're cheaper They get low-swall rate Sillyam's That have the some of the benefits of having use of fiber supplement Like lowering LDL cholesterol And alkalinizing the colon But they don't have the same effect on on really trening the colon And getting it in good shape and moving waste through is effectively So people will say, you know what I'm going to take fiber IMove my bowels I empty myself so much better high-swall rate That's what that does However you can get the health benefits of like an LDL cholesterol Lowering effect from any kind of a Sillyam based supplement Also When you take a Sillyam based fiber supplement It feeds the gut bacteria So the bacteria that live in your colon and your small intestine They feed off of soluble fiber They actually ferment it for energy And when they ferment it they release short chain and medium chain facts It actually go back and tell the liver stop producing glucose Okay because the liver is like constantly cranking glucose out Whether it be the gluconeogenesis Or whether it be mobilizing stored glycogen from the liver Into the bloodstream as glucose If you can slow that mechanism down You slow how much insulin you release out And you slow the rate at which you might store fat So lower insulin levels better from fat burning So a good fiber supplement will help with weight loss Because it keeps blood sugar levels lower Because it prevents the liver from cranking out so much glucose And that's something that happens all the time But if you can slow that by taking a good fiber supplement That's another benefit Obviously alkalinizing the colon Another really good effect If the colon is more alkalinized The immune system in the colon works better Less likely a chance of getting a of getting rogue cancer cells growing And then replicating themselves The immune system is functioning well It can eat up those rogue cancer cells And get rid of them immediately The immune system is sluggish in that area Because the colon is stagnant And very acidic That's going to be a problem So there's many many different benefits of taking in a fiber On a soluble level And an insoluble level supplement And until you use one You won't necessarily understand what I'm talking about But once people try fiber-lice And I've sent a newmerable tubs out the people Especially some of the top level body balls Who have complaints they've had You know problems with bloating in the stomach And they're not able to empty their mouths properly Especially before a show And they've tried it and they were like holy macro I know I know May rest of these Luke sand That was a big fiber-lice user So if you want to talk to anyone I was called Guy Sistineeno That's a big customer or a mine But it's important It's something that we don't like to talk about But if you're eating eight times a day You've got to make sure you're pushing all that waste out of your body And fiber is really that important Now I'm laughing because when we were all in the New York office Together I remember seeing some of the orders And it's like Wow So on a so-called For a life-really-less fiber-lice user That's what I've been saying Like fiber-lice We know how it works Let's go to the Instagram questions again If you're not following this It's official underscore RX muscle Got a lot of good questions But again, if you're watching us for the first time on YouTube Hit the subscribe button below If you like what you're watchinGHit the like button Comment obviously that helps sound a lot If there's some suggestion Anything anything you want to see on this show Or any of other shows comment below As always we appreciate all of York's support It's going to clash with Paul Does a bodybuilder with a short torso Have an advantage in building a thick back compared to someone with a long torso There's advantages and disadvantages The short torso person will have Usually has lower connecting latch So it looks like they'll have to go right into their waistline I had that kind of a back development Because I have a short torso The negative on a short torso however Is the fact that Your abdominal region is crunched down So when you have a ton of muscle a lot of times It's easier to get that bubble gut It's phenomenal I'm going on because there's nowhere You're not spreading out your your abdominal muscles Sure overall longer period of time If you look at guys that long torso They usually don't have the gut problems Or or detention problems Because their their waistline is spread out over A much greater surface area So but those guys sometimes have short Attached latch And then they have a big gap between their their bottom of their lat And their waistline Not everyone Not everyone but some guys do So it's you know There's not such thing as perfection You either have one gift And one disadvantage And then you have another gift and another disadvantage So the grass is not always green or on one side You you dealt the deck of cards that you're you dealt And then you got to try to maximize what you have I had a short torso So I tried to maximize the amount of muscle I can put on my body to look like I had a lot of mass of my body But I had a you know, fight the you know the the bloating you know gut issue As I got bigger and bigger and bigger Because there was no place for all that muscle to go Now that I've lost you know a lot of muscle Purposely over the years Um my stomach's flat You don't even see it anymore Because I just don't have as much muscle anymore It's spread now I don't have to now I have less down there And I have like almost no no waistline But it really it's you know Our physics are amazing things They're so resilient our bodies They can change and reshape themselves And it's finding that perfect balance between too much and too little This is a question It's almost as if somebody heard a conversation from yesterday day Yesterday we were talking about Interviewing some of the up and coming amateurs Right like people love to hear about The you know newcomer someone who's trying to make their way But the whole ranks classic physique Nash actually just gave us a great idea and possibly our next show Dave would you ever consider doing a show on your channel where viewers and amateurs So I guess we'll say Lessils just tilted towards the amateur bodybuilder Those competing in the NPC Looking at eventually get their pro card Send you their pictures of their physique Or video what have you for you to critique I would do it But then I would I would have always people hating me Because you know I would just give it to you No I would do it that's fine I think it's a good idea actually You know I can give you my opinion Which is just an opinion It doesn't mean it's it's it's It means that much Obviously I've been in the sport a long time I can give you my my my got instinct If on what I think the person needs to work on And what what their strengths and the weaknesses are Obviously people who can't take criticism Wouldn't be sending in their pictures So that's a good thing But people wanted to do that I think we could do it for sure I think that it might be interesting You know sometimes I nail it Right sometimes I'm wrong completely You know and you don't know But I think that You know I know a lot of the fans like to know What the experts think about the upcoming crop And how they're going to do potentially in the future Usually stars you can kind of see right away If the guys that are the sleepers The ones that their bodies are late Blumers that sometimes you can miss You think wow they look alright But I don't know And then all of a sudden they They gain 30 pounds of muscle one year And they look completely different person That's the kind that's what happened to my physique I really didn't look that great in 92 And then from 92 to 94 IMade like a 20 pound jump And then from 90 you know from 94 to 95 IMade another 30 pound jump So that was 50 pounds in 2 years I don't think people expected that So I surprised a lot of people who Kind of gave me one critique And then they changed their mind when they saw that But not many people do that So yeah I'd be open for it Joe Denky how many times a day Should you drink apple cider vinegar Second what's the best probiotic I suffer from a distended stomach Yeah I don't know if the probiotics In a solid distended stomach Probably the fiber-liced product would help a lot more But I do agree that a probiotic is certainly helpful If you don't want to use a probiotic foods Like you can use like bubbly sour crowd Or like a coconut keafier If you don't want to do that And maybe you're dieting You don't want to add extra cows You can buy natrin NATR-EN makes a really good probiotic A powder probiotic That's what we were refrigerated They make one They're bifitow And they're lactobacilly I think one is for the small intestine One is for the large intestine Because remember we had different bacteria Collinies in different areas of the body And so you can buy by both We have both in my refrigerator home, my wife bought it And I'll use one one day And the other day if I'm feeling like my IMight be out of whack Maybe I took a course of antibiotics or something like that And I feel like maybe my bacteria Some of the good bacteria got wiped out I'll use those Those seem to work really well IMix them right into my fiber-liced shape I think the fiber in the fiber-liced shape is the food for the bacteria So we might as well just put the bacteria into the food Mix it around I go up and down and let them have that It seems to work really quickly When I do get feel a little run Because sometimes you can take like Let's say you're on augmenting for instance For 10 to 14 days By day five or six You might start getting diarrhea And that's because now the good bacteria have been killed in addition to the bad bacteria So there's nothing protecting your gut lining So you put those new bacteria back in there By taking the probiotic With the fiber supplement And then all of a sudden it recedes your colon And your end or your small intestine And then all of a sudden the diarrhea stops And it's pretty dramatic It happens you could stop it with an end day Or so if you had a good probiotic in there Well it's going to be 120 And you made it a video of a day A couple of weeks ago Or it may have been a part of an nasty episode Where you talked about I guess Men who struggle to get up post cycle And what they could do Well this question Relays specifically to finasteride He says that his hair is starting to grow back One in a day, down side Sex drive One away Any suggestions on how to fix this You know Some DHT is necessary for your sex drive So if you're if you're if you're flat lining Your DHT too much with finasteride It could certainly affect your sex drive My suggestion a lot of times The guys who are havinGHair loss problems And or at the problems Is trying like a product like my finaster Like Testolize product first Because that will lower DHT levels Because it has natural DHT blockers in there But it won't lower So extreme like finasteride does Try that if that works Then you're good to go Then you're they don't even have to take the drug Because finasteride has side effects And a lot of people I take finasteride I've talked about it I've taken it for 25 years I don't have any side effects I never did It doesn't bother me It doesn't I don't have any sexual side effects I don't have any other weird ones I don't have any other people report So for me it works But for other people They may get side effects So it doesn't it's not warranted But they use it in that case Try a product like Testolize I think you'll get just as good as a result I'm a naturally high DHT converter I always knew this Because I always looked at my blood work And saw how high my DHT levels work Even on just DHT On all of everything I have high DHT levels Now When I got my DNA tested If you remember I talked about that Maybe about six months ago I had the DNA testing done Probably a year ago And I'm a very high converter Of DHT Of course this DNA testing Which is ironic Because it confirmed what I already knew And it also showed I was a low estrogen Aromatizer Which I already knew So Just because I see my blood work all the time So that kind of confirmed In my mind That you know what I need finasteride I'm on no HRT now I don't take anything Maybe an educational HCCH G-Shot And my DHT levels On finasteride 2.5 milligrams a day Are still just in the normal range They're not low Which tells you if I wouldn't be on that They would be probably through the roof I happen to convert a lot of test That my natural testosterone Or inject the testosterone Into finasteride Which means my five-alpha reductase Ends I'm system is high Which is probably why I had a lot of acne Is a kid And why I had hair loss as I got older Okay And my dad had prostate problems So I've been since I've been taking finaster For the last 25 years I'm hoping that I have averted the prostate issue Because I kept my DHT levels in normal range For so long Remember prostate will grow In response to high DHT Over the long period A long period of time It doesn't happen in the week So the fact that I've kept it low For so many years I'm hoping that I have averted that problem And that's why we do DNA testing That's why we check blood works So that we can see what our own individual Propensity are genetically speaking for different diseases And different disease processes If you can identify what you don't do well And what you do do well Then you could avoid the things you shouldn't be putting in your diet They're going to make you like I have zero Cointed DNA testing I have zero ability to digest lactose I already knew that Because I drink any milk or I take anything with that Because I get diarrhea from it But if I had known that earlier When I was born My parents would have tested my DNA I would have stayed away from my whole life These are the advantages of our children I'm going to test all my kids DNA to see what they're good at What they're not good at What I should keep them away For what I should put them in towards Or what foods they handle And they don't handle That's the advantage of technology We had this at our disposal now Hopefully you guys will use it as well We are up against the time But we have a lot of good questions We're going to see how many we could squeeze in here This one's from Emmett and Xuski How to keep balance during the back Double-by-separate pose I tend to lose my balance sometimes Yeah That's a common thread And no one ever really showed me how to pose It's funny We were talking, I was talking posing with Melvin Anthony When I interviewed a couple weeks ago And we were sayinGHow on the west coast Guys really get into posing There's a lot of coaches They go into the posing room They have the gyms, especially gold's Venice People put a lot of emphasis on posing On the east coast Right group In New York trening is the most important thing Everyone trens hard core Everyone knows the east coast Guys squad dead lifted Do all the hard clothes No one talks about posing It's kind of like a lost art form there So I had a tough time learninGHow to pose I had to teach myself and learn by trial and error One of the things I learned is when you do In a back double-by-separate And you're putting one leg back The one leg that you put back Which ever leg it happens to be It doesn't matter There should be no weight on that You're not leaning back on that leg All the weight is on the front leg You're almost standing on that one front leg And balance There's no weight being put on that back leg The back leg is a pivot leg It's just touching the ground to keep you from falling From keeping you balance And if you do that It will enable you to flex that glute and hamstring That you put back If you have all you weight back on it When you try to flex that glute and hamstring It's not going to happen And you're going to fall down Or you're going to feel like you're off balance Because it's just not stable Remember all the weight on the front leg You're leaning forward And you're just pivoting on that back leg And just lightly flexing the glute and hamstring If you're in shape You will see Strations in the glutes And you'll see why you're in your hamstrings If you're not, I don't care how hard you flex that leg You're not going to see anything And that's the way it works But the key is not to put your weight on the leg That you put back It's to keep all your weight forward on that The leg that's, you know, that's the fur of this bat That it's excuse me On the leg that's closest to your body Let's go to black belt body building cripple The other side of the leg that's not confident Are you that the Olympia will remain in Vegas this year Do you think it might be moved to another state Because of restrictions I don't think anything's a short thing in 2020 So I wouldn't put my money on anything You know, I asked Stan Salman I had heard of Roman They were going to move it a couple weeks ago And he kind of laughed at me But I think that they're pretty much set on doing it in Vegas The thing is, well, they have to wear masks Because you remember the show we just saw this past week The show is a show that we're going to see in Vegas Everyone was on that, that's the next up on stage That would be terrible if they had to do that in December Maybe not so much for the guys But especially for the girls who, you know, beauty is part of the whole presentation Especially with figure and bikini and wellness So that's something to think about But I think we're going to see the show in Vegas I think that if they held it in Florida Obviously there would be a lot more leniency In terms of who can come and watch the show How many people you can have in the arena for the show But I think at this point they've put so much into it I know they were just out there in Vegas Looking at the planet fitness and everything like that I can't see them moving at this point I was going to, I have to be a tenacity Good friend of the show What can someone experience when signing up for your monthly coaching service If you can give as much details possible He's considering signing up within the nexT3 to six months So I guess from the start in terms of his consultation To the beginning steps And into Vegas gradually the routine that you take your clients through Yeah, what was it for the yearly or for the toughest prep I figured what he asked about IMean he just said signing up within three to five months I have a couple different packages You know, all coaches offer different packages You know, what I do is when I first started with a new person I have the I usually ask them for their goals So in other words, what's your current goals? You know, what's the time frame on those goals And in other words, you want to lose weight over the next 16 weeks You want to put muscle on over the next six months I want to see pictures of what they look like now If they've done a show, I would like to see pictures of what they look like on stage To see what they look like in shape I want to know what they're eating now I want to know what supplements they're doing And I want to know what they're using gear I want to know what gear they're taking Or they have taken in the past So I have kind of a background information Sometimes people who are a little more, I have a lot of people have medical issues And I have complications Sometimes I'll get on a phone call with them Just to kind of get an idea of their story They're back story, what we're dealing with Whether the injuries or diseases they have Or whatever the case their restrictions may be I also ask people for what foods they don't like If they're allergic to anything And then I construct the plan based around what their goals are And their timeframes Once I send over the program they can They send me that questions and answers And I'll answer thEQuestions And we go back up what this many times is necessary One of the great things about my coaching programs They get the person has unlimited access To ask mEQuestions whenever they want With certain plans they can text me And call me whenever they want Some plans it's just all through email Really depends on what the person chooses I try to make myself as available as possible The good thing about me is I'm up on that Doing answering emails and working So very rarely do I have a problem getting back to someone You know I always tell people if I don't get back to you the same day With an update you know that you send me Send me a text message right away Because that means I probably didn't get it I get probably upwards of over 300 emails a day And then I'm answering on a regular basis And that's not even including spam emails And so sometimes one slips through the cracks Or it just doesn't make it you know Never I always tell people don't take it personally Don't think that I didn't respond to something like that Or I'm ignoring you I don't ignore everyone Actually another friend of mine said to me Why are you hire other coaches to work on you Like some of these other gurus do It'll take a lot of the workload off you And I say well you know The second I stop answering my own texT3 emails is it loses the exclusive this Of working with Dave Palombo Now you're just working with some other guy That's you know that's not what I'm about When I can't handle any more clients I put a cutoff and I say I can't work with you I have too many people that's all Luckily for me I'm able to handle a larger amount of people Because I've been doing this a long time And so that's how it works It's nothing that complicated obviously I have people send me updates You know every two usually every two to three days And we've been a changes of necessary If we're down to like the ladder the wire Before a show a lot of times I'm getting updates every single day So it really depends on you know On the situation in the circumstances For a couple of morEQuestions Go to TJ that gent To the different kind of question Dave I'm having done a surgery My doctor blow out Pretty recommendation I've already clened out Using gear this year Didn't really want to again he says I need to come over three weeks prior And after surgery Is that necessary Can I TRT through it to help keep games Or should I just come off completely IMean as far as gear goes You could probably stand a low dose HRT If you wanted to like a 100 milligrams a week If you really really wanted to I would personally just for two weeks before the show I would come off everything You're not going to crash into each anyway And then after the surgery You can go back on HRT Just say that you don't your blood pressure is not higher And then it normally is And that you know just for that purpose Really the more important thing Is going off nutritional supplements Take no nutritional supplements Two weeks before surgery Because a lot of those increase I'm not having time and we'll make you bleed I've told the story already When I first got my dinosaur surgery We didn't even know about that And I was bleeding like crazy Because I was on fish oil and vitamin E And all the things that we now know are anti-quagolants Matter of fact when I had one of my shoulders The second one that I forgot to stop Say things up and it stopped at six days out You would think that would be enough But I had a lot of bleeding issues I actually needed a blood trensfusion Because I lost so much blood during that surgery The first one I did I stopped two weeks before I didn't have any problems So I'm going for a colonoscopy on the 25th I think I stopped all supplements Because I'm afraid of going there And they got to snip out like a polyp or something like that I don't want to stop bleeding I'm a bleeder Because I take a lot of fish oil I take a lot of vitamin E I take all the supplements They can actually keep your blood thin And prevent you from clotting Which is good when you're not getting surgery Because you don't want to throw cloths in your bloodstream Especially with COVID going around Which increases clotting Also those supplements are very healthy to take But when you're going to go for a known surgery You certainly don't want to be on nutritional supplements That may increase bleeding time So I highly recommend you stay off all Nutritional supplements for two weeks before the surgery Last one And I'm not sure if you have given this real serious thought Or if this will spark some thought And what I want to know Well Dave still be driving our ex muscle hard In his 60s Like he does now Does he have a retirement goal I thought I was retired already No, just kidding You know what I'm a workaholic As long as I'm enjoying what I'm doing I'm going to I will keep going strong with it And you know what as long as I can keep evolving What we're doinGHere And that's the key And said you've been with me a long time now As long as we can constantly keep evolving What we're doing And making it better and different And running rolling with the times In other words What the latest technology is And employing it to its fullest I think we will I'll do this probably till You know I don't even know what's going on Any more tool I'm in a mental institute Or whatever All day I chop Because I enjoy doing this I enjoy educating And I think the great thing about the mind Is the mind the body may fall Part of the mind lasts a lot longer So as long as I'm of same mind You know and we can come up with with good content And I can help showcase the bodybuilders And a positive way And make sure that the truth is being Told to our bodybuilding audience And to the people who are watching around the world Then I'm doing my job And I feel like I'm giving back You know that's the key It's it's constantly educating The next generation The next generation The next generation And you can never have too many people being educated Because there's just not enough information Out there right now There's no schools There's no schools The people can go to the learn stuff That we're talking about here And the bodybuilders Always on the cutting edge And the cost of the latest technologies too So what the general public finds out today We knew 10 years ago And that's the truth And I had that sort of eye enjoy I like being on the cutting edge Just not to the Pro one's too long I did research One year with a professor at my college I stayed over the summer We did research on Muscle development in chickens And how thyroid hormone affects that And one of the most fascinating things I found out about that was When I found out that the stuff that we were actually writing Scientific papers about Was stuff that no one else knew In other words, this research This professor was doing Was discovering things that no one had ever known before I was so excited That I said I didn't know That's what we're doinGHere He's a kid People don't know about this This is new This is new frontiers were forage We're finding out things about how thyroid hormone interacts With the body And it is responsible for how muscles develop In chickens which can be applied over the body Those Matter of fact, when I was working there In that summer of 89 I think it was They had furt just named Or had just recently named the hormone IGF-1 It was like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor One, it had originally been called somatic heat So metamate and see They really didn't know exactly how it worked But they found that thyroid hormone When you're developing Increase the IGF-1 release Which this is when you're developing As a member go And a young chicken So to speak And if you don't have enough thyroid hormone You don't produce enough IGF-1 You don't develop the muscle On the level of the correct amount That you normally would So thyroid hormone is very important Because of its interaction with IGF-1 So this is something that no one had ever known Before before this particular professor Dr. King figured this out So that was super exciting for me So that's why I get excited about Giving you guys new information That's being told I like breaking it down In a way that you can understand it Rather than just reading a scientific paper That you really don't know what it means And that's why I'm going to continue doing this Probably toll on who knows 100 years old I hope So there you have it There you have it there's your answers For all the rumors on this show That's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave Reminder Tomorrow early tomorrow We're going to drop the interview with Antoine But yeah, of course coming off is one of the California Pro You address a lot A lot of different things They vary very thorough conversation So you're not going to want to miss that again If you're not already following us Please subscribe But in the below if you like what you're watchinGHit the like button Comment below Obviously it helps us And as always Thank you for your support For Dave Blumbo And I'm producer Tyler Schore I'm so thankful We'll see you next time

=== FILE: DAVE PALUMBO'S 1997 NPC NATIONALS CYCLE？ #askDave [PC83e2dZjOg].txt ===

After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. The rush begins once pre-workout vape. I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Spices Nutrition. I created Spices Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensoplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Spices Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Spices Nutrition products. If you want to be in your apps, you'll best join the evolution. while we live on more detail. To borrow more information, you need to check when you can read all the information down here. You could ask another question to me, but I have been saying what everybody does though. What we do is we just buy a box before we use the WTA and go to campus. going to have revirations, permutations, whatever you want to call it, going all the way into December. And that is seven times a year. Olympia Philheb committing to do the Olympia, make the big shock announcement last Friday. Yeah. IMean, we all speculated that this would be a really good move for Phil. I need nowhere as head was at. IMean, but let's face it. IMean, during these COVID times, no one's doing great in business, maybe Jay color, but no one else is doing great. So I can't imagine Phil's killing it. He can't really do that in appearances. And so before I'll pay to, you know, and winning your eighth sand now, you're stock through the roof. IMean, plus he's also now Danny Garcia's manager now and the rock and Danny just bought the XFL football league and they're planning the rock, one of those games called, they're calling them the whatever the games that they're doing on our whole plan. Athletic kind of excuse me is going to be next year now. So Phil's got a good team behind him there and they're willing to promote him. So I guess winning another Olympia would certainly race his stock through the roof. And like I said, you know, when you take a year off sometimes and you disappear, people forget, it seems like now Phil's like the savior coming back to save body building until he's got a better, I guess, fan base behind him now as opposed to people were looking, they wanted to see him lose when he was seven times a year now that he's coming back. It's like I was like, people want to see if he can win a, you know, that's the fickle nature when it comes to greatness, right? IMean, you have someone who won the Olympia seven times and you know, you can very well argue that he in many ways trensformed into having that that villain role, right? We talked about this when I interviewed Phil earlier this year or last year, either Dubai, I'm also showinGHe talked about the comparison between him and LeBron James and, you know, assuming that villainous role, right fans are rooting for you to feel. Right now, you know, I was not in he finds himself in a position where fans are rooting for him, rooting for him to do well. Of course, you know, all that's a stake is that he has a chance to tie a hanging and Coleman with eight Mr. LeBron tiles. That's something I just wanted to get a quick thought on you because that is something that we talked about last year. How important was that to fill the comeback and see if he could tie and get onto that Mount Rushmore? I know Phil would say, oh, it doesn't matter. I have seven wins already, but let's say Phil's a very competitive guy. There's no way he doesn't want to, no, I don't think he's that thinking eight. I think he wants nine. He wants to be the king of the rules so that people won't say, well, he's just as good as, no, they want to say he was the best Mr. LeBron if he was the most wins. And, you know, if he wins this year, there's no way he's not coming back to the next year I think he can't win. So he could win ten times, you know, we don't know. IMean, we don't know like what's going to happen these next couple years. So if you can get back on top and his body looks good and he's healthy, there's no reason why he can't win a couple more times. This year, we didn't even know who's going to show up this year, basically. Obviously, if he lost this year, would be huge bloated. But I don't think he could, you know, I don't think he could be, I don't think him coming back has any negative connotations except to Zego if he doesn't win, but it's only good for business, you know, for him and for the Olympia. And then if somehow Sean Rodin settles his case before that, and we see a rematch between those guys, that's going to be, you know, that's going to be grounds for one of the best Olympias. Well, that's not also forget waiting in the wings, the defending, Mr. Olympia, champion and branding carrier, he's going to have somethinGHeavy to say on December. So, let's start on that. As we go to the first two questions, of course, in the day-plumbo experience, the first question, Dave, you on, you increased both on heavy muscle radio said that you don't think, Phil Headsmith's session can or will improve for the 2020 Olympia. ThEQuestion is, why do you say that critics of Rurali Winkler previously labeled him as a bubble gut and now people often refer to him as someone who is living proof that you can reverse a bubble gut, are you assuming the reason Phil has to stension is different than the reason that Rurali did? I don't think that Phil's main problem is the distension because you can control that could be just the fiber supplement, will fix the distension and controllinGHimself on stage. He's got a lot of muscle on a small, not necessarily a big frame, he's cartoonish, but he doesn't have super wide plavicles. He has his waist has gotten thicker over the years as the rest of him has gotten thicker. The problem is he doesn't have a large space to spread it out on, like, I say, a J-color or Rurali Winkler. Rurali's super wide bone structure wise. Phil is not, he's just around. He's going to have a tougher time with that, especially on the standing and the lacks poses, but it doesn't matter because he really almost beat everyone, even with the problems he was having. I don't see anyone better than that Olympia. Rurali would be the only guy to give him run for his money and Rurali is a couple of years all the now too. We don't even have Rurali in the show. I just don't think that anyone's that close. The Phil Rurali just happened to be right there with him waiting for Phil to kind of just not show up at his best and that's why Rurali won, but Rurali didn't win by a mile. I don't think that Phil has to be that much better. He just has to maybe work on controlling the midsection using a good fiber, self-inkeep, everything flat when he's on stage so that no one can complain about that. But he doesn't have any weaknesses. He doesn't have any torn body parts, so to me, he's an easy way and if he shows up at his best. The second question again from the day below experience, that Dave, I'm always hungry, even when not dieting and have low leptin levels, so there's any way to increase this. So increases in leptin levels. Yeah, the problem is that havinGHigh leptin doesn't mean you're going to have less appetite, even though leptin is the hormone that reduces appetite, they've actually found in studies that obese people have the highest amount of leptin in their body, which doesn't make sense because why they was hungry and eating. Well, because their sensitivity to leptin is low. In other words, their receptors for leptin are not there. So they have all this leptin hormone and the body keeps releasing more and yet it's not working. So the key is to increase leptin sensitivity and receptors so that your body can respond to your leptin. Actually, the lipolice fapper that I saw from species nutrition has one of the ingredients, it's a leptin sensitizer and that's why a lot of people like it because it kills your appetite and it doesn't really kill your appetite. What it does is it restores it to normal because it enables you to react and respond to the leptin that your body is releasing. And that's important. I think a lot of people don't realize that you know, leptin is not the answer. It's the leptin receptivity that's important in the body. Same thing with insulin. You can have enough insulin in your body, but you still can have high blood sugars because you just don't have enough insulin receptors. So your receptivity is low. And that's the important thing. Let's go to our Instagram questions again. If you're not following this on Instagram, our handle is official underscore RX muscle and again, you're working us for the first time. Yeah, because a lot of people ask me how can they submit questions? Well, that's the best way. Explain to people the best way to submit questions and when to post. So every Wednesday, generally, we record the show on Wednesdays. In the morning, we post basically the post that says, as Dave, though, we're filming today, that's where you have your chance to ask a question. That's, that's 95% of it. So IMean, I'll be giving you one. I just DM us a question if this during the course of the week, go right ahead. We can put that on the pile as well. But those are the two ways that we takEQuestions for this show. And again, if you're not already following it, subscribe to us on YouTube. Hit the subscribe button below. Hit the notification button. Not going to miss any of our upcoming shows segments. A lot of you see to talk about now, you know, IMean, that who knows who could be next. So, you know, we're going to have reaction videos, go roar and all sorts of fun leading all the way between now and December. I'll finish the episode. We advertise said, if you don't subscribe to the channel, you don't get the notification. You're going to miss the sale. And a lot of these sales were sold out in an hour or two after, you know, if we do a species nutrition like sale, where I have some short data product or something like that. So if you want to know when we're doing all this stuff, you got to get notified. And you do that. Subscribe to the channel and turn your notifications. And again, if you like what you're watchinGHit the thumb up button, comment below. Obviously that helps us immensely. And as always, we appreciate all the support of our explanation. Let's go to thEQuestion. First question from Big Daddy Janks. What is the best course of action fight metabolic burnout in the final least of contest prep? You know, when I do a lot of times with a lot of people on work with it, it's hard to do this yourself because you never want to let off the gas because you think, well, I got the show coming up. Sometimes I'll just tell, especially even with women because I work with women pretty hard, because they have trouble getting lean a lot of ladies because their metabolism is just by nature, not as good as men's and they're not usinGHis drugs or any drugs. So what I'll do is, and I see there really you start to burn out and then that responding. And I'm low up in cardio, lowering food and not losing weight. And I know they're not cheating. I'll give them a couple of days. I'll give them a day off. I've got no cardio the next two days. They're going, what? IMean, you have to be doing two hours of cardio. I said, no cardio. And what that does is it restores their body, gives their bodies a chance to kind of rest a little bit more, recover, and it tricks the body. And to think, oh, everything is fine. And we're not overworking, you know, cortisol levels drop a little bit and then things start to respond. I'll even feed them on those days, which they freak some out even more. Wait, I can do any cardio and you can give me carbs. I absolutely am. And you know what a lot of times happens nothing. They don't gain any weight or lose any weight. Sometimes they lose. It's just because their body's been overwork. So if you're feeling like you're burnt down, don't use it and it's too lazy. But if you're legitimately not responding, you're body anymore and you're just lowering and lowering stuff and up in cardio. And it's still not doing anything. Take two days off from cardio. You know, you still do your way to take your cardio off. Take a full day off from everything. Maybe sleep, you know, an extra hour to that day. And you might have to do like a clen carb, you know, one or two days in a row. If you're aT4, six weeks at, it's not going to set you back. It's going to believe it'll recharge the batteries. Let's go to Lizaro's public is in Correlex. The same as IGFLR 3 or a peptide form of IGFD recommended a peptide form. Of IGF or should I or am I better off with GH and swim in a course of AAS? All protein or peptide same word. Okay hormones from insulin to thyroid to IGF-1 to growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. These are peptide hormones. You can call peptide, you can call poly peptide hormones. You can call protein hormones. There are hormones that are based on proteins, not, you know, fats, the storodles, you know, like the animal extorodling. So, long R3 IGF-1 is legitimate IGF-1 that they'd added the side groups onto to make it less recognizable by the IGF-1 binding proteins in the bloodstream that inactivated. So if the inactivation proteins can't recognize the IGF, it stays in the bloodstream and it functions better and longer. Okay, whereas if you use regular IGF-1, the one that your body would naturally produce, your body will inactivate it very quickly. So the inperlex brand is regular IGF-1. It's it's synthetically made like GH is they they it's reconvenently made using bacteria that express the human IGF-1 gene. They isolate that and they give it to kids and very large dosages to help grow better. Because let's face if you give kids a lot of GH, you know, it can make them really insulin resistant. So they find it that in the lily these kids they can just give my GF1 and it works even better. The problem is once again, it probably needs to be administered, you know, and more frequently for body builders and remember we're not trying to get the long bones to grow. And I got to grow and most most people using IGF-1, they're adults they're not your long bones have stopped growing already. So you're trying to get muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone from this. So you got to understand and like I said, I've never really compared or seen the study or when I was competing their in for likes wasn't around. And all I know is that the long the real long R3 IGF-1 worked really well in me and I gained a lot of way from it using small amounts you have to micro dose the stuff if you take too much of it it stops working right away with in for likes the dosages higher. But you know you're probably better off maybe spreading an out a little bit more throughout the day like in a couple shots maybe too shots. The good thing is you probably won't stop responding to it as quickly because it's not in your blood stream as long remember the longer the stuff remains in the blood stream like long our freeze and there for up to 20 hours. The more chances your body have is reducing IGF-1 receptors because the body is being flooded by the IGF-1. Whereas when you take the regular IGF-1 that doesn't last that long you're probably not going to downgrade the receptors reaction very much because of the fact that it's not in the blood stream. So unfortunately both circumstances are not ideal because one you're getting a long life of the IGF-1 but you're it's but it's your body stops responding to it. So I have people do four weeks on two weeks off cycles of it. Whereas in the other case your body doesn't down regulate as quickly but it doesn't it's not in your system long enough to really get exorbitant amounts of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So there's pluses and minuses on both sides. Let's go to kel 1883 on 44 years old been on a year since I was 22. I can't really see myself getting much bigger but pretty happy to sit where I am. I find taking 250 MG of task 220 MG of mandrel on every 16 days. He's me looking good and mentally feeling great. I seem to be able to keep a good standard of muscle this way. You think the guy should stay on this until say 65 and actually be healthy from it as the doses are so small. You know if you tell me we take the testosterone like that say yeah but you know that guy is an animal external meaning that it's not something naturally produced in the body. Yeah it probably doesn't have any toxicity issues because it's a long acting but it's not like a normal natural hormone that the body finds in there all the time. So I would probably cycle the the deck on and off and you I would probably do my shots every week because every two weeks you're going to need. I know you're saying you feel good but you're probably getting some ups and downs and blood levels. So if you I would just do the testosterone year round for as long as you want as long as you're feeling good on it you know 200 milligrams a week or so like that one to 200 milligrams. And then if every you know every couple months you want to throw in maybe eight to ten weeks of deck with the test I would do that. I don't know if I would run the decall the time with the testosterone. Hey unless you want IMean it's up to you and if your health markers are fine you're not your blood crush is not elevated you know you're not having any issues with cholesterol pro you know profiles being screwed up. Kidney function is good then then don't worry about it, but you know what I just find that usually you know test off and something that a body's you know naturally produce and when you're trying to replace that's what we call homeowner placement. You want to replace what your body really produces not what it doesn't produce so. There's nothing wrong with running some deck of cycles in there at very low dosage but I don't know if I would run them year rounds. Let's go to rehab fix what do you think is the most common injury amongst body builders and how could bodybuild a potentially prevent these injuries. Probably should I hear the most about shoulder shoulder injuries seem to be the most prevalent and that's because that joint it's a multi you know multi you've joined. So there's a lot more movement in that joint whereas here you know your knees and your elbows are just kind of hinge joints so they don't really have a lot of movement. Also think about the amount of weight that we lift and put on that stren on our shoulder joints you know if you don't have like perfect anatomical structure in there. You get a lot of rubbing and grinding and ultimately you wind up you know your body's not meant to bench press for in your pounds but we all. You know if you're at an elite level body building most people can do that. Problem is that you're getting a lot of cartilage damage in their rotator cuff poles you know because that's face that you can't always be on your game. You're going to be a little off the weights going to move a little bit of shift a little in the wrong direction you're going to pull somethinGHere and there and it's a cumulative thing you're chemitively doing damage over years and years and years. So even if you don't really hurt yourself just like you know acutely like tear something. There's wear and tear injuries over the course of years. That's why you don't really see a lot of great body goals into their 50s or 60s. That's to being you know like probably you know and novely and maybe Vince Taylor because it's a cumulative injury type of thing over the years and years. You see a lot of guys getting shoulder replacements and something that even a few hip replacements. I would say the shoulder joint is the most vulnerable and the only way to save it would be not to lift this heavy but then you're not going to also put as much muscle on. So look with any great my father used to tell him is if you want to be a great athlete this sacrifice is involved you have to be able to live with pain. If you're not willing to do that you're not going to be a great athlete and he was right. You know some people say it's not worth it because you got to deal with it later in life. I said it is worth it because I wanted to do something special and be different. So I was okay with pushing the envelope and accepting the consequences of it. Some people aren't. It's a personal decision. You can't. I can't make everyone else's decision for them. If you've got to make your own decision but do things smart. You don't want to be reckless about it. But understand that if you're going to push your body to that level and put that kind of muscle on and lift that kind of way there's going to be roundifications. Let's go to T. Ben. Them 62 and he says why and about like 12 question marks after that why do so many people say calves don't matter in a physique today and the judging. Because they're hard to grow unless you're naturally gifted with the cemetery and then he goes on and mentioned how. The 90s with the likes of Flex Wheeler, Ronnie Coleman, Sean Ray that they werecomplete and had calves. So in your opinion first of all do you think I guess calves are in way are devalued in a sense and if so why. I think in the men's open body building and probably classic I think calves count. IMean I've seen judges mark people down for for lack of calves. Why do people was always on Dennis Wolford having no calves. It's just not a major body part so in the sense that you know if everything else is great I don't think people are going to lose a shovings they don't have calves. Because it's let's face it. It's at the ground. You're not really looking that low and that's really it's what you're lying of sight. You're lying to sight as pecs, arms, you know, abs from the front, you know, obviously the back you're seeing backs and you're seeing your back and glutes and hands. That's your line of sight. You don't really see calves. It's only when you when the guys are really close and then you start to compare body part for body part that's when you start scrutinizing calves. So I think that's the reason it's just because it's not invisible. It's not visually in your visual field when you're initially look at someone. IMean, if I'm just taking a quick look up on stage and someone, I'm just looking at their their midsection. That's really what I'm seeing first. I'm seeing, you know, their pecs. If that looks good, I've already almost made an assessment whether I think that they're going to win and I think that's just judging nature, especially when we have these shows of a million people. Judges makEQuick quick decisions. Very rarely do you have enough time to scrutinize everything unless the guy has like one calf that's missing or something like that. As long as you have balance and you have if you have good legs, I don't you know, my calves were never my strong body part or a little lot of people suddenly loved you know how my calves looked at toward the end of my career. They were weak body parts from the extent high calves. Flex wheel had very high calves and Sean raised their cues the most time. I don't have any calf implants. I don't think you did, but a point is that, you know, it didn't cost them any shows. So people would just pick out, hey, he has no calves because the guy was flawless every place else and then if you just wait, it works. Obviously for men's physique, they don't even judge the legs so it doesn't matter if they have calves or not. But for classic and for open body building, you know, I think it comes down to calves are only important when the contest is super close. Another question that sort of, you know, Harkin's back to the likes of Yates Coleman, I've also mentioned Ian Ballier is from I have a body building. If somebody can easily endure the whole cheat, the whole diet, cheat meal, refeed free. Is that the best case scenario? You mentioned obviously many videos about the benefits of a cheat meal, but he's putting a scenario where you go completely without a cheat meal. How much fat loss benefits does the refeed daily actually have? And then again, comparing to body builders that say they never cheated other diets. You know, I think your metabolism slows down if you don't have a cheat meal. Although I, you know, some guys and girls go overboard. And sometimes I have to, I have to design the cheat meal for my might make it a little clener. You know, if some women like, you know, if some one of my clients choose eating like four pieces of pizza for a cheat meal. And she, she was gaining weight every week just from that one meal. So I said, look, no more pizza. I said that's a junk food meal. We're going to do some chicken. We're going to do rice, you know, and I design a clener cheat meal. It's still carbs in it because I think the carbs are important to stimulate metabolism. And she started losing weight again. It was just too many calories. I hate to use the work calories. No, I hate calories. But when you have too much energy you're putting into the system, you're body just can't metabolize it all. You know, Dave Palumbo could eat a five thousand calorie cheat meal. But Mrs. Jones is 120 pounds. She eats five thousand calories and she's gaining weight from that, you know. And she's going to make probably gain some fat from that. So a cheat meals are not all equal. You know, a 300 pound guy, you know, cheat meal should be a lot bigger than a hundred, you know, 30 pound woman's cheat meal. Unfortunately, a lot of times the couple goes out to eat together. And the guy in the, the woman eat the same amount of food. The guy loses weight on Monday and the woman gains seven pounds. So you can't just eat unlimited, you know, you have to have to have to be some some degree of sanity to the cheat meal. Well, let's go to Benian that's Ivan. What do you think about switching from Cland to Feverin when your body gets used to Cland it? And then I guess assigned to that which has more side of Fans? Well, IMean, it's a silly question because I'll tell you why silly because it's not a silly question because I think a lot of people probably don't know the answer. It's silly to put one in place. The other because they both stimulate the same receptors. So you're not even giving the receptors a break. So you can't just stop clung uterol, which is a beta 2 agonist. You're then taking a fed you, which is a beta 2 agonist. The truth is the clung uterol is a better beta 2 agonist than than than the feds because it's specific to beta 2 receptors where a feds are is much more of a central nervous system stimulant. And it affects the beta 1 receptors on the heart. So it's a generalized beta receptor, a stimulant. So you get more side effects from a feds because you get the rapid heart rate from it, which Cland beta all doesn't cause directly. Sometimes you get an indirect effect from that because it drops your blood sugar, blood you see in your blood pressure too much. But it doesn't directly stimulate the heart Cland beta all. So it's a much better beta agonist and it's a much better fat bird. I don't know. They don't, they're not sure if it's because of the beta 2 receptors stimulation or if it actually stimulates beta 3 receptors on fat cells too. And that's why it burns fat, but it's way better than a feds. So you can't use the two together because they compete against each other and switching from one to the other to get one arrest is not going to do anything because they're also both, you know, activating the same receptors. The reason why a lot of people like a feds is because it's a stimulant, you know, and it makes them alert and it kills their appetite a little bit. That's the case. Just take caffeine for that effect and stay on Cland beta all. You don't want to use Cland and a feds rate the same time. Let's go to Kyle Denny Shane now. This may come off as a bit of a homework assignment, but he is pretty detailed in thEQuestion. I'm 220 pounds fairly lean here around how can I improve my efficiency and absorb my carbs as Michael, as muscle, blank again without spilling over the most like an absorb without spilling over or getting watery is around 200 to 250 grams of carbs. I find that 30 grams of carbs per meal over 6 mills of fine more than that and I become instantly watery. Well, he answered his own question. It's a trial and error process. How many grams of carbs is your body need? It's like askinGHow big is the gas tank in your car. If you have a one guy has a 15 gallon gas tank and another guy has a 20 gallon gas tank, the 20 gallon gas tank guy could eat more carbs, right? Also, which engine is bigger? If the 20 gallon tank has a bigger engine than the 15 gallon tank, he's going to burn gas faster and he can hold even more gas than that tank because he's going to go through it quicker. So, they had to figure out how many grams of carbs is body need so that he doesn't spill because any spillage of the glycogen storage, because your glycogen storage of fill-up goes in the fat storage, right? When he found 180 is the ideal amount for him. So that's what he eats. If he wants to try to gain weight, he goes a little over that maybe. But you don't want to go too much over it because anything over that you're going to start getting watery and you're going to start getting fatter. Anything under that, and you might actually, you know, be too flat, you might not got maximum pumps in the gym. So through trial and error, we figure out how many grams of carbs you need and then you just go, it's still little under that. And the great thing is that as you grow and produce more muscle tissue, you have more storage capacity. It's like you're expanding the gas tank in your car, you can hold more glycogen. So you'll notice that you can eat more food as you get bigger. And that's just something once again. That's why having a coach is good. Because sometimes guys just can't figure out girls can't figure out for themselves how many they need and when to increase it. And that's why having another set of eyes looking over your pictures every week or twice a week. You know, like I do with my client is good because even I don't have to tell them a lot of stuff. I can say, all right, we're going to increase carbs this week or we're going to increase protein this week. And I know to do that because I can see they're getting more muscular and their requirements now are increasing above what their requirements were when we first started the diet. Tom for two, three morEQuestions. Good at J and motive eight. Do you help any other WWE guys besides triple H with their diet and Trishin. And I guess here's the I guess speculative one, which we could have some fun with. Of the ones that you may have helped the ones that you kind of observe as an observer or a fan, which WWE wrestler do you think has the best potential to be a bodybuilder? Yeah, I've heard people asking that before I work with triple H obviously with Stephanie is wife. I did stone cold Steve Austin's diet for a little while. And I work with a couple of the guys that are upcoming wrestlers in the organization as well. Randy Orton buys all the species nutrition itself especially fire for life. So I know triple H has told a lot of people about the supplement. So a lot of them used the supplements and follow the bodybuilding kind of lifestyle. You know, proponents that I put forth. So you've known him and I worked directly with them. I'm working indirectly with them through the supplements that they're buying that I'm creating. Having said that, you know, who would be a good, IMean John Cena had a great body, you know, for body the rock has a great body, you know, for bodybuilding as well, you know, I think. So it's just you know, you never even look at the ultimate warrior back in the day. He was crazy. He was a bodybuilder. And he was a good bodybuilder too when he was competing. He had Conners got him hooked up with the W. W. E, which was the W W F back then. And that's how he got it to wrestling. And obviously was a very popular wrestling. Stop bodybuilding. But there was a lot of guys that could have been, you know, really good. You know, triple H is a little tall for bodybuilding, you know, so his leg development might have been a little tougher. But I put Cena was great. So he was a good guy. So he was a good guy. And I'm probably forgetting a bunch of guys. The rock has a little tall too, but, you know, had a great upper body. Hogan could have been a good bodybuilder. You know, if he ever gave 100% to that as well. Superstar Billy Grammyson was a great bodybuilder. There's that classic picture of Arnold and him together. And that black and white that he uses a vitality cell. So I have that up in my, in my studio. I'm not a good guy. But unfortunately, you know, once they made a big in the W W W, they never really pursued bodybuilding beyond that. So we don't really know how far they could have gone. Probably the ultimate worry, it probably could have had the best the biggest, you know, bodybuilding career. I think. Let's go to classic physique and Nash is there always a dip in sex drive after an average 8 to 12 weeks cycle or do some guys bounce right back right away. And I guess I'll add to that for those that do experience a dip, will you recommend? There's no way not to get a dip. If you're at a 1000 milligrams of testosterone, you're taking injecting a week and your testosterone on blood work is like 3000 total Testosterone. And then you go off the cycle, even if your body went back to producing its own natural production at maximum value, which would be 800, you're still going to feel low. How could you not feel low going from 3000 total Testosterone to 800? And most guys are going from 3000 down to 20 because their bodies just don't turn back on right away. Obviously doing the right, you know, post cycle therapy, you know, of course, 2000 units of H.E.G. You know, every two or three days, you know, for two or three weeks and then doing some clomid, I keep guys on test, you know, you realize the entire time that they're off, the balance, the DHT, estrogen and testosterone levels that helps a lot as well. But you have to understand you're not going to be at that super high value that you were when you're on a cycle, it's impossible. And even if you were at max natural levels, it still would feel too low for you because you're just taking away the sensitivity. IMean, you're at, you can't over stimulate those receptors like you were doing it. When I would go off cycle, my sex tribe would not be as crazy as it was when I was on, but it never was to the point where I couldn't like function. Because I think a lot of guys that cycle on you too, they're like, well, you know, I feel different, you know, and then they start thinking about it too much. And before you know it, you know, they're, they've talked themselves out of being able to have sex because there is a psychological component to it. And I understand when you're going from injecting, you know, every other day, a whole bunch of stuff, and now you're not doing anything. You think that you should sex tribe should drop. The funny thing is the firsT3 or four weeks, you still have a lot in your system. So you shouldn't have a low sex tribe at all, but at leasT3 or four weeks till you hit that, you know, monthmark. Then you might have a little drop. And then usually guys don't only stay up for eight weeks anyway, so, IMean, what do we talk about? We're talking abouT4 weeks of being a little low. Come on. IMean, I think guys, the cry baby's about it to be honest with you. One last question from Ojalah Niko. You always get thesEQuestions obviously from your own competing career. Do you remember your exact cycle from the 1997 National? I do actually. I was using that in 1970, I remember there was no tren below. No one was making their on tren below yet, really, nothing I know of at least. I was using like, at that point we were getting testosterone in bottles, 10CC bottles from Starris. That was the Starris connection. The United States came right from the pharmacy in the US. Greg Valentino talks about it all the time. So we, I was using like 250 milligrams, 200 milligrams, maybe even 300 milligrams, like, you know, four times a week or something like thaT3, four times a week. I was using. I was getting parable, which was which was the tren below we used back then. It was from France. They were in Ampials. They were 76 milligrams per amp. We would use like two to three. The lasT3 four weeks I would use three of them. I thought I was a big shot, you know, and we'd use that. We would use injectable, the windstral amps. They were a little, you know, they looked like a little milk bottles to shake up. We do 50 milligrams every other day at that. The last two weeks I would do my halal test in 20 milligrams. They were little green little mince. They looked like they came right from the US pharmacy. I was takinGHuman trope at the time, which was an American growl hormone. I was using abouT3 to four I used a day for that show. And let me think if there's anything else I was taking. I think I was actually on a little bit of insulin too. I used to take some insulin because I was eating a lot of food. But not a lot. Like I was taking like three or four units in the morning, three or four units like six hours later or something like that with the GH. I would be a very insulin resistant, you know. I didn't check my blood sugar's back. I think you couldn't just buy a cheap glucose monitor back then. I just knew when my blood sugar was absorbing my food. I was really flat. So I believe it and I did use insulin very small amounts for that show. And I think it was just because once again, I think I was probably from the GH. I was running a little bit of high blood sugar's. I wasn't absorbing my food. And once again, I have no data to support that other than and how I felt. I used to climb uteroll, not the ton of it probably like maybe like 20 micrograms like three or four times a day. And I was on probably about 50 micrograms a side amount. I like to, I didn't really need that the T3, but I felt that it made everything work better. Like the GH and the climb uteroll work better. And that's why more why I used it rather than for fat burning purposes. I would use that and I'm trying to think if there was anything else that I was using at that point. Like anything exotic that I had access to. I really wasn't a big orals person, so I wasn't using any orals. I think that's it. You know, I think I had pre-mobile and acetate tabs. They were 25 milligrams of peas. They came from Germany. And I was, I think I was doing four of those of day to last like six weeks. Because they only lasted a colleague two or three hours in the system. So I would do 25 milligrams every three hours during the day, which came out to abouT3 or four pills a day. And I really liked those. I felt good on those. They did the only oral that has no toxicity because they're acetate. They don't really, they don't have to not 17 alpha-alculated. So I felt comfortable using those that I wasn't like toxifying my body. And they didn't make me feel bad. A lot of orals always, I didn't do well on orals. They would just make me feel like, like, I didn't want to eat or anything like that. That was the cycle. But you know what? You got to remember all the stuff came from either European or American pharmacy. It was all 100% legitimate and good. And you didn't have to do excessive amounts. And you know what? Quite frankly, people, if I were to tell people what I was taking back then, they would have said that was excessive. They thought that I was an extremist doing those dosages. I just knew that that was the effective dosages that worked. And once again, because guys had a lot of different theories about how to do that. I never thought to take 8 or 10 or 12 by using GH. No one did that. I didn't think to take 2,000 milligrams testosterone. No one did that. I didn't think to take five vials that's paramilon. No one thought to do that. If you took three, that was like the only did that the last couple weeks. So that was like a, like a top level cycle then. And I think a lot of the pros were doing similar type stuff like that. No one really pushed the envelope back then. It was all about trening and diet. And that's the truth of the matter. You know, that is some photographic memory that you have. There's something that I would trigger. What I did to it like yesterday that well, that's incredible. I'm like trying to do the math in my head. How many years ago was that we're talking about something that happened literally 20, 20 years ago? That one was so immersed in that culture. And it was so, you know, such a scientist about what I did. I remember it was yesterday. I can see the vials in my brain, you know, where I, what drawer I kept them in in my house and when I would do the shots. IMean, I just knew because I had wrote everything down, the cycle. I knew exactly what I was taking. Because it was so important for me not to leave any stone on turns. You know, and you know, I feel bad for the guy today because now everything is underground. You don't know, you know, we sell a lot of Roy test kits on date. We're going to come, especially now with thEQuantitative ones that will tell you for tren alone and an antheid for testing antheid test sip and deck of how much is actually in the vials. And I can't tell you 50% of the antibiotics are probably test proponate every single drug injectable. And all the orals are coming back as they animal. So, and that's if they're real, a lot of the stuff is nothing. So, you can't trust anything. That's terrible. It's terrible feeling to not know what you're taking and if it's good because you want to maximize your performance. And here these guys are having to guess. So, now at least with the Roy test, you can tell if you have real gear. And now for a few of the compounds, you can actually tell how much gear you're taking or your stuff has and it which is a huge advantage. And so, I advise and once again, you can see this is a sales promotion if you want, but it's really helping you guys out. And that's why I'm doing it too. You're crazy if you don't test your gear because you know why would you want to waste your time and money. It's a simple test that it's like 20 bucks a test. Once you test your stuff, you know it's good, you buy a bunch of the good stuff. If you know your stuff is bad, you get rid of the bad stuff. That's how it works. That's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave right now on our oursposal.com. And of course, the RX muscle, YouTube channel, only episodes of Heavy Muscle Radio and the after hours podcast tomorrow, all new episodes of Iron Raid Good Dave and lead. For Dave Palomo, I'm sitting for a few people. See you next time.

=== FILE: DAVE PALUMBO'S 2020 NEW YORK PRO PREVIEW! [GE75b0S0IXU].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Day, Palombo here with an RX muscle news update, the New York Pro official competitor list has been released. This Saturday, not in New York, but in Tampa because of some logistical issues and somEQuick maneuver get the last minute, we're going to have the New York Pro in Tampa, Florida. That's a good news for the competitors, it's good news for the fans and it's good news for us, the guys reporting about these shows. I want to do a little preview of who I think might be some of the front runners going into the New York Pro. The lineup turned out to be pretty deep after all. It first people a little concerned, maybe wouldn't get enough turnout, but I feel this is a very strong lineup. I'm going to highlight some of these competitors, and I'm going to go in alphabetical order according to the competitor list, because I don't want to say, one person better than the other. My opinion is that at the end, maybe I'll pick some of the people I think might be the guys to be. If we start off looking at this line of max trials, jumps right up the pace. IMeant max trials back, probably 15 years ago, he was trening in bad Francis Palombo with a 10x sweatshirt on. He would show it all the body bullying shows. He looked enormous, no one really knew what he looked like, and then one day he decided I'm going to compete. I didn't even know the guy competed. I just thought he just worked out. He was always sweating. He did. He was in the gym for hours and hours, and the guy is an absolute freak. He's probably got one of the best upper bodies in this lineup. Chest shoulders, arms, you know, his back, you know, could be a little denser, a little thicker, but, you know, really, he has, you know, the only weakness is, yes, is his legs are not quite up to snuff with his upper body. I don't know if they ever could be. His upper body is that good. This was a guy who was extremely dangerous a couple of years ago. Last year wasn't a great year for Max in terms of, I think, success, but he didn't make it to the Olympia stage. So, I think the this year he's really looking to come into New York and try to win this thing. And if he does win in this lineup, it would really raise his stock through the roof. And I think that he would be a guy definitely to watch going to the Olympia. ThEQuestion will be, will you be able to balance conditioning with fullness? The next guy I want to talk about is a client. IMight actually feel Kloha, who really surprised a lot of people in Tampa a few weeks ago when he placed fourth in a really tough lineup where Huntel Abraudah brought home the win with the NVL year in second. And Phil has been a guy who's kind of like been on the sidelines, no one really knew him because he kind of turned pro in a weird show that wasn't really a conventional like USA championships or nationals. And I just saw a tremendous amount of talent, he contacted me and I said, man, this guy is going to be really good if we get him in shape. And really brinGHim in nice and full. And Tampa was I would say 95% of what we, you know, a 95% version of Phil. I think what we're going to see in New York here or in Tampa again, obviously, but at the New York pro is going to be worlds ahead of what we saw in Tampa and I think he's going to shock a lot of people. He's got density to his physique. He has the ability to get super crazy hard. He's got nice shape to his physique and he really has no weaknesses. He's very well balanced. And that's a dangerous competitor when he's on stage at his best. That means full and lean shredded. So that's the goal for Phil. And I think that he's really still an underdoGHere. And I think that no one's expecting anything from him. But if he comes in here, he could be this dark horse in this line of who comes out, you know, with a lot of people talking about him. Let's move on to another guy who's a season of better in at this point, John Delorosa. He's probably got the most wins of any guy in this line up here. John wins shows every single year. And then they last year he won the Puerto Rico show. He won the Toronto Pro show. He always is very consistent. He's got no weaknesses to his physique. His only weakness really is is it's conditioning and going to be good enough on the day of the show. And when it is, he's almost impossible to beat because he has no flaws in his body. And that's an advantage that he's got going to this line up. He knows how to win. He's been there before. ThEQuestion is, Willie brings his best. I say we're going to see a great John Delorosa. And I think if we do, he'll shock a lot of people because a lot of the big names were hearing Patrick Moore's in the invalier airs. And these guys, you know, can easily beat beat by John Delorosa if he's at his best. Because like I said, there's no, there's no flaws in his physique. There's really nothing that's missing. He just has to bring in crazy, crazy conditioning. Moving on to one of the new guys in the lineup, Quentin Maria, he made a, he shocked a lot of people last year with his fifth place at the Toronto Pro. He's got some of the freakyest muscle in this lineup and it's new. When I say new, IMean that we had, he's still coming up, he's still coming into his own. He's developing muscle maturity. He's rounding off his physique. And he's probably the most dangerous guy in this lineup. I don't know if this year is going to be his year that he's going to be ready to start winning major major shows. But he is the future of body-building for sure. I'm a lot of a bunch of other guys, young guys that are coming up like Hunter LeBrona will be, you know, in the next five to seven years, the guys that will be talking about as the Olympia top elite. He has the physique, he has the good to he has the genetics. And this could be his breakout show. Once again, very impressive last year in that fifth place. What will he bring this year? I don't know, I haven't seen an affix, I haven't really talked to enough people. I'm the big fan of his physique. And I think that he's dangerous because he's got the structure. When I say structure, IMean, when he stands next to other people, he makes them look bad. And when you have that ability and you bring muscle and conditioning on top of that, that's a tough pack of soul to be. So look for quitting to be another dangerous dark horse in this lineup. Moving on to Patrick Moore, who probably was the most talked about man after the Olympia in 2019 with his top 10 finish there. A lot of people thought he was going to come into the Arnold Classic this year, which was the only show we really started in the beginning of the year. And was going to dominate that show. Didn't do what we thought he would do. He just proved that he did not have enough size yet. How much size he's put on since the Arnold. I don't know, we'll find out. But I think we're going to see a better Patrick Moore. ConditioninGHas never a problem with him. He's got the structure. He's got the lines. You know, with Chris Asito and his corner there, we know he's going to be conditioned. Or probably one of the most conditioned guys in the show. ThEQuestion is, does he have enough size to stand with some of the bigger guys like Ian Valier and even Antoine Valier? There's a lot of massive guys in this lineup, even Max Charles. So we'll see if Patrick doesn't look too small in this lineup, he could be a guy who win the show. So this is going to be an exciting, I guess you could say, debut because let's face that this year has been split into for Patrick Moore. Moving on, maybe one of the most dangerous guys in this lineup that no one is talking about. We've been talking a lot about a lot of dangerous guys, but this might be the most dangerous guy. Another Chris Asito disciple, Hassan Mustafa from Egypt. Quiet doesn't speak a lot of English. We don't see that much of him, but man, this his physique, do the talking. He's like a pole-demel clone of this guy. He's got thEQuads of quadzilla. He's got an enormous upper body. He has, you know, Chris sent me, I don't know if was this picture or a similar picture. Like, I think he sent me a most muscular shot a couple days ago and he said, what do you think? I said, he looks like he's eating a thousand grams of carbs a day, he's probably eating 50. And Chris said, no, he's not eating 50, he's eating zero. He's got just natural fullness around the studios muscle bellies. Super dangerous. If he comes in in the best shape of his life, look for Hassan Mustafa to possibly walk out of here with a victory. So here's another guy who's just extremely dangerous with no weaknesses. And when you have no weaknesses, you know, a lot of times, you know, going into a show, you become a hard guy to beat. Now, what we see alone is not what we see when we compare guys next to each other on stage. So real Mastoph is mass and freakingess in these pictures, trenslate on stage to a victory or even a top three at this show with the level of competitor we have. That we don't know. Because it's hard to compare people when you're just looking at aromasingle picture. Because he looked right alone, absolutely. Will it trenslate into a win here? I don't know. But look for him. Another guy that you have to just keep your eye on. Because he could just just shock everyone in this line up and take the whole show. Justin Rodriguez, this guy has been dangerous for the pasT3 or four seasons in a row. He's once again another guy with all the tools he brings conditioning. Sometimes he's on. Sometimes he's not so on. It depends which Justin Rodriguez we're going to get at the New York pro. This weekend, if we get the best Justin Rodriguez look for him to be easily be top five possibly top three here. He's got dance muscle, he's got good separation, he's got really no weaknesses and he's got a lot of freaky mastone and that's what these judges look for especially the New York pro and especially at a show of this caliber. We're going to be looking for quality and we're going to be looking for a physique that's going to jump out. Once again he flows well and buddy's got a lot of mass in conditioning as well. What physique he brings to the stage? This weekend is a coin flip. I don't know where he's at. I haven't seen him but if he brings his best, very dangerous in this lineup. As you see, there's a lot of guys in this lineup that are super crazy dangerous and that was making this show super exciting because I really, if you had to tell me, place the top five, I don't know I would have trouble doing it at this point because there's so many guys that are wildcard variables in the lineup. Let's go over to Antoine Valliont who missed last year because he tore his bicep. He in 2018 made a nice comeback we had him on the show. He talked about some of the drug problems he had in the past that are all cleared up now. He made that comeback successfully. He took forth at the Toronto Pro behind one morale, came Williams and Central Comic Millen. He was poised and you really take it to the next level and he tore that bicep set him back year. From the pictures on his Instagram I'm seeing that he's posting. This guy's a freak. He has structure. He's got class and flow to his physique. When he brings the conditioning in perfectly, he's a difficult guy to beat. He's an unconventional poser, I like high green but you know what he has such great symmetry to his body that he knows how to position those body parts to really bring out and enhance what he's got. So look for a great posing routine for Manituan and look for a lot of entertainment and family from him. I absolutely see a top 5 here in his comeback. Probably the most dangerous guy in the line of has to be in value. I dangerous because he's got probably the most mass in size of anyone. He's able to get freaky hard like Dorian Yates when he's on 100%. He's absolutely whether he meant to not mad from not being able to win that show in Tampa a few weeks ago against the Huntula Broad. If there's things didn't click for him psychologically, there wasn't there. He was too flat as Cam was off. You didn't have any support system there with him. I think he learned his lesson. I say he comes back. He's looking for revenge here. If he brings all the tools he's got to the table. Bring the fullness, bring the conditioning, the polish, the right hand. No one beats here. I say it because he's the biggest guy with the best symmetry here. Now, that's not taking away some of these other guys that IMentioned that have some super freakyness going on also. But I think he's got the level of muscularity with the huge structure that just looked very imposing and alight up. We talked about how some of these guys look really good alone. He and makes other guys look bad on stage because he's so big and so broad. Got the good taper from the front. He's got freakyness to him. Once again, he's got to keep his head in-shat. He's got to keep focused on the goal at hand, which is to bring the best to the stage. Not put too much pressure on himself and I say he can cruise to victory here. Not an easy victory, but I think he can take home the win if he really wants to. Another wild card in this line of Duane Walker who is third in Tampa a few weeks ago behind Ian Valier and Hunter LeBrautta. A lot of impressive muscle. This is a guy who's a two-twelf guy who moved up. I think he's the future certainly of this division. I don't think he's going to bring enough size necessarily to win this show because he's still going to be out size right in a lot of guys and line up. This is not Tampa. This is the New York pro. We have a way, way deeper line up this time around. But I think look for him to be a top five, top seven guy in this line up, which I think would be terrific considering this is his first year in the open division and I'm expecting to see something very impressive from Duane Walker. I'm glad that he thru his hat into this ring once again because why not? Let's see what you stand. People are talking about you, show up again and then you know what? Take the whole offseason, put on the necessary size, you need come back, I'll allow William Bonac and destroy people next year. So I'm excited to see Duane on stage. Once again, I don't know if he'll crack the top five in this line up but he certainly has impressive muscularity and the freaky body parts when he steps on stage and he hits those poses. The crowd will go crazy for sure. So thEQuestion is who's the favorites in this line up? I don't even know, I would have to say just from right off the cuff, John Del Roses, one of the most seasoned veterans here, he knows how to win shows. This is the guy who's going to be super dangerous. Even though you think that he doesn't have thEQuote, wow fact that he's got the little on the shorter side, he's got a weakness and no holes in his physique. If you brinGHis conditioning, he can win this show. I think it's going to be a himany and a value of battling it out. I would say, you know, that's the safe bet. But then you have so many wild parts in this line up between the Antoine Valyance. You have thEQuentin Arries who you never know. You have a little Phil for hard. You have Hassama Stoffa who's got massive amounts of muscle on his body. I just think that it's a very hard show for me to give you my top five on. And I would probably be wrong. I would just be throwing names out there. So what I'm looking forward to is a great show. I think Steve Weinberg is going to commend it for making the show happen. I'm sure he's probably losing money on this show because he's got to get prize money. I had to move it at the last minute. But the New York pro is happening. We're going to have a limpia qualifiers. Obviously we got all the other divisions as well. Even including women's body building. I'm assuming they're going to have a live stream like they did the Tampa. I don't know where it will be available yet. I would be assume it would probably be if the New York at betfereccess.com. But I'm sure we'll get more details as that comes. Guys, I want to wish all the competitors, even the ones I didn't mention, tremendous success on stage this weekend. I wish I could be there. I'm a hopsciff in a jump away, but you know what, with COVID and everything like that. I'm playing it cool. But I will become, I think, from the sidelines as well. All of us on social media. For now, I'm Dave Pollumbo with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: DAVE PALUMBO'S PCT CHECKLIST! [HE5x0Q7SBFQ].txt ===

You know, it's funny because I think that guys on seriously heavy cycles and they come off and they come off and get blood worked on it and all the even when they before they even come off, they take blood worked on it and all their markers are fine. That doesn't mean that they don't need to give their body. Break it just means that their health markers are good. They deliver in kidneys and blood is everything is functioning well. Whether they're on year or not, that their bodies are just able to handle it. So that doesn't mean that their bodies are not strenge. You really don't want to get to the point where your health markers are crap because that's not good. That means your body's been on the stren for a long time. So I don't necessarily have to see, you know, granted, I don't want to see people's creatine, which is kidney function high. Okay, I don't recommend going back on a heavy cycle if you're, if you're creatine is 3.15, you know, that's ridiculous. You got to get that down to normal. Now, liver enzymes unfortunately don't go down a lot of times because when people go off cycle, they're still trening and trening raises those those numbers. And that's just from leakage from the muscle cells of enzyme levels because the enzymes found inside the muscle cells, the metabolic enzymes and the same enzymes found inside the liver cells. It's hard to distinguish them. So sometimes you'll have high liver enzymes, but they're really not high liver enzymes. They're really high muscle enzymes. And it's just from breaking down a lot of muscle tissue, which is nothing wrong with that. Likewise, you know, red blood cells will be high, but those are not going to go back down unless you donate blood or you wait 120 days after your last shot because the red blood cell has a lifespan of 120 days. So I'm not really worried about that. LH, FSA, which is your pituitary hormones. It's stimulate the testicles to produce testosterone. Those are never coming back in six or eight weeks that you go off a cycle. And it doesn't matter because you're going back on a cycle. So I don't have to wait until those go back to normal. Okay, because why do I have to worry about your body turning its natural production on if I'm going to put you back on a cycle, you're going to go back on a cycle anyway and shut it back down again. So what you're doing is you're going off cycle to clen out to give the organs of digestion and the detoxification organs like deliver in the kidneys, a chance to rest a little bit. You're going off to resensitize androgen receptors, which are found in the nucleus of all your cells, rather than them being constantly bombarded and overstimulated with high dosages of steroids. You're going to be understimulated because you're probably going to not be producing even enough normal testosterone. So what's going to happen is those receptors are going to say, where's all the testosterone? That's not here. Let's produce more receptors. So you're going to increase your receptor density, which is good. And all this takes place over about anywhere from eight to ten weeks. And if you clen out during that period, your organs should feel better. Your receptors should regenerate. A lot of guys will do my three week detox clense program that I give out, which involves some liver detoxification and kidney detoxification and the way the foods and stuff you eat are allowed your digestive systems to recover. And that works. That will speed up the process a lot of times too of detoxification. So especially if guys only want to go off for six weeks because they got something coming up, they might do the three week clense and detox. And then if you guys email me, I'll send it to you for free. I'll use 285 and AOL.com. And then what happens is they'll go back on. So that's really what the goal is. The goal is restore receptor, density, give the organs digest and a chance to recover.

=== FILE: DAVID GOGGINS TRAINING WORK FOR BODYBUILDERS？ #askDave [bs2RdiWB2kQ].txt ===

錐!!我有第一次騙惹了我們三㎝樂行来玩了мер绚可以找我的朋友非常好继续这叫我嘉宝果然 ugitch自己是你的熟悉还是求你的生意强麒团就是知道你的区我遮刞光 SUPER但是你已经忘了D-Rush DanceWords First pre-workout VHey guys we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 3rd year in a row and what we're gonna be doing today is we're gonna be launching the tasty pastry The Ocar Pock Tart goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA Pro 1 RX Television on RXMMuscle .com this ass Dave better known as Hashtag as Dave your weekly 30 minutEQuestion она你就在關係,很多人要坐在那邊放肺體很封閒於保守的車幟誰在轉身兒後點過隔壍 elite前腳行我的地方甚至我最靜的別人兩位運簽的牌位第二回立時也有一間 душ信留下一個成個導船人除了職體 發得虛定的他做到 vulnerable我也是 指說因為他做了而且他做到燕君不知道 his陳有點 elas算是真的是我也是ilde的我完全認為 就是做了蠻不好的而且對臺灣有儣他簡單 than his�他知道他的好快就不會要拿到那一位他說製造人他想知道西他會想知道他跟臺灣其實你其他當時沒這麼多從上去你知道你只能打不過當時能不能影片就看過去因為你找她的傻子但我係正在看法但我喜歡共流水如果我馬上還有一個你們我就回來我覺得台灣裡面很好為什麼他們覺得方便有很多生活被困性的很有 indie者有一名的很多方面的店員他們有一個一個名這行方他們有一個一讓人犯一個步行他們就是大讓人喊答應聯人的所以對方財視中他的手紙他是許多分副運用燈但是相當於動終婦工作就只嘅錄影獵就畀過了ベル閣一直很忙畢人非常重要那些能不能動超級100度快撥 closes還是整個部段國家保護全球一個更遵始也不會給別人自動很害怕漸出雙牌他總算方對於或染疫苗或是社交泥雖然我是好大家知道甚至使不到你能不當你影響出來 裡面所以那是通知理解我不可以打開你的手但是你不知道那麼到處對中午的警察有處都是不留意 好會有害怕子的病 diagnosed我是不是說說我覺得那我是一樣的我是說不是騒渣過,因為時間不都是畏了所以我相信他們仍然依依這樣的朋友生命者所以我不能走在你身上我要不要放弃我們還宲 Mexico我不願意再看到我互相會比較好但是 Kellitype我還真的很有事但沒事了所以我總會知道你as if ofEXI projekt with some YoulC你自己我不能掉了全世界擔心因為你相信你係同一員 叫你命令你所有人越來越 擔心通 spite而但我無法要牢信每個人認識都會嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯給我一下尤其是好像以前在整�區他的教育體受到被ieversüy容許故意過這條處方特別開始就是一個發展她滿意歡喜рал的丟託這一切是一個6七七 一個七七牛她漫女們奉米婆 我們說過你們的飯都會演員其實我們想不到尾尼 society兩國政府 Storm是職業品的九十年應該有一個各個名為民主發展其實許多計算你誰都來看聽這些仲巧皮那橘追戰當然對我說這個是因為enced生蜜蜘蛛每群像是這樣但eday我會把機會到電祸中可能會通過我能幫狙關我想用這土豆 Ou swamp沒有機會SUMBA我很痛苦用什麼嘛價錢是2 helps賣子they這些都已經有機會騷訊但是這兩個是不是不知道到直接在重點在日本化 Georgia賣子了讓人泡出去如果你可以 Compassionate这次都绝符派到 number 3所以抗拎党去当年转迹之后亦是快起又完全是从来的人甚至是重座但是它过少得名如果郵子-如果 effiments时我都如意经过进去,我会经解我觉得底就是别人当年因为在断 pedestrian就是在谋谒这个时候上时间一拍子哇assa他们曾立下一拍子然后结果别做现在现在是加剧长我们喜欢干部联系节奏可以在 часть节目发动然后要去考卷树中最主要是让你 nim上去 fossil来 snippet在复杠做行员很多萬人送到耶穌或台當然十分 WIN<|eu|>很好的 depende如果ventilators都是一般的我幫助到我的士多像日本所以我們說我們用二級八級老不是裝進來那麼還 made日本時用 acostumруп為漂亮耐弱些妝設計都譜說不停對歷史 probation還沒統奢對那所以真的是�回来来吃得没事加入到饭丹当时馆了蒸的饭吃肉信用 lim也能吃一下谓不生也能吃完略再一次第4 个炸食伪款使开时awsze感道ricanes感帮你弱炸食用食动还有饭们有一个绋る粗离把饭丹炸食动就是咁完成所以 mother那如淡虧教育網友劉你可以幫我按下一個班有一句只要是需要改 Niagara所以我喜歡這個演賽讓我能 концеpelled환 rester如果您察官 slogan法 再來认完 plead Är小明案我們您說這一次請下集支持您的事 addict記得不要問故事如果您提醒您的事您讓您家大家在談冠委拿死但是丸石他的igm蓝ją的伊林如果他還演成 qualquer比班可否生氣體結果何其他的這個印度而有詞我就很好我來說的愛我得到了日本夢我是向負責我嘗試組織身 Aunt問出了網絡學習的時候只是說找出口ated by the song充完走個快速只起至一點書我弄到毛泳的手首先我非常落深繼續我去年間再過小■舌子大量我 geme我去房子說她怎麼樣是有一個圖案我和她為何沒回來我甚至予說小貓有這種口水那出了 您我往這要停換 Uber我做 Netherlands然後 förais這個是在 toe所有臉書在外國它還是把他辦創造這是在電視頻的岳 endless建設的我當演入棘 week向妳在深去一些扳進去我在要過的isk Urilities我不會管他我但我亦犯罪的話ead to my kids因為我依默一匯因為你iversity時是不說你慢慢開誘論我會指對答案我們是現實聊聊ole但我只是覺得這個話已經是不同就會多兒哉說字度可以當現現嘘想在北京你要你面举脹把聚会你們有人在大幾乎工作也可以是不是點 osob我會把他去OTS怎麼自己會來攻擊在除氣中全40分鐘左右 smoothly四十多日可以點我剛走這樣你怎麼會告訴我 有什麼做法?說sam 這個瓜子我就把它面對弄清楚 這個瓜子有它的成本所以 voy介紹的一整東西就如果你喜歡我的做法被 assemblyUT可以這邊陰陰刀所以你要有一個危機你轉嘴上出那部分的話 你辦法全打幹隨便的繩子就從做螺絲這樣撕achusAnd then, you can define what you need to do to achieve those goals."我先覺得,謝謝你在時,我都會要感謝你們能夠保留我的保護 dokument也因為我的專去帶來最重要的鎮定我的確要依覆管上δ期滿 Af Sans共識上了一個5 soubs不過,你用em annotherapy給我,提供書者允許治大金字 trip在我所見到,ZaniSON位有關於餘餘運餘處,以ets laying arm CCoineLidoryn pike dig孩子,然後 implementation ofesearch先為 any should be esteemed,銀行存在的人,以前大金字基本個月 effect,發授mberd,那個體內海製造型則他們是害怕的這是更可以麻煩的因為他們逆逆拆的波士正進去乾ancy我不知道怎麼會更大平衡人們 government嘛你自己跟住我就imos他是从他尔河你森 resto我我做到運用的 caffeine這個這個我覺得我每國家這邊產生的一些好吃然後我來保 agony我真的私有整塊只是早果我女兒的說你有沒有想要在沒人店鞋幫忙我幫你洗脆給忙我幫我洗凱克繩婦如果在一起兩個地方他們急著進手給保育他們另外大人那, that's typical, but if you're walking around with high creatine, creatine it's just being all the time, that's not a good thing because that can indicate that you have progressive kidney damage. Now, you can go for another test that I've said this year, before called Siss statin C. These doctors don't know what it is, a lot of them, unless they are like the fraudulgest or hemetologist, so they have a lot of them to dismiss it, but it's the most definitive tests for kidney damage. So if your Siss statin C levels are high, you probably have some kind of kidney damage她不是壓力她要看楚L可以不通過她們說句人特 Hernan是機會快要吹拼命ematic和蟬頭慢慢不過非常準確有很多性反應主要是台灣衣服賺多少因為一會最大的我想是於我會比較突然因為當你改型為娯利非常蠻好的蟹皮因為我無法我覺得到月نd我相信 現在未來一定是我因為心思中的問題因為每集起碼 應該在orship對我懐娶主席法夫很chesys萮可王 crist后也是急悄的之外说越急难受接触到好平时coff今年到我们国内私人拾身恶请加工谈lares最毒敌民主 Base破搭采基段PG同辅云与同志基大使香港國人煮變不成反然之火這次觀眾知道所以這次臣被大學會給大家等起來寬 chewing聽他們說慢慢約是台詠我們其實非常的多他們覺得應該有一個當修膠現在ison因為我講的隨時同學做好但是快點作為地的往這時候就發動自己的可對憐的人是在歷史ationalism在中國北亞各方面粒不越越野很讓條件糠定 ा UbTA這次普世装今年的放在商 solchen立處笑碰軸任何處理能夠插一個W我的 отлич我有心理我講過我的夢中我太認情想忢話我大家都想向oder只這些今天老白雲特別是我的天嘛我真的愛還很不失去了我意識我我們前面都是執行的當然我會對了我只想你們不管我自天,但愛花死地還不容易可是還有很多人可不有ać希望 fort我問你這邊講到了緩園勘訓丙穩很快Pekir在外面發現他拿電話出什麼構思再講另一次ٍ講亦是假裝苦,因爲0變至上對魔母開始,哼亦度還得死嘛。 Motor dealer für乎頒了會對命他會成功,因爲是性屋醞,他應該是失投。就是展現牛自治,萬一清醒,因為他失放 46,而祂愿不我了。令人対seen他一定發現他的心思。問求他的天罪。可不是以為他來此 nonsense,他不專心抗拳。還而âu,他又輸出用他的心忍。後者使 plante還是甚麼。他活 Akt她說現在能活基,行出命有經典政治 луч的而且他們有見面的最好的嘉ony在這些部分是不是 Peach loss我已經過期蘇田的真方兩位冬天 Braker獨立節廁方的現彩工人 Sick最後工作香港的天是不功能等到他們我剛先處認識建立 yo非常好香港的時間大家多 gnag Deck來讓他的資料 往達告訴他那你過去會瘋alities還是我敢不想把班深入之後我很も細熟響鐘起哂!你是一ев我如何安癢或會當日我會封外我出現所作用我滴到時蚊臺著 Raj 這臺心態缺時而我知不知道可不足楊楊簡直是我一定是注於思想的因為 arcade者來說這四方可知道為何這種東西所有場所做出了賀裂的黄色 nor影子在沒有戴信所以你都看過地面上雷巴又黎又黎又www對吧你航正個耳朵你就輪了 200 幾年的所以Jennie再講你今天好幾年之間壓力就是我嚟做了這樣就算上午我一年少會到我所以忘ounding因為中間第🤣原頭損失入醉了 Ganz favorites定人也会他回来只由他用让他ements小子如果其实他会怀自然就会出个字不是说台型的疏忽然只是一个感觉物作连游贱到多些是对人家家都有一张因为会让他红麦收得很有 myst乐这样做如此問題会不让他演幼特摘大身使用拿到这个起床始来电欢irmka还第一节我第一节甚至都这里你再つ起来恭喜他所以 你到底你配虎及能不能失敗要不然是不過有無法的懋劇因為剛剛民大量左右第幾步你這麼聰明你們繼續到測 отд如果你在反過來 Vert with your nothing拾回後才會怎樣失敗如果你有無法小心不然就要釋重聞一想要從天治者很文化如果你都帶進去D hydrodicated damage to them, so don't get quite up in that either. let's go to Phil Francis P.T. tape your opinion on using aromatates and hybrids for a long time, will they affect your health over time, especially if you depend on them, while being on to your team during due to being estrogen sensitive. I guess the second to that is what other options are there. You know I tell people if you're on a post-cycle therapy,22%, storm model replacement我不是擔心這部服務萬团就是貨品我也不早要提到因此同學的國務者在澀宇所frage mounting他們預算是100!再分了100wwww看變成了100wwww全 Brad活神對非常好才隨時提讀學生以前我看過這四 лишь你可以代表正確的又比機會是第一次更前的練習還是很吸引也比較屋無關不會但可能好像算是上次就是要把人家說不敢怪個人的算是新作 Kn smartphones使用下偷經或長得都被叱伙传开我们的人內地有些人保证 טוב多日本是ප日的现在比香港可照业也算是沒有實 反正的 carrots糊塞的影響一下就是經民的紀念其實是時 Только兩天在業內如果也算一樣我們只能不相當你喜歡這種甚至也能下憲而且在下憲很有趣是力量放ordinates之後會燈對是什麼一碟大家伍然即見你的好乘 proceso一碟能換種但我煙你要到看念時收集會我 always say where everything cookedNow when you're measuring carbohydrates a lot of timesyou have to go by with the box the rice boxso if you buy minute riceand you look at the box and you read alright one serving is this many gramsand it produces this many grams of carbohydratesso if you're measuring a dry you're measuring a half a cupat it produces so much I don't even knowI don't every box of rice is differentso if you're measuring the box that isand usually measure drybecause if you're measuring it if the cooked rice can fluff up dependingon how much extra water or less water you useI like my rice a little hardso I put less water in itso I would probably have more carbsso I have to really always measure the carbs dryand then the protein cookedlet's go to I'll be to NassityI always get ab muscle crampsso I'm doing seeded muscle ab crunchesno other ab exercises cause thisfor me is this an issueof a lentilite imbalanceof other causes of workhe's getting when he's doing water againso I'm a seeded machine ab crunchesyou know a lot of timesto guys cramp especially in the summerbecause they're really depleted of electrolytesand when I say electrolytes99% of the time it's sodiumthe pollutionI used to for some reasonI went through a stage where I was gettingbad cramps in my hamstringsso I would do my squat workoutI would do my leg pressI do extensionsI would get these lockups on my hamstringsI couldn't figure out what was going onI started drinking a gatoradeor coconut waterwith my workoutsso I don't think it was a sodiumthe pollution issuemaybe because I was sweating so much while I was doing legsyou know that's usually the caseso try doing something that has electrolytesif you're not dieting you can do coconut wateror gatoradeif you are dieting you can try to maybe do like apowerade zero or something like thatthat has no calories in it but still has the electrolytes in itthat might be a good option last question about someonethat we believe it or not we actually get a lot of questionsso once in a whileso on instagram right yeahso you have your other inbox whereI guess people that you're not necessarily connected toyou're going to get a lot of messagesso sometimes I'll just check there and seewhat we're kind of questioning the reggaewe get so many questions about this guyZack King Khanso massive fascination with himare you still working with Zackwhat exactly are his competition plansyou should get him on the showI am working with ZackI work with him over a year nowso I'm telling first of allI got to tell he's got a tremendous workthe guy works his bottleif anything I tell him to dohe's a machinehe's so big right nowI dieted him down he was going to do showsbut as you know in the UK it's almost impossible toto compete anywherethey can't travelhe was in shapeI had him in contactshe had to do itI got him working with Chris Corrhe's a friendhe's a friendhe's a friendhe's working on thathe's going to roll him outhe's going to roll him out in 2021he's going to surprise a lot of peoplehe made a lot of improvements to hishe's been focused he sends me updates twice a weekhe makes sure he's in checkhe's like I saidhe's very methodically eats his foodhe does everythinGHe's supposed to dohe's getting better and betterhe doesn't do anythinghe's been doinGHis besthe's been doinGHis besthe's got a lot of musclehe's got a lot of muscle on his bodyhe's a big problemhe couldn't control the muscles he hadhe's always like a pole to let issuehe really had him work in the hardhe's still working with Chris Corrhe's a friend這個人作了法,我國慣行,在他們訂它目標,ask他們都發起馬上裁裝 已經全爆炸這樣就不必告訴接近幫我們喝了泰國觸體 quality管関時間煤面你不帆不想閣関抗它很有他們的來 rot還有出籍發説一對一對它應有推爆了動超完月它有難逢走這是想下一步,到這回一個同一個你楽會一玩玩,你的cedented你總覺得幹嘛ule就到了,飛到茶 concentrated影片,完了而來在了但是,藍芎剛到這個晚上而且在說喜歡這裡變成乾燥啦然後迫筏死了,是單一個個職行你笑走吧現在你抽一回它的秘密度 創作歡迎 to go into theindo ot我的淘汰et or i an Portuguese像我在東京開順時有一個淘汰的ategories跟在時候沒那麼高你知道 że呢版成來自我是現在大家在拍攝上這位內 yang,立刻中勝輪比做到十分懂得這種這個是來自自創。By the time you watch this interviewI'd rather this show would be interview with Logan Franklin He's gonna be live on RISMOSEDOT Common the RISMOSEDOT YouTube channel Classic Fizzy Champion in Europe Pro On with Dave on Live Wait for Dave Pullinbo and our producer Tyler Shore I'm so thankful for Rekeoples See you next time

=== FILE: DAVID HENRY'S LAST RODEO？ Muscle in the Morning (8⧸14⧸18) [FECZL6ylEts].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Dave Palombo and today is Tuesday, August 14th, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. How you get through the party really doesn't matter. It's what you do when you get there that makes everyone remember you. And I'm pretty sure a second year of Big Man, Josh Wade wants to leave the good old people of Las Vegas, something to remember and buy. Now that he's officially got his Olympia Invite, Wade and his crew have really cranked up the intensity over the last week or so, as they tried to close hard down the last five and six weeks stretch. For a guy, his size, Wade has good shape and good proportions that can make him a pretty dangerous prospect to get to the old working. But until we see the call, that's start flying. We still won't have any real sense of how he'll stack up against the guys in this year's Olympia. Everyone seems to have that one person in their life who fly out can't function if they don't have at least one cup of coffee in their system. But from where I'm sitting, it doesn't look like men's physique all star. Ray Edmonds is having any trouble getting amped up for his workouts these days. After taking a good chunk of the season off to get ready for his Olympia prep, one of the most underrated talents in the division is back to firing. I'm also in there's again. The latest word coming from my people out there near the steel city is that Edmonds is on pace to blow away the look he brought into Las Vegas contest. That even had one person telling me they think he could easily be a top three finisher this year. With his height and his muscle Edmonds is definitely some sort of specimen when he's at his best. And if his best happens to show up on stage at the Olympia this year, the competition better get out of the way of this free Tren. And that was watching the NFL Network last weekend. I caught a clip from the Cardinals trening camp where I heard a few people say that this was probably going to be Larry Fitzgerald's last ride. And then I got to wondering, I went to how much former 2O2 Olympia champ David Henry might have left in his tank. By all accounts the man they call the OG Giant Killer is out there in the ungodly hot desert of Arizona trening like a man possessed again. As he gears up to make his annual pilgrimage back to the only other place in the US that might actually be hotter than his home state. Maybe there's something to living out there in the heat like an old iron month that makes this guy into the Ageless Wonder. So if you can figure out how to suck up some of that new Nevada energy when he makes the trip up north, who knows what sort of trip might still have up his sleeves. The fourth of great Roman philosopher, Santa Cuckoo, fate guides the willing and drags the re-locked him. And I'll leave it to you to figure out which one of those two camps that figure icon Heather D's falls into. Yesterday the biggest thing to hit Utah since the great Salt Lake dropped the new clip from Warner Bros. back days as she starts to head into the final phase of this year's Olympia prep. The word on the street is that these inner team feel great about where they are at this point in their prep. And when I hear words like that coming from a former top 5 Olympia finisher, it tells me everything I need to know about how things are working behind the scenes over there. I personally think the top 10 of this year's figure lineup might end up being the best of all time before it's all set and done. The given or track record you'd have to be crazy to think that Heather D's won't find some sort of way to get herself in on the action. Now that we're talking about some of the killers in the figure division, and any of you guys have been paying attention to what Nadia Wyatt has been doing lately. Well, true to form Wyatt has been quietly putting together another masterpiece over there alongside the rest of her crew. And based on the way things have been starting to shape up over the last week or so, well I'd say she's probably already waking up every day in take no prisoner mode. Over the last few years, it's never ceased to amaze me just how dangerous this girl can be when she's 100% dialed in. And I wouldn't put it past her to shake things up at this year and challenge for a spot in the Elite Top 10. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the morning. On daypalombo reminding you to always be true to your passions. I think you'll follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Thank you.

=== FILE: DCJETTIENNE.flv [fSrhzE3l4Fo].txt ===



=== FILE: DCJguy.flv [ko9gBIyetZI].txt ===



=== FILE: DEALING WITH DEPRESSION by Dave Palumbo #askDave [T58ioA-EvjU].txt ===

Don't remind me of an idea of a little iron rage about suicide and how it's become more prevalent and why do people do it and some of the solutions to get around doing that and the ways to change your thinking and then we did a little fun Steve Blackman make fun of at the end just to kind of add a little lightness to it. But depression is a real problem in our society nowadays. There's a lot of people walking around that are chronically depressed and I can tell you all day long look at the positive change the way you think and change the way you look at things things you look at change. I give every little you know saying I give you personal experience how when I'm down and I've changed the way I've done things and and looked at things and I've gotten myself involved with other you know projects that I find that I'm passionate about. I can tell you that all day long and it's not going to change probably the fact that you don't feel good or that you're feeling depressed and I understand that and so it's hard but I promise you that if you can find something that you love to do okay and that you can immerse yourself in and it doesn't have to be bodybuilding it can be something else you know I collect snakes I'm like crazy you know nuts about that now so all you was thinking about it I'm preoccupied all day because I'm not graded yet I'm getting very good at it but I'm not going to admit to me that's a challenge to step up my game so that's something that I enjoy doing away from bodybuilding so I bodybuilding is my number one thing I love to report on and give information and educate people about but sometimes it gets overwhelming and you just I just need a break from it and that I go there and I clen my clen snakes hubs you know or I go play my kids you know that's my new passion my children are my families also that but sometimes you need to break from that too my son can drive me nuts you know and I gotta have something that can get me away or you get depressed some people have nothing they don't have a family they don't they can't get it hold a relationship down they need to lost their job you know they hurt they tore their quatt nothing's going right for them in their life that's when you have to take inventory what's going on in your life and say you're so okay stop what's what is good in my life there's gotta be something good there's always something good it could be the stupidest thing your plan for the tomato plant your back yard and you got a great yield from it or you you you know you found a hundred all bill on the ground or something find something that actually gives you a smile in your face no I watch an hour muscle youtube video I laugh my ass off okay that's good I'm laughing that means that this humor in my life embrace what is good about what's going on not don't preoccupying obsess about what's not good and what you feel bad about because when you do that you get more bad it doesn't it sounds hard because you know how can I obsess on a tomato plant producing a tomato when you do that and you make yourself feel good and you find out that hey this is something I did well and I enjoy now all of a sudden you're inviting more joy more good more prosperity into your life it's not an instantaneous thing so you have to practice looking for the good stuff that's going on in your life every day then one day all of a sudden a lot of good stuff will come to you but if you're always worried about what's not right in your life and what you don't have you're gonna get more of that okay and that's not what you want and that's why people fall into these funks and it mushrooms on top of itself and then before you know it you feel like blowing your brains out with a gun and that's not an acceptable that's not an acceptable solution okay that's not first of all you're not getting out of anything okay you're gonna have to come back in and redo it again so you might as well get it right the first time okay you got a lot there's always a new opportunity around the corner the next day when you wake up there's always a new day and you get to start over again okay people sometimes think that they don't have that option it's not available for them but I promise you it is and once again it's one of these things you have to have faith and believe and you cannot just say well day where's the evidence there is none except experience and the people who have succeeded have experienced it people don't you know have succeeded you have to have faith that this will work what I'm telling you try it I promise you you'll definitely if you enjoyed this little clip click the link below to watch the entire show

=== FILE: DEBUNKING GH & INSULIN MYTHS! #askDave [XrxegGZKCV0].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. I love it. Yeah. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition Lighter Products, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row. What we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-carve cocktail. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love it as shown. This is our best place to be in LA. Rx-Helvisionon.rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave Betternode as hashtag. Ask Dave. Your 30-minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Palombo. All your questions, diet, trening, supplementation, I am being pros, competitions, whatever on your mind. It is all on the tables. Now, bring a Dave Palombo, Dave. We talked about what's going on in and outside of the bodybuilding roll-away took place yesterday. Outside of the bodybuilding world for those who have been seen it, big-lany, Mr. G, the official press conference yesterday on Ask Breyer. You know when you built it up, I was trying to think, I'm like, did I forget something big that happened in the bodybuilding roll-away? I was trying to figure out what it was and then, of course, told me that. I was like, how could I have forgotten the big, lany, Mr. G press conference? It's a pretty big deal, yeah. It's funny because it started out lany and Mr. G were on the same show after hours. Then, Mr. G was insulted by something lany, etc. On the show, we called him like a total asshole or a total moron. It's just he told him about it. Then they decided they were going to have a fight. Now they're hanging out in this mansion and like, bulk at all, and then Mr. G's bringing l'Cookies and posters and t-shirts and they're like best friends now. We've got the three of them. Rob Zilla, Lany and Mr. G. I'm like, how you get a fight this guy now? And then, so they want a fight. They're fighting. So they're going to fight and we'll see what happens. I think it's going to be a massacre, but my John Romano and I came up with a better idea. What they should do is, Mr. G's got the cookies. He should move the whole operation down the floor to like he originally was planning. And he should hire Lany and Rob Zilla to actually cook the baked cookies. And they could have like a whole business. And then if they were smart, they'd have someone coming and filmed the whole thing on a daily basis because it would be the greatest YouTube reality show of all time probably. Well, they got the whole crew down there. So I think it'll be a nice little collaboration there, Mr. G, and the Mr. G. And the Mr. G. You could have his own signature line and Mr. Cookies there. Big Lany and so yeah. For those asking, yes, right now, I guess the flight will be going on as planned. So stay tuned and I hear that Dusty Handsha is doing better. You know? Oh, okay, that's good news. Yes. Dusty Handsha, who obviously was choking on something a couple weeks ago and why the tearing is a soft against blood into his lungs. He got it in the morning. And he got it in infection. They had to put him like kind of an almost an induced coma or sedation at least. They he was on a ventilator. They pulled the vent from what I understand. I saw Ron Partlogina an interview with Russell and cider. And they pulled the vent to late. And now they just have, I think, a breathing tube. But it's not like he's not on a ventilator anymore. But he still not out of the woods because he got, you know, there was like, I guess he was eating a steak and they actually had a piece of steak in his lung. You know, or it was terrible. IMean, it was a freakyest accident. And I thought I'd get freaky things happen to me stupid things. That was the freakyest accident I've ever heard of. And you know, it was almost, it almost killed them. So I'm glad that he's still doing well. But obviously, you know, when you're down and out for that long, it's not like he's just going to like, all of a sudden, you know, come on Instagram and say, hey, I feel great. You know, he's probably not going to be able to talk for a while because his throat was so damaged and the esophagus had to be repaired. And it's got to heal, you know, takes time. You know, they say take a little wounds, but this is going to be, you know, it's going to take a while and I'm glad that everyone supported him on his go-fun me because that's what is the last of the pills. On right now, or what? Is the go-fun me still alive? Yeah, I think he raised a lot of over 140 grand. I think they raised it already. But, you know, his hospital bills, I think, could be $200,000 at the end of the day. You know, so. So then what we'll do is when this episode goes live, the first link you're going to see on the bottom is the go-fun me to help support us to hands, so everything you've going to do. And obviously, like you are, ex-Muslimation have done throughout, you know, the time that we've had, I guess, go-fun me or any other online platforms to help support our brothers and iron. We know you have stepped up in the past. You will continue to do so, especially in the case of someone like Dusty Hanchall. Let's go to thEQuestions. The first two questions, of course, from the day below experience at the first question, they've always switched compounds, even if progress is still climbing. Climb in seven weeks into the EQ on your pre-contest and great results last two weeks. Should he keep rolling or did you always switch at the eight week mark? You never want to really wait until your progress holds. If you catch it before that, you constantly keep making gains. The truth in matters, I don't really know, and I don't know if anyone really knows, per se, what goes on at the engine receptor, but just anecdotally, just empirically from what I've seen and what I've witnessed with myself, when you switch compounds of every eight, six to eight weeks, you seem to get an untove at an antibiotics, a methamet, testosterone, testosterone, your body uses, you know, makes testosterone. It knows what testosterone is, but I'm talking about when you switch the antibiotic ages, the deck or the equipoids in the master, whatever you're using out of a debol, your body seems to have a better reaction to it. It kind of gets shocked by the new compound and will continue to grow, and you don't get that stagnation or plateauing period. Can you stay on the same two compounds for six months straight and still make gains? Yeah, probably you can. But do we see better gains when you do switch the antibiotics? I think we do. I don't know if it's been quantifiable in terms of how much better, but I noticed that when I would switch compounds, I would get better gains. And that's why in the offseason, because I was staying on for longer periods of time, I would stay on off of the more toxic compounds, and I would switch to the, you know, the long acting injectables, and I felt that that worked better. And I, and I, and I felt like I didn't need to really raise the dosages that much. Just keep keep the bodies, uh, and you do receptor guessing, because remember all these antigens, all these of antibiotics, buying to the antigen receptor, but it, in different configurations, because they're all shaped differently, these molecules. So sometimes, like, and like I said, I don't really understand how the receptor necessarily works, and I don't think it's that important to know exactly how it, or if anyone really knows exactly how these compounds buying, maybe Patrick Arnold would. But they definitely buying the little differently, and when they do that, they seem to have a more, they seem to have a better effect, put it that way. Second question, again, from the deep long-low experience, that's not a question where we're using T3, make it harder to keep that off once I'm no longer using. You know, uh, if you use a compound like Claimbuterol or thyroid hormone, like side of L T3, to lose fat, and you lose the fat, okay? And you go to a maintenance diet now, where when we talk about maintenance, maintenance, major, taking in enough food, nutrition, where you're not going to gain weight, and I'm going to lose weight, okay? Because you're basically taking just enough to sustain your body, okay? It doesn't matter if you stop the Claimbuterol, and not because you're not looking to burn fat. In other words, just because you stop Claimbuterol, doesn't mean you're going to get fat. That's why I tell people, people say, oh, I don't want to take Claimbuterol, I don't want to take T3, and I don't want it because I'm afraid after the diet's over, I'm going to rebound and gain all this weight back. Now, you're going to rebound and gain a ton of weight, fat weight, if you eat terribly, okay? And I see this all the time. I see people then and women after the show, some people go back, they get to a regiment of eating schedule again, and they're eating more food, obviously, but they're on a regiment of schedule. They're trening, they're doing everything they're supposed to do, they're following the taper off program that I usually give them, and they look great. And I can see them six weeks being off drugs, and they still look amazing because they're eating well, they're trening, they're doing it. And then I see other people after the show, they just go crazy, they eat everything inside, they take a month off into the gym, because they got to rest their bodies, and they're bodies go to shit because of that. And that has nothing to do with the rebound and go off the clambuterol inside of them. It has to do with the fact that you've given up your protocol of being regimented and getting your meals in and small quantities throughout the day, trening. This body building is not a seasonal job. You know what IMean by that? It means like, you live in the north, and it snows during the winter, you might have a job of snow shoveling for a couple months. And then the summer comes and you're off, right? That doesn't happen to body building, there's no off period, okay? When you're off, and you go off through the reservation, so to speak, your body is going to decompensate, and you're not going to look as good. So you can't just say, okay, great. I just won my show. I'm going to go crazy now and party for two weeks, like two or two months, maybe more people do that for. So the answer to thEQuestion is now, you will not regain a ton of weight or rebound to a full-legged individual unless you do stuff that would warrant you doing that, you know? Let's go to the Instagram question again. If you're not already following this on Instagram, the handle is official underscore our ex muscle. If you're watching us to the first time on YouTube, hit the subscribe button below, hit the notification bell. If you're not going to miss any of our show segments or upcoming content uploads, as always, we appreciate your support. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button, comment below. Obviously, that's going to help us and as mentioned throughout the year, content season all seasonally, appreciate all the support that you give us in doing what it is that we do. I was going to make a miracle. Dave after recently being prescribed blood pressure meds and 49 years old, is it safe to go back on my TRT dose of 200mg of NN8 per week, or have you got any views on my pack back to TRT? I don't really see too many elevated blood pressures from just like an off-wormer in replacement dose at testosterone. So if you're on 100 200mg a week, I don't really notice that the blood pressures go, now what happens is a lot of times when guys going to HRT to hit, that's usually they're around there at 40, 45 years old, they go on HRT, and then they notice that blood pressures up when they go to the doctor. Well, the truth is that their blood pressure probably went up well before they started the HRT. Because when averages as we get older, our blood vessels lose the elasticity. And when they do that, they can't open and close as well and accommodate fluctuations in what the body would normally do. Not really if the body senses high blood pressure, it opens up the blood vessel walls and lets a little more volume go through it and lowers the pressure. So our bodies kind of lose that ability. But I think a lot of people don't realize it until they, and then they don't really go to the doctor, they don't really check. And then all of a sudden they want to go on HRT, the doctor's checking their blood pressures all the time, and they notice, hey, I'm a little high. Well, maybe it's from the HRT, usually it's not. It's usually not. So I wouldn't worry about it too much. These are good questions and a lot of thesEQuestions that I came from the day to let them experience it happen. If a lot of you don't know what that is, I have an app online, called the Day Plum Experience, you can subscribe to it for $29 a month. You have access to all the writings I've ever done, all my videos in one place. We put up a workout every single week. I answer everyone's questions on the app that they have, and I do it in a public forum on there so that everyone sees everyone's questions and everyone's answers. So you can kind of learn from that. And then once a week we do a special Q&A video. Like we're doing now except it's specifically for the app, extra information. I picked the best questions and I do that once a week. So it's a really good resource that you guys want to check it out. It's kind of like having a coach in your back pocket. And you can check that out at either the App Store or the iPhone Store or the Android Store. A lot of people have been asked me about it once again. It's a really good thing to keep your education going. It's kind of like a continuing education course. Good one here from relentless Luca. And I know there have been whispers conversations about a possible leap priest comeback. ThEQuestion is who's winning in the comeback? Leapreased or Lila Brada? I think that leap priest I don't think we in the Brada is it is making any comebacks. But you know he he looks great. I saw some you know I see some everyone's what I put up some videos. He's rap on me. There was a picture of him in Hunter. They posted on Instagram. Yeah, maybe you can pull that up Tyler from what is it on Hunter's Instagram? It's actually on ours. I'm a reporter so you can pull it up our our our personal Instagram. Yeah, you know, Leap. I've seen Leap over the years and every couple years he puts up a bunch of pictures of himself and the guy is unbelievable. He's still ripped. He still has good physique. He doesn't look really as in the injuries. I don't think he has any inclination to come back. Obviously he's a lot older than Leapreased. I think that we will see Leapreased at some point in time. Up on that say look at that look at those legs. Leap. Leap is like me in the sense that he loves to take care of himself. He eats really well. He trens and you know, I wish I had time to tren but his kids had grown up already. You know, so he has that time. He's not making any comeback anytime soon but I promise you that I think that Leapreased will be on stage. I don't think this year but I think we'll get to see him next year because I think his arm is feeling a lot better from the next surgery he had and I give him one more year. I think 2022 will see Leapreased compete at least one more time. Let's go to team band man 62. Dave the best gym atmosphere you've ever trened at. It goes on to say how he's trened, you know, at goals. When he was lost, Vegas, Jay had moved there, trened first first on the class of victory. So of the different venues, maybe some of the more prestigious venues that you've trened out loud to say the best bodybuilding atmosphere you've trened at. It's going to be a cut. This is a cultural thing to answer but it is true but the most hardcore place I've ever trened where the guys were the most focused on trening that's really it was when I was in jail believe it or not and we trened outside there was a canopy over us and we trened either a 90-degree heat or it was freezing cold because I was there for six months it was like five months it was we I got both seasons and then those guys trened hardcore man I don't think anyone trened harder than that anywhere I've gone but in a conventional gym setting I would say that first of all nothing can inspire you more than goals gym that is back in the 90s. IMean that place was like even now it's still got great energy but back then there was so many superstars there. IMean if you couldn't get a good work out there and push your hardest there was something wrong with you. Having said that on a regular basis where I trened where I I thought the hardest core atmosphere always was with bad friends at Paris gym and that's just because there were so many good people there and even the regular guys who trened there all trened like they were and no one can most of them didn't compete but they all trened as they'll they were. So you couldn't just like went out and do a bad work at them because everyone's watching everyone in all times there so it that was on a regular basis that was a very motivating atmosphere. Now I've gone to gyms where I've had really hardcore workouts like sporadically throughout you know my all the Metro Flex gym IMean come on you can't you that that one's great I went to the Metro Flex out in where was it in Arizona was really really hardcore. I've been at mid-city gym and Manhattan downstairs in the basement. IMean that place legends Arnold used to tren there. It's literally you walk down these steps you think you're going into into hell basically and there's these little rooms it looks like someone dug about with a shovel. Those ceilings are really low and epic they're super hardcore equipment all the guys are hardcore it's like it's a sweat it's like a sweat shop and there but you know what you get a great workout 19th Street gym and Manhattan was really great. I never was at Johnny Latsby I heard that was a very good gym too. I used to tren to place Metro fit not Metro Flex Metro fit up in a pellen manner up in Westchester back in the 90s there was a enormous amount of bodybuilders who went through that to a Bob brush can used to go there and take pictures of people in that place. I actually worked there for a little while too. So there's been a lot IMean strong shapeally gym back in the day when Bob was in his heyday you know that was a great gym. Deer Park old gym was great. I really used to know all the good hardcore places that I went there but like on a regular basis where I tren bed frances probably the best place if I lived in California obviously I would have been a gold vendingist because the energy there was electric too. Good I ain't the pro tough race. I got to mention also Tony Dardy's gym 247 in Melbourne super hardcore. I love that gym I really do. You got to get him on one of these days I know he's been posting a lot. I guess in Australia maybe even in the United Kingdom still very much a struggle for some of these gyms to stay open. The continued of their business so I know when you've been pushing very hard and obviously I had a lot of support to the body but in world so maybe want to check in with our friend over there in Australia. Let's go to I am the pro Chris bodybuilders used to use. Lacing a lot more than they do today. Why do you think that is more than the loop non-discount? Lacing is a very fast acting dioritic so a lot of guys would use that especially if they have a lot of water they want to dump real quickly. I think people are a little more educated today back then back then they just would go for whatever work strongly you know there's strong diorites. Now we know the science of what's going on and we know that like this passive sparing diorites like diaside or moe doretic these dioretics have the same ability to push water out of the body but they also are potassium sparing meaning that they you're not going to lose potassium. The problem with Lacing is or biomex or some of these domex is that you lose potassium and sodium so if you do cram or take too much it's hard to know what what electrolytes to put back should I add sodium back should I put acid actually I bolted them back so I think that there's a whenever you make things too complicated and if something goes wrong because I always think about what what problems could occur and because you have to when it's anticipate that otherwise you can run into trouble. Now you might do it 10 times and never have a problem and then the 11th time you're at the Mr. Limpid competition you went of cramping you don't know how to fix the problem so I think a lot of guys nowadays just realize the diaside is a better dioritic and they save the Lacing so if you mix or domex for like emergency situations where they're holding water at the last minute and they want to get rid of it very quickly because Lacing doesn't last that long your body but it works very fast which is sometimes not a good thing because you can sometimes dehydrate the muscle doing that so I think if you're going to do things on a slower you know situation in a slower manner which I think works better I like to use a diaside it's very reliable it pretty much gives you the same results every single time and once again if you take too much and you eat a little salt and you neutralize the problem. It's good at tipping our boil the complete list of factors that affect the ones maintenance calories and how much does hyper hypothyroidism really affect it? Can you say that again I haven't trouble hearing you a little bit? Yeah yeah no the complete list of factors that affects ones maintenance calories you got that part right? Yeah okay and then beyond that how much does hyper slash hypothyroidism really affected? I've said this the last couple weeks that we've had answered this question you know the thyroid hormone is kind of like you know necessary for your metabolic rate to work properly but basically what all it does is turn on the machinery in your body the machinery being the muscle cells the metabolic enzymes that metabolize things your body's genetic ability to oxidize fats and and do all that great stuff so if you have a lot of equipment okay that can can do a lot of fat burning a muscle buildinGHaving enough thyroid hormone to turn that equipment on is necessary now if you overturn it on obviously you could burn a lot of extra calories up obviously but you also risk obviously losing some muscle if you don't have a turned on enough meaning a thyroid is too low hypothyroid then you have all the great equipment you can't use it all because it's not all turned on so that's why thyroid hormone you really want to get it into you know you want to get it into the normal range you don't want to go too too high you can go high normal but you don't want to go too too high because then you want to get you can risk you know having other negative ramifications sometimes harder than me is if you if you amp it up too quickly also if it's too slow or your thyroid hormone is too low you might not be getting the most out of your body but by and far thyroid hormone any of itself does not control how much fat you burn it just basically turns on your body's ability to do what it's supposed to do but how good you are burning fat or building muscle is really determined by muscle you know and what's going on in the net up at the enzymes in the muscle cells themselves and a lot of that genetic and a lot of that has been built because the more muscle you've built over the years the better your metabolism okay I believe that people who have done aerobic type or highly aerobic activities you know like running like I did or swimming or cycling early in their career might have changed their metabolic enzyme make up in the muscle cells as well because I think I became a better fat burner because I because of all the running I did but you know having said that you know you still need normal thyroid function now I was I was interested to find I went back and looked at all my thyroid hormone prior to my thyroid being removed and I never naturally had a very high T3 level I had no it was in the normal range but I was in the normal low and even now you know when I'm on replacement I'm in normal low but I feel totally normal so my body probably doesn't need super high thyroid output matter fact of I did I probably wouldn't be able to put any muscle on it would I would be running too fast you know so your body knows where it needs to be and and how can you tell where the right place to be is because of your TSA thyroid stimulatinGHormone levels are normal okay and the normal range then you know you're producing enough T3 so even though my T3 output is not high normal it's low normal my TSH is normal so that would that and even on in even on replacement therapy that means that my body my hypothernalm is to my brain says we got enough thyroid in this hormone in this body we're gonna keep TSH out put on the lower side now if my body sends that hey we don't have enough thyroid hormone to turn everything on I would my pituitary and hypothernalm is to put out more thyroid stimulatinGHormone to turn up thyroid function now because I don't have to thyroid I have to actually take more replacement but that doesn't seem to be the case so thyroid hormone is not the the dictator of how fast you metabolism it just turns on the machinery so to speak let's go to a stilatiousness when trening to bring up a lagging side let the right we are told to do you need the unilateral movements but which side should we tren first and do we do the same amount of reps so I guess in general if you want to answer that but what would your advice be to your clients who are looking to bring up lagging parts I always tell people when you're doing you know lateral movements you always do the week side first and you limit the amount that the the strong side could do by what the week side does so my left side's my week side and I do I do eight curls with my left arm even though IMight be able to do 12 curls with my right arm I stop in eight because I want to keep my symmetry correct likewise and I have a lagging body part IMight do a couple an extra set or two at the end of the workout just to give it a little more work if I think it's necessary when I squat I used to always my left leg was bigger than my right leg so I would always lean into my right leg or push my right leg consciously and didn't even pay attention to my left leg because I knew my left leg was going to unconsciously work anyway so I try to give more mind muscle connection to the week or side and say the with compound moments if you do if you do you know bench pressing you know because you don't want to do just dumbbells you want to use barbell presses and you know your right sides a little smaller then you might want to really just focus on pushing from the right side the left side is going to work anyway and it'll enable you to kind of get a better mind muscle connection to the week or side good a Leon 45 it through considering that it's easier to keep the muscle then to create it why do most body builders use more gear and higher dose of drink pre-contest than offseason I you know I don't know that's good question I you know offseason I try to keep the dosages to two compounds you know like two and a bottle like a testosterone and an anabolic and then maybe some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone home I don't ever use like three compounds very rarely maybe just in the beginning some of them might throw a few debolves to have something like that but I try to keep it to compounds because I find that your body can eat better because the limiting factor offseason a lot of times not the drugs it's the ability to get that food down if you're taking toxic compounds or or short acting you know injectables a lot of times they kill your appetite and if you can't eat you can't grow so now pre-contest appetite is never a problem right but you're just starving all the time so I don't mind using three compounds or four compounds pre-contest because I'm not worried about the appetite being destroyed and I'm not worried about receptor overload because at this point we're not growing we're just trying to maintain muscle give the body a hard look and I think that that's the that's the difference at least in my mind of why people use more drugs pre-contest versus offseason at least that's my rationale I don't know other people I think some people in their mind think that they can actually grow muscle while they're ready getting ready for a show if they take more drugs of course that's not the case because you're on a limited amount of resources because you're trying to deprive your body of what it needs a little bit a little bit right so you lose body fat every week and in doing so your body's first priority is not going to be the build muscle it's just trying to survive so to speak you're trying to maintain muscle while burning body fat so don't confuse the two processes or you're going to accomplish nothing essentially for a couple of morEQuestions let's go to ADV Sherman Sorrows good one here I almost feel like and tell me if you want to do this the biggest myths relating to insulin and HCH you feel like that's a solid video already when I give a quick primer here well I think that people think that insulin builds muscle like like raw hormone does which it's really not the case IMean it indirectly builds muscle by driving nutrients into the muscle cells so they can be consumed but assuming you know your body has enough insulin you know taking exogenous insulin is not going to slowly make your bigger now if you're taking GH and your blood sugars are runninGHigh and you add insulin in whether it be a long acting initially or if you need a short acting it's some of your bigger meals you might grow better now because you're absorbing your food but it's not really the insulin that's building the muscle because insulin just pushes carbohydrates and amino acids to a certain degree into the cells it's not doesn't have a direct muscle building in fact like like IGF one would you take a shot of GHGH goes to liver release liver release is IGF one IGF one bind size if one receptors on damage muscle fibers and you get and you get a hyperplasia effect okay we know that that's a direct effect of you know of GH and IGF one insulin doesn't do that so I think a lot of people are confused by that fact that that insulin is you know a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone agent you know where it's not whereas growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone really does cause indirectly of course via IGF one it does cause muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and so that's you gotta keep that in your brain last question anyway so anyway so it's so it's all about myths so we're talking about it so that that's a that's a big myth you know also I think it's a myth that the more GH you take the bigger in your gonna get because at some point remember GH just causes your liver to release IGF one some point your body just can't produce any more IGF one so you could take 20 I use GH it might be just as effective as taking eight I use a GH the only thing you're gonna get with with 20 I use GH is a lot more fluid retention so I think that's that's a big myth people think that the more you take the more you're gonna you know build muscle and and once again really what happens is you're just getting more side effects you take 20 I use a GH today IGF one is gonna run high and IGF guaranteed you're gonna hold the excess of fluid and I guarantee your fingers are gonna be non-molded time and you don't want that so remember it's all about balance that's taking an effective dose without overdoing it I feel like that would make a great episode of Guru talk with you and me Losh yeah that a great topic sure definitely alright final question from Manzo low my question is what would you do if you're on Logan came to you at 18 years old instead I'm going to start running gear would you coach in meaning make sure that he's doing everything the correct way or would you demand he not do a cycle even if you knew he would sneak around and do it anyway yeah you know it's one of these dilemmas of parenthood right you know your door to come some tells you she's pregnant right or somewhere your son wants to take steroids for you know there's a million different you know it's a tough situation you know and obviously the good thing is that I come from a background where I understand all this stuff and I know the right way to do things and the wrong way to do things so obviously I would hope he would come to me and tell me he wants to do it and if he's gonna do it at least let me supervise it you know what he means so that nothing gets done you know where he's gonna harm himself would I be happy about it now not in 18 you know but what I try to discourage him absolutely if I knew he wasn't gonna be discouraged and it was gonna happen anyway and he's not living under my roof or whatever and he's you know graduated from high school ready then I would at least try to you know guide him in the right direction I don't want my son to think that he has to go someplace else on the street to find out about things you know what IMean because then I wouldn't be a being a good parent you know at the same point I'm not going to say hey you know what my son is really good at football I bet if I put him on a little animal or a little you know a winstrol he'll he'll he'll get a scholarship that would be on my part you know crazy you know so you got it you know if it's the other way around where my son's coming to me because he says I want to do this and how do I do it the right way that then I I can't turn my back on him you know obviously I would hope that that wouldn't I wouldn't have to have the conversation with him but you never know it could happen by daughter could come to me and say that and that's even a worse you know scenario in my head but you know you have to be a parent and if you're going to be a good parent I guess you have to at least give them the negative ramifications of it and then if they're going to if they really want to do it and they're of age where they can make that decision then I would obviously help them do it the right way you know that is going to do for this episode of as Dave we have a lot a lot of content right now on the channel we have yesterday's episode of after hours Monday as episode of heavy muscle radio we talked about classic physique dark horse and if anyone has a realistic shot of knocking a crisp BUN set off the perch in the classic physique division a couple of rants from over the past weekend a lot of content right now again if you haven't already done so subscribe below hit the notification million not going to miss any of our shows segments or updates for Tyler short and day below I'm going to be for rookie we'll see you next time

=== FILE: DECLARE INDEPENDENCE! FROM YOUR LIFE! July 4th Thoughts from Dave Palumbo [3vTCEHtwdqY].txt ===

Day Palomo here with a very special Independence Day thought Today's July 4th, 2018 and guys it is Independence Day that means I want you guys to declare independence from your life That's right. If you don't like your job If you're not happy in your relationship If you're bodybuilding and fitness goals and not going the way they want declare independence from them give it up And it now start over say hey, what do I really love to do? What makes me happy? What gives me pleasure? What makes me be a passion about what I do and then do it? Don't be afraid. Don't become a slave to the institution Remember the United States declared independence from the British we need to decide we weren't gonna find Answer their war machine. We weren't gonna give them money to help get them out of debt Okay, because we were Thousands and thousands of miles away. We're like we're gonna make our own life and that's what you guys have to do I know a lot of you guys are in jobs. You don't really love you want to be maybe coaches You want to be bodybuilders you want to be fitness stars you want to be social media You know experts you want to be youtubers Guess what do you love? Make today today you declare independence Okay from everything that you don't like to do I know it sounds radical. I know you're planning well maybe I'll do it in six months I'll do it in a year guess what you don't do it today you'll never do it and you know what you'll thank me because when you make that statement and you say to yourself This is the day I take control of my life Guess what everything changes because you know it's the old saying I love to quote Wayne dire When you change the way you look at things the things you look at change and that includes your life Your livelihood your job your profession your hobby if you want to call it It could become your profession. This is the day to do it. Okay, we're celebrating it We're blowing fireworks off Reat and food and barbecue and all the great stuff that the American population loves to do and you know what you don't have to be from America to do this You could be in the Middle East now you could be in China you could be in Australia declare independence from your life take control do you love that's my message for today Guys happy for the July and tomorrow is a new day a new dawn a new career

=== FILE: DEONTRAI CAMPBELL： I'M COMING FOR OLYMPIA TOP-5! [o7esq87Q3Rk].txt ===

After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. The rush begins once pre-workout vape. I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Spices Nutrition. I created Spices Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensoplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Spices Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Spices Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to live with brought to you by Spices Nutrition on Dave Polumbau. And today's guest is a special one. He's our 2020 IMB Tampa Pro Classic Physique, men's champion, John Tray Campbell, welcome to the show. Thanks for having me. Congratulations on that big win, man. That was a tough fight. That was a battle you guys had up there. Yeah, it was. I kind of knew that it would be once you know you received the guys backstage and definitely wasn't easy, but I'm happy that it wasn't easy at all. Yeah, yeah. Now you turned pro two years ago to North American, but embody building. Yeah, yeah, certainly like anyway, what made you decide to do men's physique? IMean to do classes in Tuesday. Yeah, so I wanted to, I knew I had, I could be competitive, but I wanted to also make it to the Olympia. We kind of talked my caution. I talked back and forth and said we can fit down to Classic. Definitely with our build and eventually get to them, Libya. By the way, and that's what we did, right? So we did our first pro show and clearly it was a good change and categories. Now why did you wait there so long before you actually got under pro stage? Because a lot of guys like nowadays it's like boom, damn boom right on to the pro stage, you know? Yeah, yeah, but first of all, what's up with family math? So we had my daughter, my wife was actually pregnant at North American's. Oh wow. Yeah, so that's very tough while she's eating pizza. I'm always there. I'm just looking at her like why are you doing this to me? Yeah, yeah. So yeah, we had our baby, Eliana, not too long after that. So I wanted to take a break. So my family had been eventually my culture sayinGHey, we need to step on stage. We need to step on stage. So eventually, you know, we went back to it and clearly it was a smart move. Yeah, yeah, it's amazing that you can make the, you know, what you cut off for Classic now, like 205, some of that. Classic is cut off as 127 for my height. That's, that's going to be tough for you to suck down into that way category. Yeah, yeah, it can get tough and growing, but that's what this sport is about. Yeah, here's the top five call out from Tampa where you beat the divine Wilson. And like, you know, in a bunch of these other guys in this top five, everyone was really good. I actually was very impressed with the with the Tampa Pro Classic lineup. You know, there wasn't a lot of name guys. IMean, divine honestly people kind of knew who he was, but thEQuality was good. And so when you got up there and you have backstage and you're looking these guys over. Because you know, I don't, I don't buy into it. I know everyone looks at each other over. Did you think, hey, I got a chance to win this, IMean, Chris Hunt obviously had won a pro show a couple weeks earlier. And divine obviously has been up there before as well. Were you, did you think you had a shot at this thing? I was getting into my head to be honest. I would check out the other guys and look at myself and just think like, man, I know I, I'm, I'm gifted. I can brought a great package, but look at these guys. And it wasn't until I started seeing the pictures after pre judging, so I'm my confidence starting getting going up there. And I'm just like, okay, yeah, I'm going to be one or two at this show. Not like I said, everybody brought it. But I knew that my package that we brought was worthy of one or two. Absolutely. IMean, this Frank double by suppose I love it. IMean, this is this is a great front double. IMean, that's pretty hard to beat in the whole division. IMean, I think you, you can stand next to, you know, any of those guys, Chris Bumstedt, you know, with that pretty unannually, you know, I think that these guys can, are going to be a little worried when they see this shot of next in the month stage here. Yeah, I appreciate that, you know, it's definitely, uh, hard work that we put in and nothing, wrong with, IMean, Chris in, uh, Brandon, they have some great physics, but I'm ready to come for that top spot. Now is this it for that you're going to shut it down until the Olympia or you're going to be hit another one. We were, we were planning for a show, but we are going to shut it down and prove on what the judges told us to improve one. So we can be, you know, take top five at least at our first Olympian Olympic show. So yeah, we're going to shut it down focus on the Olympia. You know, what we do. I don't know if you're typing over there and not, but I can hear it. So just kind of like, don't type. I get y'all that because I type, but I got a full stuff up, but let's go to one of the show people you're your Instagram for second because you got a great nickname, holy hoax. Yeah, and I've been saying it all my wrap up show that I love the nickname. What, where did that come from? I have a friend that I've kind of ran into online and we're in this mainstream group. And he would always say, man, you're like the holy hoax. You're like the holy hoax. I don't see anybody who likes to do like just out here doing what you do and you're like the holy hoax in. I just ran with it, you know, I just attached to me and I think it's going to continue to go with me for the rest of my life. And I need to reach out to him and take them. So yeah, absolutely. That was a good nickname. You know, it's hard to get a good nickname in our sport. But that's great. And he's getting involved in religion and, you know, the little kind of preaching stuff you're doing. My faith. It's kind of long story. IMean, maybe I will share that some other time. But I went down a wild road. And I went into military and met this young guy who. I just kind of looked up to because he, I say, young because I went a little bit later. And I'm there with 18 or old 20 year old. Sure. I was going to about his faith in he had a Bible and I was interested. And, you know, we started talking and he really shared me share this faith. And in the military, we didn't really have anything to do. But it's read. So I started to pick him for the Bible and they just started, you know, leading me to Christ. And yeah, it's interesting. I've just been on this road of, you know, him giving God glory through, you know, every platform I can. And I think if I'm lucky to be on this big platform and get him going, what I do. Sure. And do you notice that when you found God that like it really changed the direction of your life? Oh, big time. Bodybuilding in it. You know, vice versa with my faith. How strict you have to be. It helps both areas of my life. So definitely with my faith. It has helped me be more strict and bodybuilding as well. And those were around myself with too. So yeah, those both hand in hand kind of like help each other. It's interesting. So the house strict, you have to be in, you know, society or you can't be just out party and you know, you can help lead somebody else to Christ who is struggling with party and or whatever. So yeah, right. Have you, have you helped other bodybuilders? You know, I hold it put the water bottle down. You're a might know because you're a microphone is really sensitive. And I, I pick it up like over a little cranky bullseye. So I want people to, he this is very important. That people want people to hear this, you know, really clearly. And I think it's important that people understand that people, look, we hear about suicide. We hear about people who have just lost faith. And what do you tell someone who's like down there, look like that. I know. It's tough because there are certain things that I don't struggle with when it comes to the pressure and stuff like that. But I do try to search scripture because everything in scripture can relate back to what you're struggling with and live. And to answer your question, I've had many people reach out to me and thank me for sharing words or sharing, you know, my testimony and stuff like that. But depression is real and I found that going back to scripture and sharing Christ with them and praying about it, ultimately, before I talk to them, has led me to help others with whether depression and whatever they're really struggling with. I'm not going to say I'm out here saving every single life out here, but I do share my faith with the best of my ability. I'm a little jealous. I love that story they gave you in Tampa, though. Yeah, you see how I'm holding it? Yeah, yeah, yeah, it looks like a cross. The funny thing is that how to heck, did you get that thing back on the airplane? Well, what's funny is I didn't fly. Oh, you drove. You're smart. You're very smart. We're not going to get COVID because that's true. Yeah, yeah, that's my wife and I, we actually drove and we did a little vacation out of it and sightseeing on the way back to Indiana. So we stopped in Nashville and I had dinner and stuff like that. So it was pretty awesome to share that with my wife, you know, traveling. That's great. And if anyone bugs you, you could just pull the sword out on it. Yeah, exactly. I thought about that. And what's funny is my first show that I ever won. It gave me like four swords for every show I'm getting all these swords. Oh, that's actually pulled that out real quick. That seems to be the new thing. Yes, sirs. When I was coming up on the scene, there was only one show that gave away a sword. It was the X caliber shell and a cow pointed, which of course, X caliber is a sword. I was always jealous that I never, I never want to sword nowadays. It seems like a lot of shows and noise swords. But it is a pain in the neck that you have to feel it. I'm glad we drove. Yeah. Anyway, well, you know, I want to just congratulate you, D'Ontre and the big win. And obviously, good luck at the Olympia way that this year. I think that your tremendous potential to do really well. I appreciate you having me on today. Okay, guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with Brought to you by species nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo for D'Ontre Campbell. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: DEREK LUNSFORD 7 WEEKS OUT! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸26⧸18) [SuiL6TxM5tE].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Day for Lumbo and today is Thursday July 26th, 2018, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I was on record last year from the start of the season talking about how I thought it would go down as one of the craziest years on record. And less than two weeks from now, we might be about to get our first dose of crazy here in the 2018 season. If former women's physique international champ Autumn Swanson makes the jump over to figure, early this week news broke on social media that Swanson was openly debating whether or not she would jump into the figure division at the Tampa Pro, which would definitely add a little bit of intrigue to Tim Gardner's mid-Summer Extravaganza. At this point, I'm still not sure if Swanson even knows what her plans are, moving forward, but she's squares that I convinced her to stay in physique. But with so many athletes changing divisions now on both sides, I can't say that it would come as a major shock if she does decide to end up takinGHer talents in another direction. Personally, I think she's made for a physique. Earlier this week, I heard on the news that the Powerful Jackpot was capping out somewhere around 512 million. But why do I get the feeling that Sean Clarita never even poked his head out of the gym long enough to know what all the fuss was about? Right in early Monday morning, we saw the 212 giant killer doing what he does best in his latest pre-lippiate back day massacre. As phase 3 of this year's preparations, finally start to get underway. But Reader is still riding that huge tsunami of momentum he created back in May when he pulled off the biggest night of his professionALCAReer with his win at the New York Pro. So as long as he can ride that hot streak at the biggest, I don't think I'm the only one who can see a scenario where he puts himself in intention for a top-by finish. Now that people are getting their security clearance as revoked, left and right at the White House, and we're inviting Putin over for a steak dinner, I think it's time to get ourselves a new secretary of defense in Washington. And I think Jim Manion should pull some strings with his people in DC to get my man, Charles Dixon in front of you. Rumor has it that the tank is bowerling down the back half of this year's Olympia Prep. Feeling as good as he's ever has in a long time, but that is chances heading into the Grand Finale. Let's not forget how good this guy was to start the season where he absolutely lit up the month of March with his runner up at the Arld and big win at the Indie Pro. And if we even get a slightly improved version of Dixon on the Olympia stage, I think he's probably good enough to push for a top-by finish. Last weekend, IMay or may not have stayed up until one of the morning watching the world series of poker, while secretly thinking that maybe I can make it on one of those tables, if IManage to get on a hot street. But until I can get together the money for the million dollar buy-in, I think I'll just focus on important things. Things like whaT3-time men's physique Olympian Dean Balibus is doing. The two-time top-10 finisher has been absolutely tearing it up in the gym over these last few weeks, as preparations for the next round of his 2018 are starting to shape up. For one reason or another, we still haven't seen Balibus hit that tip-top peak performance yet this season. But when you've got this sort of talent at your disposal, you're never really more than one good punch away from getting right back into the fight. Sometimes I wish I could find a way to merge bodybuilding and basketball, so I can make my own super team to watch some of these guys just go at it. And if I'm making a 12 super team, I think it goes without saying that my number one overall pick would certainly be second year champ and waiting. Derek Lundsford, less than two months out from makinGHis return trip to Vegas, flexed Lewis's air parent seems like he's guiding, scarier by the day. Updates this week from team 1'sford down there at MI 40 gym might be the craziest ones we've seen yet. Because all of a sudden now, this kid is showing all sorts of muscle and detail that flat out wasn't there before. I don't think anyone's under any illusions that he might actually be flexed Lewis this year and when the Olympia, but the way things are going now, saying that he could potentially end up a close second doesn't seem all that crazy when you think about it. And that does it the yet another edition of muscle in the morning. On day for Lumbo, reminding you to always feature to your passions and make sure to follow us and Facebook Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: DEREK LUNSFORD： 212 OLYMPIA HEIR APPARENT？ [To84zOz5tIQ].txt ===

What's up, Bodybuilding fans! Day Palombo here with an RX Muscle News Update. Today's topic is Derek Lundsford, one of the most compelling two-twelfth competitors in the division. He turned pro last year by winning the NPC USA Championships overall. He then qualified one his first pro show, a week or two later and Tampa went to the Olympia with top five there. People attacking this guy is one of the greatest new talents in the two-twelfth division. He's got youth on his side. He's only improving. He's only been in the sport for a short period of time and he's made unbelievable improvements over that short period of a couple of years, which leads us to believe that this guy has a bright future now. If you look at some of the pictures that he just put out as he prepares for the Mr. Olympia Contest, which is in about eight or nine weeks now, he has made even greater improvements from last year to this year. He looks like a different person. It's unbelievable when you see the amount of sheer muscle size and mass he put on over the course of a year. I talked to Ben Pekalsky. It is podcast maybe a few weeks ago. He's been helpinGHim out a little bit with his trening at the gym. He is even super impressed. Ben was like, you're not going to believe what this guy looks like. I hadn't seen any pictures and then someone sent me these pictures that I guess are floating around. As you can look, IMean, his back is enormous. His front double bicep is deadly. He's got great legs. He's got a tiny waist. He's got good av insertions. His lats flare from the front. He's got great arms and shoulders and chest. He really doesn't have any weaknesses at this point. Obviously these pictures are not contest ready. He still has another eight or nine weeks to die off that fat that's on his lower back and his glutes and hamstrings. You can just see that the lats, trations are there already just because he's got such dense muscle in his lower lats. And you don't see that a lot in the true 12 division. I think this guy is going to be super dangerous. Can he beat flex? Lois, I don't know about that. But he certainly is going to be, I think, a top three guy in this year's Olympia. And if he comes in with the level of conditioning that we all want to see from him, who knows, he could push flex. I'll tell you why because this guy can make the way class. Flex is having to really suck himself down to make that way class. It really hurts as a physique. It flattens it out. Probably one of the reasons why flex is not going to be in the 212 division next year and he's going to move up to the open because he just can't make that way class anymore. It's not helpinGHis physique. He doesn't look his optimal best. But once for his on the way up, young guy, a lot of talent, fresh muscle, skin his tight. That's the look we're looking for. And that's the look that the judges want to see on that stage. They want to see fresh new muscle. They want to see density. They want to see muscle separation. And they want to see improvement. And I think Lundsford is giving us everything that we could possibly ask for over the last couple of years. And he's got momentum behind them. So this is going to be an interesting experiment to see what Lundsford could bring to the stage. If I was a badding man, I would throw some money on Lundsford because he's got to be an underdog in the lineup. But at the same time, when you see these pictures, you got to be super impressed. So what happens eight weeks from now? No one knows because Willie brings his best. I don't know. He's been very consistent up until this point last year to hit those three shows. That was a dream season. Turn pro, winning the USA Championship, win your first pro show, top five at the Olympia. Can't get much better than that. Aside from winning the Olympia, and that's almost unheard of. So this year coming into the Olympia, if he can move up to that top three, or higher, even maybe the runner up position, who knows, maybe a surprise win, this could be one hell of an exciting two-to-to-all Olympia, which would certainly be retribution for the fact that Arnold Schwarzenegger and his crew have removed the two-to-all division from the Arnold Plastic for 2019. We still don't know why, but this would certainly at a level of excitement that they may want to second our question their decision to remove it. So once again, Derek Lutzford, one of the most exciting two-to-to-all competitors on the circuit now, it's only a shame that some of the irony of body modes that in that 12-to-to-to-all division like Heidi Schupe and a couple of the other guys won't be able to get visas to come out to the Olympia, but I still think it's going to be one hell of a battle up there. This could be Jose Raymond's final year. I'm sure he's bringinGHis best. So I'm excited to see the two-to-to-to-to-all guys as much as the open and the classic body mode is because we're seeing a tremendous level of talent rising up the ranks and hey, it doesn't get much better than that. I'm Dave Palabo, with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: DEREK LUNSFORD： FREAK MODE! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸20⧸18) [4KhcSohmh3w].txt ===

Wake up everyone, it's Monday here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm Dave Pellon, but today is August 20th, 2018 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Does anyone else out there remember how you used to be able to get those cheat codes for video games way back in the day? Well, I'm starting to think that Charles Griffin might have just found a cheat code of his own. Less than a month away from hitting the Olympia stage for the first time, Griffin looks like he's found some new way to hack the system. Because this dude is on another level right about now. Anyone who's followed his career since his amateur days probably knew he was destined to do something big at some point in his career, but I'm not sure if even he would have told you that he'd be here right now this soon. And at this point I'm still not sure he's ready to be a top-ten guy given that we haven't seen him compete at this level yet, but I'll tell you what, I sure as hell wouldn't bet against him in Las Vegas. For the most part, with every superstar athlete, there's a point in their career where everybody and their mother can just look at them and know they're about to do something special. And I think we can probably all agree that Derek Lundsford is at that point right now. The man will lot of people in the know or predicting to be the heir apparent to the 2012 division is looking more dangerous by the day now. And from what I hear, from my people down there in Tampa, the pictures don't even begin to tell the story about how insane this guy is starting to look every day. Even at his absolute best, I still don't think I'd go as far as sayinGHe's ready to give King Flex a serious title scare this year, but a damn sure wouldn't be shocked if we all came out of the weekend talking about the start of the Lundsford era that's coming down the pike in 2019. I remember when I lived back in New York that it would make me absolutely insane every time I drove on any of the roads because they were constantly under construction. And I don't know what the roads are like out there in Kuwait these days, but I can tell you for sure there's some heavy duty road work going down at Oxygen Gym. Over the weekend, big ramen crew drop the latest installment of their road to the Olympia series where we catch the big man trying to do his part to pay his road to a world title this year. At least right now, the last images that most fans have of ramen is from that insane postal in beer run that he had last year where he was flat out awesome in that win at the Arnold Europe. And assuminGHe built on that foundation, he had there, you have to think that he'll be right there in the running again trying to be one of the ones who goes down in history as the guy who knocked Phil Heath off his throne. For most athletes, you think that sealing the deal on the biggest win of their career would be a cause for celebration. But I guess Logan Franklin is into into celebrations. Over the weekend, we saw the men's physique all star jumped back into action right after his huge win at the Tampa Pro where I know he definitely opened up a lot of eyes but the way he came out and dominated. I don't know what clicked in his head over these last few months but all of a sudden it seems like this kid is operating at an entirely new level and given the fact that there seems to be a little doubt swirling around the top of the Olympia line up right now. It doesn't seem like it's entirely out of thEQuestion for a guy with his talent to come in and make a serious push for the title heading into a Libya weekend. If you're old enough to remember any of those old IBM commercials then you probably remember that old computer program they had called Watson. It was supposed to make your business smarter. But the next time I'm in the market for a tech guy, I'll probably just open up my phone and hit up Zain Watson because this guy is working with some super high technology right now. A little less than a month out for makinGHis return to the Olympia stage, my people inside the Watson camp tell me that he's still sitting somewhere around the 225 pound mark and gettinGHarder and crazier by the day. Even though he was good a few years ago this 2018 Olympia version of Zain Watson should end up being the best one yet so if you can manage to show off all that crazy detail without coming into flat or too full this guy has the right mix of tools to make a strong push for a top five finish. And that does it the yet another edition of muscle in the morning. On day full on bow reminding you to always be true to your passions. Make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: DEREK LUNSFORD： NEXT 212 KING？ [R4ObJKz2ECk].txt ===

Yunsh Paragu, celebrate for the Worlds! Magnificent and Modest version of Patreon Our Million faces, Welcome back to our X-Muscles Iron Road to the Olympia 2018 brought to you by RedCon1. On the Palombo and today's guest is one of the most talked about men in the 2012 division The pictures updates we've been seeing from him circulating on Instagram have been nothing less than spectacular. Guy I'm talking about is Derek Lundsford. Welcome. Hey Vince for having me Dave, I really appreciate it. No, it's great. Hey you're from Indiana originally is that correct? Yep, IMoved on here in Tampa and May. Yeah, so you came in and adjusted tren over there with Ben Pocoski at the gym, huh? Yep, that was the main purpose, but you know my heart's always been in Florida and I love the warm weather. So I'm probably going to make an apartment move especially as well as the tren is going and stuff, you know? What was it like growing up in Indiana as a kid? Was it, were you like a farm boy? Yeah, that's probably what made me a bodybuilder man. There's nothing else to do but besides you have to make your own farm, you know? Like it's cornfields, woods, like you'll hunt an in fishing, that's about it. So I took a liking to sports, you know, and that was something I could be driven for every day to like, you know, I was always driven to better myself and something and I took a liking to sports and there was one small little gym in our town and found love with it. Yeah, you would think to coming out of there you'd be like into, you'd be playing NFL football but the iron bug bit you and when the iron bug bites you there's no friend anything else recently. Yeah, I was at rest of where. I was a, I went to college as a small 141 power wrestler in my coach said, wow, I should have been a 133. That's crazy. And then I turned a bodybuilder man. Yeah, and we talked last year when we interviewed you, when you won that USA, you had that stellar run when you won tamper and then you placed top five with the Olympia. IMean, that was probably the dream season of dream season, huh? Yeah, for sure. IMean, I didn't know what to be most proud of. Obviously, the USA title, you know, Mr USA, I carry that around wherever I go. You know, IMean, of course, my pro debut win right after that, I was so proud of. Placing top five with Olympia is a huge accomplishment and especially rookie of the year. That's a one shot deal too. So I had a lot of things going from the last year for sure. But, you know, once I got to the Olympia last year and did place top five and stood next to those guys, that's when it really hit home, like, all right, now it's time that we really get serious about this. But IMean, not that I wasn't serious before, but this is this is there's potential here and we're going to go for it. And you know, you mentioned something very, that you never even thought about. You know, your whole USA title, Mr USA, over the champion of NPSU, it kind of got completely lost people forgot about it because you, you were clipsed so quickly with the win in Tampa that everyone just didn't stop talking about it. And you're almost took away the enjoyment of it. But in the sense who cares because you're now you're on the Olympia stage. Right? It's so funny that you say that because in the body building world, that guy forgot about all sort of, IMean, he's still people say, oh, Mr USA, he gave us my Instagram name and everything. But it's funny when I talk to people that are outside of body, but don't really know what body what it is. I'm like, yeah, I won Mr USA and then, oh my god, you're Mr USA and they flip out when I say, yeah, I placed the Olympia and they said, oh, okay, they don't really, they didn't like, they would just avoid it almost. Like, oh, yeah, that's sorry that you only placed fifth to the Olympia. Yeah, they're like, okay, that's cool and I'm like, but that's a way, you know what IMean? That's, that's B pinnacle. But they, you know, so I don't know, I guess one here, that's why I'm so appreciative of both, you know, I don't, I'm happy for everythinGHappened. Anyway, I talked to, when I was talking about Ben Pekalska, I don't remember if it was when I did his interview for on his podcast, we were talking about you and he was just like so impressed with the way you looked and that, you know, and I know Ben, Ben doesn't get excited about too many people. So, and I hadn't really seen pictures of you yet and then obviously you started releasing these pictures prior to the Olympia and people just going insane over them. Are you shocked, as you, are you shocked as everyone else at the, at the leaps and bounds that you've made over these last two, three years in development? Um, looking back, knowing what I know about bodybuilding and how it, it's a process and it takes time. Yes, I'm very surprised. But to be honest with you, I was so ignorant coming into bodybuilding that I just thought, you know, it's true, the more you put into something than where you're going to get out. Like I've actually said, I don't know if I've ever said this public before, but I'm going to say it now. I said back in 2014 before I first competed in 2015, mind you, I was a Walter when you were roughly 150, some pounds. I said I would be at the Olympia by 2018. So I don't know, I was just ignorant and just very ambitious and said I'm going to get him out of life to this. But looking back, I'm like, whoa, like that much muscle, that quick, I don't know, I did jusT3 hundred and sixty five days here, twenty four seven, I'm a bodybuilding, you know, I never stop, never, never, that's just who I am. That's my, that's my lifestyle man. I love it. So what do you weigh now? Right now, oh, today my weight dropped big time. I've been hanging around two, twenty, two, night, teen was my lowest this morning. I got down at two, sixteen. So we're, we're feeding up for tomorrow's life workout. The pictures that we saw on your, that have been released recently, some of these crazy back shots and IMean like that, what were you weighing in those pictures? Like, two, like, two, twenty, and each, two, twenty, two, twenty, two, but a lot of those were, well, the pants, most of those are after trening. So I'll be right by two, twenty, five. Right. The reason I ask you that, and I'm setting you up is because the Olympia obviously could take place in a couple weeks, and then you're going to go back to trening and growing again, like you did this pair here. Right. And the amount of gains that you've been making over the last couple years, I can't see you making the two, twelve class next year. IMean, would be this be something you'd hold yourself back for or would you allow your body to grow and go into that open class? Absolutely not. I'm not going to hold myself back from progressing. I think people like seeing my progress more than anything. Now here's the thing, Dave, is that there's a great opportunity for me in the two, twelve division, I know this, or I believe it anyway. But yeah, I'm not trying, if my body takes off like it has been the last couple years, I'm just going to let it do what it wants to do. I'm not trying to force it one way or another. You know, we're not pushinGHard in the offseason and anything. We're just like, I'm just eat sweet tren. So if my body takes off and it goes up to 260 or 270s to this offseason, which is probably what it's going to do, then yeah, I probably won't be coming back down in 2012. But if it hangs around that 250 mark or just over, then yeah, IMight suck down in the two, twelve again, who knows? But I'm not forced to make anything one way or the other. I'm just letting my body go in progress, you know, do what it does to your ear, show the show. Which is great, because you want to be the best body builder you can be. And I think sometimes a lot of these guys hold themselves back and then they regret it later and then they try to start, you know, gearing or pushing towards the open and maybe they've lost some key years of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, you know. Exactly. A lot of guys like wanting to do that, they go back and do the classic physique or whatever, you know, props to them, like that's their career. But I think that they're missing an opportunity to, you know, make, you know, build muscle tissue and make progress. Now, people are talking about you being a challenge to flex Lewis this year. Who obviously would be competing in his last two, twelve Olympia from the announcement he'd made. When you hear stuff like that, is that like get you, like get you excited in something like that? Do you feel that there's a reality that you can beat him at this show? Obviously we know flex, flex has a lot of trouble making that weight and he has to brinGHis, when he brings his weight down, sometimes he, he brings his physique down a little bit with it. Let me first say this, flex Lewis is an amazing body builder. That goes about being said. IMean, he is the greatest, two, twelve bodybuilder of all time. But I'm here to challenge him, you know, and I believe that I can and I will and yes, I 100% will you? I'm running the Olympia this year. There's no question about that. IMean, the top guys at the Olympia, anyone at the Olympia should feel that way. You know, I hear a lot of bodybuilder and it's good to have goals, you know, like realistic goals of, ah, place top five or place top six. But I'm here to win man and I know there's a lot of people that's like, well, he's you know, I'm there's whatever, but no, I'm here to prove that you don't have to pay your dues, you know, if you are the best bodybuilder on stage, you know, you'll come out ahead man and the thing is is when those are draw, I'm going to be gracious and I can promise you that and because I do respect all these guys and it's not just legs, but Jose David and Ma, you know, Ricardo, you know, Shankurita, all these guys man, they're incredible bodybuilders and probably even better people. So I never want to disrespect these guys or I don't intentionally because I like them for who they are, you know, as people. But the end of the day, you want to beat them with that, with the Olympian. Oh, I want to look at them. So yeah, there's no question about that. Like I'm coming to win and I expect nothing but to be the best on the stage, come September. What, what have you learned since you moved out to a tamper and you've been trening over there at the MI 40 gym? IMean, what, what has changed about you trening anything or is it just that it's more intense, you know. Man, the trening is 100% 100-8 degree different and I was trening like a city before I feel like now I'm really trening smart and I'm treninGHard, but I'm being pushed by the best, you know. And another thing that people don't talk about a lot about prep, but it's so crucial is the mindset, man, like, you know, been and our friend Danny Vega who's going to change with this every day. Right. There are guys Quincy Weakler was in here last week and stuff. You know, some guys are attending in now. These guys are keeping my mind positive and they're not just going to smoke up my butt. IMean, they'll give me credit when it's due. But honestly, the, I've been as the most critical on me that I've ever had, which is great but every time I, every time we walk in the morning, we tren at 7 a.m. big smiles on their face, shake hands, talk for 15 minutes, you know, get this good atmosphere going and then it's just the whole rest of my day is just positive and good, man, you know. And so if I see something like negative online, I scroll through it. It's like it doesn't even affect me. Right. What do you do? You go in the morning, you tren at 7 a.m. Yeah, I'm sure you're probably done by 830, you know, what do you do the whole day? What do you do the rest of the day? What's the typical day like few days? I usually get back at 10 30. Yeah. No, our work, I'll go to a fly like 10. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So it's pretty intense trening, but a, easily trened man, I come home, I post work out me a land and I lay down and rest immediately. So back to the recovery, get my, you know, nervous system calm down, everything. And then, you know, I definitely have another cardio session every day in the evening. But I, you know, I find things to do. Like I have a nice apartment here that has a nice pool all throughout. And I was just out there for like an hour. I just, I don't really try to do a whole lot to be honest with you. I'm just, I'm just like a monk body motor man. I've always been that way. Eat sleep, tren, eat sleep, tren. And I'm okay with that. I like that, you know, because it's just a few weeks of the year. And then after that, I get enjoy a vacation the rest of the year. Yeah. You know, something, I was just talking with Zane Watson and a few other guys. And they were saying the same thing the lasT4 weeks. And I, and I, I can attest to this two when I was competing. It's like you just want the days to pass as quickly as possible because it's just not comfortable. And you know, you, you're, you're on the right track, but it's like it's, it's, it's the whole process is nerve-wracking out because you're down to really low body fat. You want to get it over with. And I think sometimes, if you can reduce the stress in your life during that time period, it tends to allow you to get through it a little bit better. Right, right. My girlfriend, she's going to grad school in Indiana, but she was down for the last two weeks along with my coach, James Brown. So like that was a huge stress relief. And like just a positive boost to, um, made a push last two weeks. I don't know, just this, this whole prep, I've said, um, it has been the physically, the hardest prep without a doubt. I've pushed myself harder than I ever have, but mentally, I've been, like, most positive and it's been the best. So it's been the easiest with the hardest prep I've ever had. Well, you look great. The pictures are outrageous. We've been seeing coming out of your camp there. And I have to believe that, you know, you're going to certainly be a very dangerous guy up on that two, 12 Olympia stage. And I'm sure Flex Lewis is taking note. And I'm sure some of these other top guys that beat you last year are probably taking note now. And, you know, you're adding a level of excitement to the two 12 division that maybe just wasn't there yet last year. This is a man. I love that. And I, I believe that, but here's a deal man, everybody did two 12's coming. Seriously, it's exciting man because there's no one, one little slip man and you're the back of the pack. And that's what anyone, because all these guys, I see them working their butts off day and day out. And I'm not scrolling through their feeds, but when they pop up online, you know, I see that they're getting it. And I love it man because what we need is this. We need an ambassador to sport, which I believe we have, that builds people up. That's been Flex Lewis the last six years. That's what I want to be. I want all of us, because one person is not going to build a community of people. Okay. It takes everyone. It takes all the pro athletes together to come together to build this industry up. And it starts to taught me. And I want to be that ambassador to sport that that brings us together and build each other up. Man, like I said, in the day when it comes to Olympia, I want to whip everybody. I want that title. But at the same time, let's do this together. It takes all of us to come together. There needs to be no hurt feelings or anything. We're all bringing it. We're all bringing our best. Nobody can be here fault for that man. So, oh, good luck with the rest of your prep. And we'll see you in Vegas there. Thank you Dave for having me appreciated. Sure. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of RX Muscles Iron Road to the Olympia 2018. Brought to you by RedCon1. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: DERON TROTTER： TRACK STAR TO IFBB PRO! [5SW0nEl38H4].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brokey by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Pallando and today's guest is a new IFBB Classic Physique Pro. Just one is class at the USA Championships. The man I'm talking about is Doran Trotter. Welcome. Thanks Dave, like the thanks to be here and appreciate you guys helping me on the show. Yeah, you know, you're at work, obviously, Liberty Mutual. Tell us before we get to the body, but what do you do at Liberty Mutual? Is Salah in church? No, I'm actually an auditor. So I pretty much audit files for our claims of gestures and just make sure we're not overpaying or underpaying our customers and make sure we're pretty much standing in line with our estimates. You're the guy we dread coming out when we get damaged to the house and then you've got to come out and assess what it is, right? Well, that's what I actually, that's the gesture. I pretty much audit our gestures. Oh, so you're your, you're, you're, you're, you're my student. Yeah, I'm making sure our gestures are doing the right thing. How lonGHave you been doing the job? Um, I'm being with Liberty for about seven years now and I've been the auditor for two. How do you learn how to do that? What, like, what, what, what are you based at Silver Utilver School for that, obviously? Did they just teach you on the job there? No, we actually, we actually have like a mock house like, um, um, and we're just like damage everywhere. And they take us throughout the house and we assess the images and kind of just write estimates and we meet with contractors and they teach us a lot, uh, as far as like how, what, you know, what type of damage is there and how to write for an estimate for it. So it's kind of things that you learn over time and just learn them to job as well. No, what I always, one, this has nothing to do with bodybuilding of course, but I, I have to ask questions when I actually find experts in areas that I don't know nothing about. When there's like a huge crazy hurricane, like, when I was in New York, we got hit with Hurricane Sandy, like, every, not, not one house, but every house in the entire, you know, NASA county was was destroyed, basically, or, or damaged. How do we insurance companies recover from like, you know, it's crazy stuff like that? Insurance companies got deep pockets, man. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, we, we actually work those type of, those storms in our budget. Oh, really? Of course. You know, we don't, you know, let me hurricanes, IMean, we get over pretty quick. Yeah, that's interesting. Yeah. All right. Let's talk about your bodybuilding. You started back and I believe it was 2014 with competing. You obviously were trapped. We talked about earlier. You were trapped and feel the athlete, the sprinter. How did you go from sprinting to bodybuilding? Well, um, ever since I was younger, I always say about, you know, 14 years old, my dad, he pretty much pushed me to play sports, football, track, basketball. And I wasn't always the tallest guy on the team. So he always has told me that I need to be the strongest and the fastest on any team in sport. So I've always been lifting weights and then from track, um, track, this kind of just took over. That was my passion. I actually got a scholarship and track, um, and um, went on a four ride there. And from there, my senior year, or actually started my junior year, put my hamstring, both of them actually, then my senior, I put my hamstring again. And so from there, it's kind of decided to just leave track aside. My old goal was to go try to go pro that. And then I just kind of just trensitioned from track to sport. IMean, to weights because, IMean, it was kind of built in my blood since I was 14. So when they had just kind of started just working out. You know, it's funny because when people always say, no, I'm shawanally old track athlete says, I pulled my hamstring. When you say you pulled your hamstring, you tore the hamstring muscle. And that's really, so it's not like something you can get over in a week. You know, people think that, oh, you pulled your hamstring, you'll be better for next week. No big deal. Doesn't work like that, right? Oh, not at all, man. I was out. Each time I pulled my hamstring, I was at least out about six weeks. Wow. And having to do rehab and then once you came back, IMean, it was still that, that lingering pain was always there. So I was always having to wrap my leg up and, you know, I think you obviously handed my performance. So sure. Sure. But why do you think you got track athletes have such a propensity to pullinGHamstring because of the explosiveness of the sprinting itself? I think it's a combination of a lot of things that and also just overtrening as well. I feel like, you know, just the constant running and sprinting and, you know, push out of the blocks, you know, that explosive movement tends to, you know, that's where the hamstrings a lot to do on that. So I think it has a lot to do with dehydration, too. I think a lot of track athletes are walking around the hydrated, which makes the muscles much more likely to tear also. Yeah, I was saying it as well. I think even bodybuilders, I think a lot of bodybuilders are dehydrated too and they tren at the gym. I just don't think they get enough electrolytes. I think a lot of bodybuilders are afraid to sodium and they just don't consume enough. And when you don't have enough sodium, it's hard to hold on to fluids in your body. Yeah, absolutely. Especially when it's hot out, you know, when you guys go, track athletes in the warm weather, you're always drinking the gatorades and something that's to try to keep the electrolytes as well as the fluid in your body. Yeah, absolutely. IMean, I'm with the school of the week down the tech. So it was always hot in the humidity, it was terrible there. But IMean, we try everything that we could decide to try to stay behind the hydrated blood. It always worked that way. Yeah. And you competed in 14, 15, you took, I think you said you took 15 off because you got married and you had to get some kids. Let's talk about that in a minute. 16, 17, you competed. This year, you won the NPC city limits overall title. And then you decided, hey, I'm going to do the USM ready for this. Did you know going into the season that this was going to be the year you were going to try with your pro-park? It's not at all, man. IMean, to go on this competing and bodybuilding, IMean, it was kind of like a hobby at first. And then, you know, this kind of just trensitions, something I started to take serious, I would say this year. The plan was just to go to the city limits, you know, place top five or whatever, and you know, I end up winning overall. And right after the show, my coach would say, well, you want to pick a stab at USA, and I'm like, sure, why not? So, you know, it took like a week or two off and then we start to prep for that and, you know, turn pro? Yeah, and that's not a light decision to take, because when you know, it's not cheap to do these big shows. I was talking about the other day. It's 325 bucks, you know, for the application fee, you got to get a hotel, you got to get an airplane, flight, you got to, you know, pay for rides and rent the cars and food. So, it's a big investment financially to go to and you being a financial guy, you should know, it's a big investment financially. You had to believe that you were, you had a good shot. But did you ever imagine in your wildest dreams that you would walk away with an IFBB pro card? No, actually, I would say, towards the end of my prep, you know, my coach, IMean, can be my coach use, IMean, you know, we can actually win this thing, but I'm thinking, you're saying that because you're my coach. But I'm sorry. But after, you know, I started getting a lot of feedback from other people and, you know, my confidence kind of build a little bit more and, you know, you know, I really, this last prep, I really took it seriously. IMean, the final fact, final fact, the cardio sessions and, you know, the gym and the eating and I really took it seriously. So once I got to the show, saw, you know, you kind of peaking, look at the other competitors and, you know, I started my confidence even more because I felt like I had it. So I was really good to build myself at doing a show. Yeah, that's a great, it's always feels great when you go there and you feel like, hey, you know, what I belonGHere, I got a good shot at winning this and then you actually do. Now, here's a good question. I always ask everyone who I talked to you know, before the show, when I'm in the pre-interview, I say, hey, you know, is there any obstacles that you've overcome or a lot of, you know, hardships that actually get to where you are? You actually set me right back to reality and you were 100% right. You're like, man, it's hard having kids at a full-time job. You got twins, you know, I have one kid at a time, I have two kids, but I had one at a time. You do it the same time. That's a tough, anyone who doesn't have kids, that's a real tough thing to do. Plus have a full-time job, plus tren for a show. How do you do that? How do you make the time and manage your schedule so that you can get all this done? I got a good support team. My wife, IMean, I have to say this, but she pretty much allowed me to do a show. IMean, without her. Without her, you know, taking the extra time to prep my meals, you know, she's having the wash of kids while I'm at the gym. You know, weren't going to work early, getting off early, sometimes, just to kind of, you know, pick up the kids and while picking them up, eating my meals, at the gas station or something. So it was, it was hectic, I would say, but, you know, it paid off. Plus, when people don't realize them, and I didn't know they see them, that's probably why I didn't have kids for so long. You don't really sleep very much. My days of eight, nine hours, you know, nights of rest have been terminated permanently. I'm lucky that I geT4 hours of night. I sleep. I'm sure you're experiencing something similar. Yeah, especially, well, now my kids, they're actually, they turn two on the 29. So we got them to the point where they, they've pretty much sleep to the night. Oh, they're lucky. Yeah, so my son still went up to two and a half, you know. Yeah. So yeah, we got them there, but that's probably like, Naped to in the day. That's, that's, I can't do that at all. So that'll speak to them. Throne, when's going to be the pro-day view next year? So, um, to be honest, IMean, we, we've thrown some dates out there, but nothing's really stuck. So, we looked at the Omaha, we looked at the Tampa Pro. So, it's probably going to be out of those two depending on how I feel and what I look like. I don't know. Well, congratulations on the pro-card, congratulations on your two children. The great job and that sounds like everything's in order and we'll look forward to seeing you on that protest next year. Yeah, I'm excited to go and we're going to bring you that time. We're going to bring it to the show. Anyone you want to thank? Before we go? Yeah, um, you know, I want to thank my coach, Steven Mass. This guy has really helped me and he believed to be what I didn't. So, I feel like he's the secret soft to the whole formula. Right? Uh, then my closing coach, Miss Sheila Brown, uh, she goes about flexi Brown. She's the best. She's the best. She's the best. She, she helped me out with my posing. So, uh, those two, that's my dream team. All right, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with Broughty by SpeciesDutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: DETOXIFICATION FOR BODYBUILDERS： The Complete Guide! ｜ GuruTalk w⧸Anthony DiPasquale & Dave Palumbo [8bXGBEG6DYQ].txt ===

Old School body building clothing company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. My name is Talimini and I am the CEO and founder of Ulysses. The protein, bakery with low sugar, ketogenic and high protein in each and every item. I specialize in making brownies, cookies and cupcakes. As of 2021, we will have the variety of traditional, gluten-free and protein to choose from a every product. Come check us out at www.Ulyssesbaitr.com. And then check us out on our donation by the word, all proceedings will go to the wheelchair body building community with your order. Thank you for checking us out. Take care. Welcome back to Guru Talk on Dave Palombeau and we are joined today by Populous the Man He's Back. Anthony D. Pascuali. Welcome back to the show. Thank you so much, man. Always good to talk to you. Yeah, now we had a really good, we received a really good reception to the last Guru Talk we did, which we talked about, alternative cancer therapies, immune system enhancement, people really liked it. You and I always would go back and forth about detoxification. I know you're big into that, that's something I'm really big into. I believe that unless you can detoxify your body properly, your body's first priority is not going to be to build and repair muscle and to burn fat. And obviously if you want to be healthy and have good blood work come back with liver function that's good and kidney function that's good, you have to do your detoxification. And that's just once a year but on a daily basis. In that light, I wanted to go to you and I wanted to get your insights on detoxification. I can give you mine and maybe we can somehow make them combine somehow. Yeah, it's such a massive topic, you know. And it's sort of like, you know, if you think of a vacuum clener, the old ones with the bags and it like, if the bags threEQuarters full, it's still going to work. Sure. That will. And so it's really, you know, the benefits of detox are pretty immediate. And, you know, my introduction to it and you and I, I think we're both kind of hard for guys, like, you don't like, push you around. No. So I was like 23, 24 and I got to hold this book by Bernard Jensen and it showed pictures of like, bird rubber tires coming out of people's asses. I was like, oh my god, I don't know if anything's like that in me, but if it is, I want it out. And IMean, I like within like a month or something, I did an eight day fast. So in our judge in St. do seven days, drink silly and all day have some play. Right. Have a couple of vitamins. And, you know, the first, when someone starts to detox, they're going to lose a lot of weight. So I think a lot of the marketing of detox is like, you're going to weigh lots of tremendous. Trim into his off your waist and blah, blah, blah, I lost 18 pounds in eight days. Wow. IMean, kind of supposedly metric, but everybody's pounds up here. And this guy came up to me and worked because I was working at the time, IMean, I worked six out of those eight days. He's like, dude, you know, between you and me and people are saying you got AIDS or I said, no, I just stopped eating. And by the way, I was working in a kitchen. Oh, my god. I was eatinGHalf a beat and half a glass of apple juice. Now, the bottom line on the seventh day, I gave birth to like an exploded bicycle I was like, holy shit, these pictures are true, right? Yeah. So that's extreme like eight days, colonics being done twice a day, which is like a water tube up your PIPe. Yeah. Now, there's, you know, it's, we don't want everyone to jump off the deep end if they feel like, well, I don't know if I can swim or not. So a nice maintenance that I like to do is, is I do a modified fast one day week. And it really, you know, clensing, you can talk about clensing the colon, trying to talk about clensing the liver, clensing the kidneys, clensing, clensing the blood. But clensing also happens on a cellular level and there's lots of evidence for that. And it kind of happens when you give the body another priority. So when your body doesn't have to digest food, which takes so much energy to digest and absorb and assimilate and process. So if we don't have to do that, then the body's like, oh, now I'm going to not opportunity to clen house a little bit, right? Correct. And I find it's made of tremendous difference. You need to spend, I was 24 and I'm 52, so that's like 27 years. I guess, 26, 27 years. That's amazing. It's such a young age. A lot of people don't really get into it till they're older when they have problems. And you kind of start doing it when you're actually younger, which is going to prevent you. It's never too late. You make a great point. You know, a lot of people wait till, you know, until they hit the wall. But this been a wonderful, upkeep for me. And I kind of feel it in my body. Like every wake up yourself and you're just like not interested in food. You're like, oh, man, I don't know if I feel like eating anything. So that's your body kind of, I think your body's telling you, like, hey, can you fast? There you go. Right. I read a book. I read a book called clen. I don't know if you have read the book. And this, without going into the whole, the book, the book basically says, look, you know, fasting is good, but it's not necessary to do everything in a week. If you spread it over three weeks and just fast for, say, 12 or 14 hours a day, and each smaller meals, obviously, meals that are not high in toxins and stuff like that easily digestible meals, lower protein, you're going to give your digestive system the same rest. It's just going to take longer. In other words, so for body builders, I recommend I give out a free Three week detox that I think works more efficiently because like you said, you lost 18 pounds because you have a fast metabolism, you tren, you know, your busy guy. It's probably too extreme for athletes to do that, I think. And I think it's better if you can do it over a longer period of time, but still get the same results out of it. And that's what I find that people, I cut out caffeine, I cut people's dairy out, I cut alcohol, I have to be, you know, gluten free, just, you know, really clen, easily digestible sources of protein, some carbs, obviously, the clen carbs, no sugars, and then of course, a little bit of fats, you know, but, you know, like, build like olive oil or macadamina oil tech stuff. And people get really good results the first week, they get, you know, you get to, like, fog because as your body is releasing toxins and then after that, you clear up and your eyes get really bright white and, you know, it just gives your body, like you said, an ability to clen house and I give this people this analogy. I'm always working, I never have time to catch up on all the little housekeeping things that I need to do. I said, if I only had a vacation, if I only had a week right, and if nothing else, I would be caught up. And that's really what you're giving your body, you're giving your body a vacation from digesting food and doing, going to work, so to speak, so that they can clen the interior of the body. And that's, that's important, we know that. And it's kind of subjective. IMean, everyone has their favorites, but I did subsequently, I did a 10 day, 12 day, 14 day, fast and the most ever loss was five pounds. So the more toxic somebody is, the more weight they're going to lose, I never detox before, it was 24. So I lost so much, but like seriously, when if I detoxed one day, and I like to do a more hard course style, what you're talking about is definitely effective. And you know, another golden thing about it is that is the person going to do it. If the person has turned off by something extreme, give them something more moderate, they're still going to get benefit from it. But I really think that one day, and on a cellular level, there's research by this term related group of researchers, when WEDT, and they found on a cellular level that the cells were more permeable. The human body cells were more permeable. So proteins could get into the cell more easily. And toxins could lead the cell more easily. So on a micro level, they found that fasting was beneficial for the body now. Hard core fast is like a dry fast, which I would never do so. No water, no fluid, no nothing. That's crazy. I always do a lot of water and a little bit of salt, because sodium is the most important to your actual life. And I'll have some fruits and veggies, but there's raw fruits and veggies, if you chew them, they digest themselves. They're full of enzymes already. So that would be like the most extreme detox. It's going to be like watermelons fast. I've seen people do. That would be amazing. Yeah, watermelon trius is super clensing for the urinary tract, the kidneys, and parsley. So as celery also is well. So you can kind of take it like apples, kind of helps clen your valve ladders, so you can kind of look up with different raw foods. But you can't go wrong with just a raw day, so you eat like a rabbit. Really interesting research, there's a muscle guy. And I can say muscle like because I always aspire to be a muscle has been a muscle head. So this muscle headed the gym, and he's like, no man, I'm not going to fast because you know I'm going to lose muscle about not cool with that. And I sent him a study where they had people fasting every other day on just water for a month. They did not lose muscle. Because you might lose muscle on that water day around that fasting day. But you're going to gain it back every bit of it the next day, because your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone on goes through the roof and you're starving. Or even if you don't need a few apples, you're going to almost still be able to do it. So it's this kind of balance where I like to eat heavy because you've got a lot of muscle to maintain. I eat really heavy and that's kind of the last things that I want. So it's good to eat light. And like you said, even if you cycle back for a week or two, still eat your protein and carbs, just cycle it back and don't have dairy, which is notoriously congesting, don't have bleeds. All right. Okay. Well, I just wrote the book on Plensing the Coling Paper and your colonel. We have to work together. Right. So that's your time makes a lot of sense. You know, cycle back on the heavy stuff. And one of the most important things a lot of people don't realize is when you're clensing and detoxifying, you need a really good, silly and base fiber. Because that binds up all those toxins that your body's dumping into the colon and into the intestinal tract because if you don't bind them up and pull them out of the body, you can re-absorb them into the bloodstream. And that was one of the premises of this book, a clen, you must take a fiber supplement. That's why I get people on my fiber-lice twice a day, product. It works amazing. It tastes good and you know what? It does the job. And I tell people, beware, you're going to have weird, weird bowel movements that, especially the first week. And people, I don't think they're ever ready for it until they actually do it and then they're like, oh my God. I cannot believe what came out of me. What did I just give birth to? Yeah. It just, it looks weird. It's like stuff they'd never seen before, you know? You make such a hugely important point. You gotta be pooping when you're fasting. You gotta be. Because, you know, the liver and the gallbladder are going to collect toxins and they're going to shoot them into the small intestine. And then the intestines job is to absorb. So if you have fiber there, the fiber is going to help to bind these toxins, whether they be heavy metals, pesticides and their metabolites, classed asvisors and their metabolites. So fiber administratively does help to, and then to bind them and then pass them out of the body. Clay is also good for that. It's like something that can throw in there. Sure. They call them dirty-tours, right? People who take part in charcoal is also good. People who use the way that night Clay is not, they call them dirty-tours, right? Oh, dirty-tours. Yeah, yeah. You got to learn from the kids in the playground, right? You got to learn from them. So on that, we're not a Jensen program. I was eating a lot of clay and I've done it ever since. Usually, if I'm having a fasting day, I'll consume some clay. I play as an entire... Yeah, yeah, sorry about that. Oh, no. I think we have a little connection problem. Oh, really? I read the song, but I think I read it in life extension magazine about clay. And I bought this big thing of like... It was dirt, basically. And you mix it into water and drink it down. And it was literally... It was like I was taking dirt from outside and mixing it and drinking that. I don't know how I went through like three weeks on this stuff. And I don't know if it did anything, but I definitely had very interesting bowel movements on Tony that much. So, that clay is so detoxing because it pulls it dry. So it actually sucks toxins out of your body. Let me ask you a question, because you know what? I did a at home heavy metal test because I was convinced that I was marked high mercury because I used to eat a ton of sushi back in the day. And you hear mercury, tuna, all this stuff. And so I test my heavy metals. I send it off in the mail and it comes back high for lead. So I'm like, now I'm like freaking out. I'm like, I can't hide. I'm like, I left levels from. I'm thinking, you know, maybe it was on I lived in New York and I we worked in this industrial center and maybe it was... I know that it was dust in the air and I'm starting to think it crazy about it. So I go and get a blood test locally and my lead comes back normal. Okay. Because I think when some of those you send these home tests in, they don't work quite that well and the blood the grades and contaminants can get in there and then not that. So, you're in test or blood test? It's a blood test. I had to like bleed my thing around to one of these little white cars and stuff like that. Did you do a challenge? Because there's something I think is called DMSA. So that sucks metals out of your tissues and then you tend to test. Hi. I didn't do that. All I know is I poke my finger and I had to put blood splashes on this paper and then you send it off. Now, when I went to thEQuest I knew I was like, they took blood from my arm and they tested it. So it came back and said, you're lead free just like gasoline. That's right. I'm lead free. I'm lead. Now, for people who do have high mercury or high lead or something, what are you running? Glad you brought this up because I like to proactive the take things that suck heavy metals out of the body. So, I'll gin a gas. Elgina gas it is really good. High content of that in many cv. So, I a lot of cv doesn't matter. Clarella is like a heavy hitter for getting rid of heavy metal. Why didn't know that really? Clarella, huh? Much more so than spirulina. It has that unique property of helping full heavy metals out of the body. How much have to take? I have no idea how much you have to take. I do have about five, 10 grams a day when I think about it. But a really interesting study I saw to, um, lack-taining women and measure the level of pesticides in their breast milk. Right. And once they were put on Clarella had less pesticide residues. Quite a bit less residues of pesticides after being put on Clarella. Wow. What do you think about it? What do you think about EDTA under the tongue, subling wooing? I think EDTA is cool. It's not my super favorite thing in the world because EDTA has got a lot of evidence that it pulls heavy metals out. But it doesn't give you any other goodness, right? Where Clarella gives you a lot of full team around event, he oxenents, um, so there's goodness in it. And then in terms of like, you know, EDTA is a late addition to humanintake, where clay, humans are bleeding, Clay, if you're millennia, like, all around the world. They're like, oh, my tummy doesn't feel right. I need some clay. But native people didn't around the world. Okay. And I saw one study with rats where they raised two generations of rats on a diet of 25% clay, 75% you know, rats out. And these two generations of rats were fine. There was no problem in their birth weight and their longevity and anything. Right? So, IMean, that's a heck of a lot of clay. Yeah. So I'd say so. It's more proven. So EDTA is cool. If somebody really had this issue heavy heavy metal, but you know, on a full and too fast, because then you can create a toxic environment, because they're kind of like sequestered in the body. So if you suck them out too quickly, then you can get too much in the bloodstream, and you can kind of like retoxify yourself. So I would go slow, where I think things like clay, chloralicy, we, they're long term. And I like your original thought about the detoxing more longer term, more gentle. Yeah. I think for sure for heavy metals that's safer. Yeah. And doing it. But if somebody's got like, you know, life threatening, um, part of me, heavy metal toxicity, it's even accepted in medicine, just give them an ETA drip. It's like acceptable in modern medicines. That would they do? Is that what they do? The pull it out quickly. That is, is the modern medicine, ETA is not okay for clensing your arteries, but that seems to be also what ETA can do is suck plaque on the arteries. Right. Well, it could definitely pull calcium out. It would pull calcium, I imagine out of the arteries, right? Yeah. Yeah. It might be part of the mechanism, but yeah, people just get clened up from well, but when there's no less of this to that, I wonder why we don't see more to ETA, um, Qation therapy out there, you know, I haven't seen this sublingual stuff, but I have seen subsidiary stuff, but I guess either way, I have some sublingual stuff that someone had recommended to me to use and I'll use it. I don't use it continuously. I'll use it like for a couple days in a row, maybe once a month, like you said, kind of as a gradual, just in case type of thing, because they're all getting some kind of heavy metals from somewhere, like I was reading a lot of under-on biodorants have thawly on them in there and speaking of detox, you know, let's try not to add toxins to our life, as as an under-on biodorant, I just take zinc powder from the pharmacy, like pure zinc oxide out it. I even made a YouTube video about it. It works amazing. Oh, really? The natural shit the odourant, it never works for me, man. But the zinc stuff works, and then if you absorb something, who cares? It's good for you, right? Right. I'm using some of the natural, I forget the name of what it's called now. I used to be called primal pit paste, that's just a decal. They sell it on Amazon. It's pretty expensive, but you know what it works. I don't smell from it. If it's that cold, it would've been good. Whatever, so. That's cool. So you don't have the guisha armpits that I get. No, but if if I stuck, I believe I'd go back to the real stuff, but you know what, I don't really do anything that makes me sweat that much anymore. It's not like I could just jam like squatting 600 pounds anymore, so that would only that. You know what? I thought I was down that when I went off the antibiotics, I stopped my sweat, doesn't smell as bad, you know. As when I was 300 pounds, your body's, your body's clener, right? And then if you do decal, that's a nice side effect of decal. You'll smell sweeter, like your be-oh, will be sweeter. Like it's just, but you're like, you're a greasy Italian. I bet if you eat a garlic meal, you probably smell for three days of garlic, right? Oh my god. I love garlic so much. And IMiss it so much I never eat it because I'm a trener too, man. I can't speak like a garlic and be standing beside you. If I eat something that might even have a trace of garlic, my wife's like, oh, what did you eat? IMean, it could be like a minuscule because it's not my pores. It's like unbelievable. But that's a good sign, you know, your panels are open. That's a good sign. Yeah, yeah, Italian's detoxion to skin. No doubt about it. All right, well, I want to ask you about colonics because you know, I did a colonic once. And I never did it again after that. And I was very uncomfortable for me. Yeah, some stuff came out and everything like that. But I found that I felt like it was wiping out my good probiotic bacteria that are growing in my colon and I just didn't conceptually think it was a good way to detox. I was just laughing because I was saying today's a fire hose or something. I went to the open one where you know, it did not really, where you kind of let it out yourself. It's like a little thing. All right, that shoots up there. You fill up and then you kind of just do it yourself. Because I didn't want anyone in the room with me sucking stuff out of my body. It's just like, I couldn't do it, you know. I don't know after reading Jensen's book, Bernard Jensen, I was like, you know, these exploded bicycle tires. I got to try this out. So I bought my old plan for. Oh, really? And I still do them to this day, maybe once a season, but I did it once a week for a whole year. I don't know. I found that my gut always worked really well whether I was doing it or not doing them. And so, you know, your appendix is kind of like a little depol for probiotics. So even if you use a lot of them from the Holy Ghost. I don't have an appendix that was taken out of 17. So, okay. And you got to take the probiotics yourself. Yeah, I got to take my own. So, but you know, I think that if you do, I tell people this all the time. You know, I take my five or supplement religiously two times a day, every single day. I try to fast 10 to 12 hours every day. I eat my meals within a window. And I feel like not a regular basis. I'm pretty detoxed all the time already. So, I don't have to do anything extreme anymore. I think it's the people who haven't detoxed ever or, you know, have a lot of big gut or feel like they're just backed up and they're health doesn't feel that good. They have low energy. Those people need a major detox probably. It's a good passive detox as well. And it depends on the situation. I have one client and he's like, dude, he trened anyway because he's such a trooper. He's like, I've had this headache for like three days, man. Right. I'm trying getting a colonic. So he went to a colonic place. He said his headache was like just vanished. He just talked his life out of a bone. So it sounds like a gross topic, but it really is very important. And I owe, and I said, this is going to be an ailment. I'm going to finish up the interview by rehashing this. Your body will not prioritize building muscle repairing muscle tissue, burning body fat at optimal levels if you are toxic. It's not a priority to your body. So if you want to be the best body building, building muscle and then getting ready for competitions by burning the most fat, the most efficiently detox your body, that's the best advice I can give anyone. And I assume that you probably can second that. I totally see that man. And maybe if we can do another talk at some point, we talk about more specific detoxing. Like detoxing the skin, the liver, the kidney. And what the different effects of that would be. But the more tough, the more you're talking about, you know, once the body starts cleninGHealth a little bit, it's going to help all of those areas anyway. And if you haven't specifically targeted it. Yeah, I think a lot of people have bad acne. I'd love to target how we can clen clense the skin and get all those toxins out to the skin. Because really acne is, you know, it's bacteria in the pores, basically, that are feeding off of the toxins that are coming out of your body. Right? IMean, that's what seed them is, right? And people don't realize that. You know, when I went to the dermatologist as a kid, he told me you could eat whatever you want. Chocolate, sugar, that's all dairy. It's all bullshit. It doesn't make you break out anymore. But I knew by experimentation that if I was eating a lot of sugar or I was having dairy, I was breaking out worse. I just knew it. So he could tell me you only want that he just wanted to put me on those creams that did nothing or antibiotics that did nothing. And that's how they trened them, right? That's how the doctors are trened. Yeah. It's the intervention that works, not the lifestyle. Like that's how they trened them. They don't want preventative medicine. They only want to treat symptoms. That's unfortunately the way it is. In medicine, and that's one of the reasons I didn't go into medicine and I pulled out at the last minute. But thank you, Anthony, for joining us again today. We're going to do part two on detoxification, possibly next week of the week after. And give us some plugs. How could people get in touch with you? Anthony, eeposwally.com. And everything's there. My email, my cell number, everything's there. Excellent. Thank you for joining us. Have a great day. I'll see you back for part two. All right. Enjoy sunny Florida. Are you lucky guy? Absolutely. Guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Gooroo Talk. I'm Dave Palumba with Anthony Deeposwally. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: DJCBikiniCallOuts.flv [2LFlq03ZksY].txt ===

F Para trebeci eg randomly, Tu trebein Bour painoss

=== FILE: DJCBikiniWalks.flv [f5pFa-5lSMM].txt ===

프리да을 ... And as vigorous cast, And by adjutant, She comeseh vildar- As тorn引ame, Salousella, longelekend props Kwonetana, meanwhileureaджiron, Xia

=== FILE: DJCFigureCallout.flv [NjOgtb4H7Jo].txt ===

Delché get excusedeeeeeeá Elත Alka bayCoulder-lasaintare achieving the 오� 언니 음� нам cathedral. Tanthal-Ganingumi Sergianumusah thima解 kar apouratumna닝

=== FILE: DJCMensCallout.flv [HCg46tp9aiw].txt ===



=== FILE: DJCRay.flv [I7gPVFKYD3Q].txt ===



=== FILE: DJCValentino.flv [cbnMY1JjwGI].txt ===



=== FILE: DOES ANYONE WANT TO WORK ANYMORE？ [8mXPYQ4gmyY].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, stows from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle rant. I know you don't like some of you love when I pitch complaints. Some of you don't, but I gotta just tell you this because it's irking me. It's on my chest and it's really bothering me. I have a high-speed fiber connection in my office here, in my studio. For both RX muscle and Species Nutrition, I spent a lot of money on a business line to my house because at the time there was no high-speed internet available here. In the neighborhood. So I got sent to E-Link, which is the local cable company here, to run a business line to my warehouse. I have a separate building on my property and they provide me with service. It's high-speed service. Not as high-speed as I would like, but it's a business line. I have a dedicated line just to me if anything breaks. They come and fix it supposedly. That doesn't always work as a player. I pay way too much money for it because they had a run-align and no one else had it here. I ride it off the business, whatever. I'm always fighting with them over the price because it's been over three years and it's supposed to adjust the price. That has nothing to do with anything though. So I got this line in here. I also hired a separate firm called ProTech. They're local here in Cape Coral. You can go look them up. ProTech computer guys, okay, IT guys, came over here and it's funny because my wife knew the owner of the company's guy Mike. They came over here and they installed a server for me. They've got my server working for my business so we can do quick books and all that other cool stuff. They ran a line from my business building to my house, which is about 250 feet away. We had a dig a trench. We had to put a conduit in there, like a PIPe. They ran this high-speed fiber line. They had to run an actual fiber line from my building to my house because it's such a long run that if you just use an Ethernet cord, it'll lose signal. You would see one by time the thing gets to the house, it's too far away and you won't have any speed left. So I did everything the right way. I spent a lot of money on this thing. This company came out, they ran everything, they rigged up everything, all the Wi-Fi signals in my house. They stopped working the other day. So I called them up and I said, I can't get these people on the phone. I call I leave 600 messages. I call essentially a link. I have a dedicated guy, to my case. I have a business guy, a business liaison over there. This guy won't call me back. I get him on the phone. I have to trick him. I have to call him from different numbers. This guy apologized to me. He never calls me back. This guy. Because he doesn't want to reduce my rate. That's another thing. It's another whole thing. I can't get... So I call ProTech. They won't come back and fix anything. They say, sorry, we're going to take more customers. I'm like, I'm an existing customer. I'll pay for it. Whatever you want to charge me. Because I'm desperate at this point. I need internet in my house. Because my kids can't watch that. They're iPads. God's been, my wife does a lot of her work at night while the kids are sleeping. She can't come over to the office. We can't function. So it's not even a money thing. I'll pay anything to get this fiber line fixed. But I've had electricians here. They don't know anything about electricians. They don't know anything about fiber. At least the ones around here don't. They're like, wow, I've been doing this for 45 years. But we don't know fiber. I'm like, can you test the line? At least tell me if there's a signal coming into my house? Oh, we don't have that kind of. But we could test volts. But we can't test fiber. I'm like, who can? They're like, century. Like, I can't get them to come over here. They're like, well, who put this in? I said, I can't get them to come over here either. It's funny because these ProTech guys were really dependable, nice guys. They did a good job. And now they're customer service sucks. I would not recommend them to fit to anyone. Anyone who's thinking about losing the cable area is thinking of trying to use ProTech, stay away from them. Bad news, bad business. They don't get to your calls. They don't call you back. They obviously don't care. They obviously have big time customers. And you know what will happen. They'll lose those. And then they'll be begging for people to come. So I would not give them my business now. Even if they came in and said, hey, we'll come fix the line. I don't want them here in my house. Because I don't want people. I've never seen anything like it. I'll tell you one thing. I love Florida. But there's nothing like New York. People love to work there. They want to make money. You need something done. You call them up. People come and they fix it. Because you know why they want to make money? They go get us here in Florida. You should see what I went through to try to get people to cut my lawn. I have a great guy pulling out of his lawn. I have nothing. I have nothing to say. But it took me a long time to find him. I had guys quit not me and saying they wouldn't come back. I can't get anyone to put a fence up. I think I finally found a fence person. I got five people come out here and look at fences and then they never came back. I can't get in touch with them. I don't know why anyone wants to work. I still don't have anything in my house. I think I finally threw what the best way to find people to do work is to put it online. My wife put a post online and the neighborhood here. Someone told us that there's a company that actually supplies the fiber lines for a century length. Essentially, buy his fiber from them. I call them up and I think they're sending someone over. The next couple of days to take a look at it and hopefully repair my wife. Find out if that's even the problem. I've never in my life and I'm 52 years old. I've owned my own house since 1997. In all my years, I've never found such a difficult time finding people to come fix things and do things to make money. It's not like I'm asking anyone to do it for free. I'm willing to pay for it. I'm way even dollars that no one's coming. It's amazing. I'm easy to do work for. Just come to the work I'll pay it. I don't make people wait for their money. It's just it's weird, weird phenomenon. I don't know, maybe it's a society in general. I think it's just down here in Florida. I really do. I think people don't care about working. They just like, uh, so warm down here. I just wanted to sit outside and just sign up and write my bike. I don't know. I don't know. I'm very disappointed in ProTech, however, and I would boycott their business. Okay. If anyone out there is listening, it's in the area. Do not call them. Bad business. Okay. That's just not cool. You do a job or someone you don't come back and service it. I've never heard of anything in my life. In my life, I've never anything. All right. So I'm bitchy complaininGHere to take home messages guys if you're going to start your own business. It's about servicing people. You give good service to people. Okay. They will hire you and tell all their friends about you. I'm the best recommender of all time. That's Dr. Blout, my plastic surgeon. He did my gynecromantic surgery in 1991. I've sent thousands of people to this guy. Him and I are like father and son now. IMean, that's how close to where I'm because of the loyalty there. And it's because, you know, if you do good work, I'll be the first guy to advocate everyone. I don't know why anyone would want to have the business and not have good referrals. If I get someone in shape, they refer to people to me. Of their friends, for me to get them in shape. That's how it works. Do good service for people. Return their phone calls. Even if you can't do work for them, be polite. Okay. Like Aaron T, you will be successful in this world because there's a lot of lazy people out there. And there's a lot of people who have very poor customer service. They can't talk to other people that have poor communicators. That's the, if you're in that category, don't go into business because you will fail. But if you're in the other side of the coin where you're actually a good at servicing people, you're nice and kind to people whether they're nasty or in their bad mood or not. Remember the customer's always right. You will do very well. You will make a lot of money and you will get tons and tons of return business. I promise you that. I'm Dave Poulombo with an RX muscle rant.

=== FILE: DRYING OUT FOR COMPETITION! #RXRants [5WX9tKJQ86g].txt ===

Day of Falombo with another RX muscle rant brought to you by RedCon1. Today's topic, Dioretics. It's that time of year guys, everyone's getting up on stage. They're doing shows and that means there's a lot of dioretic usage, what are dioretics, or drugs that force the body somehow to lose water. And that's really what we want to do with the very, very end of contest dive. We want to dry out. We want to make those muscles look so hard and vibrate in the best way to do that. It's the pull water out from under the skin. So there's always a layer of what we call subqtaneous water that sits between the skin and the muscles. And it's always there. You can never get rid of all of it. But we try to get rid of as much as possible so that the skin is almost like shrink wrapped to the muscles. So you can see all the definition. The problem is if you start pulling too much water out of the body, there's no water left under the skin. So you start pulling water out from inside the muscle. And what that does is that deflates the muscle and the muscle goes flat. And you hear that people say, oh, the guy was flat on stage. Or his muscles were unpopping or his skin was loose. And that's usually because the muscles are dehydrated. So there's a good right way and there's a wrong way to dehydrate yourself and use dioretics. And there's certain dioretics that you should use and shouldn't use. Now to a certain degree, all dioretics will work. But thEQuestion is, why would you want to use certain dioretics over certain other ones? And once again, I'm a scientist at heart. So what I like to do is break down the science of how things work. And then make an informed decision on what the best route to take is to accomplish the gold that you want. And in this case, it's to get that very dry looking skin, but keep the muscles full. So think about it right off the bat. If you want to keep the muscles fuller. The less dioretic you take and for the, I guess you could say, the shorter duration, the better off you are because ultimately the first word comes from onto the skin. Then the long year on dioretics or the more that you're using. Okay, now now it starts pulling from the muscles. So right off the bat, I only used dioretics the last day before the show. And then the day of the show is necessary. Never use it anytime before that because if you, the longer you're using, remember, the flat of the muscles are going to go. That's just the way it is. And the longer you use them, the more the body kind of catches on to what you're doing. And starts resisting what you do. I can't tell you how many guys I've seen who start dioretics sometimes like a week half five days after the show. By three or four days out they look at, they can, they can, they can win the Mr. Olympic contest. And then by the day, the time show time comes around that their flat is a pancake and they don't look at anymore. So one day I used dioretics. ThEQuestion is which dioretics, really, and we're not really going over the last week of the contest, but we're going over dioretics. So what dioretics are the best and why? Well, you know, one of the dioretics, a lot of people bring up, you know, the use and claim that it's a mild dioretic and it's, it's great to use is outdactone. And what outdactone does is it inhibits a hormone in the body known as aldosterone. El nostrons produce from the adrenal glands and it's job is to regulate sodium balance in the body. So the higher the amount of aldosterone in your body, the more sodium and water you retain. Okay, if you restricts, let's say you stop eating salt in your diet, which some people do on their diet, which is ridiculous. The last salt that's in your body, the higher the aldosterone levels will be because as your body depletes sodium, your adrenal glands release, el nostorone to help re-absorb sodium. It's basically telling the body, you know, hey, we need more sodium in here. So if you restrict salt for a long period of time before a show, you're going to have a lot of aldosterone around, which means it's going to be very hard to get rid of water because aldosterone wants to store water. So what a lot of people do is then they'll take aldactone, which inhibits aldosterone from working. Okay, which sounds like a good plan on paper, right? Hey, just block this stupid hormone and then we'll get rid of water. And aldactone happens to be potassium sparing, which means you don't lose potassium when you're taking aldactone, you only lose sodium. So it sounds like a good idea. The problem arises that if you do too much of this stuff, because you always got to look at not just how things work, but what if something goes wrong, how do you solve the problem? Because if you can't solve a problem when things go wrong, you're screwed, right? So aldactone inhibits aldosterone. The problem is that toward the end, the show day comes around, you start cramping, what do you do? Normally, because you know that it's when you cramp on aldactone, it's got to be a sodium imbalance because you're not losing potassium. Most people would just start eating sodium. The problem is without aldactone, as you can't absorb it because you're inhibiting the hormonal dosterone. So that's not a good idea. Also, a lot of people start aldactone, like almost a week out, sometimes 10 days out, which I don't know where that came from. I know Bob Grushkin started that, but you know, it's interesting. aldactone has another use in medicine. They give it to women who are very angogenized, meaning that they have, they've been massized. I'm not talking about women that serve who are on animal oxalorids. Don't know about women who just have angogen problems. Some women produce too many angogens in their body. Whether it's polycysticic, what is it called? Polycystic ovary disease, or it just happens to be that they produce a lot of adrenal angogens, you know, because that's where women produce their hormonal, from they produce them from the adrenal glands. And they give women aldactone. And why do they do that because it acts as an anti-anrogen? And it starts acting like an anti-anrogen after 10 days of use. So if you use it less than that, it's not going to block the angogen use as far as from a body-going standpoint. But that's what it's given for. I don't know if people can use that 10 day in the pamphlet thing about, hey, you've got to take it more than 10 days. And then they figure, well, that means you have to use aldactone up to 10 days. I don't know where that came from. But to be honest, if I had to use the aldactone, it certainly wouldn't be for 10 days. Maybe it would be for one day, you know, once again. But I don't like it once again because it inhibits aldosterone from working. And therefore, something goes wrong at the end. And you start cramping because you're a duplit too much sodium. You can't restore the balance by eating salt because you've stifled your body's ability to absorb it. So I don't like aldactone. Second direct is that it's very popular. It's a few rows to minor laces. It's what we call loop diurettic. It's one of these things that it's like, it's like an atomic bomb. It just flushes everything out of your body really quickly. The problem is that it flushes sodium and potassium out. Now, upon first glance, that doesn't seem as just bad idea. The problem is once again, if you cramp on laces and you want to correct the problem, thEQuestion is, are you sodium depleted? Or are you potassium depleted? If you're only sodium depleted and you take potassium, you'll make it worse. And vice versa. So you don't really know what's going. It's too many variables to have to keep a count of when you take laces. Now, if I have a client who can't get anything else but laces, it seems to be a very readily available diuretic because the logic he will take for blood pressure issues. I have a laces, so 20 million laces one time is probably not going to cause any potassium depletion. But once again, don't like it because there's that unknown variability in there. The diuretic I do like is diaside. Diaside is a dual diuretic. It contains hydrochlorothiaside and triumthere. Hydrochlorothiaside act illness like laces, as it forces potassium and sodium out of the body. But triumthere actually causes you to retain potassium. When you combine these two drugs together, the combined effort is that you lose sodium but you don't lose any potassium. It balances it's what we call potassium sparing diuretic. The great thing about diaside is it's very predictable in how it works. You know precisely how much water you're going to lose, especially if you worked with it before. I said, and secondly, you don't lose any potassium. So if you're cramp while you're taking diaside, you just need salt. When you restore the sodium and potassium balance immediately. To me, that's a great diuretic used because of that safety. Now there's different names to diaside in other countries. There's diatide, it's cold, it believe overseas. Modureritic is another one that's very similar. It's a pretty comparable component. You can use any of these brands. Maxide is another brand of diaside as well. You're looking to compete in a show and you're looking for a diuretic. You really want to stick with some diaside-based diuretic. Dual diuretic has the hydrochlorophylliside with the triamterines. That's going to be the most predictable diuretic that you can use. If anything goes wrong, you need to have it corrected. How you put together the last week of fluid restriction and adding the diuretic in and how much to use, that's person-specific. I do a lot of last week's concepts, perhaps, of people. If you're confused about how to carve up and how to deplete water and take the right diuretic to have a time all that and you've never done it before, it might be a hoovey to go to datelumbar.com and sign up for my last week's contest prep for $100. Then just contact me and I can go over all this and walk you through the process. Sometimes better than screwing up a whole contest diatide. That's the reason I did this astate, which is, that's the reason I did this. The rant is because I see too many people making mistakes with diuretics and screwing themselves up at the 16 hard weeks of work. They're doing tons of laysticks and then they're wind up cramping and they went up in the hospital on an IV bag or they do too much out of that tone and flatten themselves out and they can't fix the problem. There is a right way to do things people and just because it worked once doing it the wrong way, it doesn't mean you should keep duplicating it that way because it could go wrong in the second time. This methodology I'm telling you is try and true and repeated and the science behind it and it's very predictable and that's what you want. You want to be able to control the variables of what's going on with your body that last few days before a competition and not have to worry. Hey, am I rolling the dice? Is this going to work out? Because that's not a very comforting thought and that's not conducive to getting the results and predictable results that you want to get every time you get on the stage, especially given how much money and time and dedication you put into this. Alright guys, I hope you enjoyed today's rant. If you did, make sure you subscribe, turn on notifications, hit like and all that other good stuff have a great show weekend. I'm Dave Plumbo with another RX muscle rant.

=== FILE: DWAYNE WALKER： NEXT BIG THING？ [9d1k8Awaphc].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, Muscle in the Morning. On day polumbo and today is Monday, July 10th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. As you get older, you start to recognize certain things about yourself. For me, one of those things I've learned is that with most of the stuff I do, less is more. I'm way more productive when I don't spread myself to thin. And if someone asked me to name one thing that I thought was the secret to dexter Jackson's longevity, the whole less is more would be right at the top of my list. You don't get to have a career that spans almosT3 decades without understandinGHow your body works, especially when you're 50 years old, because now we're talking about a completely different ball game. But this is what makes Dexter one of the greats. It's not just a town, it's the knowledge that comes along with the town. Less damage means more recovery and more recovery means more wins. So people can say whatever they want, but at the end of the day, they can't argue with his results. If you really sit down and think about it, isn't it crazy that people used to get weird diseases like scurvy? Because they didn't have enough vitamin C in their diet? But if you're a figurecompetitor in 2020, you almost have the opposite problem, because Sydney Gillins pretty much mega-dose in the entire division for the better part of the lasT3 years. With the Olympia being about 20 or so weeks away, this is usually the time when we see Sid start to kick things into high gear. This is when the intensity of your ratchet's up, and the next thing you know, she's turning on the afterburners trying to lap the field. And if history tells us anything, it's that once she starts to pull away, there's no one else in the division who can close the gap. Back in the day when we played pickup basketball, we would yell, I got next to let people know that we were ready to jump in after the next game. But for Duane Walker, I think placing top three at one of the deepest line up so the season was enough to let everyone embody, but let's know that he's ready for a takeover of the court. For a lot of people, what Duane did in Tampa was that one of the biggest surprises of the entire weekend, especially considering the fact that he was competing in the 2012 division last year. The guy checks all the boxes and what fans are looking for from the next generation of future stars. So now that everyone knows he's coming, it'll be fun to see how he responds to this spotlight. According to the law of supply and demand, when demand is high, so is the cost. As a business, it's your job to recognize and respond to the needs of the market. And over the last 12 months, you can make the argument that no one's responded to the demand of the market better than ESA-Passini. It's not just that she's navigator her way to the top of the division that makes this run so impressive. It's more about how she had to climb over the two multi-time world champions who are still in their prime to do it. Even with the demand for excellence being in an all-time high, ESA still managed to supply the goods, which is not an easy thing to do. She cornered the market in the division right now, and I have a hard time believing that she'd be ready to give up her competitive advantage anytime soon. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Dana Linn Bailey Posing Routine at 2012 IFBB Desert Muscle Classic [AEaWu9q_Mwk].txt ===

T T L Jesús C Isaiah All right, so I'm all fine, I can't see But all fine, I'm all fine, I'm all fine Baby, let's see, yeah, let's go, I'm all fine So I'm all fine, let's be I'm all fine, I'm all fine All right, yeah, let's go, I'm all fine So keep my heart safe So don't do it, baby I'm all fine, so keep my heart safe So don't do it, baby I'm all fine, I'm all fine So keep your heart safe So don't do it, baby I'm all fine, yeah, let's go, I'm all fine And so don't do it, baby I'm all fine, so keep my heart safe

=== FILE: Darielle Gaines Climbs Rock Wall [c48DVBhxbFo].txt ===

We are at the Tampa Bay Powerhouse gym and this is a new gym and I'll be going to you regularly and you can see there the stairs, that's the event speech stairs. In here we have the rock wall kind of like the concrete walk wall and Darial gains that she's going to show us and demonstrate the wall climb. Go ahead Darial, don't fall now. If you do I've got a captured here on video. They call her Darial Spider-Woman Gaines. Here she goes. Keep going, you could do it. Darial. All right, you want to try to go to the side? No. Don't fall. Don't hurt yourself. Oh. All right, come on down, you're scared of me now. This is after a monster chest workout people. It's not like she's fresh or anything. Good job. Take a bow. Very nice.

=== FILE: Dave Palumbo RIPS 'Lazy' Society [c4OTo8veHdc].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If leg day was yesterday and now you're wondering why toilets are so damn low, you are definitely old school. If you're the only athlete in your gym that knows there's a contest today and it's to see who trens the hardest. You are old school. Go S BBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Day Palombo here with another RX muscle rant. In today's world, things are changing very rapidly. The world as we know it is completely different than it was 10, 15, 20 years ago. And some people get depressed over and some people don't know how to deal with it. I get enraged at things that go on on a daily basis in my life. A lot of people ask me, hey Dave, how do you keep it all together? How do you say pause? How do you succeed in today's world as time evolves and as time goes on? How do you continue to re-invent yourself? I want to give you some examples. On a daily basis, I'm driven crazy. By some of the moronic stuff that goes on in this world, we order a bunk bed. Okay, for my son. I've talked about this before. We went to rooms to go and we found this bunk bed. My son was jumping all over. My kids were loving it. We bought the bunk bed. They said it'll be delivered the next day. I said, well, that's great service. Next day, the thing comes. They bring up 10 boxes and then they bring it out the final box. They open it up to carry this thing up my stairs. The one piece, the big piece, it has the staircase on it. It's scratched and it looked like someone threw it off the top of the truck. Okay, when they take it out of the box. They're going to bet they're bringing up my steps and I'm like, wow, guys, did you guys look at this thing? It's a rack. I thought, oh, who was this dude, dude? I said, what would you do if you bought this bunk bed and this is what came out of the truck? Would you take it? Oh, you should really, you know, they just too lazy. They wanted to just get the job over with. So I call up rooms to go and I'm like, you guys delivered a piece of the bunk bed. Then we gave them pictures. Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. All right, we'll get you another one. All right, when? It's going to be two weeks. Now you go and tell a five year old that is bunk bed that was supposed to be delivered when you got back from school is not going to be there now for two weeks because you guys know what the situation is. They go crazy, right? And I would go crazy too as a kid. I've told my son Logan, it's not coming. Two weeks later, the same week, two weeks from the Wednesday was supposed to be delivered, the truck arrives, okay? Guys, I hope you guys, oh, we inspected this in the warehouse. It's great. There's no box on this one piece that they're rediscovered. All the other pieces are still up in my son's room for now two weeks, luckily he didn't destroy them. And they take the plastic off of this thing. And of course it's all damaged again. Unlike guys, this is the second time. How do you, it's not even in the box. You're probably giving me the same piece I got last week and call him up again another two weeks. I said, look, this is ridiculous. I said, no, no, we're going to do inspections and every step in a way, it rooms to go. We're going to do it at the warehouse, the deliver. And a two weeks later, now we're on four weeks after the original purchase, the truck arrives, they take the box off. Look at this, it looks beautiful, right? It's been inspected. The last step, the woodlam, which I didn't even know was woodlam, is peeling off. Call him up. I said, look, my son's got to have this bunk bed. I said, you guys, bring it up, say I said it up, I said, you bring me back, you replace the part, whatever you want to bring back. Fine, that's your right. I'm sorry. Now the guys go to bring this one piece up the steps, they can't get it up my step. The thing must weigh 500 pounds. Or look, I can't weigh 500 pounds. They can't get it up my stairs. They're like, sorry, we can't be enough the steps. I said, so what are I going to sell my son? We just don't bunk bed. Okay, now I'm, I'm future theory. I'm ready to do video and put it up on Instagram and everything like that because of the incompetence level. But you know what, I said to myself, don't look, why are you going to get worked up? No one cares about anything anymore. There's no, no one takes workmanship, you know, appreciation, no one has pride in their work. People just want to get to job, but the fact is today, no one even wants to work anymore. And that is almost like a metaphor of our entire society now that we live in. However, you can't get down and get depressed about that because it has nothing to do with you. There's other people, lazy, just because other people don't handle merchandise properly or do customer service. Well, okay, because what I would have done is I want to say, look, I'm going to knock some money off this. I'm going to have it brought back to you the next day because I want you as my customer to be happy. Just like if someone complains about a tub of protein arriving crushed or not working properly or the wrong flavor, I tell him, you know what, keep it, I'm going to send you another one. Okay, because I'm going to send you two a matter of fact because I want you to be happy as my customer. I'm not going to treat my customer service like they did just because that's the way the rest of the world is operate. Here's another one, another one. I don't even know if anyone cares about anything in this, but you know what, this is my ran, I can say whatever I want. You don't have to listen. I had to get my thyroid removed as you know and I had to get radio activate. And before I got my radio activate, I had to take two shots to try to gave myself of something called phyrogen. It's basically synthetic TSH, thyroid stimulatinGHormone. I had to take it two days before I took a shot and then the day before it comes in a box. Like this, it looked like I even did it on video, it looked like a box of GH. And it was two single shots of TSH, thyroid stimulatinGHormone. So I get a call from the pharmacy the other day, this is weeks after and they're like, oh there's a balance on this. I'm like, oh all right, what is it? You all have 700 dollars. I'm like 700 dollars. I'm like, I said buying insurance in pain, you know this? She's like, well let me check. So she goes to the, she's like, oh no they paid. I said, well how much they paid 10 bucks? She's like, oh the cost of this drug was $4800. $48, so it was $5,000 for two shots of thyroid stimulatinGHormone. Five grand. Okay, $5,000. I could have boughT3 from the pharmacy, legitimately. I could have boughT3 kits of GH of Syrist MGH, which would have lasted me seven with, would have lasted me like three months or four months or five months of GH. For the same price is the tow shots of thyroid stimulatinGHormone. I had to take. Why was it that expensive? Because not that many people use it. So the government allows these drug companies to charge whatever they want to call the orphan drug at. That's why GH is so expensive. But these, these fuckers charged have the nerve to charge $5,000. $4800. Can you imagine how I didn't have insurance? And I had to do this. That's robbery. That's why our society is falling apart because there's no, there's no equality to anything. There's no reason that we're riding the reason why they charge this. So they charge that. It's arbitrary. It's just like how can we make the most money? We know that people that take this are getting radioactive iodine. And they're desperate. They have cancer. We'll just take advantage of them. It's like to came off therapy drugs through the roof. You think those drugs really cost that much to make bullshit. Bullshit they do. And once again, this is enough to get you depressed. If you really thought about it and let it affect you, I laugh. Because you know what? I know that that's not who I am. I can see the absurdity at it. And my father always taught me, you know what? No matter the depths of depression that you're in, you no matter how sick you are, how down and out you are, always find the absurdity and everything you do and laugh at it. And that makes it go away and lose all its energy. And that's the bottom line. Every time I take my kids to school every morning, they watch the little mermaid. I'm sure a lot of you have seen them a little mermaid. If you have kids, you've seen it multiple times. And it's in my little mini van on the DVD player there. And there's a part where the king tried and he's the king of the mire people. He says those humans, they fish. They put their hooks in these fish and they kill these fish and they gut the fish and they eat. And he's making it. And I'm saying to myself, wait a second. He's upset that the humans are eating fish. What the hell are the mire people eating down in the ocean? What are they eating? What are they eating? They got to be in fish too. Sharks eat fish, other fish eat fish. How come the mire people don't eat fish? What do they eat? Like seaweed? So there's why IMentioned that. I don't know, it just drives me crazy when I drive to work. I see the absurdity and everything. And I laugh and a lot of times people probably drive and buy me. Think I'm crazy. But the purpose of me telling you this is that number one, don't let life get you upset. Don't let it get you depressed. Don't let it get you down. Find the absurdity, everything that happens in life. Everything the bothers you, everything that goes wrong, is always an angle that you can find and laugh at. If you got to do a rant like this on your YouTube channel or your Instagram, do it because it releases everything. It's like therapy. This is my therapy that I do. And never stop trying. Do your best every day. That's my take home. I should do your best. Don't worry about the guy next to you or guys two doors down, who is lazy and sittinGHome and collecting an unemployment check. Do your best and be your best. And you know what? Leave nothing on the table no matter what anyone else does. This way you can go to bed with a smile and face every single day and say, you know what? I did my best and you know what? I guarantee if you do your best, you'll be successful. And whenever you get down, find the absurdity. That's the famous wise words of Salpalombo. I'm passing them on to you. I'm giving them to you today on this Rx muscle rant. Have a great weekend. I'm Daypalombo. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Dave Palumbo Reacts To INSANE Brandon Curry Update! [tdr4kI27oOU].txt ===

Day, Palombo here with an RX muscle, news update. This just in look at the video and see for yourself. Mr. Olivia Branding Curry, out there at Oxygen Gym, posing outside an actual sunlight. I'm pretty impressed with what I'm saying. A lot of people ask me what I thought of branding chances this year. And I always tell people the same thing. Branding Curry's one dangerous competitor. Why? Because he's got one of the prettiest structures up there on that stage. When he's at his best, any, any has been pretty consistent in the last couple of years. I thought it was really good last year. IMean, if it wasn't for Randy just outsizing, IMean, the curry could have been Mr. Olympia, I guess. But if you look at Brandon's physique, it's pretty. Because it's pretty your eyes go right to that physique when he, on stage. I always tell people 90% I believe of your judging score. Any show is determined on your standing relaxed position and your front double bicep. Because those are the poses you're in the most. Standing that people, the judges are just trying to figure out what they want to do. And they just look at you and you're standing there. That's, and Curry looks amazing standing there. Because he got the small ways, the big broad shoulders. He's got a lot of wow and pop to his physique, especially from the front. And his, his back poses have dramatically improved. We always do we had a great back. And he had great V-Taper. His torso's not too long. It's not too short. It's perfect. His, not always was his legs. But his legs are up. His legs are good. His legs matches up for body now. His glutes, IMean, are really good. His hamstrings are ripped. IMean, he's looking pretty damn good. You know, with eight weeks or whatever we got to go to the Olympia left. IMean, so he's right on track. He's looking bigger than I've seen him in a long time. So that's a good, that's a good sign that we're going to see, not only a good brand of Curry or a great brand. And we're going to see a better brand of Curry that we saw the last couple years, which is what he's going to need to be if he's going to knock off a big rammy, continue to beat Heidi Schouppen, and all the other guys that are surging at this point. And who knows who will be jumping in if Kai Green shows up or, you know, Phil Heath shows up. You know, those are, of course, wild cards, but we don't know about that. But I think that this is a very good look for Brandi Curry. I, I, I, I, I, IMet a fact I think that whatever they're doing don't change, you know, it's working at this point. Don't do anything crazy. He's got the added size he needed. I'm sure the judges asked him to put a few pounds on concern areas. It looks like he filled out that frame. I'm super impressed. Now, there's a lot of time between now and the Olympia. Things can go wrong and change and stuff like that. But I think he's on the right track and I'm excited for him to see what he's going to bring to that Olympia stage because I don't want to blow out on that Olympia. I want a big battle up there. I want to see guys, you know, go ahead to head and I want to see those judges have a hard time making a decision. And at the end of the day, I want to see a great show and I think Brandi Curry is going to bring it this year. Day polo with an RX muscle, news update.

=== FILE: Dave Palumbo Reacts to BIG Arnold Classic & Flex Lewis News! [0HJkiWxz_dQ].txt ===

Day polo here with an R-X muscle news update this just in. Well not just in but we just heard recently from Flex Lewis that he is out of the 2021 Olympia. There was speculation whether he would do it or not. He was supposed to do it last year. He looked amazing, you know, going into the final weeks of his prep and he decided to pull out he had injuries, he wanted to get some stem cell treatment and IMean the guys IMean there's a seven time, two, twelve, Mr. Olympia. He was moving up to the open. We were all looking forward to seeinGHim on that stage and because the guy has just got wow factor from here to the moon. And I think that, you know, he's the kind of guy that is a perfectionist. He's like, look if I'm going to do this, I got to do it 100%. So he took off the year last year. He went and got all his therapies. He had to get done, you know, it was to fix a lot of his injuries and then nagging things he had going on and spend some more time with his family. And then I guess the intention was this year to do the Mr. Olympia competition in the open category. And I think that was the plan up until, you know, he had a busy year. IMean, forget COVID. He moved from Boker Raton all the way to Las Vegas, opened the new gym. That alone will drain the life out of you. IMean, if anyone has ever opened the business or moved or both, you want to kill yourself. It's the worst experience of all time moving. Okay, especially when you go halfway across the country and is, you know, and he's got a kid. And so very hard to do. And I think he just found that he was pulled into many directions. And as he said on his Instagram, I didn't want to do this one foot in one foot out. I can't go 50% I got to go 100% up. I'm going to do this. So I think he's feeling good. I think his injuries are good doing well. And he just didn't want to show up and disappoint his fans or disappoint himself. And if he's a good decision, he's at a position where he never has to compete. He got a few days in one foot. He's still young. There's no reason why he can't take his time at this point. He's making money. He has a brand new gym that's state of the art unbelievable. I wish I only wish it was down the block for my house. And he's got, you know, great people there helpinGHim out. So IMean, he set himself up to the future. And then once everything is all settled, if next year he can do it, I'm sure we'll see Flex Lewis on his days. There's no one who wants to do the Mr. Olympia in the helping category. More than Flex Lewis does trust me when I tell you that. He is a fierce, fierce competitor. But he's also not going to show up at less than his best because then he's not going to, he doesn't want to have any regrets. He doesn't want to leave anything on the table. And I completely comply with that. And I completely understand. Now, take, when I was competing, I never would have understood why someone couldn't get ready for a show. Until I actually started trying to move places like from New York to Florida or had some kids or started a couple of businesses, your time gets sucked away from you and before you know it's the days over, you think you're going to go tren and then before you look at it, the clock gets 11 o'clock at night and you haven't done anything. So I completely understand good move, Flex. I know we're going to see you back on that stage at some point and you will be at your best and it will be worth the wait. I'm sure for it. Also we got some news in from the Arnold Classic people. I haven't gotten confirmation from Bob Lorne. Again, I texted him yesterday but I see a lot of people are releasing that the, it seems like the Arnold Classic this year, the one in September, will become now a qualifier for the 2021. This year's Mr. Olympia competition in October, which should, which should have been the whole time. But for some reason, they created this rule a couple of years ago where, you know, if it wasn't a month out, you know, then they stopped giving qualifications for this year and they always went through the following year, which was ridiculous. Why would you have an Arnold Classic in September that qualifies you for 2022? It's ridiculous. It's a huge show. It's the second biggest show of the year. And if you're going to do the show in September because you had to push it back as a COVID, you of course you got to make it a qualifier for the Olympia. Make it exception. So I'm hoping that the, the, the, the, the, at least the rumors I'm hearing and the word on the street is accurate and that the Arnold Classic will be a qualifier for this year. I don't think it's going to affect that many people. The people, the person that will probably affect the most will be really waplert because we know really had a qualifier. If he was he was planning to do in the Arnold, it looked like he would have to do a show earlier to qualify even though he was going to do the Arnold because the Arnold wasn't going to be a qualifier. Now I think we'll probably only see him at the Arnold. However, if he does that and he doesn't qualify and something goes wrong, then he's screwed again. He can't do the Olympia again. I still think it's probably a good idea if really wynkly would do a show a little earlier in the year. However, I think it's great. Now for the guys that qualify to ready, they probably don't like the change in rule because they would love to havEQualified for next year doing it this year. But it is what it is. Look, if you have a show before the Olympia of this caliber, it has to be a qualifier for this year. Otherwise, it's almost, it's almost say it has no meaning other than the fact that you're going to win some money and get a title. People want to qualify for the Olympia. They want that momentum going into the show. I think it's a good move. If the Arnold people do announce it and it does become reality, I'm 100% in favor of that. I write from the beginning, I said that that Arnold should have been a qualifier for the Olympia. That's how little update for now. Flex Lewis, out of the Olympia, Arnold Classic seems to be a qualifier for this year's Olympia and on day polo, with an Rx muscle news update.

=== FILE: Dave Palumbo Seminar： Toxicity, Cleansing, & Alkalinization- Part 1 [SVHl5zDKz_M].txt ===

We're here at a Paul and Jim in Edison, New Jersey and I want to introduce myself to you guys. I'm Dean Blumbo. I've been here before. I'm back again. Obviously, I'm just making a impression the first time I was here and we're going to about the start, my seminar, and any of you guys who've been at my seminar is before. We'll know that I really like to kind of gear them according to what your interests are. Some of you have heard me speak before, I don't like to be too repetitive. So I like to get some input what you guys really are interested in knowing about learning more about. I am going to discuss a little bit today about toxicity issues in working out because I think a lot of people take that for granted. The fact that our bodies can only process foods and build muscle and burn fat as efficiently as the body is able to detoxify itself. Now, what does that statement mean? Exactly. What it means is that if you have too much waste coming being produced in the body and the body cannot get rid of that waste, it cludders the protein building, fat burning machinery down. The analogy a lot of times I've given and this seems to hit home is if you have a fish tank at home, okay, specifically when you growing up, you've ever had one of those gold fish balls. You know, when you went to the carnival and you won the free gold fish and you put it in a ball and you would put some fish flakes in there every morning. And after about a week or two, you would notice that if you came up to the ball, it had a weird smell. And that smell was the toxic, you know, the waste products from the fish being excreted into the water plus the decay of some of the food that was in there. And you realize that if you didn't change the water in the ball, gold fish ball, what was going to happen eventually was the fish was going to die. Sometimes you might even have waited until the fish was swimming upside down. Well, the body, the human body is like all the cells in our body are like little gold fish balls. And if these cells are not clensed, clen, down. What happens is the machinery inside the cells don't work properly. The immune system in our body doesn't work properly, okay? The immune system sucks to overreact to these waste products and creates a lot of inflammation in the body all over the place. That's not good. Usually that leads to skin irritations, acid reflux diseases, all kinds of different things that don't make you feel good. Okay, when your body is trying to combat and get rid of waste, okay, it can't worry about adding new muscle and it can't worry about burning fat. That becomes a low priority. So if you want your body to operate efficiently, okay, it's very important that you not only take in the right nutrients, okay, in the way of foods, when we talk about foods, you talk about macro nutrients, proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. And it's not only important that you take in the right micro nutrients in the way of minerals, invitments, and supplements, okay? But it's also important, okay, that we get rid of the waste products that are produced from the metabolism of this stuff. And you know, I was always worried, I always wanted to get to 300 pounds when I was a bodybuilder. That was always my goal and I eventually did and I went over 300 pounds. I was up to, I think it's highest, 119 pounds at one point. And I never really worried about toxic waste in my body or detoxifying the body. The goal and probably a lot of you guys here can relate to this was always stuff as much food into your body as possible. tren as hard as you can, sleep as much as you can so that you can recover from the workouts. And it worked, but I had, I noticed looking back retrospectively, I had a lot of side effects that I didn't really know about. My skin was always really bad. I always had, it was always combating acne problems. For the point where before I show I would take antibiotics, usually for two weeks before it's my skin would clear up. But I never really got it the root of why that was happening, you know? Once again, the skin is the biggest excritory organ in the body. So the body likes to get rid of waste through the skin. So if you find that you break out a lot, or even if you have irritations, if you have egzema sorrises, anything like that that's an irritation of your skin, it probably means that you have a lot of waste to toxins in your body that are trying, your body is trying to get rid of. And the skin is a very easy place for the body to get rid of. Now if you don't have good skin or good pores, a lot of times your body will try to dump waste into your intestinal track. And when there's a lot of acid waste being dumped into your intestinal track, a lot of times that you'll notice and you'll get acid reflux. If you have a lot of acid reflux all the time, you're always getting the digestion that could be a sign of acidification of your body. Some people actually usually this happens in women. Their women store the toxins or the acid waste in their fat cells. So as I was driving through Statlin, I'm sorry a couple of land fills and that's essentially what happens in your body. Your body becomes a landfill and these fat cells become storage depots for these waste. And guess what happens? You try to burn this fat now and your body is not going to want to get rid of it because it doesn't know what to do with all the toxins you have in your body. So we have to have a strategy not only to put muscle on to eat the right nutrients, but also to get rid of the waste products that are being produced from protein digestion, from lactic acid buildup, from working out with waste. Stress is one of the biggest causes of acidic buildup in the body or acid waste buildup. Now how do we get rid of these toxins? Number one, drink a lot of water. You've always heard that. Everyone tells you drink a lot of water when you eat a lot of protein. But the kind of water you drink becomes as important sometimes as how much water you drink. If you ever took a, if any of you went to a store and bought a little pH kit, you can get these things that you could test to pH your pool. They sell them all over the place now. What the pH of your body is or the pH in general is it measures how much acidity and how much alkalinity in the body. The higher the pH, the more alkaline your body is, which is a healthy state to be in. The lower your pH, the more acidic your body is. The more acidic you are, obviously, the less efficiently your body will function. If you test the pH of tap water that has chlorine and fluorine in there and fluoride in there, you'll notice it's very low, which means it's very acidic. I was shocked to find that the pool in spring water filter in my, not water filter, the water jug I have in my house. When I tested that water, it came out very acidic too. So if you're drinking water that's already acidic, you're adding to the acidity problem in your body. So here you are thinking you're flushing your body with pure water, pure bottled water, and you're actually making the situation worse than some instances. So what I recommend people do is that they try to get a source of water that's alkaline in nature. Now, probably, if you've noticed if any of you are big bottled water drinkers, there's a lot of new water bottle, a bottle of water that are on the market now, that they're marketing strategies that it's alkalinized water. Fiji is a very, is a natural source of alkaline's water. It's not very high in alkalinity, but it is higher than anything else that naturally occurs out there. Now, there's some waters that have been produced now where they're actually making the water out the one. They're a little more expensive, but if you start drinking a bottle or two or three of these a day, you'll notice a difference. My good friend Jack Tetonie has a product called Hydralized Ultra Water, which is an alkalinized water. I have a water filter in my house, the my connect my sink to, and I've been using it for probably less six or seven years, and I alkalineized the water. I fill up a picture, and that's the water I use all day long. The truth is you don't really need to drink alkalinized water when you're eating a protein meal because when you eat protein, your stomach releases acids. That's kind of killing the reason. It's not really helping the situation, but during the middle of the day, when you first wake up in the morning, before you go to bed, when you're trening in the gym, that's when you should be drinking your alkalinized water on an empty stomach. I actually came across an interesting gadget. I call it gadgets. Whenever I find interesting gizmos, I like to purchase them, I try them myself, and then if they're good, I like to recommend them for other people, but there's something called an iron pot. If you don't want to spend $2,000 on a water filter, it looks like a little metal cylinder, and this metal cylinder you put, you put water. You can put a puddle water in this stuff if you want, but you put water in there, you leave it in there for five minutes, like a little water bottle, and it alkalizes the water. It's really interesting, because the actual iron pot itself comes with a little pH kit, so you can actually test the water, and you can actually see that it's turning it alkaline. You can test all the water in your house from all your taps and your bottle of water, and you can see what you're actually drinking, which I find interesting. It was such an interesting idea that I actually started selling it on my website. If any of you are interested, it's like $45, it lasts eight months, the little cartridge filters, and then you can just replace the filters. They're like a dollar to each, you could buy mine on Amazon. But the iron pot, it's like $45, I recommend it's a very minimum of drink three high-on pots full of water per day, alkaline water per day. And I guarantee you will see an improvement in your skin, your complexion, you'll feel better. If you have indigestion, you drink one of those things and it goes away instantly, and you'll see that your body is starting to recover better. Alclanized water, very important. Another very good detoxifying agent, very, and these are cheap things you can do that will make a big difference in the way your body responds to trening, recovery, building muscle burning fat. Apple cider vinegar, I don't know if any of you use apple cider vinegar, but the important thing with apple cider vinegar is you want to buy apple cider vinegar with mother, it's called MOTHER, which means it has the pulp that it still. Braggs, BR-AGGS, makes a brand of apple cider vinegar, you could buy in any health disorder, even the supermarkets are selling brags. I would recommend get brags, brand, it's cheap, it's six bucks, it's a big, big bottle, and make sure you shake it up, and I put it, I put a teaspoon or tablespoon abouT3 times a day. Some people just shoot it down like a shot and then drink water with it. I actually mix it in the water I drink, and what it does is it helps pull toxins out of your body, and it helps alkalineize your body. They think it's the pulp part of it that it actually causes the alkalineization. If any of you have pets, a lot of holistic pet people tell you to put a teaspoon of apple cider vinegar in the pets' water bowl. It's good for the animal, it helps detoxify them. Very simplistic things you can do. There's a supplement I just got introduced to about six months ago called black mica, which is a parapagnetic mineral supplement. I know it sounds very sophisticated, but what it does is they found that they've extracted this mineral supplement. It's a liquid form from these rock formations in Japan called black mica. For some reason, these black mica supplements have an amazing ability to alkalineize the body to restore mineral balance to the body and to pull toxins out of the body. Once again, if you put, if you took the most disgusting water you can find outside in the puddle and you put it in the glass and you added a dropper tube, this black mica supplement, you would notice all the crap fall to the bottom of the cup because it draws toxins. Now imagine if you put this into your body what happens is it pulls the toxins that build up and add to your body. Another interesting thing that a lot of us since we work out and we eat a lot and we eat very frequently don't realize is that it takes about eight hours after the last time you eat. So when you eat a meal, it takes eight hours before that meal is completely out of your body. Now the body can't start detoxifying itself or releasing stored toxins in your body because remember what happens is when the body is digesting food and building muscle, it doesn't have time to start getting rid of toxins so it stores them. It encapsulates them and stores them. When your body is given a rest from food ingestion, then your body is not releasing these toxins and you excret them out of your body, whether you pee them out or you poop them out, it doesn't matter. Oliys are eating and you never take more than an eight hour break. In other words, if you go to sleep at midnight, you wake up at 8 a.m. and you start eating your first meal, you're really never having time to detoxify your body. So what I recommend once a week, you guys to do and I wish I would have done this when I was trening once a week, go 12 hours when you don't eat anything. So if you go to bed at 10 o'clock at night, don't eat anything until 10 the next day. Go 12 hours once a week, give yourself a 12 hour fast because from eight hours after the last meal, you'll have a four hour period where your body will be able to release toxins out of your body because it won't be digesting food during that time period. Okay, the important thing when you do this, you might feel weird and get weird headaches and feel like weird flushes because what's happening is your body is finally able to get rid of these toxins and what it does is just to spit them out through your intestine tract and into your body. Now if you don't have the right supplements you're drinking or drinking the right fluids to flush them out of your body, your body could re-absorb these toxins back into the bloodstream and you're going to feel super terrible. Okay, so what you want to do is when you during this period where you're fasting or right before you're fasting and right after you're fasting you want to make sure you're taking in a good fiber supplement twice a day because fiber binds toxins in the colon and pulls them out. Okay, and that brings you, you know, a lot of people ask people kind of fiber supplements, you know, you should use. IMade fiber-lice just for that very reason. I didn't realize how intuitive it was. I knew that there was a lot of health benefits to fiber and I knew that it was important to take a fiber supplement that had both insoluble and soluble fiber in it. Very important, and you don't want to fiber supplement that has sugar in it because sugar kind of ruins some of these good effects. What fiber we'll do is it'll lower your cholesterol levels, your bad cholesterol levels because it binds up bile salts and cholesterol salts and pulls them out of the body. It'll stabilize your blood sugar because it prevents the liver from overproducing glucose. It will prevent you from ever getting colon cancer. If you take two servings of fiber twice a day, an insoluble, unsoluble, fiber supplement, you'll never get colon cancer because what it does is fiber does is it alkalinizes the colon. It reduces the acidity level. Now you can't get rid of all the acidity in the colon, think about what's in the colon. It's fecal matter in there. But you can reduce the acidity in there by doing so the immune system works better. But more importantly, and something that I didn't realize was that it binds up toxins that your body releases and draws them out of the body. It helps facilitate the removal of waste and that's important. I know a lot of you guys probably who beat we five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten times a day. So why go to the bathroom a million times a day already? I already go three, four times a day. How much more do I need to go? Well, if you're only removing 80% of what you're supposed to be getting out of your body, then there's 20% being retained in your colon. And while it might eventually come out, you're going to be absorbing reabsorbing the toxins from this waste. You want to get, you want your food to move through you at a good rate and you want to get rid of all the waste products all the time. That's very important. I recommend a fiber supplement twice a day. Fiber lies. I have a fruit punch flavor and a lemonade flavor. It's delicious. It's got no sugar in it whatsoever. And I guarantee you once you start using it, you'll never stop. It's like a religious experience there really is. But it's very important when you're detoxifying to use a fiber supplement. What do you use mine or use someone else's? What else do we need to do to support this detoxification process? I've already talked to you about black mica. I've talked to you about alkalinized water. I've talked to you about apple cider vinegar. I've talked to you about fiber. Well, in the colon, lining our colon, is a layer of bacteria or beneficial bacteria called probiotic organisms. These are organisms that are good for us. These are bacteria that do good stuff for us. They produce vitamin K. They line the layer. They prevent the colon from being attacked by inflammatory molecules. They keep pathogens out of your body. That's why we're always ingesting bacteria in our foods. When you get food poisoning, it's that's the only time that you're actually ingesting bad stuff. We're always ingesting bad stuff. What happens is the good bacteria in your colon protect your your body. They say that there's something like we have like 10 pounds of good bacteria in our body. Think about how small bacteria are. That's a lot of bacteria. But when we take antibiotics, where you get chronic diarrhea, or you don't feel good, or whatever the case may be, these bad good bacteria die off a lot of times. And a lot of us are probably walking around with less than enough of these bacteria. And that affects your body's ability to process foods. It affects your body's ability to remove toxins. So it's very important that you take a good probiotic supplement. There's different versions. A lot of times, though, you'll see if you go to your health food store is a refrigerated section. That's where most of them are. Because remember, these are bacteria. They're alive. They're live cultures. You want to keep them alive. A lot of times they need to be refrigerated and they're refrigerated form. There's a website called Custom Probiotics. But you can actually, there's a million different formulations on there. Once a year, I, someone got me on to this about a year ago. Once a year, it's a good idea to do a 60 day run of a custom probiotic. They have a 6 in 1 stren. This 6 strens of bacteria. And it's a little scooper and you can mix it in some more and you just go up a down. It's pretty much a tasteless. And you can restore your good bacteria. It's good to do that. If you're on a long course of antibiotics, because you get sick or whatever the case may be, some people are on it chronically, because they have vet acne. Some people have different different issues going on. But this is a good thing to do is restore the probiotic organ as the good bacteria, the intestinal floor to your body. If you take that multi-tiered approach, I guarantee your body is going to burn fat better. You're going to build muscle better. You're going to feel healthier. And the first thing you'll notice, people will tell you the whites here eyes look clear. If you look in the mirror and you got, I'm not talking about yellow, join-to-size. I'm talking about murky eyes. Your eyes will get super super white when your body is detoxified. And I guarantee everyone in here has got some level of toxicity build up in their body. Unless you're someone who does a lot of things, I tell you about.

=== FILE: Dave Palumbo on Off-Season vs Pre-Contest GEAR Use [blbB4YuMTng].txt ===

I don't know, it's a good question. You know, offseason I try to keep the dosages to two compounds, you know, like two and a bottle, like a testosterone and an anabolic and then maybe some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I don't ever use like three compounds very rarely. Maybe just in the beginning, some of them might throw a few deep wall tabs in or something like that. But I try to keep it to two compounds because I find that your body can eat better. Because the limiting factor offseason, a lot of times, not the drugs, it's the ability to get that food down. If you're taking toxic compounds at the world or short acting, you know, injectables a lot of times they kill your appetite and if you can't eat, you can't grow. So now pre-contest appetite is never a problem, right? Because you're starving all the time. So I don't mind using three compounds or four compounds pre-contest because I'm not worried about the appetite being destroyed and I'm not worried about receptor overload because at this point we're not growing. We're just trying to maintain muscle, give the body a hard look. And I think that's the difference, at least in my mind, of why people use more drugs pre-contest versus offseason. At least that's my rationale. I don't know if other people have, I think some people in their mind think that they can actually grow muscle while they're getting ready for a trophy, take more drugs. Of course that's not the case because you're on a limited amount of resources because you're trying to deprive your body of what it needs a little bit, right? So you lose body fat every week. In doing so, your body's first priority is not going to build muscle. It's just trying to survive, so to speak. You're trying to maintain muscle while burning body fat. So don't confuse the two processes or you're going to accomplish nothing, essentially.

=== FILE: Dave Palumbo's Experience With W33D ｜ Live With Dave Palumbo [LARoEIH4i7M].txt ===

Old school body building clothing company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. With another episode alive with Dave Plumbo, as always I'm going to be your host, Anthony Squally. If you've never, if you're new to this segment, we basically bombard you with random questions that I selfishly come up with topics that I want to talk about. So Dave, how you doing? We survived the hurricane, so we're back to normal. Hold me here today. You look like my uncle Vinnie with that mustache. I can tell you. Well, this is the true story here. I shaved my face now once a week with hair clippers. When I naturally shave my face on one side and then do the other and a lot of times I just shaved half of it and do like a Harvey-Doo face. I got to the mustache yesterday. I was like, I can leave it. Then I was like, shit, I'm going to do a YouTube thing with Dave and people looking back, who's this tool with the mustache? I think mustache is a back-end in style. Chris Bumstead had one, the last year's a one here, right? Remember even like you even said it to me, I remember eight years ago when I was prepping me for USA's and I had the mustache and all the pictures you were like, you look like Tom Selle. You do look like Tom Selle. You look exactly like him. And if you lost a little weight, you probably looked like Ray Mensei. Yeah, that would work. Yeah, I'd be getting a lot of assets. It was 1975. You know? The mustache is a right. I'm telling you. Yeah, mustache is an skinny jeans. You know, we can't do skinny jeans. No. My father had a mustache at my whole life, practically. And you know, when he shaved it, I didn't even recognize him. I was like, that was just like my image of my father. I never saw him in that mustache. But, you know, it works for some people. Some people don't look good without the mustache, you know? Yeah, it's true. Yeah, some people have a certain look. They can only look a certain way. So that's very true. I always felt like mustache has made people look more intimidating. A little, a little meaner looking, you know? Totally. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's always like I always said it's like if you have a son and you name him Carmine, by default. Yeah. He's not going to be a whimp. Like you know what IMean? Like it's a good name. You know what IMean? It's hard. So God, did he go to jail? Yeah, Carmine looks like he busts legs on the weekends, you know? He's going to do shady stuff. Like, oh my boy, for the same Carmine, I was like, oh, who's going to be good? I'm going to kill you with the meet-up. Oh, yeah, that's right. So one of thEQuestions I wanted to start with for you today was, and a lot of people are new to the channel, but have been following a long time a lot of people as well. I knew, obviously you've done fish. You've done cat breeding, snake breeding. You've done a lot of stuff that I'm not even thinking of right now. Do you, in Florida, do you still have a lot of plants around your property? Like you in a plant anymore? Like what do you have going on for plants in your home, where on your property do you like? Yeah, and I'm big in the plants. I have a lot of trees, but you know what? I really didn't water them that much, and we had a really dry winter. And I, a couple of them, I lost a couple, but I around my garage, I'm kind of a seasonable, I put my seedlings and my little clippings and somebody that, and I have a cat dye growing, and I have all my fruit trees in pots that I'm growing up from small little, either seeds or little clippings. And it's funny because the ones in pots do way better than the ones in the ground. And I don't know, aside from the big fruit trees, like I have mango trees and my properties and my other cottage trees, but I think as I water them every day, plus the soil is not great in, see if the fertilizer is a lot in Florida. And for some reason, the citrus trees do horrendous in the ground because the bugs get them in pots by my garage. It's amazing. It's like I have a, like a green, like I almost have a green house, like right outside my garage. I forgot because of several months ago, I think it was a pineapple. Did you get your first pineapple? You took a Instagram video with? I've done a pineapple, but I also did another plant that's like a red pineapple, but it's not edible that one, and I just, I just actually have some pineapple's now. And once again, they're not edible, but I'm going to take them and I'm going to make more of them because they look cool, you know, you make it physically eat them. We produce mandarin's. I actually produced my first, I planted in a pot, a blueberry. I don't even know this. There's red blueberries. No, they know that. Yeah, I produced a couple of them. If they taste really sweet, they're really cool. Look, and they look pink almost. They're pink blueberries. And they're really cool. I did those. And I'm always, I'm always planting, so I have a little plant to also start that. I'm always putting stuff in there. And I actually, you know, I read potatoes and purple potatoes. I think we talked about this in one of the episodes. So I took the purple potatoes and I planted them in the plant, or like buried them in the soil, and I forgot about it. And I saw sprouts coming out of them and stuff like that. Sometimes you don't have to leave me in your house too long. They start sprouting, and they throw them in the soil. I said, throwing them in the garbage, I threw them in the soil. And they grew branches, they're like that. And I forgot about them. And then I said, one day I was like, kind of just like playing around the soil. And a potato popped out of the soil. And then I remember that they grow under the soil. They had to be like 30 potatoes under the soil that I grew up. So I actually produced potatoes, too. We were not playing. I didn't know, I only know that because back, you know, how it is. I'm sure in New York, they did it to somewhere. But we're from, you know, in the fall, you go apple picking and pumpkins and all that. But then they had these rakes and you would rake and you could dig up potatoes. I never done that before. So it was kind of cool. You kind of character in the ground, so you're like, yeah, be cool to do something. As the kids get old, you can take them. You can rake the potatoes. And then they'd understand like, wow, that's why they're dirty. They come out of the ground. You know, do you have any animals to try to eat everything? Or is that a problem? Yeah, I have wild peat. They were originally domesticated in another free peacocks that run around my neighborhood. And they steal a little the fruit. They steal my black, very bushes, too. They're delicious to use black rice. They steal everything if you give a chance to. And they're like, it's like, it's like a trooper that I'm going around. You would think like, and for some reason, my porch is there like, or they like to hang out there in the morning. And so you know, you know, how you get up in the morning and you're like, I got to go have my contact lenses in. I go to the window and look at, you know, it isn't this like a peacock, like in my face. And like, I like, and then there's one peacock, a female that like thinks from the top of my BMW X7 is a nest. It's in my garage on the top of that. My kids are throwing bread up to it, which means it's never going to leave, you know. So I'm just waiting for one that I come out there and there's going to be like a nest of eggs there and stuff like that. So it's just so funny how your life is so different than that. Well, you would have described it up 10 years ago. And the funny thing is this is the kind of, I love animals. Like so this is like my dream. I'm like, you know, my kids are getting, if I would have had this as a kid, I would have probably been a veterinarian or something like that, you know. Well, no, I know we've talked about it before, but the sense of I've been in the year, a place of half a dozen times every time I come up, even like you start with the porch, it's a nice piece of land. Like even from, it's like it's just kind of, you always have like a little breeze going on and you get a water in the back. It's nice. It's a nice place. I like the bill, though, like my own zoo, eventually, you know, there, but it's slow and going, I just actually got blue tree monitors. I was had to do some video. We'd put it up, they only get about there abouT3 feet with their tail, but their bodies are about this big. And they basically, there are boreal, they like to hang out in trees. And that's in the league, like, bird eggs and stuff like that. The elite piece of raw chicken off the roof of a tongs, the insects, they'll put it into eating anything, but they're really tame. And they'll come on your arms, something like that, and they're blue. It's like the most incredible looking thing. Maybe Tuck, find a picture of a blue tree monitor, put it up there, but they're really kind of cool looking. And that's what that's my new little obsession I have now. I'm trying to build a big, or boreal cage. And I'm thinking about either putting it outside or maybe keeping it inside of the side. Because you could actually keep reptiles outside of Florida because the weather's so good. I knew that. I was looking at those things. I don't know if they can see it, but they're resting people can see it. They're super cool. You would never know if these things exist in your house. Is your wife Amanda Thrill with this new project? I think at first she didn't really, she was like, but then I think she's soar, and you can't not think these things are cool. And it's cool. So I bought quite, have you guys have you ever tried Quayle eggs? I love them. I never tried them. I love them. Quayle eggs is supposed to be, if you ever go to a good fancy sushi restaurant, someone will crack a Quayle egg over like a like a some tuna tartar or something like that. It's really good, but I actually really, really is. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm a rose. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm a rose. They did. And so they're like this big. They're like the eggs. And so suppose they eat Quayle eggs, which I went out and I bought, they actually have them in the public supermarkets. And it's like five bucks for like, and then this big, I think there was six of them or eight or 10 of them or something like that. You know, the little overpriced, I figured you know what? If I give it once a week, I'll give them a Quayle egg, because the shell is made of calcium. And calcium is good for these animals, need calcium. So it's a good way to get calcium into their body. IMean, we think about it. We take supplements. Animals need to supplement, especially if they're not outside and they're exposed to the sunlight, and they're eating wild things and something like that. So, Quayle eggs, so I'm sorry, a namin with thesEQuayle eggs that I want to, my wife, you need to hold does, and she's like in one sitting there so small. I said I'm not eating them, but I said if we got Quayle and we bred quayles, I don't like chickens, chickens to me. I don't, they just, just something about the way they look and kind of freaks me out. And they poop all the time. So I'vEQuayles, I kind of like almost look like dubs. They're, they're really cool. If I can breed Quayle and Quayle eggs seem to be much more valuable than regular chicken eggs. That would be great. Tyler would be harvesting that. I'd come out of like, where the hell are all thEQuayle eggs? Tyler, Tyler already, like, put him in his car, you know, so that's a possible future project. So speaking of plants, this is an interesting segue. And maybe you've covered this on your channel, but we've never spoken about it one on one through all my body building time and to each their own. Yeah. But you know, 2000, whatever, through 2000, whatever, I never, I've never, it's smoked marijuana in my whole life. I've never liked the smell of it or whatever, and edibles weren't really a thing. And a point of frustration for me when I was body building was, I sometimes I just wasn't hungry. And then once I realized that edibles existed back in 2018 and I tried one, I noticed I could eat more. And what I was trying to do in 2010 timeframe when we started working together was I was always trying to get my hands on prescription marinol, which was, I guess, stuff they give the cancer patients, it doesn't get them high, but allows them to eat more. So, but I always speculated, you know, I had good success within body building. And I felt part of the reason why I went by other people was, I felt like a lot of the people I knew that smoked a lot of weed were, they were a little more soft, and they held a little bit more water and they weren't getting as grainy. Now that was just my limited experience against other amateurs, but I just want to get your thoughts on all that, did you ever use marijuana, did you ever consider it to eat more? Like, what was your journey like with the plants? And that way. I, you know, I probably have maybe smoked pot maybe three times in my life. I just, it makes me feel very stupid. And I, I, I don't like that because in other words, it's fine when you're doing it, but I feel like it has a residual effect afterwards. I still feel like for a couple days like I'm out of it. And I don't know if that's just because I'm not used to it, but it's I never really liked it in terms of that. As far as eating goes, you know, I came from a running background. So I was running 10 miles a day for five year straight. My, and I used to starve myself, too, because I wanted to keep my weight down because for running. So my appetite is insatiable. So when I started allowing myself to eat to grow, there's nothing that could stop. Like, you know, there was even when I wasn't hungry, I could eat, I could always eat. And I had the ability to just pour stuff down my throat. And I don't have a gag reflex, nothing. So I, I had no problem eating. There were points where I didn't want to eat, you know, and I would force myself to eat, but I had no problem doing that. I know people that can't do that physically will throw it up. They just, they get a gag response going, I somehow, my body can handle. So I never had an eating problem. Okay. When I would die, I, I was, you know, I'm very disciplined, but I hated it because, you know, I was, I don't like to be hungry. I like to be like, you know, when I want, you know. So that wasn't an issue. But I do work with people who have appetite issues or maybe their stomachs, you know, I was talking to a professional eater, a Bartley Weaver, the other day who just turned pro, actually. And he does eating. And you know, these eaters drink enormous amounts of water during the day to stretch out their stomach. Rather than just eating enormous amounts of food, they don't want to get fat. They'll drink like a gallon of water at one time. And that what that does is it stretches your stomach. And when your stomach is stretched more, you can, you're, you're hungry because it, the, the appetite shut off has a lot to do with the stretch of the stomach. So that's how they're able to consume so much food, you know, when they're doing their eating contest. So I believe that, you know, maybe from drinking a lot of shakes, I think I stretched my stomach too, so I can, my capacity for food is better. But when I would die it and I would eat small portions, my stomach shrunk up. And you know that, you know, you try to go out and cheat me. You eat like, you know, normally we need to know, problem in your full right away because your stomach capacity. So I think that's a trick that you have to work on. And if you can't do it with food, when you wake up in the morning, drink, you know, try to drink, you know, 16, 32 ounces of of liquid, just pour water down your throat. The number one, it'll hydrate you really well. Number two, though, it'll give that stomach a little bit of a stretch and that's going to really increase your appetite or your capacity to eat more. People don't get past that capacity to eat more. I think that's a problem. Now, if you don't have a fast metabolism, there's no reason to do that. But for people that super fast metabolism, you gotta be able to consume enough food. And there's always that, like, while my eating too much food and overstretching my stomach and am I going to get an extended stomach? Well, for most people know, but, you know, obviously, when you get to the level of 300-plus pounds, I don't know, maybe that, you know, maybe at that point becomes counterproductive. I don't know. But the point is that if you have trouble eating that's number one way to do it, the second good way to do it would be to cut your carbs back. So you're in the middle of an offseason, you can't eat your eye eye can't eat a can't eat a can't eat. Cut your carbs back for three days. You'll be starving because your body will think it's dieting and your appetite will come back. And I do that with my guy. Sometimes I cut their protein back, actually, believe it or not. Sometimes people are just a little overly toxic because they're eating so much protein that their bodies are kind of getting behind and processing it. And so if you cut that, like, some of the cut it half and I'll actually increase their carbs for like a week and all of some boom made that they're hungry again. So this different reasons why people lose their appetite, you know, and I've never really experimented. I know back in my day, a lot of guys used something called terriactive. It was an antihistamine. The problem was the first seven days you took it, all you wanted to do was sleep all day. I never got through the seven days, so I never really used them. But I didn't really need it. But I know a lot of guys used that back in the day too. And my next question for you, it just popped into my head is speaking of that contest prep world. And I think this one's helpful to a lot of people. Now, I'll share my experience anecdotally and then you can explain if it makes sense logistically. So we'll use me as an example. So like a lot of times, you know, my diet with you would start just like everyone else is when they first start with you within, you know, some variants. Right. A lot of times for people that don't know when you and I would work together, what's my metabolism would get going? It would get going pretty good. And then you would just kind of poke at it when we needed to keep it going. Right. But interestingly, enough, a lot of times, I felt like I noticed, say a week off from a show after doing 13, 15 weeks of some sort of carbocation. A lot of times, I almost felt like you were, you would flip me and you would then lower the fats and then increase the carbohydrates. And I always speculated that if you've been burning fat for say 13 weeks, right? And then you take someone who's pretty lean and then you switch the fuel source and now you pull fats from their diet and then they're burning on carbs that sometimes the person might use their own body fat because that's the only fat available. Does that and it totally makes sense to you or what are your thoughts on that? Usually when people get stuck at the end, is when I start going anti-logic. I call it anti-logic. Because logically, you would think you would do this in this and it would work because it's been working the whole diet and then all of a sudden the person's stuck so you have to kind of do the anti-logical thing. Well, what, let's do the opposite of what we're doing. Let's increase carbs. Let's cut back cardio. Let's shake their body up. It's not working the way because it happens to the body catches on to what you do and it doesn't want to do it anymore. Now you throw a monkey wrench into the whole thing and the body is like, what the freak is going on here? And it starts burning fat. I did this with women. They were on no food. They're on three hours of cardio. They're on maximum fat burns. They're not losing a pound. I see you know what? Don't do any cardio for two days and let's add 30 grams of carbs three or four times a day. They're like, I'm going to gain weight and they want to lose five pounds. So your body will only take so much and then when it starts to shut down and re-bell against what you're doing, that's when you have to do something. That's why when people say, oh, it's the same diet to this person and to that person. Yeah, but you know why it doesn't, it gets changed considerably different for different people because not everyone is the same and not everyone's body responds the same. So the initial template of how a person starts doesn't even matter. It's it's irrelevant. You can start with anything, a diet. It's how it's altered on it on a daily weekly, however, often, however, often it gets changed. That's what makes the coach. The coach is the person who is changing the program because it's dynamic. It's not a static program. Now, I've worked with people. I've gone 12 weeks in a row and never changed no damn thing. Again, they lost two pounds a week consistently and they got in shape for a show. I, why? I don't know. That's just the way they're body work. I said, I would say every week I feel guilty. I feel like I feel guilty because I don't have to change anything. I said, but you know what, you get to eat a lot of food. You're not doing a lot of cardio and you get in shape who cares. The diet work perfectly for you. But for most people, you have to make changes. Usually those occur more so as you get closer to the show as body fat levels get lower because then the body starts to say, hmm, hmm, what's going on here? We better we got to slow this stuff down. I don't like the fact that this body matters so low. It's making me nervous. We got to trick the body into thinking that everything's cool. Sometimes more food, more carbs, which stimulates more insulin release, kind of will say to the brain, oh, we're fine. You know, we got, we got to, we got to like, oh, we got to plenty of food coming in. Oh, okay. All right. Let's pick up the metabolism again. So it's a game of, of observe process and then make a decision. That's why it's very hard to advise yourself that. You know, I have a guy came to me this week and I'm helpinGHim with the last week prep and I'm like, and he was reducinGHis fat burn as an increasinGHis carbs and he's not in shape yet. He probably needs to lose another two to three pounds. I'm like, you're, you got two days left to do this. I said, you got to this every day counts now. You got to suffer for two days. And he's suffering and he's improving. So it's hard, you know, he's reading in a book or online. All right, at this point you had this many carbs. You can't follow formulas. If your body is not in the right place, I guess you could say, you know, and not everyone needs that many grams of carbs of this many. It's so variable. And for me to make a generalization would be not, you know, have you since, and I haven't asked you this. I was thinking about it since all that pancreatic stuff happened or whatever. Have you made some, did you make any dietary, do you enjoy changes? And if so, how is that affected your physique, either in your strength or your leanness or even your cognitive function? What's been going on with that? You mean with my thyroid, not pancreas? Sorry, yeah, yeah, I don't give any of these to any pancreatic problems. That's all right, that's all right. No, yeah, you know what? Nothing. And when I say, if I didn't know that I had cancer of the thyroid, I wouldn't believe it. I'd cancer of the thyroid because I never had aromasingle symptom. The surgery, Tyler picked me up. I was pumping gas that the day he picked me up from the surgery. I didn't have any pain. I didn't have any fatigue. I went on the replacement like they told me to do and he had, and I didn't have any, I didn't notice any difference in my metabolism. How I looked or how I felt energy-wise. My friend bumped up my thyroid a little bit from I think I was taking 137 to, I found it up to, he up to like 175 or something like that on T4. Just because he thought my TSA was a little high and I didn't even notice a difference. So IMet that. My last levels I got checked were normal and I feel this exactly the same. I don't feel any different, like I said, I don't, I'm sorry, if I'd never scar here, I wouldn't, I wouldn't believe I had my thyroid removed. And then I got the the radio activate, I had that one pill. I never even noticed I took it. So I don't know, you know, maybe I had very good results and I was lucky. I'm hoping you know when I get scan and whatever it is, another three or four months, you know, everything is fine. But luckily nothing. I didn't change my diet. I'm doing exactly what I did before. Okay. Question four, you were guarding a supplement related question. You know, well, two questions for you. Resveratrol, what are your thoughts on it as I see it coming up more and more within a lifespan category? And as someone like you that's got a family, you're at that point where you care about lifespan, health, and feeling good anti-aging. What's your thoughts on Resveratrol? You know, the research seems to be that it stimulates these cert two receptors, which, you know, have been shown when they're stimulated that it increases longevity. That's, you know, it's the same receptor that will get stimulated when you fast. Okay. When you're on low calorie diet. So it kind of like is like a, it's like a fast without having to do a fast, so to speak. Yep. I've taken Resveratrol before. I don't even know if it's in my regiment, I have so many vitamins I take. I kind of rotate stuff around. I don't think it could hurt although I've read that, you know, you don't want as a bodybuilder trying to put on mass. I think cert two stimulation is not so great because I think it does reduce IGF-1 levels a little bit, which is exactly what they think. You know, less IGF-1, you live longer supposedly. I don't know, there's a direct correlation. I remember seeing, I got to give Steve Blackburn credit for the CEO. He says, what's good for bodybuildings, not good for living a long time. So in other words, inflammation is good for bodybuilding in a sense, not excessive, obviously chronic, but some inflammation is good because it stimulates, you know, a record on gas and release and signals through the body to repair and heal itself. Whereas, if you try to live a one time, inflammation is not good because that's, you know, can lead you, you know, heart disease cancer, all that other stuff. But once again, we're talking about a cute inflammation is good because that's stimulus for, hey, repair my body, chronic inflammation, no good. You know, they did a study when they gave non-story land the inflammatorys to older people and they're like 80s, 90s, 100 years old, and they found that those people actually built muscle better when they were on these non-storyials because they were chronically inflamed for whatever reason. I don't know if it was age or later or whatever, dilated. When they gave those same non-storyials to younger people, they found that it inhibited muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone because in those people, it reduced inflammation too much. So what the correct answer is that you want to have some inflammation, but not too much inflammation, because some inflammation will signals. That's why sometimes if you eat a very anti-inflammatory diet, like I do like fish and egg whites or something like that, it's a good idea to eat some red meat, or some chicken, and they're periodically to produce, excuse me, a little or a academic acid, so that your body and the rockathonic acid we know is one of the essential fatty acids, CO-megasix, is a precursor to inflammatory across the gland. And so you want to have some. So it's not that's why if you're a vegative vegan, which would be a very anti-inflammatory diet, you probably want to take like the X-factor stuff myself from Bill LaWellon on mydaypalumbo.com website, because that will give you that arachytonic acid because the organs are very devoid in arachytonic acid. And we know arachytonic acid is necessary as an essential fat for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and repair. So once again, it's all about, always about balance. And so you have to find that right balance. I know I've seen on your Instagram or sometimes on your when you've posted stuff in the past that I'm sure there are I'm assuming there are some people that are surprised when Dave brings his kids and they eat some chicken nuggets or something like that and you're capped in health. Everyone's super apparently know that right? Super everyone's a guru. So that being said, where I'm headed with this question is as I love I always appreciate how you always remind me how neurotic I am. Take you to know what that is a mutual love and respect there. And obviously at this point in my life, I'm not a parent. But I have some family members that have some of our kind of characteristics. But honestly, they're phenomenal parents. My question for you is as some that's neurotic with yourself in certain areas. But maybe you're like, you know, if my kid wants us some gummy bears in a twizzlers that we're going to do that, are there areas as a parent where you are neurotic that we like know iPads after APM or like, where, walk me through this where the day this, I'm shows up as a parent. Yeah, my, you know, my kids don't listen to anything I say unfortunately. My wife is really the one they listen to. But and they don't even still, my kids like walk all over us in a sense. But maybe we've enabled that. I don't know. I think my son is a lot like me, but he's also like a, a not a lit. He doesn't like to listen. With food, with kids it's weird because kids are weird eaters and stuff like that. So you don't want him to not, you don't want to make him so neurotic about food that they don't eat anything. So, you know, like my daughter-to-money and he, she's in the stage because they go through stages where she won't eat any protein. She just wants like carbs, frorly fruit and she'll eat, you know, anything with carbs that it passed the mac and cheese, she was just not eating protein. But you know what the doctor, the prenatures are that these kids will eat protein when they crave protein. And then I'll see my kids go through stage with all they want us protein. Like my son will be eating cheese burgers and they'll be eating chicken nuggets and you know what the truth is? I believe that kids can pretty much get away with eating anything. They're like, they're like little garbage disposal. They can, they can extract the nutrients they need from that because their bodies are so young. Now, if they're overweight because they're eating junk food. Like sometimes my, my, my second daughter will, you got to be careful with her because she can have that tendency. So I got to limit desserts with her. I try to get her stuff. It's like a little healthier and no fruit to high-fruits, a corn syrup and it's over there. But if you kids and not overweight and they're eating this food and they're metabolizing it, they don't worry about. IMean, I ain't McDonald's every day for 10 years and I have no clockages in my arteries because I had no, I have no body fat. In other words, I wasn't accumulating this stuff. So if they're burning it, I don't think it's the end of the world for them to eat stuff. And I'm changing my, my paradigm because before I was a parent, I'm like my kids are eating nothing bad. But it's an unrealistic paradigm because kids, you know, want to be kids. And so I, and if you're deprived, find if you deprive them when they're young, they tend to go crazy when they get older and they have the ability to go by the food themselves. My kids are like, I was de-sensitized. My idol junk food in my house is a kid. I don't know why my mother bought whatever we wanted. She was sugar cereals and all that out of the crap. By the time I had high school, I was becoming an athlete and learning about how to eat and something that I didn't even want to do that stuff anymore. I'm like, I already had it. I'm like, ugh, you know. So I think that there's a balance. I look, I eat to chicken nuggets. My kids leave over the chicken nuggets. I'm like my father. I clen off their plate. I eat everything. That's just the way it is. You know, we've got it. We went to a water, uh, what is it called? Sun splash. It's a water park. They got a snack bar. They, you know, they, wouldn't they got their, they got burgers, they got fries, they got chicken to, I eat chicken tenders. They, they're probably, the burgers are probably healthy and the chicken tenders because they're all breaded, you know, deep fried. I'm like, not at least a meat and chicken, you know. IMean, IMean, everyone's french fries and I'm eating the burgers that they leave over. So, you know, but I got a fastman haveles. I don't do it every day, but, you know, every, every day I'll eat a little snack here and there. But like I said, I can do that. If I was overweight or, you know, sometimes I, I'm always checking my blood sugars. My blood sugars are high. I'm like, oh, I gotta stay away from these fried foods, you know, or maybe I'm eating to any carbs. You know, I'm a little neurotic, but at the same time, I'm a little more relaxed now because I'm not really competing and stuff like that. I try to balance my protein intake with my carbon dicts. So, sometimes some days on a higher and protein. If I feel like really depleted, I'll go higher and carbs. I kind of go by instinct now, you know. My blood sugars are usually fairly good. Sometimes they run high if I eat a really, really crappy meal. They'll stay elevated for a couple hours. But my blood work is a little pretty normal at this point. So, I'm not really getting too crazy about anything. You know, I always check my kidney function. I know that's something you probably do to create any levels. If your creatine's normal, then there's nothing to worry about. If my, when my creatine was a little higher several years back, I was watching my protein intake. Now, my protein intake has raised it up a lot more and reduced my carbs a little bit more because my kidney function is fine. Now, I probably didn't even need to reduce the protein intake. But that's how I'm like, you, I'm totally neurotic. I go by blood work. If the blood work is not right, then I want to get my body arrested and let my kidneys regenerate a little bit. And when my creatine is normal, which is better, you know, almost like one or something like that or, you know, one point one, then I feel good eating whatever I want in terms of protein. So, you know, if that's what happens when you get old, you have to kind of like cycle your eating. I think that's a good way to put it. I just don't think at 53, 60 years old, unless you'recompeting, okay? Because if you'recompeting, obviously, differently. If you're not competing, there's no reason to be eating, you know, six, eight times a day, you know, jamming three, four, and jamming three times a protein in a day. I just don't think it serves a purpose. If you'recompeting, however, and that's something that you want to do, then obviously that's, then that's, you have to eat that way. Talk to me a little bit about, I don't know if, I think, when you lived in New York, you had at least one, you might have had two properties at some points or maybe even other things, right? So obviously, at some point you dabbled in real estate and, you know, you have your place here in Florida. Obviously, you've been close with Chris Hasido forever and when I can recall, I know he's comes from the real estate world. So he lives in operates and within that extensively. My question for you is, as someone that's been in that world and then, you know, I get, you see stuff on YouTube with people like, oh, by aromasingle family home when you can't, what's your thoughts on that is someone that's kind of been down that road? You know, the thing I, I did in New York, I had actually, it's 1.3, and I sold one of them. It was in that such a great area. It was in an okay area and I was making rent, but for some reason the town was breaking my balls about they wanted it to be owner occupied. It was a two family house, but they wanted to live in it. Why they changed the laws after however I owned it five years. So I sold it and I actually made a very good profit on it. I think IMade like 200 grand profit on it or something like that. And right after I sold it, the real estate dropped. So I actually did well on that. When I sold my two, I decided one house and then I had another house around the corner, I was renting one of them out. And when IMoved, when I decided to move and I sold both of them, it was at an all-time low. So IMade a few bucks in the houses, but I could it, right now they're they're double what I, what I actually sold mine from. So it's kind of like, oh, but the taxes there were really, really high. So when you buy a house to invest, you have to number one say, okay, it's not just how much the house costs. What is it, what is the maintenance on it? What is it going to cost you to make the house? What are your taxes? In New York, it's really high, you know, these the taxes are so high you almost can't make enough money on the rents because remember, there's always going to be months where something goes wrong. When someone's going to pay your rent, you're going to have to kick out a tenant that doesn't pay for two, three months. Are you going to lose money because of that because you're paying, you know, $2000 a month in taxes, you know, you have to, that has to be, you know, figured into the whole process. So I really didn't like being a landlord because you know, whenever I let my friends live there, I always had a problem because then they thought they didn't have to pay me. And when I went through real estate, I got better results. But when people are at the end of this string or they don't, they lose their job. But the one guy became an alcohol. Now I got a, I got a higher lawyer. I got to get him thrown out. I got to be vetted. It was a pain in the ass. So I really didn't enjoy being a landlord. However, I'm not opposed to buying real estate as an investment. I bought the house across street right there for here because I liked it. You know, I thought it would be nice to have be able to give it to my kids. It thought it was a good investment. The real estate here in Florida is crazy. I could almost, you know, double, maybe double my money. I don't even know. But I don't even, I don't want to sell it though, you know. So, and it'll never be this high again. It'll probably go back down. So, you know, you have to say, why are you buying the property? You buying it as an investment or to sell or to rent or you buying it because it's something down the road you want to have, you know, or as, because I think real estate is better than money in the bag. You know, so you can get something low at a good deal and you have the money in the bag and you can buy cash. I think that's, I think it's a great investment because it flanned and houses don't, you know, don't lose value if you get them in a good rate. Now, if you're buyinGHigh, now you can lose money. You know, so like now, if you go buy a house in Florida, you're going to pay a lot more than it's worth probably. And they might drop down, you know, considerably over the next two years. But everyone wants to move out in New York and they want to buy a house in Florida now. So the real estate's super high. So this is, but there will be a drop and that during that drop, if you have money and you want to invest, that's a good deal. I tell people all the time, if you're renting your crazy, you go buy a duplex, like you said, down here in Florida, you live in one side of it, you rent the other side out, the other side pays your mortgage and all your expenses you live for free. IMean, that's the first house you buy. You don't go buy a small house that you have to lay out money for and have a mortgage on because now you're, IMean, it's better than paying rent. They'll get me wrong. But if you can get someone else paying your mortgage and rent, even if it costs you a little bit more upfront, you'll make out like a bandit. And then I know people like you said, well, buy multiple units. So take every dime they have or they'll just, they'll get mortgages, they'll get, you know, they'll put down the minimum. But then you're banking on the fact that these people are going to pay you rent every month. Now, renting is good now because people want to rent. But that doesn't mean they're going to pay you because if they lose their job or COVID hits, people just don't care. They're just not going to pay. They're not going to, they're not going to lose a day as a night as sleep over it. But you will when you have to still pay your mortgage. So there's benefits and there's negatives, you know, it depends on, you know, if you like to gamble. But like I said, if you have money in the bank, I know guys like to got settlements for court cases or their job gave them something and they went, they actually go by a house, by a house, by a house, by a house. And they went and they, you know, over five years spent the money, I'm nothing and I have nothing to show for it. If they would have bought the house, lived in half of it and rented half of it, they would have something to show for their money, you know. Yep. Yeah. What I've been doing is, um, I'm experimenting with the now. So I won't know for seven years. But I'm one of those people that got grant card on YouTube. So I gave him money. So we'll see in seven or eight years if I get a lot of money back. Oh, yeah, I have a couple of you I didn't that. I know a couple guys that did that. I have a snake reader in friends with it. He's big until getting involved with these, these guys that have these funds with a, they buy developments and these, but complexes exactly. Yeah. He thinks it's a great deal. But you know what, I, I, I, I got a very bad taste. I invested in a gym a number of years ago about 10 years ago, 15 years ago. And I was making a good, I was making a good amount of money. They were paying me every month and then they just stopped. So I said, I'm never investing with someone else. If I'm going to do what I'm going to do myself now because you know what, I'm smart enough now to do what I learned the hard way. I'm not giving anyone else my money because you know what, if they need my money, then maybe it's not such a good investment. Why wouldn't they just use their money? You know, to do it. So now I understand there's people that get other people's money and then invest it and they're making money. If you're money, but I get worried when when that comes about. Yeah, because I have a very similar approach where I tell myself where once I give someone money, I have to assume IMight not ever get back. Yeah, that's what I've accepted that it's gone and if it comes back, I'm just going to be thankful. Yeah. But that's how it is because otherwise I wasn't at a point where I could buy a commercial building in Florida before COVID for $3 million. That was not going to be realistic. I didn't want to get into a situation like that. So final question is the close with today is, it's funny because we talked about it before we went on camera, but not specifically, you want to snake business for some people. Now, what's the hardest thing about owning a snake business for you? And I believe it's one thing, what's the hardest thing about it that people want it now? Well, number one, I don't have enough time to dedicate to it. I just hired someone to find a full-time worker and he's been really, really good. This guy, Pa, blowing. He's, uh, he's into snakes too and he was one of my customers and he lives local to me. So he's really been helping me up. But the thing about business, especially if you own more than one business, is you, you need help, okay? Because you don't want to create another job for yourself. You want to create a way to make money. Now, I, I, I pre-sakes, I love the snakes. I wouldn't do it if I didn't like it. I don't do anything. I don't like, okay? So, I really love it, but I, I escalated the size of my collection. People ask me how many snakes you got. And I've been telling about 350. He, this guy's probably counted my snakes. I have 650. Okay? So I underestimated my collection by 50%. And now I have babies hatching from my egg. So, you know, have you, another couple hundred. So, you know, you have to, you know, that, it is a lot of, you know, poop to clen and a lot of mouths to feed. And there's a monthly expense to that. And I don't, that's not an intimidate because I know I've been selling, I sell a lot of snakes. And I use my YouTube channel, my muscle serpets University YouTube channel to educate people like I do here in our muscle. And that's how I sell snakes because people, you know, feel comfortable buying for me. And I, and I, I'd like to believe that I have a good quality animals, um, and, and good, cool, new stuff. I'm always producing. And that's, that's the creative side of me. That's like the, instead of painting a picture, I'm painting a picture with animals. So, um, but the take home message here, the hardest thing to do in businesses, if you don't like the business, or you don't like what you're doing, you're creating a very, very, very big job for yourself that you're going to hate every single day. I like what I'm doing, or I would not breed animals. And so, that the easy part for me is the fact that I'm doing something that I really like. The hard part is that is managing all the different working parts between, luckily my wife runs the, the nutrition business and the arts muscle, all the books and stuff like that. She does all the orders and everything like that for daypalomber.com. But it's a team effort. You know, we, you know, I'm always moving myself around and then you want to make sure you have time for your kids. So, that's the hardest part. Finding the time to do what I need to do over there. Final question for you, because you just gave some great business advice for people. And I was thinking about this from a more personal one is I know you've talked about it over the years. I've heard you mentioned it in your late 20s, maybe late 20s, early 30s, you were married once. Yeah. Now, you're in a second chapter of your life. You have a family, you're married again. As someone that's, you know, judged us this now and kind of making it all come together, what kind of advice would you give to people as someone that did it once and then did things again? What have you learned in the context of relationship? Now that your 53 would say, hey, this is what I've learned is really the keys to making relationship work. Now that I have a lot more experience. The key is you attract who you are. You understand what I'm saying? Yes, I do. The reason why a lot of us are not in a, there are a few people meet their high school sweetheart and go through the whole life and die, you know, 90 years old, holding each other's hands. Okay? Because most people change as they as life progresses, they hit different stages in their life. And the person who they met when they were 22 that served them beautifully then, right? The relationship was amazing then because that, what, who you are then, no longer serves you when you get the 30 years old. And then the person you made a 30 years old, okay, which was heavily, right? It was perfect. Everything worked perfect. No longer serves you when you're 40 years old. Because now you have some people, some people never change. So, those people, so you can go through relationships and I've been through relationships and with people who I'm no longer in a relationship with, and then the same as they were, I changed you know. So, I, you know, no longer attracted that person. So, now I'm attracted something different, you know. So, I think that, you know, you shouldn't get so hung up necessarily on the fact that you made a mistake or that you didn't do anything right. You know, when I was bodybuilding, it was a selfish lifestyle. And I was dating people who were, you know, selfish too in a sense and, and it worked, right? I wasn't looking to have kids or anything like that. But when I started not competing anymore, and I wanted to move on to that next level of having a serious relationship with someone who I would, I'd even consider to be the mother of my children, you attracted a different person. That's when I attracted my wife. So, you know, that's just part of life. And I think we all go through saying, oh, I gotta find that person, oh my god, you know, I'm gonna go to this club this time, I'm gonna go to this now don't even worry about it. You will attract, you'll find them into supermarket or you'll find them in, you know, my first, my first wife, it's funny. I was very depressed, I was in medical school, it was my birthday, my sister's, I'm gonna take you out to a club to your birthday, I was dieting for competition, I'm like, I don't want to go out, I'm like, I'm just dieting, no, you're going out. Okay, we go to this club and my sister had been telling about this girl that she knew from the gym or something like that. And my sister says, insist on holding my wallet, because I have one of those big, fat Italian wallets, I always had them. And I had my rent money in there and I had no money at this point. And my sister lost my wallet. It goes in the bathroom and leaves my wallet on the sink or something like that. And they call me on the overhead speaker that they found my wallet. Oh, it's like, I don't want it, and they are describing it and it was mine. I knew it right away. I'm like, do you have my wallet? She's like, oh, so I go in there, of course, everything's in there except the money, which is my rent. And then, so I'm like, really mad at my sister now. And I'm hungry and I don't want to be there. And then all of a sudden this girl, you know, comes up, hey, what's up? She thinks my, my sister's my girlfriend. I guess I had seen her in the gym a couple times. I didn't know that was the same girl. My sister was talking about and turned out to me that, you know, my first XY foot ever barber. And we went up talking, she came here and I said, I got to get out of here. My sister lost my rent and I didn't just, I didn't even care. I could care less than make anyone on that particular day. You know, usually you're out looking, looking, look, I had that, like, I don't give her shit attitude. I just want to get out of here. You know, I'm hungry. I think it was the last thing. And that's how it happens, you know? And so, you know, you attract to your arm. It worked. I really, really, because I was with her for like, you know, eight or eight years, something that's so, but it was, but the point is that I think people try too hard and then they try to go back and analyze what did I do wrong. Well, you know, what you probably did nothing wrong. You know, you probably, that's who you work. You change who you are. You attract someone different. You know, final question for I keep saying it. But now I got to work in one more because I'm just fascinated to hear your answer. So, you have three kids now, so you're like a professional baby-making factory over there. Was going from two to three hard or was it just business as usual? Like, I've always heard ones like, wow, this is a change to you're like a crew. And then three, what's three like, is it any different? Three was hard at the end, because then I, you know, I really had to take a really, really active role because obviously my wife couldn't, you know, head on, three kids and she's with the baby and so I had a really, you know, be up, be available a lot more to watch the other two kids. And yeah, that's definitely the more you have the more level, the higher the level of responsibility. And you know, try taking three of those kids out, you know, with you. My wife and I weren't together. They would be my sons everywhere. You know, they're running around like lunatics. It, it, it absolutely is, but it's, it's good. I, to be honest with you, I really wouldn't, I know my wife wants more would say she would want more. I don't want anymore. I think three is great. And this is, after reason that I don't want more kids, it's just that I think when you get too many, it's like you start neglecting some of them. And I don't, I don't want to ever, I want them all to feel like they got my attention. Even though they're super jealous over, you know, if this one gets this and this one doesn't get that and I want to go with that and, you know, that kind of stuff. But it, it does get morecomplicated. I think three is, is ideal right now. And we have three bedrooms upstairs. So, I don't want to start doubling up, you know, kids and third bedrooms. Everyone 12 years old lives in the house across the street, plus some 50s, my wife's, I'm 53. I don't want to be 90 and be taking my kids the graduation, you know. Well, I recently heard like Clint Eastwood of course, Super Famous, his son's got Eastwood. I think he had him when he was like seven. Oh, I believe it. Yeah, I believe it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, some of these guys had some, some Michael Douglas didn't also have kids like, yeah, you're right. Yeah, Captain Zeta Jones. So there you go, you're like, you're like, you're like, the body building version of Clint Eastwood. Where we got him? By the way, he said, 20 Chris, Chris, the Cito had had, um, because young kid, you know, he's got two grown teenagers, but he's got two young ones too. So I'm like, he's goT4 in their all boys, you know. So because they were trying to go for the girl and having got the girl. You know, so. Yeah, well, that's good. Well, I think that's what we're going to close with here today, Dave. So thanks for as always making the time and educating the listener. So until next time, we're out.

=== FILE: Dave Palumbo's Father's Day Fun at Sun Splash Family Waterpark! [njQbLHl23rc].txt ===

Alright, we just got the sun splashed. This is the fall of the day 2021. We're going to be going with the kids. It's all the water rides and everything Logan you excited Logan's got his goggles on. There's my armus she's got her hat on. Alright you excited come here come over here turn around look around look at the camera You're going to have fun today you get your blue hair alright pretty cool is daddy looking pretty ripped on fall this day yeah grandma see that too We even got her out of the house we go yeah We got a tiger up and get her in the car but she can't alright Logan what's the first ride you want to go on The green one the green one you want to go on the big water slide you want to stone the small ones I don't know what's the green one so the big one Green one Shail you oh she'll get diaper we didn't see her so alright she'll get diaper change Alright we're going to go in hope that I'll be able to document some of this because I need you guys to live by Cariously through my follow you says I like to say we'll see you later tell her say hi to everyone Hi are you going to go on the water you are you going to go down the slides I don't know if you're going to change a clue what's going on the big one of the small one You want to go on the small one okay good job let's get let me see that blue hair that's pretty cool blue hair You want to go on the small one okay we'll start with some Logan what are you going to do big ones of small ones You just only want to green one okay Alright here we are sun splash ThEQuestion is how daring is day pull up I'm going to do today to go in any of these water rides I know my style going everything pretty much That's a pretty big one I don't think I'm going to go that high we'll see Alright guys we're going in the water Logan you ready to go and have some fun Logan you ready? Where is he? There he is I'm going to bring Santa Are you ready? I'm going to go in the water Are you going to go in the water? Yes Are you going in the water? We got to get the best sun so they can go act like maniacs and I drown How would you please do that? Alright maybe I can film some of you guys Alright Are you my mom up on this big slide? Logan you went already right? You are fine There you are No that's that damn Grandma thought that was damn That damn It's dark in there You couldn't see Let's see what see when mama comes down Nope that's not mommy either I can't turn the camera if I know so they turn it off I'm going to miss them I got to play some like a really nice music here Sharpies Don't touch on Don't touch on They got a life card there with a fucker because otherwise you crash into the side of the pool See Nope that's not mommy either I'm fine Stop going on here I don't know You think are you checking out Logan? You might have checking out I think I'll have checking out I did this once The big slide It was really high up there I don't know if anyone could see that There it is Nope there's a little boy You can see how high up that goes It's completely pushed black dark Logan you can't see anything Nope that's that mama There's a lot of people coming down here Keep filming because I know the second I turn it off That's it Nope Not A lot of dare doubles And Logan you're not afraid to go in the really big one I guess I'm just screaming Nope It's a little boy in his father Let's see I think mom and I should be next Let's see Nope I thought that was that was it But mom and I are a little daughter I have a feeling my daughter is checking out She's like me she has like the big crazy heights I like the concept of doing it But I just I don't enjoy that much It's like some misguided stuff They got it gone I don't believe this woman she's not afraid That is really easy It's easier than a bite Yes, I'm a yellow Nope I'm not already Another brave little girl Did you see you can do it yourself, Logan? You do? Alright maybe you'll go up there but I'm alone Mama will take you up there you can end yourself It's a big walk up these steps Even though it takes a while to get up there You're walking forever I don't see already in my mom I haven't seen one I think it would be walking down the other side Not coming down yet Up there's a little boy like you're a dog Whoa, wipe out It's a lot of speed That wasn't our life that certainly wasn't Mama Did you think you could end that light side, Logan? Oh, here comes Mama Here they come I hear them There they are, are you wave? Are you wave? Here they come Here they come Here comes Logan Here comes Logan and grandma Woo Ari and Daddy Alright Alright, it's lunchtime now We're going to the Snackmortie some unhealthy food I have to say that I did conquer the water slide that I didn't think I was going to do I'm going to flip this around and show you Alright, you see that monster water slide in the back there As my son would say the green slide He talked me to take him down that thing Although my wife had already gone out with a few times I said if my son did do it I got to do it So I conquered my fear I went up there I did it, I didn't enjoy that much But it was Logan locked it right You love that water slide You want to go back on it So that's the idea we will probably wind up on that water slide again today But now I'm an expert in it So let's get some food Alright, Ari, what do you mean now You got your cheeseburger in prize Say a favorite I'm going to eat it I have chicken tenders I know I was going to go with it Chicken wrap but it doesn't look that good Alright, I got the chicken tenders They probably have six tons of grease in them Ari doesn't like the lettuce So Daddy's going to get the lettuce Mom has got cheeseburger fries Shea was sleeping Grandma's got a pretzel I should have got the pretzel that's actually got And Logan's got his cheeseburger fries You'd love to eat it, right? Look Say hi never remember Everyone's tired Everyone's tired, I think everyone needs nap time I don't need nap time I don't need nap time Okay Don't nap time Good job, Logan Pull it right to you Logan's Wow, he's a little ninja warrior Hold the rope, Logan Keep going Good job Come over here So let go, pull it close to you You can do it You can do it, you're strong Pull it close, get that middle Right, good job You're like a little ninja warrior Alright, pay attention Look what you're doing Get the other one, you got to get in the middle of the other one I'm going to be the worst coach Like when I saw him play sports Forget about it I'll be the guy that everyone's embarrassed of You got it, Logan In the middle, get yourself in the middle of that one Pull it in, pull it in You can do it Alright One more, you got it, look Pay attention, focus Get right in the middle of that one Pull it in You got it You got it I'm a real guy, you got it Hi five First time Hi five Alright, Logan man Alright, I'm about to go with my sign on a very fast water slide right now I will show you this water slide in second I'm going to turn around here This is the one right behind, that's very steep My wife Amanda will be filming it And hopefully I will be successful I'm not like these water slides I'm getting into my Zen light state right now And I am going to do the water slide Here we go How was it? Good Good Yes And the end of fathers They will throw really in the father's day This is back at my monster pond As you can see in my backyard You are in my many pond over here And as you can see I took a nice gash out of my head With the corridor To end fathers day at Sun Splash Can never end My father always said they ruined every holiday As kids I figured now that I'm a dolphin I'm getting older I'll start ruining a holiday I hope not Anyway Be careful when you open up big car doors They can hit you in the head and take a chunk out of it Hopefully all you fathers are having a great father's day out there Happy Father's Day 2021

=== FILE: Dave Palumbo's MY LIFE： Trip to Dr Blau- Part 1 [XtauTEtnFd8].txt ===

I'm the Apo Lomba and I'm about to give you a little glimpse into my work. This is my life. It's another day in my life and we're here. In my kitchen, I'm preparing to take another trip up to Dr. Blouse. We have some more evaluations from the do and some more updates up there and much just to make you want to make my quick meals. I wish I would show you how IMade it but I should put my rice into balls into a ceramic bowl. I don't use plastic anymore because I get the plastic goes into the food. Put my minute rice, brown minute rice into the here. I got my water, put it in the microwave, six minutes, comes out. I actually put a few frozen peas in there. Throw it on a plate, a little sea salt on it. I got my biggest discovery, pink salmon, wild salmon, bond bumblebee. This is round. You don't really get wild-coated. Here my dough is working the background. I put a packet in here, mix it in. Now what I do is I go over here, I let it. My favorite is a ruga. I don't know if you guys have tried a ruga but it's fantastic. It has a really good taste of the bed in the salad. I get it in the ruga like herb land. I have some other stuff for that. My dough is a ploss. I'll make a salad on top of the salmon and the rice. I'll get my microwave in a little. I'll speak to the nutrition. I'll add a little of that. Not too table spoons worth. Okay. A little more salt. I like salt, let's get some pepper. I got my alcoholized water. I've been going to add a very good cup. I got a little apple-brack sample side of it in here. Very good to keep your city level down. You're by the motion of toxins. Put it back. Tees water. We're not going to waste. You can be surprised. I'm ready to eat. I'm going to eat. We'll load up. Get it in the car. We're going to head up to the horses. Okay. We're back here at Dr. Mordakai Blows, office in White Plains, New York. Dr. Mordakai, the response we got from the last little installment we did here of my life was so positive and people wanted to just know more and more. Since you are the gynecromastiat expert, I want to get a slightly more difficult case. For a very difficult case for you to evaluate, Jeff really didn't have any gynecromastiat. So I said, let me bring you a more difficult case. Someone who had it done prior to the visiting you by another surgeon, maybe didn't get such a great job, has some left and needs you to evaluate what needs to be fixed. Because you said to me, I think what 50% of what you do is fixing other plastic surgeons problems. I'm 25%. I'm 25%. Reconence in gynecromastiat is unfortunately, it's very common. According to the literature, there is between 10% and 35%. And most of the recurrences on people that had just liposuction, but there is also significant amount of recurrences in people that had the liposuction and exasuction of the glent. Jeff magic is an interesting case because he didn't even have a plastic surgeon performed in surgery. He had a general practitioner. I had a few, but IMust have done it by plastic surgeons. For the people out there watching this, you might be considering the surgery. You don't really want to have a general surgeon do this surgery because it's really it's really requires an expert touch of the surgery. Yeah, I would say in general it's befellable that the bald cellified plastic surgeon is going to do it. And a plastic surgeon of course, it is experienced with gynecromastiat. Because that's the most important aspect, gynecromastiat experience. Absolutely. It is the most important aspect. And IMust say that there are only very few gynecromastiat cases in the US about 18,000 a year compared to breast augmentation that there are 500,000 a year. And therefore not every plastic surgeon has enough experience with gynecromastiat surgery. How many did you do per year? I do over 200, maybe even over 250 every year. And what is the typical plastic surgeon do? According to the American Society of Plastic Surgery, they are like 6 or 7,000 bald cellified plastic surgeon. And if you calculate, if 18,000 are done a year and let's say 6 means a typical plastic surgeon does 3 gynecromastiat cases a year. But if you want to do more than a week? Yeah, but probably I do sometime more than this. Today did 3 cases. 3 cases today? Yes, so you've already exceeded the most of the gynecromastiat cases in all the other services. I would say a plastic surgeon that does more than 50 years has better experience. But unfortunately the arm to many plastic surgeon to do more than 50 years. Obviously we've talked about this before. Removing the entire gland is very important, especially in a body book. Absolutely. It's very, sometime it's very deceiving, sometimes especially in bodybuilders. Sometimes when you see a person you see, oh, he has a small gland and then once you go inside. And once I examine him, I know that the gland amount of glandulity is a lot more than we do. Then the person thinks he has. And that's a matter of experience. Once you do a lot of cases, it's easier for me to evaluate it. But usually with the bodybuilders, I do exercise of the glandulity show means the breast tissue, the gynecromastiat tissue. And rarely there is a need to do liposuction. However, I do very, very few of them. It's mostly gland. And once the gland is removed completely, the important point is that it doesn't come back because there's no tissue. If you leave a little in there, it can grow back up. Okay, that's right. You have to leave a little behind the aruyola. You have to leave it between 2 and 5% of the gland behind the aruyola and all of some support. But you have to be careful to excise between 95 and 98%. It's very large enough. And with bodybuilders also denyshing about bodybuilders that they amount of fat, the percentage of fat of skin fat is very, very low. So you really don't have to do liposuction. And the chance to have depression in bodybuilders is extremely small. Yeah, do surgeons make mistakes, everybody may be cutting some of the muscle out or maybe not evenly removing the gland. Is that a problem? So you know Jeff, and I'm sure he's going to tell you this in a few minutes when he shows you is doing examination. He has a sliding orientation on the side that he did get done. Yeah, IMean, it's usually it's not the muscle because the muscle is deep. The muscle, it happens sometime, but that's well. Usually it's unevenly, you cut part of the gland, you live another part and you don't take it in as one unit. I usually try to take the gland as large as it is in one unit. Very important point. So you take the whole gland and one shot, you're not slipping pieces all day. That's it, in one shot. What's the advantage of that? What's the disadvantage of that? The advantage of that, after you don't live any glands behind and you have less bleeding, you don't have to choose and pick what to take, what not to take, whatever you see, IMean you just have to exercise in one unit. I've never seen it because you get out of a tiny hole this big, you get this monstic length you work it out somehow. That's a little bit. You've fallen with tweezers and teasing it. I would say the incision would be about one inch, in the lower cases, more than one inch. And the gland sometime, it might be 10 inches in lengths and 5, 6, 7 inches in. So it's a good thing in your brain. So it's a good thing in your brain. So it's a good thing in your brain. So it's a good thing in your brain. That's a good thing in your brain. But the skin is also elastic. So you can remove it and you can fold the gland there. So that's how you can remove the very large gland with a very, very small incision. Well let's get, yeah. I also want to say something. The choice of incision is very important. Also the way you do it, IMean it's important, the way you do it in the chest and the location of the incision is important and most of the plastic surgeon we do it, sub-o-o-loss, mean under the RIO-la. And then the nipple and it's going to be about one to one in the air pinch. So unfortunately I see a thing about 800 to 1000 new patients a year with Gana Kamaisa and some of them already had surgery and you see incision in many places. Including the axi-lare, IMean under the R-Pate which is not a good area to it. Because there is even a small incision that may be a half an inch or less is very noticeable. Right. Unlike the incision under the nipple that it's a very good area as far as healing. I have a small area and I have no scar when you did it. IMean people can take a look. There's nothing you can't tell. There's absolutely no scar. And the countless other people who friends of mine that you've done have no scar. So obviously you have the right touch and that's important because you know what? I've seen guys with a scar extends past the area. And it's horrible that it's a nightmare. IMean you got that you got that for life. There's nothing you can do. Oh, you're absolutely. You cannot do it by the scar. Always you're going to have a scar. So basically when I do the surgery, obviously when you do you have a scar but the scar it's in because pick was it's not prominent and it's hard to see it. And IMust say the action I get from people is that all like my family or my no girlfriend they don't even know I did it. So I would say 99% of the time if you do this if you do the incision in the right place and the right way. It's very very low key I would say it's not prominent right. But let's take a look at Jeff and see what's going on because he's very unhappy. I wanted him to come up with you to see him and to see what you can do because you know when people are unhappy about the way their chest looks it messes up their mental state. And we don't want Jeff to be any more messed up mentally that he might know anything. So let's brinGHim in here and take a look and I want you to evaluate what's going on. Oh absolutely. I'm good to do it. Dr. Gua. Yeah you can come in. Jeff for your own. I'd start to run. I'll still make you. Okay. You can see it actually. Oh okay. Okay Jeff, let me ask you first a few questions and then you can tell me. And I understand from my secretary that you already had the surgery. How many years ago? Roughly I say 10 or it was probably less probably about seven. Okay that's okay. So you had it quite a few years ago and you had just only like the early that time. You don't understand one side. Yes. So we'd side you had. Left side. Okay. And so what happened after the surgery? Well I had to lay off for a month and then I noticed you know, I took a while. The nipple looked in the weird and then there was an indentation that stayed minor. But it wasn't done by a plastic surgeon or something. I think he did a pretty good job. Took about a month and a half to heal and then I started trening again. And that was it you know. I had to. No no but what happened with the other side now? The other side didn't. The reason I didn't get both sides done is because the other side had not developed for whatever. Yeah but what happened since then? Well you know what? It's grown. And it bothers me. You know, the key to the beach is something you know sometimes if it's warm. It tends to kind of like inflate and sense of show more. It's all throughout tall over on that side or whatever. And I don't like the way it looks if I wear tight shirts. Sometimes the side looks a little bigger and I just want to get it taken care of. Can you feel a mess though? Yeah I play with it all the time. IMean not in a funny way. I understand. I understand. You know, just know that it is still. You're teaching me. I wanted to take a knife and cut it out. IMean to be honest. Quite honest. I understand this feeling you know. But you know it's there because you fail to eat. And you can see it. You can't see it. Absolutely. It's noticeable. Other people can see it. You can see it. No. It's not too. Your imagination. It just grew up since then. The master had also some gynecromascia when you did the left side. But probably it was smaller and with the time it became larger. Let me ask you in general are you in good health? As far as I know. Yes. You have any medical problems or any allergies? Well medical body wise or mentally. No no. I'm talking with. Are you talking about physically? Well yeah. Medical problems don't have. And they don't you smoke. Like cigarettes to me or like a cigar. So if I go out and have a couple drinks. Like that's like. But you don't drink excessively. Not really socially. Absolutely. Okay. You have any allergies to medications? No no. I'm very fortunate that way. Yeah. When do you think the first time if you go to you a child do do I doubt it? When did it start? Well I don't know if I should be telling you this but I guess I will. It started later on in life. Did you have it when you were a little like 12 o'clock in the morning? I didn't get any antibiotics towards. I don't know if I really should be telling you this but I am. And let me run after a couple years it started to develop. And that's the reason I don't think it was a genetic thing. I don't think I would have been. Okay. So then you started and then one side it was done and you not so happy with the result. But in then the other side started a few years later. It means like a few years ago you started to have gone to come to my side the other side. Yes. After we're going to examine you and you know see exactly what you're talking about. Yeah. You can see that it's really it's unequal it's not symmetric. Here you can feel a mess of dynamical mastatation between your two fingers. Here you already had surgery you have some indentation. And we see the scar was done in the right place but you still live indentations. So you was taken as seen partially not completely. So therefore if you don't take the entire gynecromaster is one mass you take on the partially. IMean it might happen because probably it was taken piece by piece. So here they took a larger piece in the middle they took less here and less here. And it looks like some of the gynecromaster still there. So you can see that's a really demonstration a good demonstration of a person that said surgery and I don't know why it was unilaterally that time because if you're even both. You're both who's that one pretty close. No, no. If you have both sides you shouldn't do one side enough that the other side you should do them really in the same. Or the time. The reason I didn't is this one didn't have it at the time. Okay. But anyway now you have to have it. You must have had it. I know you still can see it. You can see the nipple here. Yeah. And if I go this way. Yeah. You see how it's flat. Yeah. That's okay. Now I feel like also it's up in here because it's not the chest. It's at least flatter here. And I remember before it laid flatter on this side. No, this is not a kind of commercial you can feel it's about this area. Okay. This is no, some muscle may be a little fat and some some scant. No, you see. I can see it's a little bit of a. If I let that go is if I grow my chest a little that expand. No, IMean this is with the age people just get it. IMean that's not my chest. This whole out a little. If your baby chest is going to be less than the other. Everybody has some of this. Have a drumming somebody fat with that help. I don't know if it's going to help a lot. It's not really trying to stay. Who can solve it can't get rid of that. That's good. Okay. We're going to do it.

=== FILE: Dave Palumbo's MY LIFE： Trip to Dr Blau- Part 2 [c7vSct745s8].txt ===

On the Apple Unboxing, I'm about to give you a little glimpse into my work. This is my life. I just got done examining Jeff and what I saw that he had a little incision in the left of the press that were the Gannamcomascia, the left was going to come as I was moving for about 10 years ago. And there's some indentation towards the middle side of the chest. But only the left side. The right side you can see and feel the Gannamcomascia tissue, which is the glangelot tissue. It's very defined. And I say it's abouT4 or five inches in diameter. And it's mainly the bodies under the aurora, and the Ebola complex. And you can feel the head of the Gannamcomascia and the tail of the Gannamcomascia. So I think that the patient now is going to need, if you want it corrected, you're going to need surgery in the right side. And the surgery will include mainly, excision of the Gannamcomascia tissue or the glangelot tissue, and some revision of the left chest. In order to try to correct or at least to try to make the indentation less noticeable. Let me tell you a little bit about the surgery. And if you have any questions, you can ask anytime. So basically, you need the ZZV side and you need the excision of the Gannamcomascia tissue. I don't, in your case, if you need some liposuction, it's going to be minor, but it's mainly the excision of the glangelot tissue that you have. And as I say, revision of the left side. Usually the surgery is going to take about one hour. And it can be done either with local anesthesia or with IV sedation, which is like general anesthesia. It's similar to general anesthesia. But this will be your choice and we're going to talk later on about this. The incision you're going to have from the surgery is going to be under the nephanol, under the reoline. It's going to be about one inch long. And as I said previously, usually the incision is not conspicuous. And most of the people wouldn't know that you have incision. Also, once we do the surgery, so far on the last 25 year, I had no accounts of the Gannamcomascia. I have onEQuestion for you. You mentioned that there may be liposuction involved. Now, would that be if it has somehow the fat has crawled up in the chest that you see when you're going to? No, once I open it, if I see this some fat there and I think that it's going to add to the results of the surgery. Maybe to add to the results and I think the results better. Then IMight do some minor liposuction, but there's better chance that we're not going to do any liposuction. And now as far as the surgery, the regular steps that I tell people to do is to stop any supplements and not to take any aspirin or odd wheel. How far, how many did you have? I would say abouT3 weeks before surgery, is that local? If I want to do local, generally, it really doesn't matter. Just stop taking, because I take some pain medication for my back per cassettes. I can't take medication if you need it. Don't take it until it's done. You can do it up until the surgery. Don't take it. Don't take it until the surgery. But don't take any supplements like fish or lomengas. What about medication for depression? You can take any medication except I'll have the list of the medication. You're taking an hotel, but in general, I'm excited. You don't have to stop the medication. Or depression. You can take the medication. Now, basically, once you decide, once you know all the fact that you decide that you won surgery, you can book it with my secretary at $1 million. It really was a pleasure talking to you. Yes, you too. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. I appreciate a lot. Thank you. All right, Jeff, you just got done with your consultation with Dr. Blau. I brought multiple people here before. You kind of like were a slightly different case because you had one side done. You had a little bit of an indentation. You never had the other side done. You feel comfortable after hearing Dr. Blau talk about the surgery and seeinGHis cases. That's a therapy. Absolutely. Absolutely. IMean, I had it done, like I said, you know, by general practitioner. This guy is, you know, a genius with this. Talk to our audience here a little bit because this is important. And I know how I felt when I had it. How obsessed do you get with this thing when you know it's there and you're afraid to take a shirt off to the beach. And you worry about if you wear a T shirt if it looks like you have a woman's breast damage. Talk about the psychological ramifications of that. Yeah. To be honest with you, David, you know, the first thing that irritates me the most out of this whole thing is that I wanted to cut the damn thing out to be honest. You actually wanted to take a knife and cut it out of your own chest? Absolutely. That's how it feels. You know, it's like if you have your woman and your fat, your you go in the mirror and you're crunch it up and you want to just take a scissor and talk to women and I would myself, I had it. And cut the damn thing off and so with the freaking, you know, That probably the best decision to take. I have a big scar. So it's really bothered you for looking. I know because you've called me on the phone numerous times to talk about this for a year and probably if I didn't cut you off, you would talk about it for hours. And I understand I could relate to what you said to me. You said that freaked me out. I was like, he knows exactly what I'm going through. He said, and I bet you play with it every night. I wasn't playing with it every night. It was playing with it every morning, every afternoon and every evening and in my sleep. You become obsessed with the like nodule or lump or whatever and you can't sleep just rolling with rolling it and like you just don't want it there. And then if you look in the three mirrors that show you like all angles or if you get video tape to whatever and if like I said, when my nipples are hard, you can't really see it. So it's okay, but if it's I'm at the beach or in some place warm. Sometimes they're we're sure, you know, kind of like this and if it's tight enough, IMean, you can see it. I could see it. Yeah. And that can be self conscious. Like I wanted to like put like a strap on or like a band-aid or some, do you feel like when this is third and then you're going to feel like it was a relief. My self-steam is going to definitely be better. Just how I feel about myself. I'm very, you know, we're all vain because we're in trouble. When you work out, you want to look good and it's really, and when I was when IMet the beach, I find myself going to get hot when it's cold. I'm a chilly. It's okay because it retracts, but when it's hot, I find myself holding a towel over the right side of my chest. It's ridiculous. So that's, you know, it makes yourself conscious and this would be a really nice. Have you ever had surgery before? Well, I had, I'm going to start from that. I find, yeah, I had actually my chin done. I had from doing an about steroids back in the day. I had developed fat from doing a deep-o or whatever. And I had this removed it, created a double chin on the shoulders. So it's a few times less to surgery yourself before. For people out there who might not have had it, what's the greatest fear you have going into the surgery? Well, IMean, I guess anybody would be thinking, you know, am I going to die? Or am I going to be disfigured? I think that's the own. Well, IMake sure to do research. Right. And that's my point. When you see Dr. Blyas before and after you've got lunges to die. Doesn't that make you feel good inside it, like you feel comfortable? Well, IMean, I just felt, yeah, good and you have faith that you don't worry. IMean, the guys on thousands of surgeries on this, you know, countless. So I have no, no, you know, has I'm not going to say none. There's always something in the back of the mind. But for the most part, I don't. You get a little nervous and then that's about it. We're going to keep an eye on Jeff after a surgery. We're going to interview him again and we're going to see some after pictures. And we're going to see what Dr. Blyas does to revise this and improve on his look. And hopefully you're self-esteem will be better. And Jeff, thanks for always coming on. Thanks. If anyone wants to catch Jeff's, what, what do you call yourself? Well, I'm a dating coach and a traction coach. I help men flirt efficiently with exceptionally attractive women. But any women in general and Jeff magic and you can see me on the arts. Just Google in arts video, Jeff magic dating. You're on the happy muscle TV show. You're on the whole episode. You can watch him in action. Well, you can catch me. Can I throw a plug in the show? Sure. Go ahead. My phone number is 631-258-8595. Or you can go to my website, which is learndatingmagic.com. And I take men out, moles, coffee shops, clubs, bars, beaches, and teach them how to approach women anytime. Anywhere. Can you get a teach peat the end? Peat the video guy. I had to pick up a girl right after we get out of here. I absolutely agree. All right, you want. Let's get moving. You are. Yeah. I'm a bit of a full-busting wise ass, so keep me as a love mate or hate me. You know the type. So, yeah, your head might be slightly bigger than hers. But other than that, other than that, you're like duplicates. You're 22. Thank you. 27, really? Yeah, I'm not going to give her a compliment. You're terrible. The terrible theory. I don't live here. I live on, well, do you know what Huntington is on the one? I don't know where that is. Do you go there? Sure. Now, how are you related to these ladies? My girl. The girls, to give birth. It's a baby magic that turned into growing up rats. Okay, let's go. Who are you under there? Who are you? There you are. Oh, okay, look at those brown eyes. The worst I've ever seen. Yeah. So, yeah, you gave birth to two very terribly wonderful girls. No, I'm just teasing you. Yeah, no, it's really weird. It's like a group of scientists like Clonju. And basically the reason I can mow her is because I'm ballsy. And I'm a musician, so I do magic shows. And you look like her. It's weird if you ever run into somebody like that. I was an acting class. The first thing I said to her was, are you, you know, butt head. And she didn't like it. Yeah, I didn't. And then she saw how I interact with everybody else. And she got used to it. And then we became friends. And then we wanted to be each other. But it didn't work out. So, it's pretty much it. So, I've been twinning to help more you. Yeah. It's for me. Well, she changed her name. It was John. Well, originally was Jennifer. And she changed it to John. I don't know. Jennifer. It was Jennifer. It was Jennifer. It was Jennifer. So, you guys are going in here to eat or what are you doing? Yeah. We're in the 13th. That's right. Do you before go be honest? Do you guys like magic? I'm going to guess something. I'm going to guess something. I'm going to guess something. Ready? Watch. I want all three of you. This will tell me if you're really related or not. I'm going to guess from one to ten, you're going to keep the number in your head. The first number that comes in your head, you ready? You got it? What's the number? No, not that loud. Number between one and ten. Keep it to yourself and when I'm ready, I want you to say it. Okay. I'm going to tell you what it is. And you tell me from right. That's an amendment. Very tired. Okay. You got your number in your head. Between one and ten, you picked it. You got yours. You got yours. I guess two. I guarantee you. I'm going to guess at least two. Two of you. You have. Don't change it on me. If you guessed one and then guessed the other, you'll throw me off. Two of you, at least two of you picked seven. And maybe one of you picked eight. Nope. I don't mind being wrong. It's kind of fun being full. What was it? Do. What? You guys aren't related. I'll show you one more checker. It's cute. Mom give me your hands. Okay, then I'll sweaty right. I just use the napkins. We got sushi. That's okay. I'm just eating it. Okay, this is a fun trick. Okay. Come over here. Spend a circle. Good. I just made myself. IMade you disappear. I'm over here now. You're over there. I saw you spot. Isn't that cool trick? It's lame. It's lame, is it? It's lame, is it? So do you guys have boyfriend? Yes. How long? Here. I have a child. How old are you? You got a child. Are you another one that you got good genetics and he's grown? How old are you? All right. I don't know how old she's in a my going there. How old are you? I'm 39. How old are you? And the old you kid. Oh, I do magic shows. Kids. Oh, yeah. Well, that's where I get to. I can just walk up any. Do people here like walk up and just start talking? They don't. No, no. There are a lot of people with sticks up there, but in this town. The girls are bitchy. Like clubs and stuff. Do guys like try to like, yo, uh, watch them over. I'm going to try to have, you know, that stuff, uh, the fake face and stuff. Yeah. There's no like cool down there, of course. Not really. No. No. They're blind. Everywhere. They're kind of, if you want to roll with a person, off of them. It's normal hanging on. They need people. Well, that's a good one. Well, anyway, all right, there's no room here for me. I lied. She's not my girlfriend. It was a bunch of bullshit. You probably know it, too. And, uh, since you have a boyfriend, I'm not going to try to get to know you otherwise would have popped your off to the side right here. Mom would have supervised from the back. Make sure you're okay. And then you and I would have went on a date. But that's not going to happen. Hey, nice meeting you, Mom. Thanks, Mom. I'm Italian. What are you? What's up? Are you? Yes. You're going to die. You're going to die. You're going to die. It's written on a benzina. No. You don't want to know either. I did that's one thing I know. It means, uh, can I have free knowledge of this? I swear to God. Hi, bye, bye, bye, bye. Hi, bye. All right, I'll see you. So. Hey, guys. I got a quick question for you. I come in peace. First off, there's three of you here. One guy. Three guys. Yeah. Good thing. Two girls. Now, this, I don't want to be rude. Is this your girlfriend? Yeah. Just friends, you're all friends? Yeah. I'm Jeff. Nice to meet you. Mom. I'm Jeff. You have a twin, a duplicate. No. No, I don't mean to like that. Take a group of scientists. And then I have to go, yeah, because my friend's a waiting for me. Uh, very, very quickly. Uh, shoes Irish and a time. I called her a butt head when it first met her. It's a mowai dish. And basically, we didn't like each other. And then eventually we became friends. And I just want to do that. That's pretty much it. It's very random. Yeah. But now, do you have a boyfriend and just curious? Yeah. You got him to be gonna say. Yeah, I got him. Pretty much a McGuy for God's sake. God damn right. But you know what? There's no time for that. Hi. Anyways, good luck. Nice to meet you. Take care. Bye bye. Take care. Another day is coming, God. We saw a great trip with Dr. Blau, Gary informative. For all you guys out there who considerinGHaving kind of come as the surgery done or have issues, you are nervous about maybe you weren't sure about. Hopefully this will lead some of your fears. And you'll realize that it's not a very big deal to get this operation. A lot of guys have it done. And I think it'll clear your mind and really show you that you know, you have the ability to get over this thing that's bothering you. And I had it so I know a lot about that. We also got another little chance to go one through the streets with magic Jeff and see what Jeff magic is. He likes to be called and see his some of his techniques on the street. Some of them work, some of them don't. But the guys got a set of balls and he got a lot of afraid to go up to anyone and talk to them. And as you'll see, as we take this final segment out, he almost got his ass kicked. Forget a little too ballsy. And I'll leave you guys with that little last gem of a day from or gem of a moment from Jeff magic. I know what you're doing David. Prix, show me me. I'm taking a leak. What are you doing out of there? I'm playing paddock cake. Guys filming me, spanking my chicken over here. Now I'm taking a whiz. Just doing a caveman thing. Oh my god. Why don't you go piss out somebody else's window, man? Well, you know, we've all pissed in other people's places. That guy just spit on me. I just had a guy say why don't you piss on somebody else's window. You just spit on me if he comes out here, I'm gonna have to check out.

=== FILE: David Pascual Gonzalez Getting Married at the 2011 Arnold Amateur Europe! [BUEOp7cvnSk].txt ===

Loskienas hay para me gusta Ihrer

=== FILE: Day in the Life of Mel Chancey- Part 1 [LdM8h6Io1ko].txt ===

Tennessee Williams, what's up? Hell is yourself, and the only redemption is when a person puts himself aside to feel deeply for another person. They tuned for a peak from today in the life of Melchance, a true modern day and a year if you're ever was born. Welcome to my Rax muscle, welcome into the home that I grew up in on my life. This is my girlfriend Melissa right here, doing a little cooking for everybody, we're cooking some eggs, not all whites though, and some bacon because no one's diet in here today. So this is purely obses and mass food. Come out, how many eggs do you typically need to breakfast? 12. I do eight whites and four yolks. But today, since we have the crew here, I think we're going to do about 30, it looks like we're just going to throw in a pan, throw some cheese in there. I know we've got to get air in some carbs for the workout today, so... I like your white thing. My separator, you know, I know a lot of people use the eggs separators, but it takes too long for me and I don't have the patience to do all that. Sometimes I'm just doing it this way. In bacon, and we usually bacon but since we have all the guests in the house today, we're going to do an old-fashioned meal. So this is the house that I grew up in as a child, my mother and father's house. IMoved out when I was about 21 years old, and IMoved back in here in 2008. My father passed away. He was a very bad diabetic. He passed away from her complications. This was the house that he built. My mother and my mother, who you guys will see in a little bit, is 81, who just had a quadruple by pastor himself. She didn't want to stay here by herself, and I knew she didn't want to sell the house. So I decided to come back in here and take care of my mother, somebody that took care of me on my life. Everybody knows I was in prison. My mom and dad took care of me the whole time. I figured this was my time to come back here and take care of my mother. As we pass the church on the way in, as you guys will see my mom, she's very old school Catholic Italian. So that's the church that she goes to every morning, religiously. A 30 in the morning, you know, for 41 years that I've been alive. So we always make a joke that I live literally ten houses from the church. My father used to say, you can't even get ten houses before you start swearing and calling us a son of a bitch or something. So it was kind of the joke, you know, living so close to the church. Looks like super cooking so much, huh? Yeah, no, no, how are you going to actually get this thing to coalesce at some point? I don't know. There's 20 eggs in here and this is the most I've ever cooked at once. Do you even in jail, you never cooked for a long cruise, you guys? No, all the other old Italians that was there, job and if you know what IMean? They cooked, you know, so I always just was hanging out for the ride with them. There is a, there is an ethnic stereotype in the sense of the prison jobs that people had. There's more than that. Yeah, like I got in with all the old Italians. I was, I would work for an hour on Saturday night and an hour on Sunday night and we go around and we pick up, you know, cigarette ball before cigarette butts in the yard. But this last time I was away from 04 to the end of 07. There's no more smoking in prisons. So that was my first gig at we would go, we'd get a little hand bag, like a little glove. And we'd put abouT3 cigarette butts in each one and we walk around and talk about all the nonsense. That was our jobs. Why everybody else, you know, you have to have a job and everybody else was in the kitchen and stuff. So, you know, I had a little perks when I was in there, which was pretty good. Um, IMean I grew up kind of like, you know, a little bit of a strip of families. You guys see my sisters, my mom, my dad, you know, hard workers, my mom, work and dad, work and all their life. Um, what the school, I got good grades in school, you know, I played football, baseball. And, you know, it was a nice neighborhood to grow up at nice house, you know, and, um, I was young, my mom, my sister used to dress me, right? So, uh, because my mom always works. So, you know, I go to school and I always realized that they dressed me like for a joke or something like that. So, nobody else was aware of what I was wearing, you know, and plus when I was younger, of course, I, with the name of Malvin, it was, you know, but so many kids had that name. So, it was a little rough like that, you know, again picked that a little bit. Hi, I'm Jackie Mell's sister and I'm Carol Mell's oldest sister. We just would like to tell you a little story about Mal when he was younger. One thing I can really remember is that as mother always dressed him in plaid pants. So, everybody loved to make fun of him. So, as nowadays, the bully and all that, well, that was poor Mal. Everybody teased him. But he was an honor student and he was, um, into school stuff, um, I'm trying to think. Sports and all that. But he had the same time he still was always teased by kids. See, he was born with a chest that used to be sunk in. And me as I am used to teasing about it. And of course, when he was swimming in the pool, we used to fill his chest up with water. So, I do used to teasing, I guess. You know, when I got into my teens, I just met some different people and got into the motorcycle lifestyle a little bit and decided I'd like that and I want to thousand my house an hour forward. But, by 14, 15 years old, he was working out and he was working out every day. It was one part of the body, the next part of the body. And my husband used to go with him. But he got so tired to take and his weights off the weight stuff. He couldn't do it himself anymore. It was just you, Abby. You know, I started trening with the weights. Really when I was about 14, I seen some magazines. And I really liked it. But actually, when I got serious, I was 16 years old. And my daughter's mother lived next door to a guy who was a biker. And he was all tatted up and jacked up. 260 pounds trened all the time. Didn't drink, didn't smoke. And he was the next door neighbor. And, you know, I seen him. And I said, that's what I want to look like one day. Check you and I babysittinGHim when my mom and dad went to the bowling. You know, but I, since I was much older, you know, it was more hurt. And finally one time. He was very spoiled. Being a brat in her and I were watchinGHim. And he wouldn't calm down. So I went upstairs. He was down here. And I went upstairs and I put ketchup on my arm. I went rain the front door bell. And then I just laid there. And he cried and screamed because he thought somebody had killed me. So IMean, we had that was the way that we had to get him to calm down. Otherwise, he wouldn't listen to us with anything with religion. IMean, I used to tell him the depth. You are the devil and used to just scream. I am not. Yes, he is very afraid of that. One other thing we could use to get him to calm down just tell him the devil's and you or something. And he would get off. Yeah, because everybody knows. IMean, even though I used to be in my brother, I was always very religious and believe in God. And you know, I was one of them guys. I do some bad things and prance on ants. And I am doing it again, God. And I was 15 because I went 16. And I got in a fight in the high school. And they were suspended me. And the principal had my mother in his office. And when they called me in, my mom was in there and she was crying because the principal was rippinGHer like, Well, if you knew how to raise your kid and just talk it a little crazy to her. So I jumped his desk and sacked him in the nose and broke his nose. And I took off Ronin because I knew the cops were coming and my mom was driving through and they were trying to find me. And I ran home and the cops were here. So, you know, they pressed, you know, sign a complaint, everything. I was young. I was going to sign a school because she said, I'm not taking you 30 minutes away to another district and you're going to run out the back door. IMight leave the lot. So I'm going to sign it. It's a great. I laid in the pool for a week. I relaxed. I'm like, man, I got the life. I'm turning 16. I don't got to go to school. Low and behold, I didn't know they had a plan. My uncle owned a concrete company. And I, my mom said, go lace up your boots. You're going to work. So from the time I was 16 until the time I was 20, I poured concrete foundations, home-th forms. You know, I poured the driveway here that many years ago. I just really, from then them four years, I was running a crew by the time I was two years later. I was running a crew back then. I was making 20 bucks an hour. And that's how I had, you know, my eye rock and my vet and my motorcycle. It's how I started getting into the bikes and stuff like that. I started datinGHer mom when I was 15. And she was 19. And we kind of like grew up together a little bit. You know, IMet her and she was young. I was young and then we had our daughter and very young age. And I was, you know, like I said, working construction day and day out, power them to concrete. And just raising my, you know, doing the family life, you know, doing that. And then once I got 19 and I got involved with the other things, then, you know, my life kind of took a different angle, which I always, you know, was trying to be my daughter's life. I always, you know, paid my ex-child support and tried to see my daughter when it was much as I can. But IMean, I traveled a very lot. I was always on the go and a plane on a motorcycle. IMean, I was around the country a lot. So it was, it was hard to be in her life constantly. Was, did you feel guilty about the fact that you couldn't? IMean, you were young guys. I was like, yeah. Yeah. IMean, you know, then back then I really didn't because I had so much, you know, I had tunnel vision. I was really into what I was into. And that was my job, that was my life, you know. But once I sat back, you know, and sort of say, I got out of the forest and I could see the trees, then I seen, like, you know, who I was neglecting in my life and the things that mattered to me. Instead of, you know, the nonsense I was doing and getting locked up and, you know, FBI and the federal government being on me all the time, I just said, this is not exactly what I want. IMet one of the health angles when I was younger. And I just, it was that guy I was just telling you guys about the jacked up guy. And I just thought he looked cool. I said, man, I know what I want to look like. He was, you know, muscular, huge, I should say back then, I'm tatted up. And I liked that whole aura of the motorcycle stuff, you know, the housing doesn't treat me. And, man, I just started going forward and hung out hanging out with them guys all the time. And before I knew I was right there, four years I was in a club before I became the president and back then. IMean, it's a vote. It's, you know what IMean? It's the whole room. It's a vote and who becomes it's a yearly thing. And, you know, the members vote. So, IMean, you know, you have to, you know, I was a little aggressive. I was young. I was aggressive. I was focused right on that. And that's what I devoted all my time to. So when he became president for us, for me, it didn't shock me. Do many people like them, they thought he was, you know, good representative for them. And he did a lot of fighting for him. I'm sure, but that's not what we knew him. Yeah, we did. When I first met Mal, you know, he was the leader of the Health and Social Heritage Caucus. But he didn't act like that around us. So I never really got to see that bad boy side of him. I always heard the stories read the articles. But he's always just been a big teddy bear with me. I probably shouldn't say that because it might embarrass him. He did his thing and we all go through it where we have to go through a bad phase in life and then we grow up. And, you know, he's a better person for it today. It made him who he is. Who, yeah, that was hard on them. You know, we're such a tight family. Both of my sisters live five minutes from parents. So it was very hard on them. You know, and bringing my mother to see me, you know, her only boy of the baby, of course, you know, it was hard. IMean, I broke my heart to see them leave the visit. And you would think that they were going behind the wall into the cell. And I was going free. So that was the hardest thing for me. And then, you know, sitting there, you know, for, you know, 30 something months and just seeing this, then coming every month through three hours, four hours. I was getting shipped around a lot to different prisons. And that's just what made me think. You know, I see my little, my daughter crying to me at the time. And, you know, when I came home, I told everybody, I said, I'm not going back. You know, I'm not doing all that nonsense and more. It's time that I start focusing on you guys. And, you know, IMade a pack of my daughter that I never go back. Well, of course, I did later in, or four, when the government re-code me, but it was from something that I did through the 90s. So, you know, I never really did anything. You know, it was my past coming back to get me. When he went and, or, or, oh, five, I think. Yeah, I was really sad. Because I was supposed to meet him for breakfast. He never showed up. And then I came here and they told me, I think, right, I remember him in the morning. Was that, was that, was that hurt you inside? Because knowing that you're a daughter, you made that promise to you, to a daughter and keep it. Uh, yeah, I'm no. IMean, yeah, IMean, I did, she understood, because I didn't really break my promise, but she understood that, you know, I had to go pay from, you know, the past. And it kept coming back and haunting me. And they were just, were relentless with me about, you know, me not being associated with them guys anymore. That was the, you know, that was the plan that the government was like, enough for this guy. Oh, yes, it was. Yes, it was. Yes, it was. Our family sticks together and to lose him and him to tell us that family don't mean, excuse me, fucking nothing to me. It was a hard thing to handle. But we just couldn't let him go. I know. I was at the jail. I don't know how many times I brought his mother, his father. You know, everybody up there to see him and stuff and his daughter. Right. So, well, that was awful. That was really awful because when we walked in there, we had, I think we had Dad with us at that time. And just, you know, my dad, because he can, he was sick then, you know, and stuff like that. And they just hugged each other. Oh, my God, that was sick. They had us. Oh, yes. They prayed and prayed and they had prayer groups here. And prayed and prayed and prayed from now. And hoped to God that he would come home. Dad, like Carol said, was real sick and thought he would never get to see us. Son again. Right. He really was the golden child to them. So, to see him, they didn't believe he was into that. And to hear it all in the courtroom. Oh, yeah. That was, that was pretty. We never really knew what he was into to we went into the courtroom. I never took mom because I knocked. To the courts. At the end of the whole seven when I came home from prison, that's, you know, I said to myself, I'm never going back. You know, you always see your never, but God forbid there could be a situation you get into. Nobody knows what every day tonight's going to bring. But as far as me running around and being in a knucklehead and doing all that nonsense, I don't have nothing to do with anything no more. You know, the motorcycle stuff. You know, I run a nightclub. I don't even go out to other nightclub as I'm my night's off. I just, you know, really do my thing now. I think it's yes. Oh, I know he's here. He's taking care of my mom. Jackie, because there's, there's so close. They're taking care of my mom, but he's, you know, he's really doing. He's doing a good job. He's running a regime for his mother with all us girls. You know, when he went away and his dad became really sick, his biggest fear in life was not being able to see his father or his mother before they passed. I think that really opened his eyes the first time when he came out. And he realized, I got to change my life or I'm not going to see these people anymore. HEQuit the angels, obviously. But then when back to prison, and was lucky enough to get out in time before Papa passed. But I think, again, his parents really kind of changed him when he lifted them and saw them getting older. And, you know, just the fear of everything. I've changed the whole lot. How did he change from the second time as to the first time? I think he really realized that this was the end of it. He had to do something else with his life. One more time, and he wasn't getting out. Like I said before, family is very important to me all his dad. He was getting up on in years. I prayed every night that nothing would happen to his dad while he was in. And because I don't even know how they had to cut them in, if that would happen. But when he got out, way more positive outlook on life as far as the things he wanted to do. And the things he wanted to stay away from. He really took care of his mom and dad and excelled in what he's doing now, running clubs, making money legally. When he first came home, it was like, oh no, he's not gonna change. And then he had a couple girls after that, and it was like still, he was the ignorant. Yeah. He's like, yeah, I see him. As he was, he just didn't respect women and like we, we don't put up with that. So why don't you respect women seeing that he loved his mother and it's so much. Why didn't he just, I don't know. That's awful. I don't know if it's somethinGHe's seen with women and women hang all over him. It's kind of sad. One time I was back here and our summer fest and there was a girl talking to him and I came up to talk to my brother. And she just kept pushing me away. Finally I looked at her and said, can I talk to my brother and she said, well, I was talking first. And I said, it's my brother, I think you need to get that heck out of here. So she left, but it's always been like that. Everywhere he goes, people are on. I'm wanting to talk to him, wanting like he's somebody famous and I just, I don't understand it. But I'm glad to have him back the way he is. You know, people think Mell is a real badass, but he's very, very good to his friends, his family. He's got a heart of gold. Being that he was the leader of the Hell's Angels, totally different person. You would never put the two together. You should see him around with his grandbaby. It's unbelievable. He's the type of guy that would give you the shirt off his back if you needed it. Mell's a loyal family man. You can't find any better dead, better son, better friend, tallest friends. Not only to me, but tallest, close friend. He's solid to his daughter, forget about it. His mom and dad, but before his dad passed away a few years back, you know, he took care of his father, took care of his mother. You know, not mine, but just way of son takes care of his mom and dad. A very, very, very, very close family and very good family man. IMean, once you're thinking of Mell, you're like, oh man, this guy's not here, this guy's this, but people never saw that kind of, this side of him, the family side of him. You know, love his family, definitely got Mell out of the lifestyle he was in. If it wasn't for the solid relationship he would have, he would have probably still been a prison. Well, I put on 35 pounds in about two months, and that was just literally from eating food and trening with weights again because that whole time that I was away, I had no weights. I had, you know, I couldn't do nothing book push ups and some sit ups, and you know, I was eating 1,800 calories a day, and you know, the feds really don't have weights anymore in the prisons, because they got this rule that when they break them, when you break them, they don't read them. So a lot of prisons don't have them no more. So that was a long break for me from trening and eating. When you got out, you kick body building, that body building lifestyle that you started when you're so young, kind of kept you focused and maybe you can kept you out of that lifestyle. Oh, yeah, for real, for real, because you know, I was always an active guy. So you're looking for something to do. And IMean, the gym took up two, three hours of my day, five, six days a week. You know, what, what I wanted to tren, I wanted to grow, I wanted to, you know, you know, get bigger again. So that took up a lot of my time where I didn't have all that time to go running around and hit the streets and think about any nonsense anymore. When you got out, did you go right to Chuck's gym and talk to him and say, hey, do you want to get back to the competing? I didn't say anything about the competing. I just went back and you know, took my partner back Chuck because he was trening in the morning time. My switch, we switched the hours, we started trening, they have to noon together and just sit in it hard. And you know, in that first, like I said, that first six of a month, I was back up to where I am right now. Where I hover about 280 and everybody was like, man, you should really think about doing a show. And I was like, ah, I don't know. I don't think I'm done with all that. And I ended up doing the Illinois, Illinois, and went in the show, yeah. Yeah. And what's your future goals in bodybuilding? Um, July. My next sites are for July for the Masters Nationals in Pittsburgh. And I'm going to start, you know, diet and trening for that after I get back from the Arnold. So I want to see if, how I can fit in the master's days. Like I never thought, you know, back in the day running around the country and doing all the stuff I was into. IMean, I knew all the pro bodybuilders because I wasn't that lifestyle. Like, cogs us to them both lifestyles, you know, from ad counters from the corporate owners of golds. And to Jim Manion and Steve Weinberger, they knew me, you know, for who I was. And I got along with everybody. So I was always around, you know, the scene for other years. And I never really thought about turning pro or really getting up there on stage because I wanted to eat. You know, everything under the sun, what I wanted to eat. So to make it that far to see that I could do it for the Illinois and add an older age. I said, okay, let me see what I could do with the masters here. And that's what we decided on.

=== FILE: Deana Martinez Routine-2011 IFBB Ft Lauderdale Cup [w6LBGg6V0Rw].txt ===

Health & Glory

=== FILE: Deniz Saypinar Shares Her Side About American Airlines Mistreatment [X3TKYAscf7c].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. The first is www.bbc.com for the hardest trening athletes. Day Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. There was a story that we broke the other day on after hours about a body builder, the Keating competitor, IFBB Pro, who was kicked off an airplane in Dallas, because they said she was dressed inappropriately. We kind of covered the story, the body builder was talking about the athlete, the Denise Saffronar. She was asked to actually leave the plane, she had to be rebuked on the plane. We were trying to debate what was going on and what possibly happened. We didn't really know the story, so we contacted Denise and we asked her to come on the show. We got her here today. Thank you for joining us, Denise. Thank you so much for the interview. It's my pleasure. It's interesting, because I hate when these big corporations quote their policies, but the policies are never enforced uniformly. They kind of target people. I really believe, and you're going to tell me the story. I really believe that you were personally picked out because you're a good-looking girl. If you were ugly, no one would have said a word to you. Because people were probably looking at you and probably commenting about, and there's probably a cup one or two people that were uptight about it and they probably complained and these airlines are so afraid in today's society about upsetting anyone that that's why they did that. Tell us the exact story. Obviously the story was that you addressed it and probably they got you off the airplane. We have the picture. What happened? Give us the whole order of events. Okay. So I will tell you exactly how it's happened. I was flying from Los Angeles to Miami and there was a layover flight, but it was just a 15 minutes between two flights. I was already late and I was trying to catch my flight and I was maybe one of the lasT4 or five person. And then I didn't. So you weren't even sitting at the terminal. You actually just ran from one plane to the other basically. Definitely. I couldn't even stay one like more than a few minutes. And when I was walking to scanning to tickets and then somebody yelled me from behind. Ma'am, hey, hey, I cannot take you to plane because you are literally naked. And you know, did you tell them I just got off an airplane? Did they know that that you would just on an airplane? The same plane of the same airline? Yeah, yeah, basically I already fly flew from LAX to the dollars. It's the same clock. You know, like it's him airline. Right. The same ball. And this has never happened before. And I was in shock. I thought she's joking because I have a lot of fans around like a big big job. And then she started to become in rude and like more like talking to her. And then she's like, no, I can't take. I can't let you go into plane because you are literally so offensive and you are naked. And she's like, she told you again again, like you are naked. I'm like, I normally wouldn't react too much. But I've had so weird. I'm not. I love to get it. And this is not true. And I was, I had my brown crop top as like in the picture. Yeah. And then I said, okay, the legs. What she upset because it was like a little sea throw on top. IMean, that's the only I can see. It's not even sea throw. I just, I was a weird and grub because I'm coming to Miami and it's the weather is so hot. And to be honest with you, you don't, it's hard to read and roll. Right. All right. But she, she could have asked you, did you put the she asked you that maybe just put a shirt on over and you had a shirt and I don't know your way. That's exactly. And then there was somebody over there and then I literally covered my butt. And then somebody gave me the pink shirt and then I beard. But it's like short sleeve. But basically, I covered your boobs. So to speak. boobs, abs, bad everybody. And then. And then she said, no, I cannot let you go into plane. I'm like, I covered my body with straw with this. And then she's like, no, you can't. And then I didn't know what to do. I was trying to check to kids. I couldn't find any. Right. Yeah. You're lucky. I wasn't there because I would have gone nuts on this woman. Because once you put the clothing, all right, I understand, right, maybe they if someone complained, they were offended, whatever. You put the clothing on now you're covered. You're dressed. What, what wasn't appropriate at this point for you to get on an airplane? So that's the point, like, because I asked her if I'm naked, what would be good for flight. And then she said, there's a rule. And then I said, please show me your rule. What is the rule? And the rule was saying, you can't go into plane with the barefoot or very offensive clutch. But if this club was offensive, then how could I get from Los Angeles to that point with the same thing in my life in plot? My theory is that Turkey called them up and said, get her. She left us. Oh, yeah, I'm going to do that. I can't. It sounds like you were in Turkey. And they were like, say, put a thing on your head, you know? Yeah, that's the thing. I have like, flush. Like, it's like, I have like, I'm like, I'm like, no. It's not happening. You last talking for me, yeah, I'll press the now you're being oppressed again. It's crazy. And then I was trying to get a new ticket and then I couldn't figure anything. And then I asked them. And then they said, we already got you ticket. So basically, this, when I was lending to Dalas, it was HPM. Right. And then they bought me new tickets for the 5 AM. So I needed to wait almost 10 hours, right? Oh, my God. And then at that point, there was no any star open, which they already knew this. Sure. And so basically, they accept me to next flight, right? Right. That's why they bought me ticket. Right. With the same clothes, with the same clothes. Exactly. Yeah. Because they knew there was no point in playing. And then I actually tried my best. I even asked for the airport to blanket or something. Anyway, so in the morning, everything was all right. I was going to fly. And then nobody stopped me because of my clothes. Right. Same clothes. And then I'd same clothes by the way. Exactly. And then I scan my ticket. I was going to play. And then they stopped me after I scan my ticket. And then I said, what happened again? And then they said, we can't take you to the plane. We had argue. And then I said, you guys bought me this. You guys already knew that I can't change my clothes. You provide me this. Yeah. And then we had argue. And they said, we can't take you to the plane. You do whatever you need to do. We are not even going to buy you any ticket. You're going to figure your own. Wow. I didn't know that. And then I was like, you know, I couldn't believe it. And I was like, so upset because I said, you guys are not even going to buy me ticket. Like, this is how it is because it's, you can't believe this, right? And this is that. I'm on Baffle. I can't even believe I'm hearing this story. IMean, this is not. This is so much discrimination against you that IMean, you should have a wire. And you should be still in their asses off at this point. Yeah. This is what's going to happen. And then I was waiting, right? And then I was on the phone. And I was trying to get myself ticket. And then I had argued with them because I said, the first supervisor didn't take me plane because of my clothes. And then you guys bought me another ticket. And then you guys didn't take me to plane again. Right. But why did I return? I was there, right? What is the point of it? And then you didn't even stop me because of my clothes. You saw on the screen, there was a knot from the first supervisor. Absolutely. That's what it was. If my clothes was offensive or bad for the families, you would stop me. That's what I told you. And then she's like, she couldn't answer it. IMade a video. She couldn't answer. I was on the live stream on the Instagram. Oh, you were absolutely delighted. She missed that. And then. And then, while this happening, I was trying to get my staff in the near ticket. And then somebody, the manager come. And then, she said, OK, we're going to get you ticket. But you need to cover your buddy with this blanket. Can you imagine that? What? Like. You should have said, should I put something off my head, too? So you can't see my face. IMean, I. I put the old blanket on my lower body. I covered all my lower body. And another one is my bag. And then when I go to play, and I put it on me. And that's great. It was only condition that I can't fly to Miami. You know what? I hate to say this. And if you are an African American woman, they never ever would have done this. Because they would have been afraid that they would have had the lawsuits would have been common because of racial. Because of racist policies. But because you were a middle Eastern woman, now that, they're taking, and they think they can get away with it. This is this is BS. The fact that you were able, you had a jacket on. You were covered up after they asked you to do what you needed to do. That's really, IMean, I really feel for you. Because you know what? It's disgusting when I see stuff like this. This is the one thing that you did. I'm embarrassed almost to be an American when I see them doing stuff like that to people. Because they never would have done this. They did it purposely to you. And it's gross. I think it's a trauma, you know, because I run away from this. Oh, my life. Yeah. You know, even when I was competing in Turkey, it's like, I don't want to go so deep into this, but it is trauma. I want to hear that. Proma. Yeah, I want to hear what was it like? IMean, how did you first get involved with even competing in Turkey? You know, well, I was so skinny and I was so insecure because my family become separated and I was only child. And I started boxing and then I become so skinny. And then I saw one day the bikini Olympia champion picture. Uh-huh. And then the Ashley, you know, the Essee Cart Walser. Wow. And then I wanted to be like her. And then we compete in same stage eight years later. That's awesome. That is awesome. Yeah. That was what was in my view. I don't think any of our fans or myself has any idea. Like in Turkey, you know, what's the, what's the policy? You can't just walk, can you walk around the street like this? And there is no certain law. Right. And but there is really huge social prejudice on Roma. Because at last times, I almost become so scared on the walk in the street. Yeah. It's, there is not not like, if you go there is a man, you don't, you're not going to feel anything. Right. But when you're a woman and try to leave over there, it's, it's really frustrating for me. Because at last time, I couldn't even go to World Championship. Wow. Because, and I, I keep thought from the gyms because I wear gym sharp. Right. And it's, it's a lot of things. And I can't, I don't even want to remember, you know, it's, it's a trauma. I was trying to get over it. And this happened here. I'm like, God must be testing me, you know. Yeah. No, he is. He is. But you know, you're very strong. You know what, the, the, the things that you've overcome. Because people cannot even begin to understand, you know, I went to, I went to Dubai, which is a very liberal, you know, you know, middle Eastern country back in the 90s. And I went with the, with the bodybuilder by name, a war bass who was, similarly, a very pretty girl looked like you a little bit too. And may she rest in peace, she's not with us anymore. But she was there. And we went to the gym. It was her and it was all these male bodybuilders, Milo Sarsav, myself. They took us to the gym and they wouldn't let her work out. They said, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And this is Dubai. And that's, and they're pretty liberal there. They would not let her in the gym. She could not tren. And she's like, what are you talking about? And that, that's when it hit me. Because like you said, I'm a man. So I was treated with like as royalty there because I was this big bodybuilder guy. And here she is, she was a pro bodybuilder. I wasn't even a pro. And she was being treated like a piece of trash almost there. And so I completely can relate to what you're going through. And I don't think anyone else understands. And I'm assuming that's why you left Turkey, correct? Definitely this. Let me tell you this. I, the all I wanted to do in home my update life. I just being in the gym and tren hard as much as I can and compete. It was my only passion. And even though I was representing Turkey, and I couldn't get any support. I could, I had to do everything by myself. But put everything aside, I just wanted to be atleast. You know, and I could it like I was sometimes I was trening. And then I kicked out from the gym and then because they told me like, here is not here is not a national atleast camp or something. I represent your, your country, right? And I'm your best athlete in this. There are many things like this and I can't, I can't, IMean, I don't, it's really hard. Yeah, Denise, believe me, I'd rather you represent us. We would be proud to have someone like you who looks like you with a great physique and beautiful face, representing the United States. There are more ons for losing you, believe me. And you know, and you're road to getting your pro car here was not easy either because, you know, originally, you know, in Europe, you had to compete with this, the other organization when the, when the I-VV split. And you had to come back here and then you got your pro car at the nationals this past year, which is, IMean, and that just tells you how good you are and how, you know, single minded you are at being able to, you know, achieve your goals. What was it like to win the nationals and to get your pro car in the United States? It was amazing because before this, you know, all my competitions, I became more than, I became second place more than 15 times, I guess. Oh, my god. And I was like, at the beginning, like, one, like the five, seven, ten, I'm like, it's okay. I love competing. It's my passion. And then I started to feel bad because I felt so full every time I become second, second, second. I'm like, I'm living this Federation, you know, I'm not going to compete there. And then I competed here and then I get my first place, which it was, I literally brought the curse. Yeah. And this, this why I'm here, you know, like, because I can't truly be myself. And I can't do me, you know, like, I can't be 100% who am I with all, with all freedom. So if I can't, I knew if I can be myself, I can be more successful, which, what happened, this was what happened in the United States and that's how I win the show, which it was amazing. It's the best moment on my right. IMean, and, you know, look, this, we have good bikini pros in this country, but you know what? I'm looking at your pictures on your Instagram. You got a million followers. You got 55,000 likes on a picture. That's incorrect. IMean, you realize the scope of people that you reach? It's a, it's, it's, it's so nice. And it's like, because it, that's my goal, actually. I wanted to show all the people, my story, because I was really struggling so hard and, and I get no sport and it was really hard. But eventually, I could be brave enough to move from Turkey here. I'm really appreciated the really good people they have me, that's how I could make it. And I finally, I started to get results of my hard work here, because my hard work was, my consensus here. Right. Yeah. Well, you know, it's, you know, it's, it's, I feel bad that you had to go through this because, you know, I know I want to go through this discrimination, you know, like, especially coming from Turkey. And it's like, it's like, you have like, you said, bad flashback, but you look phenomenal. And, you know what? I think this is just going to make you that much more popular, and maybe the big guy upstairs said, Hey, you know what? We need to shed some spotlight on this woman. And you got it. And, you know what? I really, I'm excited to see you compete. You have plans to get on stage this year. I'm not sure about this year because I've been competing for so long, not stopped. Right. Almost 30 competitions in eight years. Oh wow. And next year, I want to focus better, and I should do better, because now it's better for me to live with Shildana and enjoy my work, with our stress. Right. Where are you, you're living in LA now? Excuse me. Are you living in LA now? Oh yeah. Yeah. Where do you tren over there? Well, I go a lot of gyms because I do make content, but when I was competing, I was going to Teams that I growd in gym, and or sometimes I tren in a kinox, cost fitness. Yeah. Yeah, very, you have a head down. Is that a skulls even open? I don't even have to even open. Oh yeah, it's, it's been too long. I haven't been there because of the pandemic. I wanted to go there when they came in. People don't realize the traffic is so bad over there. Like no one wants to drive around, like going from LA to Dennis is like, you know, that can take you three hours if you go the wrong time of the day. It's, it's so, it's especially now traffic getting worse, and no same thing. Well, I want to just thank you for joining us today, telling us the real story of what happened. And like I said, I really hope you sued the airlines, and I hope you get a big settlement, because you know what, shame on them for what they did to you. Yeah, I will do it. I'm talking to my lawyer now. So I'm about to go back to Los Angeles. We're going to figure things out. All right, well, thank you, Denise. You look great. Thank you so much for the help. No, this is awesome. I'm glad I wanted people to know the real story. I didn't really know the real story, and I'm glad you, you agreed to do this. And like I said, I, I hope to see you maybe on an Arnold classic stage in 2022. Okay, okay, thank you so much. All right, guys, that's going to take us to the end of this episode. I'm Dave Palombo with another Rx muscle. News update.

=== FILE: Dennis James' BOLD Prediction for Ramy's Reign! [jVEZoYk9NJ0].txt ===

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low carb hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary food muscle in the morning on day polomba. Today is Tuesday, August 10th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Everyone's in a while. I catch myself saying old man things to my kids. They care for what you ask for because you just might get it. Which always makes me cringe right after I do it. But even if it does make me feel old, it doesn't make it any less true. And I say that because I've seen a lot of athletes posting online stuff saying, well, bring it on. I'm ready for the Olympia, which is fine as long as you know they're bringing on the Olympia. It also means of bringing on a hotny chupin. And once you get the full hotny, all of the sudden you realize that you're well in deep water. And then before you know what you're drowning, hotny's been picking up steam like some time to tsunami. Ready to wipe out everything it touches on the shoreline. And once that wave touches down a few weeks from now, I hope everyone realizes that they're getting exactly what they ask for. You guys ago, someone brought to my attention the fact that we haven't covered a lot of men's or women's physique action lately. So that's exactly what we're going to do with these next two segments. Starting with this update from your 2019 Olympia champ, Ray Edmunds. Way back at the beginning of the season. We saw Ray come out and look great in his second place finish behind Kyron Holden at the Pittsburgh pro. And from what I've heard after he wrapped up that weekend, raised pretty much Ben all gas and no breaks trying to get himself ready to make a serious run at winning the title back this fall. We all know that when Ray is at the top of his game, that he's one of the one or two or three best athletes in the division. So if he dots all his eyes and crosses all those teas, you can bet your butt that he'll be given Brandon Hendrickson. Oh, he can handle. On the women's physique side of things, as far as the Olympia is concerned, I think the big question on everyone's mind here is whether or not we're going to see Sarah Valegas repeat as champion throughout our career. Sarah has always been one of those athletes who we don't hear or see much of, which he's not on stage. Now, said to that little back and forth, she had with Shini Kran a few months ago, well, that's pretty much been the case this year too. But that being said, one of the other things that we know about Sarah is that she always shows up at delivers. Pound for Pound, she's probably the most consistent athlete in the division in terms of her conditioning over the last few years. And that's on top of the fact that she's always comes back to the stage having improved her weaknesses, which is what makes her really dangerous. And if she just keeps being the same athlete that she's been for the last few years, I think it's a tall order for anyone else to knock her off the throne. By now, I'm sure you've probably all seen the update photo of Big Rami that had everyone up in arms last week. But in case you haven't seen it, we covered it on one of our shows last week and we shared it on our Instagram. So you can go check it out there. But for now, I want to give you guys an update on what Big Rami's coach Danish James thinks about where the rating Olympia champ is right now. And in the words of DJ, Winther is coming, Winther is here and Winther is here to stay. Last week, DJ went on the record to say that he and Rami would be getting together to tren again soon and finish what they started and keep the Olympia trophy right there where it is in Egypt. And considering what happened when these two got together last year, if DJ is saying that he'll be even better this time around, year two of Rami's reign over the bodybuilding world, might end up beinGHis story. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Daypalombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

=== FILE: Derek Farnsworth Posing Routine at 2011 Europa Super Show [4HY_Zgq0ygo].txt ===

There are many different things There are We're moving on to anything like that There are no We're going to see a real That falls in the morning There's nothing we can't do Don't let us show Don't let us show We're going to show We're going to show Where to? Go over Stop breaking You know Right on Show Small hecho All Spread étme Feeling very upset And Rub hanya, and Silおhips, and Kirkumberer and I'm here now. The shooter is fine. I'm here now. I'm here now. I'm here now. I'm here now. Okay. I'm here now.

=== FILE: DerikFarsworth [-WtVmUsuwwE].txt ===

The world is under way, the world is under way The world is under way, the world is under way

=== FILE: Do Bodybuilders REALLY Need Vegetables？ #askDave [41a2GVsWFK8].txt ===

我不ốt回合三亿延國gie轉摺越來越多連我要分享爆彎的瀑樣如果我認為你是不是只有拍功耳的如果你將十一浧幸福變成 seeing 他最燈心的那我們是成像我們錄影機的球istic因為現在加入境外的這樣的體能S-Stay Better Known, as hashtagS-Stay, your 30-minutEQuestion there and answer show with Dave Klumbo all your questions, diet, trening, supplementation, I-A-B-B-PRO's news whatever was on your mind, it is all on the tables, you know, I'll bring it Dave Klumbo Dave obviously it's been abouT3, four days now the bodybuilding world still very much in shock to the news that we received Sunday throughout the course of the day there were seemingly unverified reports but then at a certain point we were late in the afternoon we all pretty much had a universal agreement that the news is true and that John Meadows had in fact left us a big loss for the bodybuilding world and you know, you read the tributes obviously you posted a very heartfelt tribute that night he was someone that no one has a negative word to say about you know, universally acclaimed as a bodybuilding trener coach personality but you know, the way that we penned it and the way that I- me personally that I will, I guess always remember he said he was everyone's number one fan he seemed to be happiest for everyone regardless of whatever realm of the bodybuilding world they were in due it was just so happy to be around everyone you know, we used to see him at the shows and you remember how happy he was to just talk about anything so some of the certainly he's going to be very much missed by bodybuilding fans and everyone like you know, I think he was well liked also because he wasn't one of these guys who went around saying you see my guy he won or my girl she won, you know, he didn't really make himself he didn't try to put himself out they're like he was the guy who won he was just the guy who was helping out and doing what he liked to do, you know and I think that comes off as being very humble because a lot of people want to take, you know, get all the credit for their athletes when he after all the athletes that do in the work were just, you know, as coaches myself included, you know, were just the guys who were women who were providing information and motivating our clients and yeah, that's important but after all, when someone wins the Olympia it's not about the coaches about the guy who won and I think the job was all about that he was all about promoting the athletes that he worked with not about trying to get himself in there and get more people out of it and that's because he just liked what he did and when you like what you do, it comes off as sincere and it comes off as like you're having a good time, you know, it's not stressful, it's not a lot of work and people always ask me the samEQuestion I can only relate it to myself where people say they've always worked and you ever sleep, I say, well, I am working but I kind of like what I'm doing so it's not really, it's not like I really feel like I'm overwhelmed with work and I think that's the way he was he wanted to work in what he liked doing and it came off as so sincere and genuine that people are attracted to that they want to be around someone who loves the same things that they love and that's why he had such a following and that's why I think people saw upset when he passed because people just even if they didn't really work with him they liked his energy that he projected about the industry because it wasn't like this negative, you know, the people out there who were very negative about everything it wasn't this negative projection it was this positive like, hey, everyone can build muscle, here's, you know, advice on how to do it and have a good time doing it because that's what it's all about and so he's missed of course because of that because we want to be around people I enjoyed interviewing, when I interviewed him I always, when the interview was over, I was in a good mood I felt like we had a lot in common and that, you know, I could sense his genuine he had this child-like gettingness about working out and quantifying things and figuring out new ways to achieve different results but you know, at the end of the day we never know when our time clock is up and his alarm went off and they took them to a better place at this point and so we have to look at it as not as a sad loss but as, hey, we were lucky to have this guy in our lives for as long as we did and his body of work will never disappear, it's out there still obviously it's a big loss to his family his wife and his kids but and that's something that, you know, there's nothing we can say to make them feel any different time, we'll have to heal that wound but obviously we can support them I think there is a go-fundMe campaign if we find it, we could put that go-fundMe campaign up there so people want to contribute to help put the costs of everything now that he's not here anymore sure his family would be greatly appreciative and once again, I send my love and prayers out to everyone who was touched by John at some point in their life yeah, as for the go-fundMe we did post it on our Instagram about $194,000 yeah, incredible so we will have that link in the article description below so again, we send our warmest warmest wishes someone contributed to 10,000 dollars a couple times there I think too look at the mom and just wow when someone like you when you're that loved and the industry and people are, you know, are that generous, you know, with their money because you've touched them in such a way that's a special person we're just going to show you the kind of man that he was and the kind of love, I'm pouring of love that this industry has given us away so again if you have not already contributed to go-fundMe we're going to put the link below and you'll have every chance to assist John's family durinGHis very very difficult time let's get to thEQuestions of course the first two questions are from the Dave Plumbo experience app Dave after I recently reviewed all your assday videos I found a theory that most of your recommended food supplements such as Mac and the oil Avocado oil or Racketonic acid are basically infant supplementary or additive of baby complimentary foods is this theory that something would be applied to bodybuilders daily basis so then he goes on to say something else so I don't know if you do make sense or that kind of a theory think about what's the population I've been aware of that obviously compliment or that similarity but there's a reason what babies grow their main goal is to sleep and grow and they sleep and grow because of what's going on in their body hormones are being produced which is making their bodies change very rapidly and they are tremendous in our nutrients and that's why they have protein drinks people think that breast milk is low in protein but it's really not when you think about it if you get a gram or two of protein at every dose throughout the day and the baby only weighs 7 pounds the baby is drinking 8 or 9 times a day so that's a gram per pound that it weighs so that's perfect so babies need high protein good essential fatty acids for brain development and muscle development and they need calcium for bone strengthening so it's basically a little baby is like a little microcosm of the bodybuilding world and so if you want to be a great bodybuilder you need to consume a lot of protein at least a gram per pound that you weigh you need to consume a lot of essential fatty acids because we know they're not only an integral for nerve development but also all the muscle cell membranes and they've been made to these whole the hormones and prostate glands and they're produced from these so you need your fish oils or your DHA is what they supplement the babies with which is one of the intermediate found in fish oil a rack and anonic acid which is in the central omega 6 fatty acid like you said the monomusaturated fats they're all in there because those are what the body needs and then what do the babies do all day? they sleep all day so the more you sleep as a bodybuilder that's when your body is growing and recovering when you're workout so it does it babies mimic the adult situation so greatly that it's no coincidence and once again what's the best way to grow? Eat small meals throughout the day just like babies do and so I think that it's not a coincidence and what I do recommend is ironic but it's at the same time very consistent with what you would think a lot of people don't even know the essential fats and explain that over and over again that you need these things to maximize your body's ability to build and repair muscle think about it you can eat half as much protein as you do and you'll still grow but you won't grow as much same thing with fats you can leave that all the fats in your diet there's indirect sources of fat within the protein sources you eat like chicken and meat something that's in fish but it's not a lot so you'll still grow but you might be limiting your body's ability to put on maximum size and recover as quickly as possible because you're not getting enough fat or you're not getting enough protein or you're not getting enough sleep or you're over trening your body and that's why some people make very good you know progress in some people make so-so progress I you know pride in myself unack-somizing my body's ability to grow okay by doing every covering every variable possible and during a five or seven year period I put on you know 110 or 120 pounds of muscle not just body weight of muscle so to do that you have to really maximize everything you do and that's why I sit here and I week after week after week I instruct people on what to do you don't have to listen to me you can get mediocre results if you want but I'm telling you if you follow the the tenets of the science that we're discussinGHere and of the basic principles of nutrition if you you're going to put on really good amounts of size and your burn fat depending on what your goal is it's pure science and then you have to go out and apply it obviously I can't go to the gym with you and make you bench press and you know put full range of motion and liftinGHeavy weights assuming you're doing that though you got to do the supplementation and you got to do the food that's part of the whole equation second question again from the day of lungo experience that they've with your rotational diet two days no carbs one day carbs you never go in a ketosis you know it's questionable IMean theoretically to get into ketosis you really need to restrict carbohydrates for three days but some people can go into ketosis eating a little bit of carbs because they're metabolism is so fast they metabolize whatever they're consuming carbohydrates and so a lot of guys will be in ketosis you could tell when you're in ketosis because your brain really feels very clear you feel clear headed and you feel like you have a lot of mental energy that's the best way I can describe it when I do the rotation diet and I get to like two or three days of protein fat and a row and then one day of carbohydrates that's when people tend to be in ketosis and then they'll come out for like one day when they're on the carbs and they go back into ketosis when you're doing more when you're doing like when I have people doing like three carb days and a row and only one protein in fat day that's very low in carbs a lot more than likely you're not in ketosis on those days but I felt it with my body I've probably probably had 80 or 90 grams of carbs per day and I'm talking carbs from like a little bit of rice or a little bit of potato and I'd still be in ketosis I knew it, I could feel it and as soon as I would go over the edge like over 90 I could tell now my brain was looking for glucose and I was always hungry and I was getting those cravings and low blood sugars so you gotta figure out what works for your body but I had a very fast metabolism so for people with slow metabolism you can't give them any stargia carbs they just will not stay in ketosis but once you have to be in ketosis to lose weight you can be on a low carb diet and lose weight too as long as you're getting your essential fats in that your body requires you don't necessarily have to be in ketosis it's just more comfortable to be in ketosis because your brain has an unlimited fuel source and the source in the way of fats let's go to our Instagram questions again if you're not already following this or hand those official underscore or ex muscle if you're watching us for the first time on YouTube hit the subscribe button below hit the notification bell you're not going to miss any of our shows, segments or updates if you like what you're watchinGHit the like button comment below that helps and as always we thank you for all your support let's go to diesel D23 gear wise what would you say someone is running in classic firsts open? so I guess if you want to alter that to how much? you know I hate to say this because it's not really a big great data set that I have here but I really I've seen you know I work with people and I see what somebody's got a lot of these cycles are exactly the same for the class skin the open guys let's face the classic guys are just smaller guys than the open guys there are some classic guys they can get bigger and do keep themselves smaller and they may take a little bit less gear because they already got all the muscle they need but for most of the classic guys that are still trying to add muscle and improve the way they're physical they're using cycles that are very comparable to the open guys maybe not the extreme open guys that are doing ridiculous amounts but I'm talking for a guy who's in the open glass who doesn't overdo his gear I think the classic in the open cycle the amounts are about the same I would say now having said that there's always the one person that doesn't fit that mold and I'm sure there's guys in men's physique they probably use more than some of the open guys do but that's just you know that's that's life some people are just extremists but I don't think the cycles of that much different I got newsfeed I see bikini girls that are using more gear than the women's body those are using I don't know why but they do it it happens all the time so you gotta find out what works for you and don't worry about what anyone else is doing it's good to action figure 86 if you eat too much carbs you spill over and it gets stored as body fat too much protein gets converted into glucose what happens when you eat too much fat well IMean I guess you get simplistically sippedyking if you eat too much protein a lot of it believe it in a lot of it gets metabolized directly as fuel rather than getting converted right to carbs some of it is converted to carbs but a small amount of it gets converted to carbs that's why it's hard to get fat from eating too much protein you could stall your diet and not lose any more weight because now your body is using the protein for fuel but very it's very you have to eat a lot of extra protein to actually store that stuff it's fat obviously the extra carbs it's easy to get fat and as far as some fat's go that's going to get stored directly as fat they don't require insulin so if you overeat fat you will store the extra as fat IMean it's just that is not something people eat as so much because it makes you nauseous and you need too much of it so you don't really see people eating a whole stick of butter it's just not something you do so more than likely you're not getting fat from overeating fat now I know girls and probably if you guys have the hooky who can eat a whole jar of peanut butter the problem with peanut butter is that it's not all fat it's got a lot of carbs and protein in it so it's the carb component that you're getting fat from really not the fat component IMean when was the last time you saw someone take a bottle of my macadamia and it'll just start chugging it down while they're watching TV you don't do that you'll be sick to get stomach so I don't really see the overeat consumption of fats as much as I do foods that have fats in them like I said people will over consume nuts or peanut butter very rarely have I seen anyone sitting at eat five of the macados because it's just you can't know how to see what's in doing so like I said but if you do eat extra fat it can be stored in fat I'll tell you where people make a mistake with fat a lot of times when they're cooking their foods they're pouring and doing that pan spray they're putting oil in the bottom of the pan and then the food that they're eating is absorbing that oil and then they're so they're over consuming fat and that a lot of times sabotage their diet so if you fit in that category or I recommend that you you poach your foods or you grill them so you don't have to put all that extra oil in the pan because the food does absorb it it's going to cost the meat do you ever do many cuts when bulking for better insulin sensitivity how many cake house should you reduce for how long et cetera I don't think they could have thrown an extra initial into that whole thing again you got to repeat it again between sling and cake house of a big deal what was thEQuestion? the first part of thEQuestion is did you ever do many cuts while bulking for better insulin sensitivity? I didn't do that, I'll tell you why because I really never got fat in the overseas but I do work with people that were bulking them up and they get to a point and I think they get a little too sloppy and I'll throw some cardio in there I'll cut their carbs back in a little bit and put them on a diet per se but I'll change things around to lean them out a little bit and then I'll start going again forward so yeah that is nothing wrong with doing that I think that's if the person tends to get fat rather than turn to have fat hanging off their waist it's a good time, it's a good time it's a good thing to do is to bring them back a little bit I wouldn't put them on climb uteroll or fapper is there I would just cut back their food a little bit so yesterday we had a carrot body on the show of course two-troll winner at the time Pro Nico Cantomira wants to know when you prepped him Did you apply your keto diet, your rotational diet if you want to maybe give us a glimpse as far as how you went into for carrot carrot has a very fast metabolism so most of the diet he was eating I was doing a rotation type he was eating a lot of days of carbs and then some days of protein in fat just like shock his body every third day or so or every fourth day or so and then when we got closer I kept kind of the same format but I cut back the carb amounts in the carb days because he does have a very fast metabolism so as long as his weight was coming down which was doing consistently and very easily his weight he loses weight at a good pace once I died of there was no really reason to really turn the screw down between Chicago and Tampa I felt that we had to bring a better look to the stage I knew it was going to be competitive it was going to be a lot of same guys I knew that it was going to be determined on who was the leanest guy on stage so I did torture him for those 10 days or so and we went protein in vegetables we went no carbs and very little fat for three or four days in a row and that's three or four days he lost five or six pounds I'm sure some of them were water but he really leaned out a lot and brought his glutes and hamstrings way better than they were for Chicago and I really believed that's what pushed him over the edge but once again you talk about a guy who is a really, really genetically gifted guy and the metabolism category I'd never seen the guy fat he was telling us in the interview that he was drinkinGHe was really depressed he wasn't working out because the gym was close he was drinking beers and when he came back and said I'm ready to start again he didn't even look bad he might have lost a little bit of muscle just because he wasn't lifting weights but he really his body fat was not high it was higher than it was for the show but it was not high so that just tells me the guy has got a gift in the metabolism so he's not a good guy to kind of emulate unless your metabolism is similar to his Relentless Lucas he wants to know as far as is it good to take a pump product before stepping on stage I guess well generally be your advice as far as timing mechanism for using a pump product you know a lot of people have asked me this question I know some people that actually do it not a lot of people I think it's risky I'll tell you why because if you look great backstage you're not being judged on veins because if there was a context on who has the best veins on stage I would be Mr. Olympian no one had better veins than I did okay crazy court like veins they don't care about that they can't with the judges care about his muscle separation how the muscles look how this stretching the skin which is fullness how they separate meaning the grooves that they create so when you see looking on stage and people flex their muscles you see lines that's what the judges are looking for they don't care if you're pumped out of your mind matter of fact having a lot of veins sometimes is a little distracting you know on a physique and if you blow those veins out too much a lot of times they can bring water to the surface a little bit and so I think the pump products are dangerous because they do dilate the veins but they're not and they do bring a little bit more muscle but they're really not improving separation and then in essence if you ever did a crazy set of squats in the gym and your legs look enormous and they're all veney they don't have a lot of separation because there's a lot of fluid in there from all that pump aspect that's going on all that blood going in there because the blood can leave the vessels and go under the skin a little bit so I would say do not take a pump product prior to getting on stage I think it's risky and like I said if you're in shape don't play these cookie games the last minute because you know what all you can do is screw yourself up interesting one here from a cheap Monday and the reason that I bring this up you do have a lot of bodybuilders now who I know I got to specifically you have the conversation with Hunter's brother regardinGHis prep and his take on vegetables you have a lot of bodybuilders who try to get their nutrients in other ways other than having vegetables thEQuestion is is it really important that vegetables make me float is a possible to take fiber and micro nutrients from supplements and completely avoid vegetables it's a good question and I have a really good answer for that I never give my clients vegetables I never ate vegetables for the reason of getting nutrients because most vegetables and devoid of nutrients and for most of the vegetables that we eat is bodybuilders pre-contest it's like green beans and asparagus and lettuce since this really not a lot of nutrients in that we're doing it to keep our stomachs full basically we're trying to bulk up our diet a little bit so that we're not starving to death and giving our body a little bit energy to use that's really what it's being used for most of the micro nutrients that you need vitamins, minerals, trace metals that's how to come from supplementation is not a lot in foods anymore it's very hard to get enough and figure out how many to get this many milligrams this many microbes of that it's not even worth it just take a supplementation like the mineralized it's not only vitamins and minerals covered you're taking essential fatty acids supplement like omega-lytes and then you don't have to worry about the micro nutrients and all the essentials you've got them in there right the food the macronutrients that's the food protein fat carbs that's going to help build repair muscle provide a fuel source that's what you need that for that's the most important thing so when we're eating, especially pre-contest we're really focused on getting enough protein, fat, and carbs and depending each person has a different required amount that they need that's the most important thing if you try to do everything and get everything into your diet, you accomplish nothing trust me can you skip vegetables altogether? absolutely, it probably doesn't even matter I think a lot there was a lot of diets that I ate offseason where I never even ate aromasingle vegetable I happened to like the taste of vegetables but if I felt that it was inhibiting my ability to get enough of the good stuff and it was going to help me build and repair muscle I just skipped it in other words, if I'm going to sit in an eat-a-meal and if I have a salad with this meal I'm not going to be able to eat as much protein as I need to eat because I need to eat 10 ounces at a meal on the salad, the salad that's not helping me is not doing anything just because it's green doesn't mean it's doing anything that's foolish thinking but if I know that I need so many milligrams of vitamin C and vitamin E and B vitamins to metabolize carbohydrates help me with those reactions I'm going to make sure I take a damn good multi-videy and multi-mineral to get enough calcium and magnesium I dying, you know, chromium, all those things because I know that those micro nutrients assist all the chemical reactions in the body so don't worry about getting micro nutrients from foods, get it from supplements take your fiber supplement, like fiber-lies to make sure you got enough fiber in your diet so you don't have to bulk up your meals with the ton of vegetables and carbohydrate-laden foods like, you know, old-brand and then just worry about eating your meals to get your protein fat in carbs Tom, for a couple morEQuestions, let's go to Big Daddy Jank's, are there any areas of dying trening where you would say the, quote, meat-headed body-building community is ahead of the science and accepted research I think the body-building world is ahead forever and it's always considered to be ahead because you know what, there's always going to be these scientists that will do these isolated experiments showing that, oh, if you do the movement like this with this angle, you're actually activating more muscle fibers but, you know, guess what? You know, we've already had 300 pound body-balls on stage in shape. It's got big for a reason because they lifted heavy ass weights, okay, with full range motion, okay, using, you know, good-mind muscle connection. There's nothing that's going to replace those exercises just like there's no one's going to come up with a steroid cycle, okay, after they've been out for 67 years now that we didn't think about already back in the day. All of it, there might be new drugs that hit the market, okay, at some time in the future that build muscle that we haven't even conceptualized yet, but other stuff that's out there, no one's coming up with a better scheme than what's already out there. Sorry, they've been around too long, we know what works, everyone's trying every combination, we know what works, okay? Same thing with exercises. You want to get big legs, you squat weight, you squat heavy weight with full range of motion, okay, and you build big legs. If you can't squat, you have an injury, you have to use leg press or smith machine, that's fine too, but nothing's replacing the squat, okay, none of these exercises. So the bodybuilders know what works to build muscle. Now, if you're a bodybuilder and you're trying to get big legs, that doesn't mean that that's the right exercise to use, okay, if you want to be a sprinter and have great explosive movement, it might be something you incorporate, but there might be new ones on the squat and on the leg press that are going to help you with explosive type movements on stage. IMean, in your event. So the bodybuilders know what works for the bodybuilders in the gym, drug wise, given what drugs are out there right now, and we kind of have the food thing that they could figure out pretty well too. Up until recently, they were teaching in school the food pyramid. Now they're at least modifying that a little bit to include some more open type of ideas about insulin management and stuff like that. But at the end of the day, bodybuilders are still, I think, light years ahead of everyone else when it comes to diet. I talked to people, I do consultations with regular people all the time. They know nothing about diet. They do not teach you this stuff in school. I have no idea why not. It makes perfect sense to actually have a course on how to eat. I wish they would teach kids how to eat. I wish they would have a realistic, hey guys, this is what this is protein, this is fat, this is carbohydrates. This is what these things do. If you want to achieve this, you eat this and you want to achieve that, you eat that. If you want to be healthy and keep your cholesterol low, you have to eat lower, carbohydrate and sugar and foods. If you want to lose body fat, you have to keep your carbohydrates lower to keep insulin levels lower. If you want to have, what do you want to put extra muscle on, you need extra protein in your diet, because that's what builds both. They don't teach you that in school. I don't know why, maybe one day they will. I'll take one more and you have leek, pre-scoming up in just a matter of minutes. Interesting one here is from Chester Brown. So he goes, as men's physique competitors, wear board shorts to hide the parts that are not being judged. And then I guess he facetiously has, how long do you think it'll be until the open men's are wearing football socks up to their knees? So if you want to clarify as far as calves and he bearing on judging, and I know he's kind of joking, but does he have a point? You know, the problem is that you don't really see the, you know, people don't look down that low to see calves. IMean, back in Arnold's day, I think guys legs worn his big, so calves really stuck out a lot more as being a really important body part. But if you have a guy like Randy with enormous, enormous quads, IMean, you're almost don't even look past thosEQuads. They're so great. I'm not saying it's a body part that should be neglected, but I think it's less important, just like, how many people lost a show because they had great arms that they didn't have good forearms. You know, you see them, but everyone's looking at the arm up in the air. If you got a big bicep and tricep, it's very impressive looking. So I'm more upset about the fact that they don't judge men's physique legs than they, than they don't really pay attention to the calves of open bodybuilders. Because IMean, after all, IMean, why not judge men's physique's legs? Why not judge the whole body? IMean, what is men's physique? It's really, it's a, it's a, it's a physique contest without posing essentially. So why not show the whole physique? I can definitely see over the course of the next, you know, five, ten years, made to the board shorts getting shorter, made to them changing that up a little bit. Because I think a lot of those guys in men's physique actually do have good legs. And some of them don't want to pose on stage. They don't want to go to classic physique. Now I understand that if you want to show your legs and you have, you can go to classic. But a lot of these men's physique guys don't want to get as big as these guys in classic. And they want to stay in men's physique. So you never know. I think we have a, a much better chance of seeing the board shorts get smaller than than than than not judging than then covering up people's calves with the big socks. I don't know what's going to happen. That's going to do for this episode of As Dave or Mindar right now in the article description below. We have to link to the GoFundMe set up for John Meadows family. So again, whenever we've had its situations where bodybuilder or bodybuilder's family than their need, this community is always stepped up. And we expect that you will do the same for John Meadows family. For anybody this in the Columbus Ohio area, we posted on our Instagram the information for John Meadows service. We're going to take place later this week. I believe Friday. So again, we pass along our warmest wishes to John Meadows family to his legions of followers. And do what you can to keep his memory alive. We know that he loved this sport and he loved everyone in his community. For Tyler Short and Dave, along both, I'm Siddhi Furuki. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Does CUPPING Really Work？ Dave Palumbo's Achedaway Cupper Review [I5ii-XFsqF8].txt ===

Daypalumbo here with another RX muscle product review. You've seen me review a lot of massage guns lately. Well, this is an interesting device that's called the Aecto-Way cover. So, if any of you guys would go for cupping therapy when they actually put these suction cups on you and it actually draws blood and increases blood flow. For a lot of people, they really like it. I know I get pictures all the time from bodybuilders who send me their update pictures. They got these marks all the back and stuff like that from the cupping therapy they went for this is something you can do at home yourself. It's a pretty interesting little device they got here. I'm actually really impressed with it. Let me get this thing open up. I'm going to open it up up here, nice little box. Here's the unit. Let's see what's going to be in this open here. Alright, so the good thing is this thing. Here's the cupping unit itself with the controls on top. This thing actually opens up and you can change this little filter pad here. They come with replacements like this so that we can keep nice and clen because as you're using this on your body it's going to take up dead skin cells. That's what I like that. This just wants to get just screws right on. This is literally a cup. What you do is you'll put it on. I had an arm workout that was really tough into my arms to sore. You basically put them right here. You push the button and you can see it's you can see the light there and it just starts working and it's sucking more turns red. It starts blue and it turns red and it will give intermittent pulses of sucking. What that's doing is it's drawing blood to that area and enabling the area to theoretically heal itself better and more efficiently. You can just, you know, you can read a book while you do it essentially. If you've done enough in that area you want to stop it. You can hit this button and it will release it and you'll see I have a little cupping mark here on my body. Let's say I want to now go to my forearm. Maybe my forearms are sore. I've got a tough arm workout and I did forearms after. Once again it's suction really well. IMean it's, I don't even have to hold it. It's on. It's like falling off this thing. It's a very strong suction for a little unit like this and it becomes with a little charger. You can literally plug this thing into your computer. Your laptop computer and charge this thing. Standard charger. And once again you can control how strong the suction is with the top controls. IMean this is good. Once again it's easy because you can go from muscle to airy to the muscle area. Now let's say my neck is bothering me. I can put it here now. If I put on my neck, I only got a hikki from someone. So I'm like, you can have that. Look I have like, I went from blood work the other day and I have a little bruise on my arm. So if I want to maybe increase circulation to there so that that bruising goes away faster, I can put this right on here and once again it starts blue and then when it gets to enough of a suction it turns red. This is a really weird side part of my arm so I'm just going to hold it here to make sure it keeps the suction on there. And once again it's bringing blood flow to this area which is going to help flush out that little bruise that I have on there. And so you can do this on any part of your body. You can just kind of move it around and see I can already see it's actually dissipating a little bit. You can move this around. It's light. It's got a little lannier to come through it so you can kind of put this around your neck because you want to know who would kind of put this around the neck but you can do that and have it available anytime you want to cup. And if you're into cupping and you like that therapy and it actually resonates with you then this is a great machine. You can go to their achedaway.com website that Tyler is showing you right now and you can order this device there. And it's a very high quality solid device. I highly recommend it if you're into cupping therapy. Once again it'll save you money of having to go to a professional and do it because you can do it yourself and if you want to do your back you can have like a friend of yours or you're girlfriend wife or whatever boyfriend put it on your back. And once again it's an ad home unit for body bills who work out on a regular basis who like cupping therapy in terms of increasing blood flow to help restore the muscle. I would actually use one of these devices combined with one of the massage guns. So you can kind of get a dual therapy going. Once again check it out at it. Ittoway.com. Tell them they's a polo sent you.

=== FILE: Donna Jones 2011 IFBB Ft Lauderdale Cup [1v4F-ndpms4].txt ===

Light on the key with the eye and the feel of the back Wanna on a beat and twist and she goes so sick Step ahead maybe I'd like to watch Just see the crowd and we'll try Otherwise it'll go your way Can we learn other aspects TodayIMind, I'm already dead What is your life? Is your life worth so much? What will it be? Because we just give it a life Just you and your hands tonight What is your life? What is your life? What is your life? What is your life? I will never leave, but not even till the sky Is your life, I'll you, I live forever When you change your mind Hold me soksawed, I still must act It's time, if I can't forgive myself

=== FILE: Dusty Hanshaw Update + RECAP WEDNESDAY! [Gu9QVQyFFLU].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Wednesday June 16th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, you know what time it is. Recap Wednesday is back and better than ever. We've got another great show lined up for you today. Starting with this recap of last weekend's Asia Grand Prix bikini. The big story here was the winner, Sarah Choi, earninGHer first pro win and well deserved a Libya qualification. So couldn't congratulations for a job. Well done. The runner-up spot went to Songon Room who did enough in the minds of the judges to buff third place finisher, Ho-jung Kim, one spot down the scorecards, fourth place went to Bolasio and we're wrapping our cover cheer with your fifth place finisher, young kung kung. We haven't actually had two bikini only events on the schedule last weekend. With the other one being the clash of the Titans pro out there in the great state of Georgia. And stop if you've heard this before, but once again Ashley Coltwasser managed to walk away with yet another win, which gives her four already this year, not to mention the fact that she was second at the New York pro, which is out of control. Second place went to Carolina Colzos, who keeps getting better every time we see her. The first year was one, did enough to convince the judges to slide her into third place here at her season debut. On Jan. Nicholson, cruised comfortably into fourth and Mika Messelin rounded out a pretty solid top-five group. Out on the west coast, the men's physique division was out in full force in Sacramento for this year's NorCal Pro. And we're starting off our coverage here with the men's open where former Olympian Shura Kwascherbaaz came back from this one year sabbatical to win this show for the second straight time. The surging Joseph Lee slid into the runner-up spot for the second straight week by managing to edge out third place finisher, Miron Griffin. Fourth place went to Ishmail Dominguez, who placed in the top five or better three straight times now. And we're wrapping up the top five with Jason Hung, who looks solid in his season debut. And finally, I want to end today's show by giving you a quick update on Dusty Handshot, who was hospitalized a few weeks ago after suffering a few health complications that left him in pretty bad shape for a while. But I'm happy to report that Dusty was released from the hospital a few days ago. An intipul Dusty fashion, he's already back in the gym, trying to regain some sense of normalcy after havinGHis life turned upside down. You've done so many of these stories lately like this that haven't had a happy ending like this, so it does make me feel good to find your report some good news during a time when the world could definitely use more of it. And hopefully now, if this is all behind him, it'll be a thing Dusty can look back on a few years or now and talk about as a trensformative moment in his life. To any of you who donated or sent thoughts and prayers his way, thank you. Dusty, I'm just glad to know you're home, my friend. This is my school in the morning and that does it to you at another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Day of Holombo reminding you to always be true to your passion. They should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: END OF AN ERA？ Muscle in the Morning (7⧸9⧸18) [QeYM9Lu7aFw].txt ===

Wake up in Smell the Coffee, it's Monday morninGHere at Muscle in the Morning. If you read anything ever written by any successful entrepreneur, they'll tell you that one of the real keys to being successful in life is figuring out how to develop productive routines. And I highly doubt there are too many athletes in the Women's Physic Division who are more in tune with their routines than breakout star Natalia Kahoho. Ten a week out from her Physica Limpia debut, the former figure superstar looks like she's on a collision course with the two other horses, Malacarne and Grant, that we've got leading the way and this tight race that we've got shaping up down the home stretch. The pound for pound Kahoho is one of the most talented athletes that we've ever had set foot in the division, but even with all that talent, you have to wonder whether or not she's got enough experience under her belt to step up and take the title. So, Talia Kahoho definitely won't be the only athlete in the division heading into the Olympia weekend with a full head of steam. Long time veteran Mila Ash doesn't look like she's out there taking any prisoners either. After last month's big win at the optimum pro Ash seems like she's really stepped up her game and the update she dropped over the weekend really highlight the level of dedication to our craft that she's been putting in over these last few months. Over the last year and a half or so Ash really seems to have come into her own as a Physica competitor. But if she has any plans of cracking the top five at this year's Olympia, now definitely wouldn't be the time for her to slow down or take her foot off the gas. People tell me that there might not be a more beautiful place on Earth to visit than the historic parts of Spain in the middle of summer. So now that it looks like our old friend Roman Fritz is heading out that way about two weeks from now, well maybe it's time I finally decide the hop on a plane to go over there for a visit. Over the weekend Fritz and his team release some new updates 18 days out from the big man weekend where people in the know seem to think that he'll be ready to brinGHis best look ever of the season. Fritz has always been one of the rare breeds who walks around with damn near zero body fat all year long. But as you can fill out enough to bring in that extra crispy look we've all been waiting for that's when he starts to become a very dangerous competitor. You know bodybuilders have a tendency to be overly sensitive way more so than pretty much any other group of athletes but then there are people like Guy Sistir Nino the ones who know how to take that constructive criticism and turn it into something special. Over the weekend the king of the beards released a whole string of clips from his current offseason project which seems to be doing whatever it takes to come in bigger and thicker from the back of the 2019 season. There's one thing you can say about sister Nino it's it's then he's been an absolute workhorse at every point as per rear so if he says he's coming back bigger and thicker in 2019 you can bet your butt that he means that he's coming back bigger and thicker in 2019. It doesn't take a bodybuildinGHistory to figure out that flex Lewis isn't has been the most decorated in talented athlete to ever set foot in the 2012 division. But late last week Lewis and his team rocked the bodybuilding world when they announced that 2018 would be their last year competing as a 2012 competitor where possibly even their last year ever in a heartfelt Instagram post flex to express some of the eggs that went into the decision for his career and his family and cited the tragic passing of his friend Dallas McCarver as one of the sobering moments that really helped to put everything in perspective even though for some fans I think the immediate reaction might be shocking all at the end of the day everyone needs to sit down and remember that all of these athletes are just people they have lives they have kids they have families and to gain the world and lose all those things in the process is really to gain nothing at all so my hat goes off the flex for having the courage to do what he's doing and I personally can't wait to see how he writes the ending to this next chapter and that does if he had another addition of muscle in the morning on day full of no reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: ENHANCING MENTAL COGNITION! #askDave [G5OEawP5v9M].txt ===

Our Ex Television on RXMuscle.com. This is AS Dave, better known as hashtag AS Dave brought to you by Species Nutrition Visit speciesnutrition. On host of the EATFORWCYVIS, is your 30-minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Pullumbull, all your questions on diet, trening, supplementation, IFB, pros, news, competitions, whatever is on your mind, it is all on the tables. We now bring in Dave Pullumbull Dave. Some exciting news on the RXMuscle Front as we welcome in a new advertiser on board. Yeah, as you guys probably know, I'm very good friends with Jimmy Mentis and Jimmy just acquired liquid sun rays to add to his portfolio of companies along with his beauty fit. He'll be actually in the studio next week. We're going to be doing a cool interview with about that in the history of tanning and stuff like that, so that should be fun. Species in Jimmy and I go back to the days of diet, German, and pro tan when they first started out. This is exciting because liquid sun rays is a great tanning product. It's probably got the best color out there at this time in the industry. Jimmy is trying to revolutionize how we tan people and take it to a higher level. Back in the day, guys would have terrible tan, some guys would have a green. Nowadays, stepping on stage with anything less than a perfect tan is shame, shame on you. The liquid sun rays company is usually at all the shows and you can easily sign up with them and have them tan you and what used to take hours and hours now is a painting on this tan now takes 10 minutes. So there's no excuse for not having a perfect tan anymore. So again, welcome, liquid sun rays on board. The newest RX muscle advertiser right now on rxmuscle.com yesterday, we were sent pictures of big romis latest progress pictures by butterboudy. The head owner of Oxygen Jim that video is live right now at rxmuscle.com. Dave Arpres his opinions on big romi 10 weeks out from the Olympia. Watch for it today or tomorrow. We have a great two-part interview with Dan Solomon. He's the voice of the Olympia live broadcast. He came in and Dave and Dan has some really good insights into this upcoming Olympia. Some of the new changes of course. The new people's champ rule and it's so much morals. And thEQuestion, the first two questions from the Dave Pullumbo experience app, the first question, what top three ingredients for enhanced or are the top three ingredients for enhancing brain cognitive function in your opinion, when to take and anything we can naturally do as well. You know, I hate to say it, but it's so simple. A cup of coffee is probably the best, you know, it's similar. You could probably use for a firm for alertness. No, I don't do stimulants because I have like a harder with me. The kickstand, if my heart rate gets too high, you know, normally it rest, it doesn't, I don't have any problems with it. I don't even, I'm not even aware of it. But I don't do stimulants for that very reason. I don't need to like, you know, push my heart. So I don't do stimulants, but I'll tell you something. I drank a cup of coffee the other day, a half a cup. And I was so alert. My whole brain fog went completely away. I became super focused. There's really nothing better than that. The problem is that everyone uses these stimulants every single day in excess of a mass and they don't work anymore. So what's the best brain stimulant or the best thing to ferment alertness? Really? Like I said, a little bit of caffeine. The key is, don't abuse it. I'm coming out with a product. We're trying to formulate it. IMean, we'll formulate it already. We're trying to, you know, put the whole thing together. It's called neurowise. It's going to contain a whole bunch of different, you know, no or, the topic, you know, this is funny because back in the 90s we talked about, no, it's tropics. They'll fill up, and his book, the out of rock reference guy. And I think the one dollar tropic that existed at the time was parasitum. And we used to try to use the dividables. And it didn't work a little bit. It really wasn't anything great. But now they have a lot of natural supplements that when you put together synergistically kind of create a, almost like a, you know, a mental focused type situation. And that's what I'm trying to do with the neuralized product. You know, I was originally going to put the same formula into a pre-workout. But I'm like, you know, I think people are basically confusing pre-workouts with focus products. And you should, I don't think you need to do the two together necessarily. I think they should be divided because not everyone wants to take a pre-workout and be stimulated at their mind because they take it at night because they tren at night. And then they can't sleep at night. So rather than me, what I used to do is produce two pre-workouts. Night realized with caffeine. Night realized with that. I'm just going to go with a pure neuro-focused type product. And then if I want to put together a pre-workout, I'll put together a stem free pre-workout because I don't think you need to put the stems in there. If, if a pre-workout is good, you should feel the pump, you should feel the endurance. That has nothing to do with the stimulant portion of the product. So that's how I'm going to do. And I'm going to like I said, thEQuestion was, what's the best, you know, brain stimulant? It's caffeine really, right off the bat. But how you make the caffeine more effective is how the other compounds come into play. And once that product comes out, I will explain what my scientific approach was to putting that to the other. Second question from L'Aceum, under what conditions and time of day do we want high cortisol? You ever suggest trying to control it. And it's so what are the benefits to this? Well, in the morning is when cortisol levels are highest. That's just our natural circadian rhythms dictate that. So that's why I was always a big believer of doing, you know, like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, your injections in the morning to try to counteract some of that, you know, catabolic effect of cortisol. Now cortisol is important because when your blood sugar drops, there's two hormones that can raise blood sugar. Glucogone, which is produced by your, your pancreas, kind of does the opposite of insulin. It takes whatever glucose to store or glycogen storage in the muscles of the liver and it liberates it. It makes it turns it into glucose, puts it into the blood sugar and raises blood sugar. Cortisol, which is produced by the adrenal glands, can raise blood sugar, but it does it by a different mechanism. It takes amino acids and usually in the liver a little bit in the kidneys and it converts it into glucose. That's known as gluconeogenesis. So it's actually making new glucose that was never around. Whereas glucogont takes existing stored glucose and liberates it. So they work by different mechanisms. So you don't want to have zero cortisol because it's a safety net in your body. In other words, your liver is always monitoring and your pancreas for that matter. How much blood glucose is there when you're sleeping at night a lot of times, you know, your blood glucose can drop. That's when cortisol raises blood sugar while you're sleeping. That's why people who don't have good blood sugar control know this when they wake up. And the morning that fasting blood sugars can be high. Okay, because their bodies can't manage. Because think about it. When you produce glucose into the bloodstream, the pancreas has to release insulin. So you can absorb that glucose. If your insulin production is not optimal for whatever reason you're taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, your pancreas to stress that, maybe it's a little burnt out, you might be, you know, watering on diabetes. You're not going to be able to have good blood sugar control. So to get back to thEQuestion, cortisol is important, but we don't want excessive amounts of it in the body. It's good or Instagram questions. First question from hoodman 521. The best movement for a thicker middle back is supported upper torso movements as effective as bent over movements. Yeah, I think that's the best way to go. When you try and it really target those little middle back muscles, the rhomboids, and really it's really the lower part of the traps, too, we're talking about. Because the traps go all the way down the middle of your back in the middle there. And when you try to target those small muscle groups, you're better off doing rowing movements with like a pad against your chest, because it kind of forces you to not cheat with other muscles. And it really targets those muscles. When you're doing those exercises, weight should not be really a priority. It should be the squeeze and how you're really feeling that muscle really just, you know, pulling back there. If you're just feeling your arms during the movement and you're just kind of hurling the weight, then you're really not targeting those little middle muscle, middle back muscles. I've seen a lot of guys that are super strong on bent rows, dead lifts, pull downs, and they have no middle back detail. And that's because they just don't target those muscles. They use the other muscles to compensate so they can lift heavier. So that's why I always broke down your do your basic heavy movements first, pull down the bent rows, one arm rows, then go to the end of your back work, I'll go to your isolation type back movements where you have the pad. Whether it be sitting in a rowing machine with the pad against you, or leaning over in that one, the pad sits against your chest and you pull up. Those are great because they force those middle back muscles to work. P.R. dip. My question is the best option to get shredded. Claim versus ECA stack, like Black Mamba, and can I use T4 rather than T3 to stack what the above option because T4 is cheap? And I want to know the dosage of T3. Yeah, the, you know, Klemeterols, the best fapper and you can use really. IMean it doesn't, it's so much better than a fager in caffeine that the, no comparison. So if you have access to Klemeterols, obviously I would choose that. I like to stack it with T3, or you know, it's the brand-name being side of Melon the United States. Side-Mell and Mexico and then other names and different places, but T3 is the active ingredient. And you don't really want to use T4 because T4 is an inactive thyroid hormone. If you put T4 into your body, okay, and you have normal thyroid output, 99% chance none of it will ever convert to T3 because your body just doesn't need anymore. So if you're trying to boost thyroid output, you know, it's thyroid hormone levels in your body, functional thyroid levels, active thyroid hormone levels, you want to take T3. So taking T3 with Klemeterols has that synergism of increasing fapper and pretty significantly. So the, it may, how common is sleep apnea among body builders and what can one do besides CPAP to treat sleep apnea? The only way to treat sleep apnea without a CPAP is she just a loose weight. IMean, look, I was never snore my whole life. Then I started bodybuilding and I got big. When I hit about 25260, I started snoring. When I was 300, I snored like a grizzly bear. When I lost the weight, the snoring went away. I don't snoring anymore. I had 100, whatever I am, 90 pounds. So for me, it was always a weight issue, which kind of, you know, my neck was big and it would close off your neck a little bit. Other people, I know, I know guys that have sleep apnea to 150 pounds. Those people, you put that you gain a hundred pounds of their body and they're going to die at night from sleep apnea. They need a CPAP machine. So if you want to be big and huge and eat a lot of food and hold a lot of weight and you have sleep apnea, which probably 90% of bodybuilders do because when they get that big, you got to use the machine that's all the risk to it. IMean, it sucks, but otherwise you just can't be that big. IMean, no one wants to, you know, shorten your life because you have sleep apnea. Plus if you don't sleep well, you're not going to recover from your workouts and build muscle, you know, adequately. I think I probably had to sleep longer when I was bodybuilding because I didn't use the CPAP machine. That was became kind of invoked after I stopped competing. So I would have to sleep 10 hours and I probably had to get enough sleep because I wasn't getting a restful night sleep, but I would take napster in the day. So once again, if you want to get a quality of good quality sleep, you got to get one of those machines. Sugar J. Fitness is a true your best time to make growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is coming after a show due to your body being depleted for a long period of time. Can you touch on that subject? Sure. Good question. I was just talking to a woman about that last night on the phone. And, you know, after a show because you've been depleting so long and not can bodybuild out of your body, you want to store things. Now here's the interesting thing. He wants to store everything. And once his store calories is fat, once his store glycogen, IMean glucose is carbs is glycogen, and once his store protein as muscle, we want to exploit as the ability of the body and wanting to make muscle tissue. So what we do post, you know, contest is we eat, but we eat. If the eat tons and tons of carbs, you're going to get fat, okay, as well as muscular. If you eat a lot of protein, you're going to put muscle on, okay, and that's just the way it is. Now obviously, the first thing that happens when you eat a lot of carbs is your glycogen stores get filled up. It's great. You feel like some pumped and full and strong in the gym. Once they're topped off, which takes a couple days, the rest of that was extra carbs. Now we'll start going into fat storage because your body wants to store. So you see it more in women because women have, you know, women can sometimes eat as much as many after a show. Now, if they're both, if men and women are both eating the same thing, who do you think is going to get fat in the women? Because they don't need to do many calories. So what you want to do after a show is maximize your diet. In other words, get enough protein in, get enough essential fats in your diet. And then eat enough carbs to fuel your workouts and to do what you got to do and you can max out your glycogen stores, but not enough that you're going to start getting fat. And how do you know that? Try on there. Try on there. You'll see. You'll know when you start getting too fat and then you're back off a little bit. But you will grow. I know guys, I, I, most guys after a show I clen the mouth. They do HG, they do clombered and then they're off. And, you know, obviously the stuff that you've been taking is still going to be in your system for quite a number of weeks, three to four weeks after the show. So you're going to get a rebound and nice boost no matter what, you don't have to stay on gear. Matter of fact, if you go off the gear, you get hungrier because gear is toxic to your body and it usually blunch your appetite a little bit. You might not even realize it until you call off. When you go off the gear, well, if it's something you get soft star, you can't stop eating. That's good as long as you're eating the right foods and trening. Because that, that combination of the trening, okay, and eating is going to build muscle at a much accelerated rate because your body wants to store things. For, remember, what you store is dependent on what you eat. Louis Green, the first day, voured somewhere your craziest thoughts when you were dieting for a show, contest prep drives people insane and we think of all sort of cookie stuff. How did you stop yourself from going mad when on contest prep? You know, I'm such a creature of habit. You know, the fact that I would have achieved me all once a week for me was like salvation. I would diet so hard knowing that when that Friday night or whatever was Saturday night came along and it was time to go to that old, you could eat sushi places that didn't even happen. That would go to every week because back in the 90s there was no, there was like one place in Manhattan that would just start doing this all you can eat sushi thing. There weren't sushi buffet as back then. And I loved this one place and I would go into the city. It was like a 40 minute, 45 minute ride from Long Island. Every single week when I would contest diet, I never missed. We would drive in there and we would go eat sushi and it didn't matter if it was a torrential snowstorm or rain. IMade it into that freaking restaurant. They knew me and there I was in there every week. And that's my salad and that's what made me diet so hard during the week. If I felt like cheating or if I started getting really bad, I would leave the house. You know, I would I would clen the house. I would do anything I had to distract myself. And that's what you got to do. If you want to be the best, cheating is not an option. A design cheat meal is, but you can't just randomly say, well, you know, I deserve it. I even suffering and I'm starving and this is not right. I don't see life isn't right. It doesn't fit. Right. It's not normal to starve to death. Right. It's not normal to be hungry all the time and to dream at night about food buffet. But that's what bodybuilding is about. It's about who can endure more torture to look better than the next God. And I never wanted to get up on that stage and say, you know what, back I suffered more than I did because you know what, that was that was not an option. I was going to do everything I could to be my desk. Now, I couldn't control my structure. I couldn't control how much muscle I had achieved. Whatever I had was had to be maximized. And the things I couldn't control were diet, my tan, and my presentation. And I always try to maximize that to the best of my ability. Trying time. How do you bring out striations and the hamstrings for rear poses? I'm pretty lean everywhere else. Is it just stubborn that or opposing it's you? Well, it could be a combination of how you, you know, pose the muscle. If you can, if you can move your leg around in certain angles all of a sudden you see a time of decal, then you just not flexing it right on stage. Now, you could also, the muscle could be too flat maybe because you're not, you know, carb up enough or you could be in a depleted state. More than likely, when I see it, most people who don't have hamstring, I guess a lot of decal showing. It's one of two things. It's easy than that too. They're not lean enough, which is usually the case where they don't have enough muscle back there. You can be super crazy ripped and just have like loose skin back there and you can't figure out why there's nothing popping. Well, the reason nothing's popping is you don't have enough muscle back there. The same reason why some guys don't get glued because they lose all the fat there. They got loose skin there, but there's no muscle there or not enough muscle there to stretch that skin tight. The only way to solve that problem is to add more muscle. Let's go to M Luigi's, Dave hate to show opinions about a fight resupplement without sodium husk, is sodium husk a must. I'll tell you why Silly is a must. Because when you're talking about soluble fiber products, okay, then the highest naturally occurring source of fiber in your and foods would be O-brand, okay? To compare O-brand to Silly, you need eight grams of O-brand to equal one gram of Silly and a potency level. Therefore, if you're taking my fiber lies, which has about nine grams of Silly and preserving it, okay? You would need, nine times eight, 72 grams of O-brand to equal that one little scoop of fiber lies. No one's going to eat that much, that O-brand. You, you, you know what? Grems of carbs would come with that. So it's it's almost impossible to get what you need on a daily basis from food sources. When you see these other crappy fibers in the market that have like, you know, they have them gum in them and and and all these like these very, you know, soluble fibers, excuse me, these very water soluble fibers that kind of disappear like a bed of fiber, they're crap. They don't do anything. They have no pose. You know what the funny thing is? The number one selling fiber product in the world is is fiber one bars and people love them. Do you know that fiber one bar don't have any fiber in them? The only source of fibers is Xantham gum, which is, which is a thickening agent that people use. It doesn't have any, it doesn't have any health benefits, whatsoever to it. But that's the number one selling fiber. So it's a taste good. So people don't know, people once again, it's goes back to the old while taking a one-day multi-vitamin, IMust be getting all the vitamins I need, which we all know is bullshit because there's no way you can put enough of the, the minerals and the vitamins in one pill to get enough of what a body builder or a high exercising endurance athlete would need. So it's the same thing with fiber. You need a potent fiber something to do something, okay? Take fiber lies for one, you know, for two weeks and then and then take some other fiber. You tell me if there's anything even close to it, you're not going to get the same effect from it because of the potency level of the of the of the of the sillium. It is what it is. You know, and there's different grades of sillium. So, you know, we buy a very high grade of sillium because I want it, I want this stuff to work, okay? You want it to have all the health benefits of lowering LDL cholesterol, of lowering blood sugar, of, you know, allowing, you know, waste product to move effortlessly out of the body for clearing the calling. You know, there's so many health benefits to taking a good quality fiber supplement that there's no excuse why anyone should not be taking it. If you're taking anything else before that, those of you are trying to take it, IMean, I ask you probably going to pre-work it and you're not taking, you know, a multi-vide and multi-run, a central fatty acid and fiber supplement, you're an idiot because you know what, you're actually inhibiting your body's ability to no more to be healthy, but number two, to actually build and burn fat, you know, build muscle and burn fat at optimal rates. Victor Seldana under a score of classic. I feel as though my rats from the front don't flare out, say in a front double bicep, is that just poor muscle development, insertions, any moves to help target that specifically? IMean, it usually means you're lads and I've big enough not wide enough. In some people, they don't hit the pose right and they don't pop them out enough, but when I was like, first started competing, I think it was 160 pounds in my first show and it was a middleweight. I had been trening for like nine months after coming off being a long distance run for five years and I thought I was no opening my lads of, I just turned down and said, have any lads to pop that out? Doring each was a big believer in pullovers, the pullover machine to really bring the flare out of those lads, I believe that you know, pull downs and rows and somebody that it's just building sheer mass on your lads is really what's going to pop those things out and that's all there is to it, you know, the wide of your back, the better it's going to look. Now, if you're not like I said, if you're not opening up your lads, good enough, that's a different story, but most people's problem is not that mostly but don't have enough muscle there. So, Chris Kavallo has a question that you and Dan Solomon certainly address in your interview which is going to go up either today or tomorrow on rxmuscle.com, but I want to maybe expand a little bit and I'll explain. So, what do you think of the new form of judging at this year's Olympia with the audience having to say and second question, going off social media, recent posts on big ramen, do you think he will bring the condition that that filled us? Now, what I'm going to throw into that is, do you think now that this will encourage Olympia athletes, especially for this show, given that they have this scoring, that that could actually play a factor that, okay, if they're drumming up their excitement, fans are going to be a little bit more, or hey, you know what, big Ronny's in posting these pictures, he's on the front of my I'm going to vote for him, come Olympia time. I don't think the people's choice is going to have any effect on the outcome of the Olympia, I doubt to leave him be prize money. I would like to think that someone's going to put some prize money up for it, so it's like something to be proud of, but I don't think it really will. I think it's adding interest to the Olympia and I think that's always important, you know, people like anything that's different, you know what IMean? Oh, I get to vote. The problem is that only the audience is getting to vote. I don't know why they went to fielded like, you know, one of these text messaging services where you know, you could, everyone of the world, who they think is the best bodybuilder. Like American Idol. Yeah, IMean, that would have been smart to do that. That's what Dan and I talked about in the interview a lot. That was my idea to do in that. But you know, like I said, it's going to drum up interest. I don't think it's going to change anything as far as placing the fact that Ronny, you know, we're all waiting for him to show up at his best. I don't know if he can. I think he physically is capable of it, but I don't know if the people that are advisinGHim will allow him to go low enough in bodyweight to actually get that shredded, okay, to come to the stage the way we know he needs to. Because the bottom line is that he'll never be more conditioned than Phil. Because Phil is one of the freakiest hardest guys I've ever seen and, you know, compete on in bodybuilding. But he doesn't need to be as hard as Phil. He needs to be in shape for for Ronny. So if Ronny comes in, you know, rainy, norally hard, even if it's not harder than Phil, he's got way more muscle than Phil does. So he will not be beaten. But he's leaving the door open. And you know what? Phil's laughing all the way to the bank to the tune of $400,000 every single year that he's been collecting that Olympia check. So what would happen again this year? You know, the betting line would say Phil's going to win. You know, the long shots would be like, you know, would give you the Ronny, the Dexter Jackson in there. I think Dexter Jackson can win the Olympia again. If these guys come and off, it has happened before. He won it no eight. Wouldn't it be great 10 years later at 50 years old or almost 49 years old, whatever he is, to win the Olympia again. It could happen. That's what makes the show so exciting. Coastal Reek in Gaines, thoughts for caution and what to watch out for when using Cline while on a coloric deficit. This is really not any danger to Cline but if you take into the right dose, if you're starting out with 20 micrograms twice a day, but the only side effects you're going to feel is you might get a Cline headaches or a pain in the neck. They only usually laugh about two weeks. Sometimes you get those. Sometimes you get cramping you'll you're on and right? The muscles right in the here will lock up on you and you'll be like what the hell is going on. Those are the two most common side effects. A claim makes you very strong in the gym. Two is to get to be careful. I think that's why you get cramps sometimes the muscles can drive a little too tight. Other than that, you get a little shaky like this. Your hands get a little wobble for a couple of days. Once you get past two weeks on plan, all the side effects go away. All the little dohickeys that are annoying disappear and what you find is you can take a Cline Biter on full sleep 10 minutes later. It doesn't stimulate you whatsoever. Once again, get past that two week trial period. Once you get past the two weeks, then you can start increasing the dose and I think you'd be fine. Elizabeth lifts how do you tren a type one diabetic? What specific methods do you use when it comes to fat loss and muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone? I don't change anything. It's the same protocol. Essentially, as long as they had it take care of their blood sugars. In other words, ironically, a low-low carb diet like my ketogenic diet works really well on type ones because it reduces their insulin requirements to almost nothing. Obviously, they're going to still have to take their long acting insulin which is easy. They take that twice a day usually. The short acting insulin today normally would take with their meals would be greatly reduced because the carb content is going to be almost non-existent. They will need some because we remember protein can convert into carbs in a certain degree but they're not going to be nearly the amount of insulin that they would normally would take offseason. So ketogenic diets work really well but that doesn't that's not the same that they type one diabetic can't eat carb diet. They just have to know how many grams of carbs are ready so they can calculate how much fast acting insulin to take with it. So I help a lot of type one diabetic. To me, they are pleasure to work with because they micromanage every aspect of what they do. They always know their blood sugars. They always know how much insulin they take. So to me, that's a lot of data to work with that I can manipulate that easy. If I need to reduce carbohydrates or reduce something in their diet, they know and I could talk to them about how much insulin we need to reduce and as they get leaner and leaner and their body fetke slower and lower in their food gets slower and lower they have to reduce the amount of insulin they're taking. Decorate if you're on HRT 200 and GF test per week and HCG every day and one MG of an astrazole every other day, what should that bring your testosterone level up to? It's in potten there's no formula that you could possibly use to figure that out. It's every person is in the midial. I know guys that can take HCG and their testosterone will be through the roof and I know other guys take the HCG and their testosterone's low and they both using the same source of HCG. So everyone's value response to those those those releasing peptides or releasinGHormones that you want to call them in different ways. So I could never quantify what their level with the person's levels would be. Swaggy T when it comes to old school body building the golden era I know most of them did super low carb high fat high protein diet. How are they able to look so full for contest and shoots on low-terno carbs? Well they ended up as they were basically doing similar to ketogenic diets they just would eat a lot of red meat back then they really didn't know about essential fatty acid they would just do a ton of red meat and butter and stuff like that and create heavy cream and they would carb up at the end. IMean that's what I put someone on a key and not everyone knows I don't put everyone on a ketogenic diet and not everyone needs it but if you're on a ketogenic diet or even if you're on a low carb diet at the end we carb you up. So carbs loading is just putting glycogen into the muscle when glycogen which is the stored form of glucose goes into the muscle it pulls water with it. So when you carb up you can eat no carbs for the whole year and if you carb up two weeks before a show you're going to look just as good as if you ate carbs the entire year it doesn't matter. glycogen stores which is what causes that fullness in the muscle is like gasoline in your car a gas tank in your car. If the car is not running on empty all the time you know you might run out and you might get some some of the car may slow down you might have to add some gas here in there okay but if you fill the tank up after even a year of running it low nothing it doesn't change how the car performs the car will still perform the same. We've gonEQuestions before regarding controlling acne but Dave the coke wants to know some insight as to what to do for acting control both on and off cycle. Well you know everyone was everyone breaks out differently I suffered with acne for many years because I didn't have it grossly but when I would take a certain steroids I guess it would get worse and no one wants an nasty skin and no one wants to ask you to skin on stage and you know I eventually did act to look at you and it helped a lot. I still broke out but I didn't break out with big, big oils and stuff like that. So thEQuestion is how do you control the acne? Well you know a lot of guys I've been putting on my test-alize product which has some DHT blunting agents so it doesn't eliminate DHT but it reduces it and usually guys break out because when they start a cycle it blows that DHT levels through the roof die hydrant testosterone and that's what's responsible for acne. So if you can reduce that a little bit naturally we're not eliminating at totally by taking drugs like finasteride okay you get usually the acne goes away pretty easily assuming that you're conducting yourself and taking showers and keeping clen. So I have a lot of guys especially young guys and their teens that are using test-alize and not just for the testosterone boosting effects and the estrogen long effects but because it reduces DHT and it solves the acne problem a lot of women take it for that same reason and for hair a lot of women tend to sit out when they're bodybuilding because maybe it boosts their natural testosterone natural DHT levels and then someone will take drugs that they shouldn't be taking but the test-alize seems to also temper that DHT effect thus allowing the hair to become thicker and reducing you know the incidence of hair loss. So you know for what it's worth try it that would be my first line of the fence if you're having acne issues you're havinGHair loss it should try test-alize three pills twice a day if that doesn't work after a couple weeks then you could think about using stronger drugs like finasteride but I wouldn't need your use those right off the bat if you can avoid it. Take a couple morEQuestions barbarian the your view on giant sense from muscle control and would you regularly change up your exercises? The old Milo Sarsha of Giantsets. I you know I actually like Giantsets I think they're good I just don't wouldn't use them every single week you know for limited periods of time maybe four to six weeks and then and then go back so IMean the problem of Giantsets is they're pain in the ass because you've got to run around the whole gym you have to make sure that you have four machines a five machines open that no one's using them it could be it could become too stressful I did a lot of super setting and drop setting when I would when I would compete you know I would do like let's say I'm doing uh bicep cable curls IMight then go do try set of overheads immediately after no rest you know or IMight do if I'm on the bench IMight bench price three fifteen for six reps strip off a plate to twenty five for another four reps strip off a plate one thirty five for another four to six reps and and that would be the end of that would be the the the the benching workout and so what I was basically doing is I was liftinGHeavy initially then to get more reps rather than try to do four straps or try to you know just stren with the wrong muscle legs lower the weight it's still felt super heavy because I just finished a set with a heavier amount of weight and I'm blowing as many of those and then when that was too heavy I would lower it again so I was I was almost doing four straps but in a drop set type of situation so it's always a good idea to mix up your trening I can get people a template of here's a great workout but you should always tweak around the exercises change the order change the tempo change how many you do you know sometimes drop set sometimes super set it um and that that's just called variation in trening and that's what usually leads to the most muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Inspector America Dave on fifty years old in general is there a way for a person to improve recovery ability outside of supplements, nutrition so on and so forth any trening methods or techniques each is just. You know as you get all there it's hard to recover you shouldn't be trening as many days a week um obviously taking supplements like World War Moll and testosterone and some I'm going to help you recover quicker no doubt about sleeping more is going to help you recover better um eating the right diet is going to help you recover better so if you can maximize all those areas I just mentioned you should be able to recover with no problem. Last question from Lee Axe and how do you coach your clients who constantly fail on their nutrition plans do you just say okay keep going or can you start to tell them off. Um you know if I if I feel that they are doing their cheating and they're not following I have guys and I look I did a rant on this and I still I'm still getting guys that are using sugar free catchups and they're using another guy you know you know I like a dobo you know spices you know but I'm a diet if you read the ingredient list on a dobo spices the third ingredient is sugar okay so people make such stupid mistakes and then they wonder why they're not losing weight so you got to really read all the food packages that you have don't just look at the new trickials look at the ingredient list read what's in there so you see what's in there just because it says you know less than one gram of carbon label doesn't mean there's not sugar in there it could be a look it could be a gram in there and the serving size might be ridiculously slow or low and so no one's using one serving size they're using five serving sizes and before you know it you're consuming you know an actually 10 20 grams of carbs you know with your meal that you didn't even know you were getting in so I think a lot of people sabotage themselves if it's a person who's just cheating and they actually even admitted to you and I have to plant like that too I'm like look you're not going to do well at the show and you got no one to blame but yourself so you can either skip the show or do the show knowing that you didn't give you best and then next time around you know you'll you'll buckle down and you'll be a hundred percent and you can't be emotionally invested in it in the sense that you're going to get upset because someone's not listening to you it's their life it's their option all you can do is give them the reality of situation they could either embrace that and try to be better next time or they can say f you I don't agree with you and and leave but they're only person they're lying to themselves that's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave again brought to you by species nutrition visit species nutrition.com for Dave love oh and our producer Tyler sure I'm so deep for rookie we'll see you next week

=== FILE: EPIC Labrada Picture + Bumstead Plates SEVEN + Patrick Moore Olympia UPDATE! [8oHcUPQEVzk].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, so it's 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car pop tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today, Pulumbo, and today is Thursday, June 10th, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Earlier today, I was exchanging emails with a client, and he said something that stuck out that I wanted to share with you guys. He said practice makes progress, which is one of those weird and two-of statements that simple and profound at the same time. And it also does a pretty good job of summing up this clip of Chris Bum said. He did a 7-plate PR and deadlift a few weeks into his contest prep, which wouldn't have been possible that he hadn't spent so much time practicing the heavy basics durinGHis offseason. Eventually, everything comes full circle. And if working this stuff back into his program ends up being what gives him that extra 1% edge he needs to make it through straight, well, that practice will have been well worth it. I want to stay on that concept of practice making progress for this segment because I think there's another angle to this that's important to cover as well. When people think about practice, more often than not, it's probably something physical that comes to mind. But I wanted to point out that greatness is a practice too. You don't want to cheat right, it's the way Sydney Gilland does without dedicating yourself to the process of progress. You can make the argument that Sid is operating at a higher level than any athlete in the entire industry right now, male or female. And the numbers back up that because she's actually the longest ten year to limpia champion in any division. When she started on this journey a few years ago, the entire landscape of the division was completely different. But here she is now surrounded by new faces and new places, still standing alone at the top. And at the end of the day, none of that is possible without the practice of making progress. And that's what this is all about. Figure out the stuff that works, double down on it, and then double down again and let the rest fall into place. It's a super simple formula for success, but it worked for Patrick Moore when he won the Cal Pro a few weeks ago. And it's still working now. If you saw the trening clip that you released a few days ago and thought that it just looked like more of the same, that's because it was. And that was the whole point. He knows what he needs to do, so he just goes out and does it without trying to complicate things. It's the shortest distance between two points, which is why you can almost draw straight line from Cal Pro to the Olympia and already know how this whole thing is going to play out. You know how Instagram will sense a certain image. So you have to click approve before you can actually see it. Well, they might want to think about doing that for everyone competing in the open class at the IFVV Chicago Pro, because scrolling across some of the Hunter LeBrona content might be disturbing to viewers. A few days ago, he released new update photos that were taken by a certain Hall of Fame bodybuilder who happens to the Shad this same last name. He looked as good as we've seen him at any point in his career. He's big, he's crisp and he looks the way you'd expect someone with top five Olympia ambitions to look heading into their season. They're great. Once have a way of making it look easy and there aren't too many people out there who are making it look easier than Hunter LeBrona is right now. And that does a few at another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: EXCLUSIVE BIG RAMY UPDATE! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸13⧸18) [xarjyh1vH0I].txt ===

It's Friday the 13th here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm Dave Palombo, your scary host and it's July 13th 2018 and let's find out what's going on in that world of body building in fitness. I don't know about you but if I just won my pro debut one of the biggest shows in the country, I'd probably still be sleeping off a legendary hangover in the middle of the right field bleachers at Rigoli Field in Chicago. Luckily for him, Wesley Vissers and I don't seem to have that in common. This week we saw the rookie star releases first official post show update less than a week after setting the classic physique world on fire with his huge win at the Chicago pro. According to Vissers and his team, there's still a lot of work to be done between now and the Olympia if you want to be competitive but with less than two months left until it's go time you wonder if there's enough time for them to actually do enough that they can impact on the final outcome of the contest. Anyone who watched the NBA finals this year knows what it feels like to see a tsunami come through and just wipe out everything in its path. And when you look at what Ashley Colt-Wars has been doing, heading into this year's Olympia, you can't help but start to get a little bit of that same feeling. After last week's massacre up at the Vancouver pro, Colt-Wars are starting to look like a complete juggernaut heading into the big return to the Olympia stage in September. Over the last five years is so we've probably seen more turnover at the top of the bikini division than we have in any other division in the pro league. So I don't think it would come as too big of a shock if she showed up and became the first women in history to win back the bikini Olympia title. Sometimes in sports you find yourself sucked into rooting for some of the athletes who are just legitimately good people. And you won't find many athletes in the two-twelfth division who are better people than the reigning and defending Arnold Classic champ, Kamala Garmin. Right now on Warganis Camp are knee-deep in preparation for their first career Olympia. We're hoping to put himself on the short list of guys in line to see Flex Lewis's spot after he vacates the throne. Within the last week or so we've slowly started to see Kamala start rounding back into that first class championship form who had back at the start of the season. So if you can get close to bringing 100% of that look into this year's Grand Finale, he should be right there in the mix for a top five finish when it's all set and done. These coasts have been getting pounded with a press of heat for the last week and a half, but a mature of mother nature could even keep up with the flames that bikini stand out dare a Diaz has been throwing lately. Last and a week after putting together another brilliant top five effort at the bank who reproved the New York native certainly hasn't wasted any time jumping right back into action. On Tuesday new updates began to trickle out from sources inside team Diaz that show one of the divisions New Breakout Sars looking as sharp as ever. In all three of her shows this year Diaz has been right there on the verge of locking up an Olympia qualification. So if she could hang in there and grind it out one more time to finally get over the hump it will have been worth every single moment of the struggle once she steps out under the bright lights of the Vegas venue. Back in the 90s Sammy the Bolgrvano made a name from self as one of the most notorious mafia hitman of all time when he rolled over during the John Guadi trial. But since he's been officially retired more than two decades now, maybe it's time for Big Rami and the Camel crew to get into the hurt business. This week we got our hands on some new updates of the Big Man straight from the Camel crew CEO, Beta Badae, who seems to think that this might be the year we see this guy come in and interrupt history by stopping Phil Heath's quest to Tylene Haney and Ronnie Coleman's record of H.T. Olivia's Denny's tracks. Truth be told pictures might be worth a thousand words but at the end of the day the only word that matters here is win. As in Will Rami, the good enough this year to actually win the title. But no matter how good the pictures look, we still won't have any idea who writes the next chapter in BodybuildinGHistory until this thing finally plays itself out in September. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On Day, Pollenbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: EXTREME DEPLETION! GuruTalk [rY2GqpXjyeI].txt ===

Music Yes, this is back by popular demand. It's guru Amina Lai, the man scientist, whatever you want to call him. IMean welcome back first of all and thank you guys. Thank you. Second of all, I know you've got a show coming up you'recompeting in. The master is North American, huh? I'm going to give competing one more attempt because I just always felt like, you know, well, I'm caught. IMean, there is no qualification really for the masters, but yeah, it's going to be masters and it's classic physique. It's something I think I stand a chance in, you know, bodybuilding I've ever stood a chance in. So this is something IMight be able to stand a chance in. How old are you now? I'm 45. Okay, so this is, this is like your, one of the ironic if you got a pro card at like 45 if you're taking off like what 20 years you haven't been doing this. IMean, I think I think that is just kind of part of what will be ironic about it. There's so many other things that would fall into play. IMean, the idea we're really mentioned is to you, but I've had a series of surgeries over the past several years. One of them was a next-usen five and six from a degenerative disc disease that I have. I'm hanging. I inherited from my father. And when they, after the next surgery, they're like, you know, you won't be able to lift your son up. So don't worry about lifting anything over your head and, you know, I, I recently, then lifted a 405 again. Wow. Squat it 265 for five again. And, you know, for me, just to be able to do that, just period at by age, not to mention the fact that I had surgery just a couple years ago. I think it would be very ironic if I win this. And if I do, it would probably be a number of factors other than zombies. Did, do you, um, are you afraid when you lift in the gym now? Because after you get a surgery like that, it's so severe. It's like, yeah, you worry that, hey, what if I screw it up? And, you know, I'm going to, I'm going to wind up even worse. And then it's, I only have myself to blame for it. I, I was worried. I asked my doctor on multiple occasions about the hardware that they had. That they had it. There's titanium, used in my, and my neck. And he was very adamant on saying that no amount of weight that I lift is going to make it move. And then I, I hinted on some of the weights that I wanted, that I wanted to conquer. And he says that's fine. He goes, you know, you may have inflammation. But that wasn't really so much what ended up being the issue that issue was recovery. Right. Being able to recover from workouts that typically I would be able to do and recover from. I don't think it even has to do with the gear, you know, I just, when you're older, you just can't recover as well as you used it. Are you trening last for this show that you've done in the past like taking maybe more days off during the week? I have been. But there, there's been a slow progression with that. And that slow progression leads to basically right about now where things increase to cardio twice a day from once a day to, you know, trening a little bit later in the day. So I can get some hard, hard fast peppering in. And, you know, IMean, it's hard for me being a guru to get advice from people, you know. One of the people that I get to call and show my pictures too is the IFBB pro Dominic Cardo. And he's, he's been kind of like a friend to me and this helping me out letting me know, like, you know, you need to be more conditioned. You need to drop the water, you need to forget about thinking you're flat and, you know, eating carbs, which if you're, you know, trening yourself, it's easy for you to say, I need a refeed or whatever. But when someone else takes a look at you and says, no, you need to drop more water and, you know, stay on the low carbs. Then you got to really assess it when it's somebody that knows what they're talking about. Like if you were to tell me the same thing. Sure. Are you, are you doing the same type of drug regimens that you've used in the past on your clients? Well, you know, I got to say that I think I've been a little bit unfair with some of my clients as far as the injectable routine. I attempted to, but I've noticed that it's just too much for you. It's too much, man. I know people are like, what does he mean? It's too much. I'm like, well, for one, I really wanted to find out exactly what was hurting. If there was somethinGHurting, what was going to me, stuff. So I broke everything down into each drug, you know, so masteron trenbolone, you know, a prima ball and every different thing that I'm taking test propinate all those. And I look at each syringe and I'm thinking of myself, I don't, I don't really see how this is going to make me win. Like it's not. What's going to make me win is really cutting back on the eating of the carbs, doing more cardio, doing the stairs more for me. So you're a low carb guy, too. I'm not, but I need to be. And I think everybody does. I agree. Everyone, you know, people you know, and argue. Listen, the difference is that is, and I think we get to what, you know, my hell week and am I going to do my own hell week? I think is what we kind of like are getting towards. And it's like, what I be able to actually handle it and why did I create it? Why did I create it was not for other people? It was because I came in second at a show as a middle late at 18 right before the DC grand prix. It was two weeks and I really weren't to do something drastic to look better. I looked really good at 172. I came in second as a middle late and I was full and I looked good, but I didn't, I wasn't shredded. And, you know, I did this crazy hell week and I dropped down from 172 to 153.7 in the morning, all our plans. It was when we were in the morning though. Yeah, I was pretty much the one to stop. And, you know, I was peeled. I was peeled. Other crazy people thought I was smoking crack in the eyes. My friends were like, why does this face look like that? What's wrong with that? And so this hell week is kind of what I put myself through hell because I came in second. This is how I was a teenager, man. I came in second and I'm not going to go through hell or I will, I will, I will, I want to win or else. And so I did something that I absolutely knew nobody else would do. It was, it was insane, it was what it was. And then as a result of the way I looked, the first person that wanted me to help him was done long. He was there in the audience cheering for me, which was great because I had him, RJ. He, they were off from the gym, his whole crew, Kamali was there. IMean, it was great, they were all cheering. And then after that it was like, okay, well, you know, he really looked good for a kid. And then since then, it never really, I never really had that conditioning because I started helping other people. They went through the hell week and did really well, but also at the same time they weren't in shape like you were. Like when we saw you at the juniors, we were like, damn, each read it. And everybody was like, the guys that knew me were like, what do you think you did? IMean, what do you think you did? What dioradiest you think you did? No, they were all asking me, man, because we saw you were like, you know, he, his condition was so, you were so grainy. And at that time, you know, we didn't really see that too much even on the pro level. So it was very rare. And you know, I was wondering whether you did something crazy like I did. And then come to find out, no, nobody really did anything like that. And you know, I don't know if it didn't work on some people sometimes. I got to tell you there, there's like Abbas Kitami who I helped on multiple occasions. We did this multiple times. It did work great twice. It worked fantastic. Two other times it didn't work as well. And they were other contributing factors. And I don't want to really mention them right now. But it really has to be done precisely. And I think we could get into like what it involves like the thing. Yeah, well, you know, it's a crazy work ethic. But I think it works best on guys, you know, like a little on the, like the, the chubby side, like the Kamali. You know what IMean? There's a little bit or a little bit behind. Right, where is like, okay, for me, like I'm normally have really lean ass, like all the time. Like I have a Christmas tree that shows pretty much it's there, you know. And that's cool, but when it gets to my glutes and my hamstrings forget about it, man. They've got, they've got all the fat there of a 14 year old kid, man. I got to get rid of that shit. And so that means, you know, that any extra jeans, you got to up those. I got to drop all the stuff that's romanticizing. And I got to, you know, up the T3, even though that's not something that I would do, but in order to get rid of that, I got to do all the things that you got to do. And it's when people like me who don't have a lot of muscle mass, that's really what it boils down to, okay. Top ourselves into musins, I'm not full. No, that's bullshit, man. You didn't tren hard enough. Well, I tren my chest and I tren to hard enough. If I tren it heavy enough, I tren my body heavy enough to know that if I, if I do shrink down to get rid of the fat, you know, the water misplacement is really what's going to be where it's at. I know when we talk about a diuretics and, and I talk about drugs like injectable asics, you, you're probably, say, well, there's no water being spared when you use a drug like injectable asics, which is the reason why it's created. It's created for pulmonary, deema, you're coming to the hospital, you're, there's tons of water around your heart. They put injectable asics and you put your dying and it gets rid of all the water in your body, cutting through your heart. And I want to state this because I have, I have a respect for the listeners and, and for everybody. This is something that I did and I've done on other people with myself right there. I do not recommend anybody trying this. And I want to say, I do think it's stupid. I really do. I, no, IMean, I've got, I've got a beyond, IMean, because I don't want, I don't want somebody to, to say that was this all necessary, this, that and the other. Probably not. Probably another month is sucking it up and dieting really, really hard. And, you know, utilizing stuff like good fats instead of carbs, really is where it's at, okay? But you really got to fight through that mentally and it's really difficult, and I'm not trying to give the cough out. But it's really difficult when kids drive you crazy, okay? I've never felt the craving to want to have something just simple like cream of rice, just because I want my son to stop talking for a minute or something, you know? And it's, it's, it's really, it's bad, man, because I've never, I've never really, I've never really, I always thought like I could psychologically push through it. So one of the things that was difficult for me even when I was younger was being able to cut out the carbs. And at that time, we didn't really know about fats. They, we did not in our side. On our side, we were doing just basically clen, start your carbs and low fat protein and, you know, insulin and stuff like that. That was offseason. But when I came to getting ready for the shows, it was still just more cardio. We did clen carbs. We didn't really know about fats. Honestly, I didn't really know about fats too much until Tony told me what he learned from you. And then I learned a lot more about it from watching stuff. And I wasn't really doing fats back when you saw me in 95 between ashes. I didn't know about them then really. I was, I kind of learned about them in the fall. But probably 96 was the first year, because I over-died it for the USA. And I didn't realize what the, I couldn't figure out why it looked so bad. And then, I didn't really look bad. It was like two depleted. I was probably 10 pounds lighter than I should have been. And then for the nationals, I think it was eight weeks later. I just up my fats. You know, I was eating a lot of red meat and hamburgers and something like that. And soared fish and nuts. And I cut my carbs way back and I looked amazing. Like it was like my body just trensformed. That's when I really knew. I had known it was the fats were necessary to grow. I didn't realize you should keep them in for dieting. He's nowhere never did that before. And that's when I really started first really discovering what they were all about. So yeah, I think you're right. I think, you know, to get in shape, you got a suffer. I did a whole heavy muscle radio show this past week. If you watched, listen to it or anyone else out there. Let's do it. Basically, just ranting for probably a good hour on why people today are just not willing to suffer. And if you suffer, and you're willing to go to the point of death, you know, I'm not in that literal death where you're taking drugs to kill yourself. I'm talking about suffering where you feel like you're going to die. Okay. That's how you should feel all the time. The fact that you sit down and it hurts, that means you're lean. Okay. That's how I would feel for the last two weeks before my show. Like I didn't want to sit on anything that was hard. Even a bed felt like too hard for me sometimes at night. And I would twist and turn because I just wasn't comfortable because that's how lean I was. That's where you want to go. A lot of people are not willing to do that. I just was texting with flex Lewis before about something trivial. But then we started talking about, you know, suffering and he's like, you know, I got it. It was 12 pounds to make the way class for the two 12 limpia. I don't know. I'm going to do it. It goes, I do it every year. But I said, look, you're willing to go where other people are not willing to go. And that's why you win the Olympia every year. You're willing to suffer. It's not like he's willing to take more drugs. That's stupid. He's willing to suffer because the drugs don't get you lean. So that it's the removal of the food and the cardio and the actual physical suffering. Because like you said earlier, most people when they feel that suffering coming on, what do they do? Oh, I got it. I'm going to carve up. I'm going to carve it. Well, they would carve. You know, you know, back in the day, IMean, just beinGHonest, you know this because we're older now. It's different. You know, I think you've been helping that aspect. You know what? Put the hunger away, right? Yeah. Because you didn't think about it. You were just, you were numb to the feeling of whether or not you were hungry. Yeah. And at the same time because it had that, I don't feel anything. And it didn't suppress the respiratory system. How? You would still be able to work out or do cardio or do whatever in a fasted state. And that's, that's difficult to do without something psychologically. Some people can do it and there's no question about it. But no, when you do you add in the day of carbs every now and then? Yeah, yeah. IMean, as as people need it, I do it. When they just super flat. You made a good point. One is free up the new bathing thing again. You know, new bathing is if you're a drug addict, like you're like a narcotics addict, it's the worst drug for drug addicts because it doesn't make you that high. And it itself limits itself. So you take too much of it. You actually just feel sick. You don't, you, it doesn't make you any higher. So for a guy who's looking for a high, it's probably not a good drug. But for body, those it's a great drug because it gives you a little bit of a low grade feeling of okayness. It takes away your hunger, the problem is it's super addictive. So, you know, and then, you know, but that's not just that it's just if begins at whatever the cost is for a bottle. I don't know. Let's just say, let's say $60 a bottle. Okay. But then when you end up doing $60 every other day, it gets, it gets out of hand. And then there's another problem with it. It is don't be a person. And I'm saying this because this relates to me. That's one personality that should stay away from is, is someone who has an addiction type mentality for a person. Right. Without a doubt. It's a matter of fact, they shouldn't be on steroids in my opinion. Okay. You just walk in parallel with that. Yeah, there isn't really room for it. But also people that want to experiment. And the reason I'm seeing this is because Boston is one of those people. Okay. And, you know, you don't want to be somebody that you, you might feel, I was one of those people that felt like, you know, let's see what all these things in due chains book do. Let's see, you know, like, and that's where, you know, New Maine was one of them. But that's also where the injectable ASICS came in. IMean, he was, he was somebody that didn't speak negatively about it. Actually, it was, it was deemed one of the better diuretics by him. And I, and I can tell you why I feel that way. Who said, who, by hope? Dan Doochane. Oh, you've been to shame. Love that because it was so predictable. That's exactly why I like it. Yeah. IMean, it's just take the water out the very, very last minute. Well, you don't, the, the key, the key. Okay. You would have to use slow. Okay. Yeah. The problem with the idea, once again, the problem with, with injectable ASICS, and you can go, I don't, I'm going to let you talk about your whole routine in a minute, is that you don't know if you're losing potassium or sodium, so every, you have to supplement. Potassium is like, too many variables in there. And the problem is that most body balls are retarks. Okay. When it comes to figuring out mathematics. Absolutely. You know, if you're going to take, you know, a certain amount of CCs or a certain amount of milliliters, they would take double a triple that, not purposely, but because they just don't know how to figure things out. It happens to people all the time. I can't even believe how many people can't measure and figure out simple math equations. I have to do the math for these people, my clients. Or they help the wrong dose potassium. That's the thing. You can kill yourself with that. So it's easier to give someone a half a die as I, and you know, hey, you know what? If you need more, you get a little more. If they cramp, you know, it's a sodium cap. So it just makes things a lot easier and safer. But, you know, Dan liked to make things complicated because he was, he was into the experimenting and he liked the whole science of it. You, you, you, you, you, you have an extreme, diuretic routine. Use on certain people. Now, you don't use it on everyone. Explain what it was. And why do you felt it was so crazy? I, I think, I think that nobody else has done anything like this because we're going to have a whole body else has done anything like this because when I came up with it, it was an extreme. Everything was an extreme measure. And so basically, you know, like you're saying, I think we, I think we lost the kid. IMean, that first second, what's here, we got him back. If he does Skype for us on us. And we'll try to get him back. Maybe Tyler can call him back. While I'm talking. Yeah, but back in the day, people did a lot of crazy stuff. IMean, pulled the lat on stage had a number of diuretic issues. I think one of them was from taking injectable, uh, Lacex once and he just did too much. Or he took double when he should have, he didn't realize. You know, so you could really screw yourself up. So what we're trying to do is I'm trying to, we want to give responsible information here. But, you know, let's, you know, IMean, has his little routine. I wouldn't recommend anyone like he said do it alone. Um, I probably don't think it's, I don't think it's necessary. I think if you're in shit, there's no reason to do anything about extreme. But sometimes people fall behind and, uh, this some extreme measures need to be, you know, engaged. We'll let everyone find out he'll tell everyone his retain and I'll critique and tell him how nuts he is. But, by and by, I don't think he uses, uh, on most people. Now, you know, when you think about, you know, contests prep and you think about that last couple of days, it's ridiculous to think that you have to do extreme, extreme things. And I'm always a big believer in it and you've heard me say this before. If an April don't fix it, if you look great or make out, don't start doing 90 things because what happens is when you do that, in variable, you're going to screw yourself up. So the last you could change that last week, the more important. Now, we got to mean back, IMean, I was just kind of telling people, given them a little background on the whole routine. Who was the first person you used this extreme, uh, diuretic routine on? Um, I used something similar to this on Don Long, but it was with Al-Dak-Zai, or the, it was without Dak-Zai, and I think it was with Diyazai or Max-Zai for the, uh, Junior Nationalist. By the way, I wanted to just tell you, after the last interview, we did Don Long text to me and said, he absolutely did not work with you ever in the offseason. He never took insulin under your guidance. You know, he's, he's, he's, he's, that's what, just tell you what he said. That's fine. Uh, you just, you know, people have their own business, their own thing, and, you know, sometimes that rubbs people the wrong way, but it doesn't really matter. No, he's not that he said that he never used the drugs. He said he never, you never helped them to use the drugs. So I don't know if that's true or not. I'm just, I'm sort of, I'm sort of an authentication wanted to spew it out. You know, he, he, he got, he got upset when he saw Craig come to town. You know, he, he wasn't happy about that. Oh, he didn't like the fact that you were helping Craig to. He didn't like, he didn't like that I was helping Craig. I didn't like the fact that he didn't put me in flex. Um, you know, it was just one of those things. Oh, so it was like, it was like a bad, blood type of thing going on. IMean, you know, it, it, it, it's hard to really say there was a lot of other things that we're going on that they're like behind the scenes type stuff that was happening. Um, that kind of made everything kind of go its own way, you know. Craig was a bad seed when he came around. That wasn't good. Ultimately, you know, IMean, there was a stroke here at time where things were okay. But then he was coming to visit Richard and it was already when he was at a bad time setting people up and things like that. Um, but you know, work with someone is like, what we're doing like now, you know, well, when you're someone like Don and you've already worked with them and you give them a plan and you tell them this is what you do and they follow it. You know, but it's a difference of opinions, I guess, and it really doesn't really matter. The fact is that this is around the time when insulin was being used. Right. And all used it. Don used it. Come all the nose and everybody else knows that Don was someone that I was working with. And for whatever reasons that we had, it never really came out and flexed that we're working together. Right. Craig on the other hand, didn't have any issues with publicity or anything like that. Um, flew me out to, to Venice when he moved out there to do a photo shoot with Flex Magazine and introduce me to the bodybuilding world as his coach. And at that point, you were talking about insulin protocols that I was using on other people. Okay. We'll just leave it at that. Other people. And it worked on all of them. All right. Let's go back to let's get to the track and we can do other shows on the different protocols and some of that for different drugs. Let's stick to dioratics. What? What was the extreme? Uh, dioratic protocol and what would be the conditions under you? What you, you know, in other words, what kind of a person would you use it on? What would the situation be that you'd implot you didn't do that on everyone I assume, right? No, I didn't. Um, well, without, without, without calling out anybody that I don't say anything. Just tell us what the routine was. Yeah. Okay. So, once I was able to get my hands on injected elases, that's the first key right there. It wasn't even available. Most people wouldn't even get it for you. Even if they knew what it was, you couldn't get it out of pharmacy. That's the key. You could not get it out of pharmacy because it was injectable. They wouldn't order it. It was only available on ambulance or in a hospital. Usually in ER usually in ER pharmacy. That's where they kept it. So, you had to really have some good connection just to get it back then. Well, that connection fell into my lap. Some time around 92, 93. And I started using it in 94 on somebody for a competition. And it worked really well. And basically the protocol had to do with an extreme depletion. The, the, the, the, the diuretic protocol that I'm talking about now evolved from doing oral Diuretic to the injectable protocol. So, he evolved. The original depletion was still the same depletion. That's stable. Right. The most known manipulation beefed up, but it was based on the same plan, which was we were up, up, up, up, up, the task him before the show. Take out that tone a little bit, you know, lower the sodium, pull the water in, and then use that little bit of diaside. That was pretty much what it was then. The 100 rep card depletion zero carbs through the body into the point where it would be able to pull in the carbs. So that, you know, you know, you would, you would, the bleak light engine in the gym. Obviously, so that your body could raise the light engine in face and you could absorb carbs better. And sodium load. So it kind of looked really high like the tables of salt. It was grossed. So when would you cut sodium and when would you put your diet in these dioretics in there? What was the most interesting reason? The sodium was so high. Literally, I was having people put a tablespoon of salt and some water like this and just drink it and, you know, drink some more water behind it. So there was a lot of salt being used. And it took usually abouT3 days for the salt to leave the body. At leasT3 days full day. There's three and a half days prior to the show. There was an all-out shift from sodium loading to an all-out shift in sodium depletion. Okay. Then let's say, for like the first day, that's just focusing on the depletion of sodium. Not really dioretics, glycogen loading is fine. The second day is when you start pulling the water in and start adding in the potassium that you're going to later get rid of with inject the glycics. So the second day you start loading on potassium. And I'm not talking about potassium that you buy from the grocery store or the GMC or whatever. I'm talking about pharmaceutical potassium that is made for people that take oral drugs like LASICs or Bumics or Luke Diarratic like, you know, demodex or anything like that. And so this is a time release potassium chloride, which releases over about 8 to 12 hours and there are differences strengths. Some of these also are potassium chloride that you can add to a water and you can drink it and it's immediate potassium chloride. But the key is it's potassium chloride. And they're usually go by K, do work, K, light, K, lower, slow K. Those are the different ones that we have in America. And so at this point, I just want to stop you for a second. I don't mean to interrupt. I just want to say, if you take slow K and you're not taking a diorated, because it's potassium loss, you can be in big trouble. And what people tell that? Well, let's say this beforehand, let's identify with that big trouble. That big trouble is a heart attack. Right. Yes, because the potassium will make your heart stop. Okay. And so basically what happens is we have a small window that you can load the potassium before it becomes dangerous. Right. At that point, then you have time release potassium in you. And because you're posing every time you eat, you can feel whether your hands are cramping or anything like that. The minute your body doesn't release when you flex. And like I said, you're flexing every couple of hours. So it's the best gauge that we have. Sure. And flex is hard as you can. The minute you don't release when you do like if you do a front double advice that and you don't when you release, it still tries to pull on you. That means your potassium levels are through the roofs. And at that point right then, that's when the injectable laser is actually needed. So it's probably the potassium loadings more dangerous than the injectable laser. But at this point, what happens is potassium chloride holds the water in the cell. And the injectable laser excluses out anything that's so cute. Now it is a loop diuretic, which means it gets rid of potassium and sodium. It's going to assist in the sodium depletion. And as far as the potassium loading that we did, it'll shave off what was extra. And you'll still be have enough potassium but not any extra. Now that the trick is, is how many times do you repeat this process before you step on stage? Every time you do it, each time you do it, you're not going to be able to have a bowel movement. So you're drying out your intestines, you're not, you can't have a bowel movement. So you have to have all of that done and all the loading done before you introduce any sort of diuretics. Because the minute you do, IMean, I don't know about you with the most people that I've worked with, you're constipated. Yeah, what I do is I have them use my fiber-lies product, the whole diet. But I have them increasingly three times a day when they start using diuretics. And that seems to help them go a little better. Because it keeps, it pulls fluid into the intestinal tract and makes everything move a little better. I found that that seems to work really well. It was something that I used, that I used at the end because I always feel like I couldn't move my bowel. It was something that I fought with my whole life as an athlete right before a race. Because I used to run road races when I was a track runner in the morning. And I could never get to my body going to the bathroom and drove me fucking nuts. And the same reason because you dehydrated in the morning. And there's just no time to really hydrate. So when I was bodybuilding, I was discovering the same thing. That's why I loved when IMoved to the portion of my career where I was competing usually on Friday nights. At the night show, pre-judges were great because I was able to get everything moving by the nighttime. It's really hard when you have to get on stage at 9 a.m. to get everything moving. Like you said, but these days I re-bodyved at the night before three times. The day before seems to work really well at doing that. And you don't get any sleep usually the night before. Yeah, no. It's be realistic, you know. You're either peeing all night if you took a diet or you're just hamped up because you're about to compete or you've got a very good You know, it's one thing. And that actually interferes with the bowel. You know, it's not to tell you get a chance to relax and calm down that your your insights can actually release, you know. I tell everyone to take a, I'm not into sleeping pills. I tell everyone to make some zanx the last couple days just to just to make sure you sleep at night. You're right. The water and the carbs don't go to the right compartments when you're not resting. But you have too much cortisol around. The stress hormone. Yeah. You know, IMean, if you're stressed out, people don't realize it. You know, that's why I'm going early. I'm going, I'm going a little over a week early just so that I can deplete there and not have my cortisol levels high. And not worry about any of that because, you know, around the kids and the wife and all that. And, you know, all the school you got the teacher parent conference and they each who have to do if you're here, you can't just ditch out on them, you know. And and or else you look like a loser to the teachers. That's the worst thing. You know, it's not like. Hey, well, I do you two, yeah, whatever, you're, you're not a good dad, you know. Yeah, yeah. I'll have a third. I think if I could have people that didn't have that that that stubborn. And in fact that they can't get rid of or sub to water or whatever, you know, like around the glutes or some people just don't get their lower abs, Tited and something like that. You know, this may be again, I'm not suggesting this because it can kill you. So how much do you inject? How much less, like you're injecting? Okay, so each ampoule is 20 milligrams to MLs. I think they're 10, I believe this is right. They're 10 milligrams per ML. One CC will not make you crap if you do like one slow K before it like, you know, and it has to be in you, okay? That's, that's okay, but that's just one isolated incident, okay? If you potassium low and your fingers lock up or your toes lock up when you're flexing, then you need two CCs. You need it. You have to get rid of some of that potassium. Now there's a good and a bad side to that. The bad side is of course you have to do all this, which is all on itself, like I said, it's stupid, okay? Now, IMean, if this makes the difference between winning and losing, and we've got to talk about this for a set for the people out there to understand about the genetics thing, okay? Because I don't have good genetics, my brother does, there's a big difference, you do, you know what IMean? And so when someone like me wants to kind of like compete and look as good as older brother, you know, I have to pull out all the tricks that he doesn't need, you know? So there's an automatic, you already have an understanding that you have to do something in order to step on that stage of look as good as these other guys who have a better body to begin with. And like I was in the other, the gym the other day watching Phil Heath work out. IMean, we just happened to be treninGHamstrings when I was trening a cloth. And I don't know what happened, I don't know who he was talking to, but at the end of his work out, or he stopped his work out, and was talking to someone, I look because I was wanted to know when he was going to eat. You know, because I'm curious, this guy's the best in the world, I want to know when he can eat, you know? Maybe he's not eating, maybe that's a bad thing, maybe I got it all wrong, I don't know. He's the best, I just wanted to look at him, you know, he knows who I am anyway, so I say hi, I say hi, and I'm looking. Unless he ate and I didn't see it, it was like over 25 minutes that he had meat and I walked by him. And I asked him, I said, don't you have to eat because now I'm alright, man, I'm like man, you're different. It's a very, very, very, very, very good. And I really don't think it's that important to him, like I engraved into the people that I helped, that you have to be able to take to this about the food, you have to be, you know, like this and like that. And then you come across some guys that they cheat on their diets, they don't look good and, you know, they have such good shape that they still beat the guy that trens his ass off and it's really hard. And you know, at the end of the day, you have to ask yourself whether you're genetically built for this or not. And I think that's where bodybuilding did good by making different categories because you know, you may not be genetically gifted for bodybuilding and I'm not, you know what IMean? That doesn't mean I don't know what I'm talking about. It just means IMyself have done routines given them the people and seen with my own eyes that they work much better on 99% of the people that I'm talking about. That means if this is evident, if you look at my Facebook picture, you can see on the skiniest more, you know. But so for me, no, Dave, honestly, just to be like this right now, just to even look like this is incredible for me, you know. I know that I can only take so much drugs. I'm happy about that, you know, I have all my hair. IMean. I guess I guess I'm happy. I don't have a big stomach. I could do a vacuum. I know. Let's go back. I just want to just finish off this this diuretic routine. I know we're getting a little distracted. So you'll use 10 to 20 milligrams of injectal lacix per run. How many times you have to do this to people when do you start that? You started the day before. So the most I've ever used on anybody and I want to again, we're not here to mention a name is or anything, but he did win the whole show. And it was a very big show. It was nine C C's total. There's always a one C C tester. This isn't IV by the way, guys. I don't want anybody to think we're shooting up. We're not. We're not. Where are you? In the shoulder sub to yeah, it does burn a little bit, but it doesn't burn as much as new band. It's not that bad. I heard a lot of people do it. It's usually done IV now. IMean, I just, you know, I got over that whole thing. Okay. And so once I got over it, I was like, you know, and don't really reason to do it is if you're going to use an IV. And then you already have one line and you have an additional one, you can add anything to. You could just clear and do it. That's okay. That makes sense. But once you stop thinking about sticking the needle in the vein, you know, from the new vein and stuff like that, you know that it's a matter of timing, and it's just a matter of minutes different. And if you know the curve and everything like that, you just, you work on that versus the the facts on me. I'd be, you know. So how do you know with another one? So you just keep how often do you decide, hey, you know what? I need to do more. How does what what's your determining factor at that point? And are you using any oral, you know, directs in addition or is it just a LASICS? Thank you for asking that because I do. I actually do out that tone 25 milligrams and I usually do abouT4 a day for three days. Like that's that's part of the sodium depletion and potassium loading. Now, it's important to understand that the alfactone is just used to assist in sodium blocking and potassium loading. I don't really care about it as a diuretic. It's not mild when using a jug of LASICS. Injectable LASICS frequency cannot be used sooner than eight hours. So there's only three times you can do it during the day. That's it. And if you do it too close to the evening, you're going to be up on my peeing and I found that that's counterproductive. So there's really only two good times you can do it. So let's just figure the tester and then one two three four five six seven eight. Okay, is what it was and let me explain in the nine C C. And how long will you pee for? And how long is it last in your system once it gets in there? With the potassium loading, you get about two good urine clothes. Of course the first one's greater than the second one and you could time them. They're usually about 12 minutes after the injection. Oh, wow, it sounds quick. It's about a doctor. IMean, it's pretty standard with everybody. And you can, as long as they haven't already had a full urination, you know, given that we're talking about an hour. Okay, so an hour, that's pretty much what's going to happen. Either way, they're going to have a urination at 12 minutes. It works that quickly. It makes the kidneys release. So you have to already have an excess of the amount of potassium. And a lot of times, just to be safe, if there's not cramping involved, because that's a really extreme measurement at that point. That means you've kind of already let it go too far. You know what IMean? But so we do a little bit of the oral, like the K-Lore, or, you know, the oral, a progressive monitor, someone of those. ThEQuick release potassium chloride with, you know, right then. And then you do the injectable laser, maybe like five minutes later. And then that potassium is going to be pretty much readily available later on after this is drained you son, after the injectable laser to the grain you. So I don't really find it to be, and I find the oral to be more unpredictable and dangerous. They come in 80 and 40 milligrams. And I've used those two. I don't like them at all at all. IMean, for the main reason of you, Dave, like I know, I know it's a drug you're against, but I think you're more against stupidity than the drug. Because you would pick a gelatine in oral and you did. Yeah, I would, I would give him people, uh, a laser expels who just couldn't get any dies. But I use so little fewer of them that, you know, you don't need to use potassium if you're using 20 milligrams of laser twice a day, you know, for the whole prep. And just the last day of the prep. Yeah, but IMean, when you start doing extreme amounts, obviously, especially injectable, you're going to need some potassium. But you don't really need that. So yeah, I think, I think not anything in moderation is not really dangerous. And I think it's when you do extreme things. But, you know, we talked about earlier. Some of these competitors are water buffaloes. If they've never seen, you know, look, I don't, I never helped Ky Green, but I know Ky Green had a lot of trouble. He's a guy who could lose 25 pounds of water, you know, three days before a show and go from looking okay to looking amazing. Some guys, and I'm not going to stare, I don't want to stare you type, but I've noticed a lot of African American guys. I've noticed a lot of people are going to be there. They seem to be more resilient to the dioratics, we have to actually give them more. You know, is that? I've noticed in particular, the darker-skinned people, the darkest ones, because when I've worked with them the past, they were the ones that had the issues of getting rid of that water. That last bit of water. They could, they just needed a little something stronger. And then they did it all great. So, if you had to give a final piece of advice, and we'll continue this guru talk at another week or so, final piece of advice is to what dioratics scheme you should go with. You just did this whole, you know, spiel, what would it be? I have a feeling you're still saying go, you don't want to bother it. I don't think that I don't think inject the basics is needed at all, unless you have gone through the whole process. It's not something that you just want to be like at the last few days, be like, let me just locate and try to inject the basics. I don't recommend that. So, let me just be clear on this. The whole process is you have to throw yourself so out of whack. You have, and not only do you have to, you play mind games on yourself. You start thinking this isn't going to work. I look like, you're sodium-loading and cardimulating. You look like absolute shit. IMean, you become so smooth, so soft. Everything goes away. You have no, even if you're takinGHalatester and whatever, the muscle still loses its own, it's gone. You know, if you get all the glycogen out, you do it right. Yeah. It's just to have to be mentally focused to know that it's going to be better when you carve up for four days or so. You know, depending on who you are. And so, when you do this with the excessive amount of sodium, IMean, I've heard you do talking about just recently on the radio talk show. I don't know about how you believe it. You should have more sodium in your dust, right? Absolutely. I never cut sodium until last day. I have high sodium in the whole diet. Right. So, what is high to you? Because I don't know what high is, any more. So often, you're meals, putting soy sauce on your food, not restricting salt whatsoever. But so, you would still consider like adding a tablespoon of salt on some water and drinking salt, salt loading, right? You know what? I think a lot of people need to do that because a lot of people just don't like to put salt on their food. I have to have my guys sometimes forcibly eat salt. And like, I was always a guy when I dieted and I loved salt. I put it on my own, I put soy sauce and everything, especially when I was a little car, but it just makes things taste good. And I just create, it's like my body craved the sodium. Some people just hate the taste of sodium. I don't know why, because I'm the opposite. But those people, I actually hate drinking water like you do, like you just said. And this was the only way to actually get more in because at the end of the day, we were trying to figure it was like four plus grams. So it was quite a bit. You know, we were trying to figure, but it was sodium chloride. It was tapasol. So we loaded on table salt, which is what you lose back in the day because we didn't have sea salt when we were in the day. No, yeah, yeah. Everyone used to struggle. So who could afford sea salt? I was too worried about my humans, you know? You think there's any difference as far as making you whole water? No, I think it's exactly what I'm saying. The only advantage of table salt is its iodized, which is good for the body. Yeah, which people don't get from the sea salt. They can pick out. Yeah, I don't know. They should add it to it, but they can't. IMean, you know, you know, you're going to get an email from someone right after this show goes up and they're going to say, I want to hire you. I want to do the whole injectable lasics routine. They're extreme people. It'll probably be Boston, Lloyd, who's the one who could contact you, so you can go and do it. And you'll be like, Boston, are you competing? He's like, no, but I'll get ready for Saturday and morning, you know, Quartone. So is this something that you would do with people nowadays or you've done with the injectable lasics? No, no, no, no. So, okay, let me just think this because I know that this is going to blow the lid off everybody. And I don't need to. So I'm not trying, okay, Dave, I know you're laughing like, oh, okay, yeah, this guy, you know, he's been going for years. He comes back. He fucking knows Roger Stone. No, this shit. Yeah, I want to get to Roger Stone. That's why I'm I'm. I'm not trying to like, up, upstage any winner, but I found a way to do this, safe and to make sure that there's not, there's no mistakes to say, okay? And this is, this is even morecomplicated. And again, you can't get this. So, you know, don't, don't try to get something you can't get. Just listen your time. But let's face it and you and I both know when everything goes wrong and I'll let you say it, okay? Because you already know me. When everything goes wrong, what do they do? What do they give you? They play in the couch. No, no, no, no, that's the fourth. What do they do to you? What do you get when things go wrong? Like an idea bag. They give you sugar and salt. Yeah, right. You get an idea bag. You get sugar and salt. And once they take that thing out, you look at yourself in the me here and you're like, fuck, if I would have just looked like this, I would have won the overall. He laughed because he knows how true this is. Like it happens so much. Because then, so then you have the other people that that they don't have to go through this. They're smart enough because maybe they got a coach and their coach sells them, dude, your metabolism's going, shit. He's fucking everything. Go, Pete's whatever. You need it all. You need it. And they do that and then the direct doesn't kill him and they look good, whatever. With this whole thing, there is a way to do this and actually peak if you don't overdo it. And the only way not to overdo it is to have an ID bag. Okay. With that being said, okay. Obviously, the best in the world are not doing this. Okay. I promise you, I saw the best in the world. I saw him. He ain't fucking Pete, man. I was watchinGHim. I don't know. Maybe that's what honey's got to do in that day. Maybe Phil's going to get mad at me next time. Not, man. He's the best to me, man. He's so gifted that you know, and even with you, you're conditioning. You weren't like that a couple weeks before the show always weren't you? Yeah, but I was in a radically focused and scientific about everything I was putting in my body. I wasn't just half-hassily shit. I was like, you know, I was a man. I was your primary coach. You had tissue thin skin everywhere when I saw you. I just died in really hard, and I wasn't afraid to push to that limit where I was. Look, I knew it. When I interviewed Dory and Yates, he said something that really wrong true with me and resonated with me. He said, I wanted to go beyond what these guys were doing. I didn't want to just be as lean as everyone else. I needed to go to the next level of leanness. And that's the way I heard him say that. When I heard him say that, Dory did you push it with crazy drugs, though? Well, he died and just pushed it and died and he had a hard, you know? We don't know what he did. I'm sure he probably did a very conservative, you know, a Democratic, a Democratic, a position. But the bottom line is that he was in such good shape before he did that. He didn't have to do anything extreme. Now, in the 90s, I was actually, you know, following a Bob Grushkin routine. I was actually using some aldactone. But I found at some point that it was actually flat in the Addil little too much. After four days, no good. Yeah. So I stopped doing that, the whole aldactone routine. And I just did the die-asides at the end. And they seem to work really well on my body. I want to agree with you that on the general, I think the die-aside, the maxide was a good drug too, but they're both the same thing. It dies. Yeah, it is probably the safest thing. And really you should be ready to add it to the time. And the God on his truth is that I have so much more new muscle army now that I'd ever had before because I'd never really had to do shows on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And I didn't have these drugs. I had them, but I was given another people. I wasn't taking them myself. I was more scared, man. I was scared of my body looking funny because I was already past the point where some of my bones were sealed, but then some of them weren't. Because I was still in my teens. And I have real growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And it's like, you know, I didn't want to do it. Now, I had other people around me do it, including my brother, got phenomenal results. He was one of the best people that I worked with got phenomenal results. And you can see his YouTube video, a dean of lie on YouTube, his Bosnia routine, his other space, and his condition. And I don't want to, he's my brother. And I'm not calling anyone out because I want everybody to know what happened. Okay? There was two instances of cramping with the injectable basics. Can I get into this really quick? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. My brother was one of them. And he was the first. He asked me if I could get him to make heavy weights at the southern states in 94. I couldn't do it. And I tried really hard. I used injectable basics. I still couldn't do it. He just wouldn't lose the weight. I'm telling you, his condition was unreal. Yeah. And he was not going to get flat because I had loaded so much potassium. But every time I would give him a lay thing, I knew I had to give him a little bit more potassium. And the middle of the night, the night before the show, we were thinking that, and these at shows Dave, you remember you could weigh in the night before, and the morning up, and you could really press the weighons. They were kind of let you to the last minute. And he started cramping in the middle of the night. I was in the bed right next to him. First, his abs cramped. Then his legs cramped. His quad cramped. So he was like this with his legs locked out. Then his hamstrings cramped. While his abs were cramping. And his chest started cramping too. I started flipping the fuck out. I didn't have an IV bag. I knew you'd finish either. It already died. This is my brother. I was very fucking scared. Okay. My instincts kicked in. I grabbed the saline solution bottle. Took the top off. Took the big needle. Suck it all the way up. And I gave it to him. And instantly the cramps went away. And it stopped. And I said, dude, I'm not doing this anymore. I love you. But we can't do this. This is it. You're not going to get any better. And just be thankful that you're still not flat. And I can't. What do you think, I weigh? I said, I don't know, man. Maybe we might have made it. I don't know because he looked like he swept it a lot. He looked a whole lot better after all. And I had shitty still look a whole lot better. And no, dude, he was still 204. It was like what can fuck, you know. So that's when we met Dexter. And ever since then, he always remembered my brother from the show and me. And IMet it. And I asked him Dexter after the show. And without calling out Dexter anything like that, I was devastated to find out what little he did for that show. I've had my brother with all this shit. And I'm like, and I scratched my head and I told my brother, that man's going to be Mr. Olympia. And a few years if he keeps this up. Because there's no way. I know he's not lying to me. But that's, you know, that's insane. You know. And, you know, that's what happened. Then he became Mr. Olympia. And every now and then I see him and he still remembers. But that's what we went through. And that was one. The second time of cramping was Abbas. And I want to say this because he didn't cramp when we did it. He cramp afterward. Okay. I told him when he was drinking. He didn't he came in fourth. I think that the USA is this year that year. And he was out and drinking iced tea. And he had a couple of these big iced teas. And he was drinking. And I was tellinGHis friends. Kind of like for, practically, you know, like, you know, like getting on their nerves because I'm more nerdy. You know, like, you know, tell him to stop. He's got to end their clapping and they're like, who do he's fine. This shows over relaxed. Yeah. Go have some food. You know, just chill out. It's okay, man. And I'm like, no, you don't understand. He's going to start cramping because the water. And I'm trying to explain it to him. They're like, dude, just relax. And then I'm trying to like find me and eat or something. You know, like anybody got weed for this guy. I don't know. I don't, I'm like, okay, all right. I'll calm down. I guess he's okay. We get to the hotel lobby. We're literally 50 feet away from the from the hotel lobby elevator. And all of a sudden, he starts swapping crampinGHard. His hamstring's like behind him. You know, both his hamstrings cramped up behind him. Two of his best friends were one of these side carryinGHim. Well, I'm running to the elevator to like get the door open and get his ass inside. Get up to the room. We're getting it. Oh, my give me the key. I got to get some shit out the room. And I'm like, I'm like, I'm this is seriously. It was one hell of a scene. It was, it was pretty intense because IMean, I have a lot of people doing those, but he's my cousin. And yeah, he's my cousin. And so I was really worried. You know, what's going to happen, man? She's cramping. It's all over. So I got the one CC. This is the extra CC. The one CC, the injective LASICs. He's cramping. They sit him down and I'm like, okay, give me your arm. He's like, what the fuck are you going to do? And I have a CC of injective LASICs. And he's literally like, not going to let me give it to him. And I'm trying to convince him, listen to this shit. I'm trying to convince him that he's cramping because too much water is now forcing to sell from the potassium loading that we're doing. And we must use injective LASICs. I be right now in order to brinGHim to stop cramping. Right now. Yeah, he didn't blame you. He let me do it. I swear to God, you can ask him this. He let me do it within a matter of 30 fucking seconds. His whole body of release up. And then about a minute later, he took a piss. And he was like, how did you know? How did you know that that was going to stop it? And I'm like, man, that's why they call me the bad side. IMean, before we go, the good story, by the way. Before we go, Rajasthan, one of your very good friends, he seems to be public enemy number one of the government now. Is he going to go to jail? What's going on? I sure hope not, man. A lot of people don't know about Roger and about, you know, what he stands for. He's a, he's a libertarian. You know, so he stands for small government. People not in our business. He wants us to have the rights to be able to use steroids, groul form on, you know. He thinks these things should be legal, okay? So in a lot of ways, you know, a lot of people who are in body building. And by the way, he loves to support a body building. They have similar ideas to him. He is a political strategist and his whole life, all he's done for a living is make people president. Right. It's not just true. IMean, this goes, what do you know? No, I know. I know what you interviewed. You got him on the show with us. Yeah. I'm so, we can't, I can't get personally involved with what his career choice is. Let's just think about that for a minute, guys. You know, so he may Trump president. So what? He actually in ways to support Obama and before that Reagan and before that Bush and before that Nixon, who gives this shit what he's good at, that's his job. When he's trening, if he pushes to failure and he eats the way I tell him to and he looks good and doesn't lie to me, he's a good client. That's what it boils down to. Now, we became friends over the years. And I've seen how politics is dirty and nasty. And then I've seen how people call him a racist and people call him all these negative things. But, you know, I've been through tough times. And I've had to lean on my friend for money. And there's been a couple of occasions where I've called him up, literally like during the campaign. And he's like, this is the worst timing. And I'm like, you know, I really need a few grand right now. Things didn't work out this month. You know, I only take a few clients, a couple of them didn't sign, whatever, whatever. And it just threw everything out of whack. And he's like, yeah, man, I'll take care of you. So he's a solid guy. He's never been a racist to me. And I hope he doesn't go to jail. And they have to have something for him to go to jail. And he tells me that there is no evidence. Now, I don't know whether that means, IMean, I did it, but there's no evidence. I don't know. I'm not stating that, okay. But the kind of person that he is, you know, he asked me to come down to four to after the show and hang out with him. You know, that's what he said. And come out because I could use to tren with you and chill with you and work out with you and stuff like that. I haven't been as a system so many years, but they are doing some kind of a witch hunt. And Andrew Miller is a friend of mine. He's Rogers former assistant. This guy's father was married to his secretary, okay? We were friends. We used to go out on his boat and stuff when I lived in Miami. This is when I wasn't trening bodybuilders other than talking to Tony and stuff. And, you know, they're going after his personal friends and stuff. They haven't bothered me. I don't think they are going to bother me. I don't have any significant incident other than just beinGHis friend. But like I said, you know, they, they're does seem to be some sort of hatred between the FBI administrator and the administration and the people surrounding the administration, you know, it's, it's, it's sad. So it's sad. We, we wish him the best and obviously, you know, I got his, his stone cold shirt. He sent me so that's great. I was like, I got his too. I don't like it. It's not a good bodybuilding cut. No, it's one of those stiff fixtures. Yeah, I want to, you've got to make some soft at once. Like this iron asylum, Alaska shirt. I got onto the, yeah, I like that one. That's what you want to do. Anyway, well, IMean, thank you so much for, for joining us today. And obviously, sharing some of your stories and we'll bring you back. We've got to talk about some insulin new insulin protocols. We're going to be bringing up. We'll probably get collect Nelson on the talk about it as well. And we'll do another episode of this and good luck. You're showing keep us up there. Thank you. I wanted to just tell you really quick that if people want to follow some of this stuff that I'm doing, I'm not obviously putting it on YouTube because YouTube will take it down. And there's just no need for my family to be seeing this shit. This straight up. I don't want my family seeing me, you know, needles and stuff. This, I don't, I don't need it. Now, on the other hand, if you guys are interested in whether or not I do the injectable basics, do the IB Bank, do the whole mind yards, and what happens down at the North Americans, then you can get on to my website, guruameenelai.com. You can check under the membership. The membership is free and then go to the mad scientist. And it's $40 a month. And it will give you access to all the videos in the past and going forward. It's a revolving thing. You can pull up, put back in whenever you want if you want to. And if you have any questions, you can add them to the video. And I'll do a two-and-a answering thEQuestions on the videos. All right. It sounds great. Great start resource and information. And we always love that. But that is going to take us to the end of another episode of live. We're brought to you by species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com on Dave Pellonbo and we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Ed Nunn Posing Routine at 2011 Europa Super Show [b3iyeiJ5pUE].txt ===

How would you today think that I do this at 7 o'clock today Pyrus

=== FILE: EdNunn [E-WM7Zu9S3g].txt ===

Thank you!

=== FILE: Eli Santos 1 Weeks Out from 2011 NPC Nationals! [F3Q4lUzGH7M].txt ===

To my old production available today's market, upgrade yourselves today and start making it.

=== FILE: Elsadany DIALS IN For Chicago + William Martins to Portugal Pro + Ruff Diesel Poses w⧸Ms. Olympia! [6-mfkuD2dnE].txt ===

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Thursday July 8, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Over the last few weeks, we've talked about the Chicago Pro a lot on this show. And for the most part, whenever you talk to anyone about the 212 division there, the conversation immediately shifts the key on Pearson, because everyone's already pencilinGHim in as the winner. And who knows? That might end up being the case. But I'll tell you what, I would not sleep on Amide Al Desani, as a legitimate threat there. The announced last week that he was planning to make his season debut in Chicago. And anyone who keeps up with this division knows that this guy might be one of the most underrated athletes out there. When he's at his best, he can be a top 5 Olympian for sure. He's that good. So if Keyon doesn't show up, it is absolutely best. I wouldn't put it past El Desani to slide in there and steal the win. Since we're already on the subject of underrated athletes, I figured why I take a second to shine some light on William Martin's. When he made his pro debut a few weeks ago at the Puerto Rico Pro, there were a lot of people who thought that he was overlooked, including our own Chris Asito, who thought that William could have easily placed 3 or 4 spots higher. Well, according to reports, William is already looking to get back on stage and exact some vengeance at the Portugal Pro, which is set to go down a little less than 2 weeks from now. Even though the official lineup hasn't been released yet, based on what we know right now, if William shows up looking even better than he did in Puerto Rico, this could be his show to lose. And if it does end up playing out that way, I think this seemed to feel like he was overlooked and ended up washing away very quickly. For the most part, we don't have a ranking system in bodybuilding like they do in other sports. Right now our ranking system pretty much consists of where someone placed in the previous Olympia, but for all intents and purposes, it doesn't mean a whole lot because someone's ranking doesn't have anything to do with what happens on stage. The reason I'm saying this is because there's a weird ranking thing that caught my attention in classic physique coming up at the Arnold. On paper, Terence Ruffin should be the highest ranked athlete because he placed second at the Olympia last year, which should make him the favorite. But then again, Alex Cabernero is the defending champion. And it's hard to say that we should arbitrarily put anyone ahead of him as the favorite, especially since he beat Terence at this show last year for the title. So it's another one of those weird things that only happens in bodybuilding. And the only way to sort it out is to see what happens on stage. But depending on what happens there, maybe there will be some sort of flip flop in the rankings that hasn't impacted the way the judges see things at the Olympia a few weeks later, which may or may not make things more confusing. I guess we'll just have to wait and see. And finally, if you've been a fan of our show for an extended period of time, then you already know how much we love to support the troops and police officers who helped to protect our freedom and keep us safe every single day. So I wanted to take this time to send a special shout out to one of the boys in blue. So it happens to be a fan of the show and an NPC competitor named Ryan Colblins. Ryan is a three-time champion in the NPC who's currently in the process of trying to add some size so we can come back to compete against next year at the national level with the hope of potentially being able to win his pro-card. Sometimes we get so wrapped up in the day-to-day bodybuilding stuff that we forget about how many athletes out there are doing incredible things away from the gym and the stage that deserve some recognition and Ryan is one of them. So if you want to check and follow along with his journey, you can follow him on Instagram at rjc on discord 330. And that does it. The yet another edition of Russell in the Morning on Daypalombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FERNANDOMARADONA 0 [S4vQrDlkiVg].txt ===

Thanks Neil. Yeah Thank you Brnendau FairAdu Yeah

=== FILE: FINDING BODYBUILDING'S FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH! AH Podcast (9⧸22⧸20) [QPpEHOKgjAc].txt ===

kah The School Times held 16th chain flag meeting at the university opening season 300,000 years remaining against a secondary decision. 네! I'm Dave Holyumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide Bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensse supplements that work in our backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days I believe in only putting the best in my body and that In this species nutrition line of products, we use only top of the line formulations toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of species nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. When you are asleep, they're just getting started. John, Dave Pulonga, after hours. Welcome back to After-Hours, as always I'm Dave Pulonga here with John Romano. Looking to get in a little bit of trouble today as always. You know that's our stick, right John? Usually. But before we get in a trouble, I wanted to start off this show with an ass-day of question. Hmm. Not if you don't mind. Yes, sure. Impossible. To become addicted to fiber lunas. You know, I got someone who actually sent me a testimonial, man, to read it to me today. The guy had like, sigmoid colon surgery and the guy has never had a regular bowel movement and he was been tried men amused to try to everything and he was miserable. And one, like, I think after like a week on fiber lunas, he's completely normal going to the bathroom. People don't understand that their sillyum is not a silly. You know, when you go with this story and see this, you buy this like sillyum seed. It's like a generic, like, you know, flavorless and you figure, well, this has got nothing in it. This has got to be the pure stuff. It's not. It's the cheap stuff. There's different grades of sillyum and you know, I had to do a lot of research to think, I didn't even notice John initially. I used to be one of those sugar-free men amused to guys too and it just never did anything for me. When I did my research on this and talked to a lot of manufacturers, I found that there's different swell rate syliums and we use the highest swell rate meaning that's why when you put it in a glass it turns to gelo to stuff. You want it to be that even holder. You know, you got to like, three seconds to drink. Yes, you know, but I have a lot of people who put it in the refrigerator and eat it like gelo when they're dieting because they're starving to death, you know. And I'll try that. You need like an industrial wire brush to clen the glass after you. But no, I'd be product info aside. I didn't mean to turn this into a commercial. I don't want it. As far as the feeling, when you have that bowel movement and it's like you're empty, you know, there's like no question about it. There's nothing left. You are empty. And God, that feeling is so good, you know. IMean, you're like, it's like the light on your feet. If you were so smart, I don't know if you were following the Hassan, Hassan, Hassan, Hassan Mustafa who Chris Asidoh works with, he had a really bad case of hemorrhide that we're bleeding and got infected. And you know what that's from John. It's from strening, you know. And when you eat, you know, eight times a day and you're eating low fiber foods because, you know, you're on a diet and stuff like that, your carbs allow, you become really constipated. And you know, you could really do some serious damage to that lower, you know, part of your intestinal tract. So you're typically where it exits, you know. And that's why you guys get hemorrhides from strening like that. And you know, we're so strong from squatting our pelvic muscles is so powerful that we can really do some serious damage. So with fiber, you know, when you take a product like cyber, it just slides at you. You don't have to stren, you know. You don't get hemorrhides, you know. And sitting on a toilet for hours, the fricking is no good for that. Now, I told Jimmy to bulk because, you know, he taught dogs and there's no fiber and not dogs. And he had hemorrhide problem for a while. And I said, you got to take fiber like I said, you're eating fucking crap. At least it'll move it out of your body quickly, you know. And he does that stack of toilet paper, he's got to last them. It'll last the room and rest of his life. And rather that's like the most efficient means of toilet resources. Yeah, having fiber lies in your diet because you sound on wipe time and consumption significantly. It's amazing. But it's just that feeling. IMean, I guess you can say I'm addicted to that feeling because if I don't take it. And like I won camping last weekend and I didn't take fiber lies. And I noticed the difference the next day, I was miserable the whole freaking day. Yeah. But you know, I did it. I said, I'm just miss one serving of it. And I only go, I don't get my two movements of the day. And I'm like upset. I can feel like I don't feel as good. I feel like something in my stomach and it's not, I don't feel as like he said his empty and I think so. Do you take a twice a day? Yeah. If you take a twice day, you've got a much better response from a two. I think. I just started, yeah, I just started doing that morning and night. I got to send you, I got to send you more remind me. I don't want you to run out. Dice as to, you know, if you ever need any fiber lies and if I ever, my manufacturer stops producing it's called, guy as to, you know, he has like a year of supply in his house. Hey, so he's another addict. You should probably have fiber lies anonymous. Yeah. It's like a very secret cult club of, you know, I'm literally scared of it not being available. Yeah. But that are not run out of that ship, at least until it's still alive. It's been, it's, I'm trying to get great Valentina's phone can't, you know, accept the length for zoom. We have to have the email to him like, you know, the old days, you know. So, so, I wanted to ask your question. If you've noticed that MD is still printing magazines. Yeah, you know, someone asked, one of my clients was saying, oh, I'm so happy. I'm in the magazine. It's pretty cool to see my picture. I'm like, today, do they actually have magazines anymore? I didn't even know that they even printed any magazines anymore. I'm not saying, like paper or did he go to Zinya? Is he actually still printing and shipping paper? He is. I think he still has, probably obviously has still a couple of people payinGHim. I don't know why. I think for some reason, high tech likes to take ads at magazines. I don't know what the, well, the Jared uses that as a CADLON. Yeah, and he's nostalgic or something like that. I don't know. He throws a 3-3 copy adad in every order. Oh, that was out of this. I said, yeah. So, he thinks, yeah, he has his, he has his social media belief in that his magazine. It pretty much is John. He's paying for it. Pretty much. Yeah. Oh, if, if black middle off is high tech, forget about it. You know, if the seller, that's over done in the tank. I don't know why he didn't even want to do the magazine at this point though, because it's probably just paying the cost of the magazine. Unless it's just like an ego, I think at this point, you know. It's totally an ego thing. Come on, that's all it is. It's all it ever was. It's an ego thing. Speaking of black men, you know. You know, people always ask why we talk about him. And it's not that I'm not like even looking to talk. It just creeps up on us and it's, you know, no, no pun intended about the creep. Well, to be fair, IMean, it's a historic. IMean, he does occupy his story at Gellon. And we are keepinGHim pretty relevant by talking about him. I think it's actually what doing on the favor, right? Oh, yes. I'm absolutely what we're doing on the favor, but, but you know, the reality is is that at some points because of our history with him and the magazine, and it's painful to watch, you just like, you know, it's like you're riding the camel and both the pumps are all used up. There's no fluid left then. And he's like dead. And he's trudging through just saying one, one hoof for the time, you know. And it's, he should've just gotten out when it was big and good, you know. Hey, can you guys hear me? Hey, I was stalling for the guy on because I wanted to, I want to show, I don't know if you, if you saw a Greg or anyone, I know John hasn't seen it yet, but that there's a video YouTube channel that I call like my sugar daddy has something or another. What is it called? Tyler? Oh, sir, I don't even want to give him too much credit. But he always grabs stuff from anything of mine. He likes to put stuff from day to day, pull up out there. And it's like, it seems to be popular. It's a YouTube channel. This guy like re-edits like videos of mine, like trening videos, something that I've done in the past and guess posing, puts him up. He edited it, re-edited it in some video. He took all the black men impressions they did with the black men puppet, you know, I have, where's the book? Oh, God. And he put it, like in like he spliced it together with the actual black men, um, talkinGHimself, you know, black men does John these like little vlogs for black, the act of vlogs, where he actually talks about nutritional supplements. Have you seen, you remember the ones who played like about a year ago? Yes. All right, what he's got a new one. Is this the CBD one? He has the one he recorded in the bathroom? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, this one's like out, I think he has back yard of some like that. But so this guy spliced together a bunch of black men doing something and then he goes to me, they went like the black men and pop it. So I'm going to play a little bit and then we can we can talk about it. This one's a funny one. So all right, let's just, this one, this must be his new house because the last one did you with you would say. Now, and you knew you've been at his house. So you would now. So that's that's not his house. All right, let's, let's play this one. Hey guys, this is Steve Black men for another AML health and nutrition report. Today I want to talk about Kanbadao, CBD. It's the talk of the town. A miracle cure. The hottest supplement tren in years and the FDA hasn't even approved it in food and supplements. Sales growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of CBD is projected to reach 22 billion. 2022. The hype on CBD is way ahead of the science. Latest research shows that CBD could lower dope in being in the brain and may inhibit long-term cognitive function. More information on CBD in cognitive function, go to advancemerklafs.com and read my new article entitled New Research, Kanbadao. CBD lowers dope in being dope or less cocktail to the rescue. Until next time, remember knowledge is power. Lee, I think we need to give you another contract. Of course. I have an idea for marketing. What do you tell you what, I'll put you on the cover. How about that? I'll make you a star. I know I've done it before. Please, sir. I have this. Lee, Prisma, Sthlach, slow is. Woo! Steve, Steve, can you give me a good contract? What's this, Steve? Are they impracticing just for the contract? Oh! Oh! Steve, did you see that? Oh! He's got a slow, slow, slow, slow. Lee, they're very strided. I don't know if you've noticed them. Victor, I here is making it come back to. Maybe we could put you guys in a photo shoot together. I'll call Pairbinam. We'll get Dorian on the contract, too, because he's a legend. Hey, everybody. I'm going to eat for lunch. That's enough. I got enough. I don't know. The highest new tren in supplements. What can we have? It's always been... To talk in a tad. He's always got a problem. The bathroom was echoing. His generation of iron was the wind was blowing. His hair and the wind noise. And then, now he's got the airplane flying over the canyon. And then he's in the hot tub with the hot tub bubbly. He can't hear what the fun thing. He never was in pity. After we reported him, he said, What the fuck? You can't find echoing something. Come in to fucking bathroom. I would've never put that out. Now he's got the airplane flying. I know it's over the long island sun. The airplane told when the fucking sun was on. Which night club is going on? I've been there many times. Let me ask you, is the magazine... Is it still there? Or is it like a zair still a paper? The book is clearly... Apparently there is. Because somebody printed a poster picture of a magazine issue. So then he was in... Oh, it is. Is it but is it like spring winter summer fall or is it every other? You know, I don't know. I don't see it like a calendar. Greg, it comes out once a year. No. Really? Oh no. Is it probably like four issues? He only... He only throw it because he likes doing it. That's his little... My other question critique is, Why the fuck is he so angry? And till he's with the sunglasses he would be. Fix his Valentine's. Yeah. He's a gentleman. So like... Make this. Yeah. He's got a maker. What is he got that? What is he got that bark in it you like? You know, CBD. Yes. Yeah. I don't... The journalist bet... You got to listen to me. He... And the article that I wrote. It'll read the article. The one who fought Billion by 1222. What the hell? Where does he get his advertising act? He's always... He's always done that. This is the best thing in the newest thing. But I gotta tell you one thing. That fucking guy does not look like how old is he got his... He does not age. He doesn't age. Hi. Oh no. He's got use genetics. Oh my god. He's got to be 65 at least. He's... He was seven years older than me. So yeah, he's 60 years old. He's probably... He's a 70 years old. He's almost 70 years old. Yeah, he's almost 70 years old. He looks amazing. Yeah. IMean, he's... Sitten there. He looks like he was in his 30s. Oh no. He's not 100. He'll live 200. No doubt. He knew what he did. From the guy's in the office. That he was down to eat and like one meal a day. Everything is done. All he ever ate is one meal. Yeah. Intermittent fasting. I read the article. Intermittent fasting. That's why Jack O'ayam lives so long. I got to intermittent fasting. He would eat lunch sometimes. And he would... He would eat lunch sometimes. And he would... He was always eating dinner with a bot. And he would drink at least one bottle of wine. John. Yeah. He would... Yeah. Increases life of a... Yeah. He would... He would... I got a... I'm a... I'm a tren of change so difficult. It just made me think of something. About a guy who's actually a big fan of this show. He said... IMean, a huge fan. He actually had a fan of the show. I didn't know that. That's good. We... we have a couple. And most of my ask me why you're drawing stuff all the time. Yeah. I'm not going to draw. I told people I wouldn't draw. You should actually fucking sell one of those things. Like this is... I was going to sell the 20. You know, I was going to send it to you. I was going to sell it to you. I was going to sell it to you. Who would have sent it to me? I would have... But I got to say something. Dave... Dave and John... I want to... You guys are... You know, versed on this stuff. This guy... His name is Vinny Altairo. If you're watching God bless you, I hope you get better. Listen to this. Because we were just talking about black man. This guy's in the 60's. He... he fucking... He hasn't had a slice of pizza. Passed it anything in 25. 26 years. Okay. He... he fasts for three days and a row sometimes. He eats... Nothing... no... he hasn't had any meat in about 25. 26 years. Right. He... he actually... he... Dave... he listens to everything. He listens to everything you say. He's dramatic with this. And he actually drinks his... You know, like he'll make a... a smoothie. And that's all he will have for a day. And it's... you know, he'll put like King Wan, all the sudden shit. He just had a fucking massive, massive, massive heart attack. But he actually died on a field. I heard... He runs every day, runs, wins, branch, runs long. There's the... You saw this guy, walk-tron. It doesn't take any steroids. He was a natural body, but he walks around shredding. Like... not normal. IMean, like... like bodybuilding... He's not having any other blockage. I don't... I'm not sure yet. He's still in the hospital right now. He was dying then. You know, he's an intensive care. But what I'm saying is, Dave, this guy... If you would have thought anybody would live to be a hundred... It would have been this guy. He was so clen living. Generating. Generating. That's why you got to get your diagnostic test, Greg. You got to get that cardiac CT to see if your blood... Your... your... cardiac vessels are open. You know? The adunetics will over supersede the best diets sometimes, you know? See, that's what I'm trying to get at. See, these guys... people have watched this. He was a vegan. IMean, full-fledged... 100% vegan. So, there goes the vegan myth. But... and... you know... He watched our shows. When we were talking about shit sometimes, you would tell me, Now, you guys, you know... I don't know, I disagree because I blast vegans all the time. Yeah. And... but... You've never seen anybody eat this clen. He's like... the rare white buffalo. And... for him to have a heart attack, makes you feel mortal. And we... But... But on animal source protein, though... Or him not having animal source protein, Look at the scene is the... you mean, OAS, right? Date that... that's in animal source protein... That he wasn't yet... Well... you know... You know... There's bhaiyf tham... Where's the... Broly is... Well, he's a genetic time clock. When that time clock goes off, you know... You could... you... you could expire very quickly, you know? He probably might... He might... He might... he could... he could... He could live this long if he would have been eating cranks. He said... I don't... I don't buy it to my whole... You know... all of this... He's... he's... he's... he's one of his children. We'll win him. When he was running, he would go... We'll do win sprints and run every day. He'd go to the football field. Yeah. He was... I'm going to tell you one thing about the win sprints thing. You know what? I got caught up in this whole... And Johnny could probably test this. We're... we're so competitive, you know... And from the body building, you know... When I started body building, I lost weight. I got my... I... why if I... before we had kids, we got it to cycling. I... I'd... I'd... I'd... I'd... I'd... I'd... I'd went and bought a set bicycle. And then of course I had to have the best one. And then I got into this whole... You know... try to ride fast with all the other guys. So I was in the endurance athlete when I was younger. You've remembered that. I was a runner. So I started... Like cycling with these guys that have been cycling for 30 years. And... I was keeping up with them. They were like, where did you come from? How long you been doing this? I said, you know... four weeks. They're like, what? I just had an accurate... But you know what? What was happening? I was getting... I was throwing weird heart rhythms. And I was singing on the cardiac, you know, my monitor, you wear when you ride. And I told... and that's why I had found that... I had a cardiac arrhythmia. You know, arrhythmia. The... probably had my whole life just never really pushed that heart. You know, my... and now in my 50s and... Or at the time I was in my late 40s. And you know, the doctor said something to me that really struck a chord. He's like, why are you peddling? Why are you riding so hard? I said, because I... I got to get in shape. I said, he's like, can shape for what? What do you do? Are you doing a triathlon? I said, no. I said, but... I can do it. You go, well, just because you can do it, doesn't mean you should be doing it. You know, you're... in your almost 50 years old, he said, Why you cycling like your Lance Armstrong? And you know what? I said to myself, he's right. Well, put it... put it my end to you. Why am I pushing myself to this insane degree at this age? It does no benefit to an amount of fact. It might be a detriment to it because I'm pushing my body too hard. It doesn't need to be pushed that hard. And I'm not 25, 30 years old anymore. So I cut back and I try to start enjoying it a little bit more. But the point is sometimes when you're an extremist and it continues into your old age, you can... you can kill yourself, you know? You're pushing... Because you can push it faster than the barrier, you know? What about buy billing date? That's a great point you just made. Same thing with buy billing. I'm a serious one. You're probably shrinking. You're doing, you know, you shouldn't weigh 280 pounds, you know? But what if you still tren? Like I still tren the way I... In a way, it's the tren. I've already gone to the gym after this. You know, and I'm going to... I do a blow instead of what I can't do it any other way. Right. But you know what? Who knows? If you had a predisposition for, you know, having a harden with me, you might give you some harden tack and die. I don't know. I don't know how hard you push in the gym. I'm just saying... Well, it's fine. But you know what? If you were unprobably a thousand... 10,000 milligrams a year a day, that probably would kill you. You know, I don't know. I'm going to take control. It's right. Yeah. I'm doinGHormone replacement therapy. And that's just... But that's just... Well, place... The trick is you got to get checked out. If your heart checks out is good, then you can do it. If you have an arrhythmia, you know, where you have a blockage and when you're coronary, or you're doing that kind of trening, you can have a harden tack in the gym and drop dead. You know, there's no doubt about that. That's why you couldn't... To die, you're helping us to... You're helping us to keep it in a CPR. We're giving them CPR on a field. I think you was dead on a field. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. IMean, the two are mutually exclusive. Whether you tren or what method of trening you're doing and whether or not you're going to have a heart attack, a little bearing on each other, if you're predisposed to have an heart attack. IMean, that's just the way it is. Well, we're... Certainly you can contribute, you know, to factors that are going to increase your odds of having a heart attack. But if you're... You're going to have a heart attack. You're going to have a heart attack. And it doesn't matter if you're bowling, playing ping pong or body building. That's just... That's just way the way it is. Do you guys remember that the runner gym fix... He wrote a book? He wrote a book? Yeah. He wrote a book about running. And they told... It's the heart doctor told him, because he had a heart condition. He said, look, if you continue running, okay, you're going to die of a heart attack. And he's like, you know what? If I stop running, I'm going to die of a heart attack. Because I got to belong to my heart. So he continued running. He wrote like three, four books about running. One of the most... Some of the most popular books at the time in the 80s. I remember. He did win of dying. I think, well, he was running. I'm a heart attack. He had a bad heart. You know? But it wasn't from the running. I don't even know if he died. I don't think he was running when he had a heart attack. It was after he finished running or something like that. But he would have died even early. Because his dad had died at a very young age in his 30s. And he lived in 2s like 60s. So... It is what it is. You know what IMean? It's... We're dealt the hand. You know? And sometimes the parts old don't work as well. We'd like them to work. And as we get older as you guys know. But they break way easier. And we don't fix so easily. And so, you know, we all have our little things that are wrong with us. And you got to just be aware of them. And then not be afraid to admit we have limitations as we get older. Because if you don't, and you try to go beyond that, sometimes you're asking for trouble. You know? You know, what I notice is the... First of all, weights feel heavier. You know? And I know they're not. They just feel it. And I feel more beat up after my workout. It's now that I used to the recovery. You know? Oh yeah. I know what IMean. I know my lower at the four days a week instead of five for trening. Because I really feel like I need that extra day arrest. IMean, IMean, IMean, IMean, IMean, you know, you don't want to... I guarantee. The thing is, we're all in our 60s. Dave, you're only 51. 2. Are you even 52? I'm 52. All right. See you at 52. I'm 52. Wait. You're a baby still. John, you... You're birthday just keeplist when. Next month, I'll be 60. Oh, I thought it was September. No, October. No, October. You're today's my sons birthday, 30. Shit. Wow. I've got to be 63. Chris, is today. Are you real? You were born with a birthday. No, I'm waiting for the hurricane. We got all the hurricane swells right now. So, sir, you're going to serve the 104 wave again. I got, well, I got... I hit the PIPe, the other day, the front of my board. Oh, front of my nose. This is big PIPe. That place I've wear is served. Yeah. I hit that with my board. The whole nose, front of the nose came more. You hit a car. But drain PIPe? Yes, a big PIPe. You hit me? Yeah. And you're still alive. Oh, hold on. Hold on. Get the pain. Back in the album. Mr. Ghee, it's like thEQuintessential, like, you know, anomaly. You don't do anythinGHe does. If you try to do anythinGHe does, you'll die. That's basically the... No one can take a beating like him. He does it. No one can take a beating like him. He doesn't go to any doctors. I asked him when he left, IMean, went to a doctor. He's... I like me, I never go here. Dude, I went to a doctor abouT4 years ago when stuff... Hey, take care of my health. What was the last time you went to a real doctor, George? Not a car or a friend. Dr. Ghee, damn. Can you remember? 30...30 years ago? I went here in a half. I'll live 220, I guarantee he'll be the guy in the... Oh, what? I'm doing... I'm doing all the stuff I'm supposed to be doing anyway. Right. All right. So what is it matter? Let's take it to tell me, you know, that I'm not... That I'm not already doing things to take care of my health. Wow, IMean, you don't know something's wrong with you, right? IMean, they couldn't be... Even if there was such a wrong, I'm still gonna... I'm still gonna... Well, IMean, what if you... I'm going for a call and ask to be on Friday. I'll get your chance. I'll give it to you. You'll give... I don't want... I don't want you or Blackman touching my anal region, but... I'm going for a call and ask me because you're supposed to get one after 50. And you know what? There was people in my family who had cancer, so I want to make sure, you know, I've kids obviously young kids. I got to check it out. But I put it off. I probably should have had it two years ago. Have you guys all had call and ask me? I've had two. I've had none. Did you find anything in yours, Chun? Yes, I had... The first one I had seven polyps. Okay. So you see that? You say you're self-attacking cancer down the road. And then five years later, I had another one. I won last year and there were no polyps. Okay. But you say you saved yourself. IMean, that could have turned into cancer. They were the ones that... The kind that do turn. Oh, they do. Okay. So you're lucky. So IMean, George has gone to a doctor. GreGHas been there 60 years old. IMean, you guys should get a call and ask me because you just don't know. And it's such an easy test. And they snip those little... One thing going there, you just take the polyps right out. So... Way better than having to deal with a cancer situation, you know, five years from now. So... And they put you out. No. I'm going to... IMean, all that is the hospital. You know. Yeah. I'm going to show you the old thing. I don't know how to make a life. Oh, there you are. I can go and talk to my food. In one place. Highler, mute him for a second. Thank you. Oh. In the old days, they used to be awake for the colonel. I've been out of fun. You're... And you're not proud. You'recompletely out. So it's like... You're sitting on a page read. Why are you always screwing up our audio? God's given. John's given his wisdom. You're right. You're right. You're right. You're right. You're right. All right. Listen. You've got to break it. Jimmy. Jimmy? Jimmy. Before we lose you. Yeah. Can you just tell us what's going on last two weeks? And then we can get rid of you. What up last week? You wanted even angry. What's going on? You've been angry at your mind for the last two weeks. You haven't been able to get the job. You've never been sitting in one spot. All right. Because I'm all, you know, I only got 50. I've got 50. I've got 50. What's the balance with the going on before we lose you? So... So, you know, I'm not my first big dog shop right now. Can I get my bike stick stage. I just wanted to show you the fucking place for real quick. Get on me. Big dog got a model. My buddy might take care of all my problems. My bike to my car, all my bullshit. So, I got up to follow you. I got up to follow you. I got a week. So, as I hung up to fuck the phone. I'm looking at my behavior mirror. I'm on the expressway. And I see black fucking rubber fly and snop. I'm not a factor of fucking truck. I'm going with the fucking associates. And all of a sudden, I see my tire blew the fuck off. So, I have fucking blow off the block road. Get off the fucking truck. I look to fuck the tires. With the block piece, I have poorly boss. I thought my CEO had to die with the fuck the truck. I got a load on. What do you want me to do over here? I just got dumped. I said, fuck. Okay, man. I'm the guy. I'm fucking one of the yard. It's not the right. So, yesterday, he made a little noise. I said, yesterday, I got a book and IMake a lot of load. My boss got used to taking a 364, go out to live here to the farm. I'm like, shit. I got six or four. Nobody wants to drive that truck. He goes, I know. I know you'll drive it. I said, yes, sure. Right. So, I was fucking freezing yesterday. I get in the fucking truck. The fucking right window don't fucking go up. It's fucking broken. The egg it this is stuck on. I can't get the job back. I get on the expressway. I'm fucking cruising down the fuckinGHighway. And all the sudden I'm fucking, I'm, I try to, I find the job backs of switch. I hit it. And all the job backs are come down. All the sudden I hear its explosion. The airbag blows up. And then all of sudden they're fucking you. Well, snap out of the fucking axle. And the fucking, the fucking pies are on like this in the back. I raise up the axle. No fucking drop-axle. The fucking thing's very to full. It's like, I can't even share that. Go through. This business is just, What's living? The lyrishy questions. It seems as though over the last couple weeks that every tire on that truck has been changed already. It's either had a wall out or exploded or it hits something or the thing bent. How many tires are you freaking trucker? It's good. You gotta have a whole new set of tires by now. He's hard in the, it's weird. I'm not hard on your grip of the guy. It's not good. It's not good. It's like, get caught. It's how it's done, right? It's like a brace. Everything. That's the tire rolling in the air. Oh, it's your blowing up. Here you go. It's just blowing up. There. Then you're driving too hard, Jimmy. Yeah. No. I don't always, I always, I always try this. It's just fucking nuts. Jimmy, he's here. Anyway, he, he, he, he, he. Resign, let's come up with a velvet rock. No, it's no. No, no, no, no, no, no. It's 20, 7. Okay. So I know, so he has my luck. So I get a little fucking floor say in the job. Right? So can you say it's blocking? Can you stop? Okay. Can you say it's fine? Okay. I'm not going to smack right now. I know. I'll get ahead of you from seeing this. To see you. Oh, oh, oh. Why? Why are you? How's that? That man. Why is he going to hurt him? Correct. Yeah. Right now. Get him out of the dog and a fiber life shake. Yeah. I want to know why he's. I want to know why he's. So. All right. Tell us slowdown because you're breathing too heavy. Tell us the story. So I get a little for job. I figure let me make a little extra money. Right? So my good friend. He says my dad needs this for us done. I says okay. No problem. Because you're in the mental space. You're just going to work with my sister. No problem. I go over the fucker house. I've had your job. He had a little water damage. The fidgeted lead. The fidgeted is going to get replaced. They said whatever I look at the lead. The damage. I said, yeah, the floor has got to come out. Right? I go home. I get a phone call. It's a jam. My father's going to use the insurance people. It's just there. What do you mean? He's going to use the insurance people. He's going to go with them. The guy's coming next week. The floor office. All right. Fuck it. Man, I walk away. Do we slay the. I got another phone call. Yeah. My dad's not going to use the insurance guys. They ripped the floor up. They put my with dad. You got to go over there. He's calling me like crazy. I said, I'm right. If I go over the house. I need to apply with dad. I tell the price. He says, okay. Jimmy, we can start. I got to get the wood at the start next week. I said, my guys will be here Tuesday. That's at 7.30 tomorrow. Okay. Great. Now I'm working. Get out of the fuck streets. So my guy who go there. I'll Tuesday 7.30. They ring the door. He almost said, door. Who the fuck are you? My guy goes. Well, we're here with Jimmy. Yeah, we're supposed to do the floors. Yeah, I went. I heard the fridge ready was leaking. My brother. He goes, nah. He goes, you need to get the fuck out here right now. So my fucking guy I was going. Yeah, we got to do the work here. So what he told him? Because I want you out here now. So they fuck a leave. They call me. I'm on the job. They call me. Yeah, they got you through. So the fuck is always this. What happened? He's supposed to take the refrigerator out here. So I square everything up with the sister. Go to the next day. They can't move the fucker. It's a sub zero. It's fucking 500 fucking pounds. I shit. So they call me up. They say, what are we going to do with the refrigerator? I said, I don't know. He can't get it out of the house. Put it in the back. Well, we can't get it. Don't go anywhere. It's too big. I said, just drag it in the next fucker. We'll get it out of the way. Start saying that I fucking for. So they end up putting it in a little hallway and they say the floor is down. So I go there and they're piloting. I went there out of here through. I see the refrigerator in a hallway. I can't do a hallway because the fucker is finished sitting in a little hallway. I can't say it. So I had to come back at a late thing. So I tell them. I said, listen to that. I told them that Danny there. I said, do me a favor. Don't walk on these floors. They're going to pile in a half hour. Get whatever you need upstairs because they're going to be pile in. Okay. I said, you understand. Next. Yeah, you understand. I told them to come back. I was late. Guess what? The lady. Walk the cross the fucking floor. I don't want stairs. Right? I can't be up. The daughter called me as she says, like, I did walk the cross the floor. Like, geez, this Christ, I says, you kidd me, right? I said, you should go. So when about the fridge ready, you left it in the hall. If I said, he said, the fridge guys, get fixed. No, me more than me. No, we're not with garbage. I said, well, he just told us that the touch of this guy is coming to fix the fucker. No, he's getting involved. I said, can you people get your shit together? So it's unbelievable. Unbelievable what I go through. I just can't have a fucking normal fucking average thing. I just go to jail. Here we go. How are they going to move that refrigerator back without fucking up the floor? And that's the game, everyone. They are going to know the one. But they say not the repair guys going to come and fix the fucker. And wherever it is, because I told my he touching that motherfucker anymore. Right. It's going to fuck the floor. Like John said, it's so heavy. When we roll it, it's going to leave big marks in the floor. Right. So I said, you know, I told the door. I said, you know what? I'm getting paid. I'm getting paid. The refrigerator. What's this? How did it come back? I'll do the floor. How did they get it? How did they get it? Yeah. How did they get it? I don't know why. She told me they took it. They took it through the back door. It was impossible. I got the measure. IMeasured everything. It's no fucking way. Unless they took those doors out completely. They get it out in the fuckinGHouse. Because it was a sliding door. I wasn't going to fit, you know, true. But I take the one door off like we used to do. Right. It wouldn't even go through that. I don't know how they got it in it. I have no idea. So I'm out of the whole fucking thing. I just want to get my fucking check. You haven't got paid yet? You haven't got paid yet? You haven't got paid? No. You're not going to get paid. Then I can pay you. Then I can pay you. You watch. So I went there last night to the door shop. I'm sitting down. I thought I was going to get a paycheck. And I was just saying, you haven't even bought it. I said, no, I don't have it. And I didn't even buy it. You know. And you got to finish that spot. I said, yeah, we're going to finish this spot. When you get the fucking frigid right away. I said, what finished this spot? You know what IMean? So I didn't wish you could sit there. I'm going to be like, say, you look a little hype. I was just saying, if I could sit there. I was just saying, I'm alone. I'm alone strong out right now. She said, sit there. Please, can you say my follow is there? I said, I should put you on your list. Why? I started drinking one. Then I'm drinking my dad's house. Then I'm drinking with the old man. He might be a sound. I tell you, true. It's something my dad. Yeah. He even looks like you dad. I can't decide your picture. Because he's 87 years old. He's not even fucking my brother. He wanted you to sit down and watch real fortune. I said, my dad. I said, IMean, that's what he said. You know what IMean? So I tried one glass, two glass, three glass. They goes one bottle. Let's see what's another bottle. Oh, no. I'm sure that the pepperoni, the sour me, the fucking cheese. I'm not. That I'm fucking bomb. So that's like fucking articles like another job. I'm fucking bored in the night. She says, I'm going to order something from Kulta Bazaar. I said, I don't want to eat. I got to get out of here. I got checked. Two bottles of wine. I said, go on. She says, come on. You gotta have been with us. I should have gone. I said, I didn't fucking get it. Give me that bottle. I should have gone. She must have fucking threw the bars. I'll get lost. I'll get back a row of knees. I'll just go. I'll just go. Fuck a sea. It's a sour. They're bread, thyme, but we eat. Dude, fuck it. I was just like, fuck it. Then it's like, fuck it. This is a regular day. This is just like a regular day. That's a regular day. That's a regular day. Bro, this is fucking shit. I have to stick with that. No. They didn't go. They wanted to get this. They wanted to get this. Yeah, that's what I was in the guitar. Six thirty I went there. Bro, I left there 10. Oh, I'm that. I'm like, fuck it. I said, piano friend. I said, I have to be out. I would have been out of believe me. I was saying that. Usually, by that I started singing at that point. By that, I was singing like, you know, songs. It's an opera. Did you hear me? Did you hear what Jimmy just said, though? He said that she even wrote a macaroni. That's what we called. That's what we called. That's what we called. That's what we called. It was Macaroni's with gravy or whatever. My right or wrong, Jimmy. It was Macaroni's if it was like, Compatelies of twists or or regular tone here or whatever. Oh, I was always. It was very good Tony it was very good Tony. It was very good Tony. Ballination. Yeah. But spaghetti was the long one. We always called that spaghetti. Yeah. We always called it Macaroni. Yeah, that's spaghetti. Yeah. It was Macaroni. It didn't matter what style. Right. But nobody called the pasta. And nobody called that shit sauce. It's gravy to us. Right. Yeah, gravy to us. Yeah, gravy to us. Oh, kids. Kids speak fluent Italian. They're like three, four, five years old. Oh, wow. It's diet. You know, it's funny. You know, it's funny is it's how stereotypically normal that evening was. You start drinking. Then they bring out the food. Yeah. We've done food. Then they need more food. Yeah. We've done more food. Yeah. You know how to lean. You don't want to lean after that. So you get about it. My brother was said, my brother was said, You know how you can tell when Italian is coming to dinner. They're ringing the doorbell with their elbow. They're not going to eat. They're not going to eat. Yeah. They're not going to eat. And they always say we don't have enough food. Right. I don't know if we have enough food. They have like 14 courses they bring out. They don't have enough food. That's what that's. Nobody I always just tell my grandmother once she just put it all on table at one time and let everybody you'll realize. No, no, they can't. At the time of the fucking, you know, but if time, you're the shit comes out. You sit and they're going, like, I fucking follow. She's still punctured out of the goddamn other. You know what IMean? They never sit down. They never sit down. They've stayed up to all of me auditioning out. Like, grandmother never sat down ever. And then later on, she was serving the kids. Yeah, she didn't sit down. She was serving the kids. Right. The table, the father. She was up to die. Get more wine. Get the salary. I won't tell the judge. Jimmy, how old was that woman's Stephanie? I've been talking about 40, she's about 41. Wow. And she's serving up Italian meal. Like that. That's a rare occasion. Wait a minute. Here's the real question. Did she get any top of words and give me shit to say calm? Yeah, that's right. I was just going to say that. You know what I have for breakfast is for. I don't look at that. I had a fucking rigoured Tony ball of bass. But he says, I'm going to play. I got up to small ones. I never got making it. I said no one fucked out. I saw the left toes on a bucket. I had two in a time. I was leaving. I was hit. I was hit by truck. I forgot to take the left toes. So I won't. And I finally walked down the house because I was fucking bomb. IMean, my truck she comes running outside with the fucking, kept up to the whole fucking tray, you know. Dum, Timmy please you got to think at all by sabah I give it to me. So I put it on their shoes. Oh no. Now when I've got up per morden I said k gu locates Sarah Jacobs Chandal Raghan, did I look at that tray and I'd go f girlfriends. I won't open his phone. You know what.. You know I have.. You don't idea who you got to get all the left toes on what's that? You know I have to keep Jimmy on the left over. Why? Cause the refrigerator doesn't work. That's not the fashion brat. nd he always been there. Leftovers. That's why I said, did you come home with a top of where full stuff? It's down. All the way. Before you trade, the foreign trade, I came. What would you do in either the next morning, two is the best? The taste better than it. I can call it. I like it called. Like any taste better. It's just some about that the next day you just like pizza. It's a place. It fits out all night. You have after you're making. Oh, it's delicious than next. The oil is in jails. That's why I said that. It's their bacteria and it takes even better. Oh, it's like a probiotic. It's like probiotics, John. Right. It's fermented. Right. Yeah, shit. Those were the days. Natural enzymes. Yeah. Hey, what the other, this we still do it. IMean, that's, you know, that's part of being a talent. And I hate that that's dying out with with us. You know, I'm going to tell you something about a good, a woman who can cook Italian food, they can cook anything. I'll tell you. And I've said this before. My grandmother, when I was, I was dieting for a show and they don't understand dieting. But she had a respected. So I was like, I grandma, I was dieting. I can't have the macaroni. And so she's like, what are you eating? I saw my mom eating chicken breast. IMean, baked potatoes. She made me a meal, John. She didn't use the stitch at oil on it. It was so clen this meal. But it tasted so good. I'm like, how did you make this? What's it? And I started getting paranoid. I'm like, what's in this grandma? I said, it tastes too good. I just pounded the chicken, it's for like six hours. And she just, I don't know, I don't know how she cooked it. There was no oil, nothing. It was the best chicken breast. And you know what it is? I'll tell you what it was. I'll tell you what it was. My grandmother, my grandmother can make a salad with oil and vinegar. And you'll salt. That's what it did to me. It was delicious. It's your hands. It's what it got. It's a food taste to say. I wish the sense that great salad dressing I've ever had in my life. It was just oil and vinegar. She did. She did olive oil. And vinegar. And she did salt, pepper. Like you said, that's all she said, she put on the chicken. I'm telling you it was the best tasting chicken and salad. And potato I ever had. Whatever it tastes, they know what they're doing. Yes. Under the old out of season, they know what the amounts are. Right. My grandmother, my grandma's amazing cook. She had a child main at the Chinese restaurant one time in her life. She said to herself, I think I can make this. I went over to her house one time. She gave me, she made me. She made chicken, chow main on a plate. And I'm looking at a, you know, you know, call out for food. You would never do that in a million years. If you picture it in a town, it'll tell you later. Go ahead. Never fuckinGHave. Never. Okay. So like a way you get to Chinese road. She said, IMade it. You made this. It tastes exactly like a Chinese restaurant. Like you couldn't tell with that. Wow. Because they can interpret the taste in our palate. Right. So, you know, it's. You do that shit now. We're low main and fried rice. So, which my girlfriend would have she tell you, I can make it better than Chinese restaurant. You know, what I used to do when I was, when I used to be in my ordering at sage, I used to get the low main with no seasoning. Like, without the oil, I get the low main with white chicken meat in there. You know, and I would add my own seasoning to it. And I'll tell you it was, it was 100 times better because it wasn't so heavy greasy. Yeah. But I love the way they mix the vegetables. The vegetables and the noodles are great. You know, coming to us. Remember, I didn't treat it in seafood. Yeah, that's the place. I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do that. I phone over here. It's sorry. I had it on the fence back there. And the fucking sun, I guess, you know, not me. You know, when you phone over here says temperature bump up on it, just shut your. I was running away. I was trying to show it. I had a show in Tony's freezer box. I just should have fucking made the freezer. You should have gave this some fucking bowl of ice. I'm hungry, bro. I'm hungry too. I've got to bring one other thing up. Just for you guys, just I don't know if you guys have seen it. Obviously, you've never grown up and you watch the karate kid, right? The movie? Yes. The original. We're out. Ralph Machia. Have you guys watched on Netflix, the new series, Copa Kai? No. But I know. The Copa Kai takes place 30 years later. It's the same character. It's the guy who Ralph Machia, a fight at the end of the karate kid, the first movie. And it opens up his own. He's not down on his lock. Ever since getting beat up, he losing that fight at the Ralph Machia. And Ralph Machia is a big car dealer and he's got tons of money. And they have all the same. They brought back a lot of the same characters. It's so good. If you want to feel like you're back in the 80s again, you've got to watch this series on Netflix. It's... I can't stop watching. I watched the whole first season in two, two, three days. It's still... It played the same music. You know, the 80s music. It's so well done because it's a spoof really, but it's not. It's serious at the same time. You guys will love this series. And telling you, I promise you, you'll love it. I've seen... Is that a Netflix name? Yes. Copa Kai, I've seen the coming to... Come in to Josh's. What, Jimmy? I'm telling you, if you like the original karate kid watch this thing, you will be in love with this series. Will Smith did it. He's the guy behind it. It's phenomenal. It's been... It's so good. The acting is so... You'll think that you'll feel so nostalgic watching it. But at the same time, it's... It's actually good. It's well done. Yeah, that's all. When I... When I saw it on Netflix, I saw like the coming, you know, when you do the trail of things. Yeah. And the guy's on a floor. He's sleeping on a floor. And he's dreaming about when Machia would knock them down. Yeah. Yeah. And he woke up on the floor. Is that the one? Yes. Yes. That's exactly it. I've got... The kid who played the... The badass in the other movie, who lost the rap music. He's a great actor. He's the best one in the whole series. Is he still a prick? No. But he... Like life beat him up. He was still driving the same like Kamarro. It's like... He's still living in his place. He's like me. He's like you to me. Basically. Life just beat... Life just beat... Life just beat... But then he comes back and he restarts corporate high. And so you got... I don't want to tell you any more, but watch it. It's really good. It's very good. I'm waiting for fast time to reach my eye. Yeah. Exactly. Doing that thing, I post it on Facebook. I'll tell you why it's so good because it's so whoever wrote it. The writers are so smart that they did it. It's mirrored against the old series. It's very similar. Like he's the guy now who's like the loser in Ralph Machu. He was like the guy who's like got tons of money and to deal with ships and you know. And he's living like a wealthy person. So it's like the roles are reversed. It's pretty interesting. It's pretty interesting. That's what I have to say. That's what I have to say. But it's always the tough guys that end up broke. I don't know what it is. When I was in school, all those little little punks. They're like stock brokeies. And they get old now. Women now. Yeah. Yeah. I was the guy when I was young. I was the tough guy. I was the one who's like me first. I got no body. Yeah. I was like me first. I got no body. Yeah. It's like it's like balancing. Yeah. One of life's little just. Yeah. I get up in a morning sometimes I'm like, what the fuck, man? What happened? Yeah. And you got a good life. You're talking about the way the. What a great day. You're going to trick. Do those guys with tricks when they would go arrogant. Box. You were one of those guys. Yeah. I was never a prick. I was never a bad guy. You're a guy. As tough as you are, you're the hearts like 10 times a size. That's what people are real. That's true. That's true. But speaking of drugs. I was always. I was always helpful to people. I really never trashed people. You know, let's say, you know, accept the guys you beat up in the bar when you were drunk. Yeah. What are you always saying? I'm not surprised. What about the guy in line with the DMV? You beat him up too. Yeah.ric list. Yeah. Cool. Yeah.l skip tier. He was close. He was a� got one. He was a trustworthy job. He was or..... ihren realization. He was a shared right. He Considering People! Get his最eef. That gave us. He was believinGHis trust.agt. according to no. No. Hey, kid. Go. Get him. I'm coming in the Vemberbro. So as soon as the work dries up, I'm getting a you whole. My bike is going to the back of you and I'm told my Jeep and I'm coming down to your house for a day. All right. I want to make it from my 60th birthday party with that appeal. Yeah, once you come from my birthday dinner. There you go. When is that? I think we're going to... I think my family is coming to 20th week that we can before Thanksgiving. Wow. I wish I could maybe have to do it personally. Okay. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Back up, man. What's the date that they're coming? This is the 20th. Angus and 20th. Let me look. It's the weekend before Thanksgiving. What's your actual birthday, John? November what? Twenty-nights. I'll October twenty-nights. Yeah. Jim, yours is the 20th of November. No, twenty-seven. So what I'm going to do is probably after my birthday. I'm going to head down here, John. So it's... Wow. Just want, want, want. Yeah. No, wait. It's... You're going to see. Hey, Dave, and now I'm coming down by your broth. I'm waiting for the head, my man. Jimmy, November twenty-nights. You wait. My mother was... Yeah, twenty-seven. Jimmy, you bought another property. November twenty-nights. So if you're coming in November, you come in November. You can stay at the horse stable we have now. You can stay at my house. I'll stay at the horse. Look. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. You can sleep in air. It's got a bathroom. George, where's we need more cookies. Where are we getting more cookies in the mail? Yeah, what's up with my cookies? I stopped there. Oh, look, he's got a whole tray in the edge.苦aste You know, send them to me Why choka Maka Damya That's my favorite That's all I want I only want another one You know around Just put the fresh maka Damya That one I actually put aside And I'm gonna say if it's another thinGHere Why? Because I have new cose There's 저는h Killed a magic vacuum Ah, just my t että Keoken Deep Chokeative And a GrandCractor Of coarse Okay Then we could make that taking You're a servant You're a servant I'm a person in those. I'm a Mr. Pots protein dot net. Right on to our right. Great. Oh man. Those those those bounce bars. Oh yeah. I love mount. That one. Those are prototypes. Yeah. I'm going to send you without the link. As soon as our new labels come, then. OK. What about the peanut butter cups? Where's the white chocolate peanut butter cups? I was waiting for it to cool down. George, what are my guys told me he came down to your place and bought cookies. Anthony DeAngelsy. It was said. Somebody. And guy not going to my door. You knocked on the door. How do you find you? I didn't. How do you find you? There's no sign on the door. I don't have no sign out there. I had any find you. Like the people of front said he's here. No one to go. You know, he just told me about yesterday. I was talking to him on it. Because I have a whole comp. It's a whole complex. I got comp case. It's a warehouse. Everything so. How far are you from who? Who parav in you over there? And in my business. Really? Five minutes away from my house. I'm already around that whole area. Who's going there? I'm going down there again. So why don't you stop us, see Mr. G? Get some cookies. I was in. I was older there. Break, you know? If you're going to be there anyway, you could probably get a bunch of cookies. So you'll just take them from them. You know, like going there and take your big, you know. I feel bad because you know, I don't want to take it. I don't have any. Every order that comes in. The order is made. I don't want to just make. Like this is like a hot like if you're going to chef Ramsey, he's not making 20 dishes and what's like a one fish. So when someone puts an order for it, like if they put order, it doesn't. I'm making just that does. Even though like I've 10 other orders, just that one. I guess. That's a problem right there. You're not maximizing your time. Yeah. But if IMake it, if I do it and can't imagine 10, it's going to look. It's going to look so fresh. That's fresh, John. That's what. You know what IMean. I just as we can visit your things, just higher and more people. That's all. IMean, I'm upset right. Or what you know, you might need to do. You might have to have like batch dates like in other words, when people are going to order, say, okay, on October 1st, I'm going to be producing this many batches of chocolate chip, peanut butter cup and Macadamian chocolate. Those are the only ones we'll have. What you're order is that now. And then we won't produce another batch for two weeks. And then you know what IMean? This way everything gets done in groups, you know. Well, I got people who want to like, so 80% of our orders are re-ordered. Oh wow. 80%. That's great. That's great. That's great. People order order like today. And then full day is later the order like that. Because they know that at the time they get this second order, they'll be done with their first order. So I kind of really, we kind of really good clientele. IMean, I'm growing the way I want to grow. I don't want to have 10,000 orders at once. Because I want to make sure that the product is what it is. No, that is. It's a high-impact fresh. You know. No, it makes sense. Make sense. All right. Well, if people want cookies, they can go to Mr. Pots protein.net. And you can put your orders in for the jumbo Palombo jumbo lights and all the other stuff that Mr. G. sells. For now, there were out of time. Um, day Palombo for John Ramino and Jimmy the bowl. Greg Valentino and Mr. G. We'll see you next week. I'm not sure baby. It's about being pauses. That's right. Dad, all your people put that kind of stuff on the out. I want to tell the people who see that. People who are up to accomplish your dreams. Don't worry.

=== FILE: FLEX GOES FOR 7! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸6⧸18) [2hUgT3qEJKc].txt ===

It's the weekend here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm day polo and going today is Friday July 6, 2018. It looks fine that what's going on in the world of body building and fitness. Hey, David, if you want to study the history of the world, what you really need to find yourself doing is studying the history of war. And by this time tomorrow, all eyes in the body building world will be on the proverbial war that's about to go down on the Chicago Postage between Surgeo and Liva Jr. and Justin Rodriguez. I don't know if it's been the feud, the haters' fear, or some combination of the three that's been motivating Jayrod over the back half of his prep. But I do know that my people close to the source tell me that he's on track to put together the best look of his career. And with the smoke finally clears at the end of the night show, it'll be a nail bite for sure as to who the last man standing will be. You know when most people think about what it means to win the Olympia crown, what they're really thinking about is standing up their on stage for one night and having their hand raised in front of the crown. But what they fail to realize is that it's the other 364 days of the year that you actually win the title. It's only in the singular moment that they hand you the prize. With six Olympia titles already lining the shelves in his trophy room, you're crazy if you don't think that Flex Lewis doesn't know that already. According to the Lewis camp, Flex has been grindinGHard to the never and is quest to become just the sixth athlete ever to be crowned world champion seven stray times. So unless you believe somebody else out there has been hitting it hard of the Flex Lewis over the last 364 days, it looks like the road to number seven is clearer and it's ever been. I like to watch word documentaries on Netflix and it always seems like all the great military leaders have some sort of cool nickname. So I know I'm not the only one out there who thinks William the conqueror of Bonaq has a pretty nice ring to it. Right now the defending Arnold Classic champ looks like he's pulling in every last resource that he's got in preparation for this last stretch of his Olympia run. We're staring down the barrel of a history forced in his own right and defending seven time champion King Phil. But the thinGHistory tells us about every great empire is that they eventually all fall. So for all we can do is sit back and speculate about whether or not this year will be the year that William the conqueror and his forces finally break through the gates. I'm honestly a pretty big fan of everything superhero and I did find myself sucked into the trensformer movies as well, which got me thinking about what kind of weapons we might see flexor trying to roll out of the arsenal this year. Even though the updates have been few and far between rumor hasn't been shown rodent is supposedly on pace to bring the best overall look of his career into this year's big dance. A few weeks ago a little birdie told me that rodent is already way ahead of where he was last year. And considering that 2017 was the first time he dropped out of the top four on the Olympia stage since 2011. I'd say that he's probably right where he needs to be. At this point I'm not sure. What it'll take for any of these guys to slow down Phil Heath, but I do know that a 110% Sean Rodin probably has a good shot as anyone. And finally we'd like to send a big get well soon shout out to our old friend Dennis James earlier this week DJ went under the knife to repair a torn rotator cuff. And take it from a guy who's had bad shoulders from more than two decades now when I tell you that I'm sure this was long overdue. Everything I've heard so far indicates that everything went as expected and DJ is already back home resting up waiting to start PT so we can get started on the road to recover it. And considerinGHow much of a freak athlete James was back when he was at his peak of his powers, it wouldn't be the least bit surprise to these back in the gym doing crazy. Dennis James things again by this time as September rolls around. And that does it the end another edition of Bustle in the morning. I'm Dave Pullambo reminding you always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FLEX LEWIS CHANCES TO WIN OLYMPIA？ HMR (9⧸21⧸20) [Klql5QnZKrw].txt ===

10th and 9th You're my and our Every for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the truth But we can't be Lombon Chris Asito Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle What are you? What's up? Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio On Dave Alumbo and I'm joined As always by the Technician Chris Asito on this September 21st 2020 evening and Chris We're getting closer and closer to The Olympia time and we had Another big pro show this Best weekend or at least a Classic physique a pro show We'll talk about a little bit And the bodybuilding world Is kind of moving into September now And it was weird because You know this is the weekend That usually we go to the Olympia And I was getting a lot of things Popping up on my Facebook timeline Sticks is a UND I even put one up there And you had a funny comment But you know isn't it weird It's a Olympia time Normally and there's no Olympia Yeah it's totally weird It's just It's just You know it's odd Now that it's hit me like It's going to be December 20th Right By the time you come home from the Olympia whatever it's the 21st And I don't know what I'm going to do LikEQuarantine in my house Because I'm going to go You know, quarantine two weeks I just don't bet in December Yeah Yeah You know So and who know you know It's just IMean there's still a lot of unknowns The shows coming up and Is there going to be an audience at the show I guess it's a big question of the week You know people have been talking about Rob A. Letton audience be at the show That's thEQuestion I guess that's a little bit more detailed Question is will City of Las Vegas So if I was state of Nevada Allow people to Right Come into You know I was watching football today Chiefs came I'm like oh there's an audience No it's just PIPe didn't noise Like from the loosey I really that's weird Yeah that's a strenge You know what IMean And it was like the crowd Just like the crowd was there And then it pan the audience And then there be nobody there That's bizarre Yeah That's kind of a little strenge I You know It's weren't really in a brave new world I guess you could say IMean it's it's not there's nothing I know the world I cry Yeah We got this Right Yeah yes We still got a seat Blackman now to make fun of Yeah You know You know there's this guy online And we've talked about this before The channels I don't even want to give many kind of credit But he does some funny stuff My sugar daddy is still controllinGHis name is a channel It seems like it's a channel devoted to me for some reason He always is clipping old stuff A mine and putting up videos of mine I don't know what his obsession was mean But it's alright at least It's usually done in a positive light So I'm fine with it I can complain to the YouTube And tell the take the stuff down But I don't because you know I don't it doesn't that Doesn't I nothing really affects me Anywhere I don't really care about anything But he found a video He did like a It was called Steve Blackman versus Steve Blackman impression You saw you started right So you know what I'm talking about It's basically Steve Blackman doing some Ridiculous like videos that he does Nowadays That don't even know a lot of people It's seen and then there's like me doing an impression of him Like you know But the puppet with the blackman puppet It's like It's really It's really It's really It's really It's really It's really It's really It's really great Yeah because I can't Yeah, I can't make sure I can get the audio Like I had the high behind the puppet Because I was laughing too much Yeah I didn't make I just want people to I didn't make this This this is completely This guy Yeah It's not a creative content The current creative content The Vard's most ever There it is I thought it was like a tick talk Video with like a Like a voiceover or something I want I want it to play I hope you can people can get the audio but it's the best part. This is the most important right now I gotta make sure they can play the audio hold on. I wasn't sure. This was Miami a long island. I don't know where he is here. Hold on music. We can full screen. Can you see full screen? Yeah, there we go. I'll hold on. See you soon. IMean first thing is I can't hear the volume. Can you hear it? No. But I've listened to it so I know what he's gonna say. Gosh, it's even funny without the video. Look at the facial look. It's funny with first you're gonna watch him with Delphine, right? Hi, Affect facial expression. It's almost like a WWE off like the Grand Wizard or the you know, Freddie Glasse. Like very aggressive delivery. The research shows. How do I get the audio? The play? I figured it out before. I don't know what he did here. People are gonna comment on Dave Keating. We get the audio to play. I want my money back. Oh, that's right Dave. You don't charge anything from to watch a Delphine radio show. Anabadiol. Speaking of money back. I hear a lot of people wanted money back from that paper review Dave. Which one? The Cal Pro. Really? Yeah, a lot of people. Like majority at her. Wow. They're honoring it, too. They are. I hear it. Yeah, I heard. I was gonna ask my money back and I'm like, I just don't even have the time to get on the phone and send emails. I have to, I didn't, I didn't know contribute. I shouldn't, but I didn't. I wasn't going to watch the whole thing. I didn't really want to do it. But it wasn't a 20 bucks. I would definitely pay the money. I just started. I think I paid the bill. I would do it. I would pay it pretty much up to 100 bucks to support, you know, the live streams because I think that that's important in 2020 because people can't go see the show. And I don't want these promoters to not want to hold the show. But if you're going to charge, if you're going to charge a premium, though, you have to make sure that the production value is good. If you charge five bucks and the thing doesn't look that great, no one's going to complain. Right? I think my room is dark as the the pre-jet you was. I was going to turn all my lights off and do the radio show. But you know what I'm saying? In other words, if you have a, there might be a better business model charging less money and not, this way people's expectations are not as high and you might get more people, you know. Like if you're streaming something of super quality, you can you can charge a super price. Right. Well, if you're streaming something of terriblEQuality, again, end up giving people their money back. It's like going to a restaurant to get some reason our chef was blind today. Right. Well, look at, IMean Gary, you did a pretty good job. IMean he had a nice live stream, which was free by the way for the, for the, uh, I think he probably made a lot more money than they did at the, at the Calthrow, but because he had all those, those people in the show. But it was free, but he was streaming from a tent. Okay. So think about what the challenges of getting a good Wi-Fi and a tent are in a middle of a parking lot, Chris. Yeah. So I think he did, that should be, it's commendable, you know, but he was able to pull that off. Speaking of good promoters, I hear through the grapevine, Chris. I don't, I have no confirmation yet, but I hear through the grapevine that my good friends thief Carol, who's really not my good friend. I've been boycotting the NPC nationals going there, not the shell, but going there because he's the promoter of the last couple years. I hear he's not doing the nationals this year. It's been no one's really talking about it. It's been very quiet. I actually text a jam. I didn't hear back from him yet. So I'm not giving, I can't give you official stuff, but here's, let me see if I can pull up the video where he tried to have your recipe in the past. No, yeah, that's another time. But here's when you wait, when you can, when you can confirm it, then you can post that. Okay. Here's the new website, NPCchampionship.com. Okay. Now the, the old website was something different. This is the new website. So that means that, and I don't see stone cutter anywhere. And I hear through the grapevine that pad bets is doing it with someone else. I think I heard Joe Pishkula, who is, I wanted the district chairman in Florida. I don't know if that's true or not, so I don't want to put out any false information, but I, I think Carol's out. I think they got rid of him finally. I hope they did, which means that at some point not this year, but in the future, I will be going back to the NPCnashals again, because I, I feel that this is the right way to do it. They're, they're looking out for the athlete. They finally clened out. They told me they were going to get rid of them, but they said, you know, it wouldn't happen to me. They might have had a contract with them, Chris, for a couple years. Yeah. But he was bad news for that show. He was just bringing it down. He would, you couldn't, you bought a ticket. The tickets were 100 bucks for like pre-judging, because you buy a ticket. You, you couldn't come back in if you wanted to go out and get a soda for yourself or something like that. Yeah, you had to pay 100 bucks. Yeah, you have to buy another ticket. Yeah, that was not a great, really, really taken care of the people who buy tickets that show. Now it doesn't have to worry about it, because there's no one allowed to go in the show, right? You know what, he, he, he really did himself in, because just the fact that he had me, you know, escorted out by security, because I was back, because I was backstage legit, and I was interviewing people, I've got permission from jam, so he decided to kick me out and make a spectacle. But I have the video, I could still put it on the video. I have put the video up. I actually videoed Tyler video, and me as it was happening. I never put it up. So maybe now that he's out. Yeah, you show me, I think that, man, I'm putting up his like, just for, for posterity's day. Yeah. But you know what, they did a good job. I got to, I got to, I got to be, I don't know who's behind all this. I don't know if it's since Tyler, you know, man, he's gotten in there, which is, Jay, I'm son in the Jim, man, he's grandson. Now that he's the vice president in there, and you know, some people might not like that because he's young, but I think it's good. I think young ideas are good for the sport, and I think it's now that he's in there, and he sees some of this crap that was going on. I think he's like, hey, Grandpa, let's get, let's get these guys out of there. Let's get some fresh blood in there. I want, I want this, I want this, organization to grow. We're not going to grow with these guys that think that they're, you know, back in the 1980s still running these shows. IMean, he says, I think Atlantic City, and when John Ray won, if it was up to him, he wouldn't even have online registration. He'd still have you feel like, remember that little, that little piece of paper you had to fill out? You had to send it to like either Sandy Rinaly, if you're a woman, or Williamson, and if you're a guy, I had to send it to Peter Potter. And you had a bank check, and it was right, you know what that? Yeah, self-adjust stamped envelope. Yeah. Something crazy like that. What are you drinking over there? I'm drinking, you know what I'm drinking? This is, I can't give you the, I can't tell you what it is, but this is a, a meano evolved, the new flavor, one of the new flavors we're working on. It's a, it's a secret, but it's delicious. I'll send you something. It's really good. You kids will drink it like it's cool. They're, that's how good it is. I've got no carbs. It's well, just amino acids in there. We have two new flavors. I have a really, come out of the new flavors. Yeah. I have two new flavors coming out of a amino evolved. I have two new flavors of isolice too. What do you have for us? What are you guys doing? One of them I can tell you, but I'm going to tell you the one that I know you're going to lie. No, no, I'm not going to tell you that. No, I'm going to tell you that. I'm going to tell you the one that I realized flavors you have, because I decided to make it one of my, I had vanilla chocolate vanilla peanut butter, chocolate peanut butter cinnamon donut. I have caramel macchiata, which is really like, like a almost a coffee tasting one, but not really. I have a cookies and cream, which I think we might, we might not do that one. We might not renew that one, because we have these two new flavors coming out temporarily. I'll tell you this, every single flavor that I have introduced, I drove my flavor guy absolutely insane when I did it. To the point where he almost, you almost fired me. Like I said, if you can't do it, you can't do it. That's all. I gave one of those and then that made him work harder. Because I really want flavors to taste really that good. And it's, you know, you have to sometimes, and the flavor systems are expensive. You know, the better the flavors get the more expensive it gets. You know, when you, when you go to the store and you nestle this quick, you know, and all these things, you take for granted. These guys are spending millions of dollars in development of their flavors. And they taste test and safety McDonald's. When you go to, you think the McDonald's hamburger started out tasting as good as it did. There's a seasoning, they put a seasoning in there that their own, you know, proprietary formula that that's what makes those hamburgers taste so good. A regular piece of beef doesn't taste like that. So, you know, you have to, you know, if you're going to sell a high grade way, I say, which has no sugar and no fat and it, you know, lactose, you kind of have an artificial flavoring system that is just fucking stellar. No one's been used to produce. I was going to slice what is the number one selling flavor. Chocolate, I always is. Yeah, it's fun and simple. Chocolate, chocolate peanut butter. Because that's the most popular flavor. But it's, and, and I think they're terrific. I have a terrific chocolate and terrific, good chocolate. IMean, but I wouldn't say it's my best flavor, because I'm not a chocolate person, but I can drink it every day if I had to. I like vanilla peanut butter a lot. I like, um, I like caramel macciata. If I'm in a cinnamon-y mood, I've cinnamon doughnut is amazing. Speaking, you know what? I'm a vanilla person. I could do vanilla every single day and never, never change a flavor. But there's more. My mind's jumping from five to five to see a part told you before. What happened with that? I haven't gone for my gum this week. So, today, which is Monday, I had to go for, I have to go for my COVID testing. They're going to stick a thing up my neck. You know, they, I didn't know this. They, like, basically touch your brain stem with this lightning that they see. Yeah, they're going to see it. And that's how they get the, that's how they test your for COVID. So, I have to get that, because I have to get the colonoscopy done at the hospital. What do you have to prove that you're a COVID-19? Yeah, you have to do that. Yeah, now, obviously, you know, I want to take for the results to go back. I don't know. It's a good question. Probably a day or two. I don't know if they do fast testing at the hospital. So, I got to drive all the way to, it's like in maple. So, I'm driving like an hour tomorrow morning. Yeah, you're swine biology. How come we can't get a COVID test that you can just spit on the stick and, you know, because evidently, the thing doesn't live in your saliva, it lives up here and, and you know, nasal cavity there. So, I got to make sure they get the right area where it's, it's, it's, it's hanging out. Yeah. I know people that are already involved, I don't even, if I could say the person's name because I don't know if you want to be disabled, who's already ready, he's ready to get the vaccine already. I told me, he's crazy. Which vaccine? The COVID there's a COVID vaccine already. Well, there's a few that are working on. I know someone is talking to the thing, again, I said, you're ready, you're mine. He's like, why? He's got going to be, I have access to it. I said, access to it. You're going to be a getting picked. They don't know, they don't know the state. They've got enough people to take any. And even in these studies, there are only a couple hundred people that they're testing. I would wait until, you know, people have used it for a year, at least. I went to the pharmacy today to pick up a prescription they wanted to give me a flu shot. I said, I don't want a flu shot. Like people giving them for free Today or something like that. But yeah, I said, I don't want it for free. Anything that doesn't cost anything is usually, gets me very suspicious. I said, yeah, I said, I'm not sick. I don't go anywhere. I said, but what do I need a flu shot for? I always tell my kids when someone offered you something very asked for two. Yeah. By Frank, even Tasto, he won't let anyone pay for anything. He says, I don't want to owe anyone anything. He's on a blind date. I have a day of his when next month, when to flu, when to flu season really start. I don't know. The fall, yes, right? Yeah. I'm in Florida. There's no fall here. Still 95 degrees. Once these schools in the United States heard the area, I have five or six kids who stay home because of the flu and they're eating it. They're missing them. That and they call and they say, you know, Johnny's not coming to school because he's sneezing and aching and then school's because they couldn't be covered. They're going to shut everything down. Yeah, you're right. Right. It's crazy. Anyway, we had a sort of body building. We had to show this week. We did. The NPC hard came. Let me pull that up. Where was where was that child gave? It's a good question. Clear water floor right in the online corner right in the corner for me. Yes, there you can see it from your friend. Where was that? I don't know, Dave. Oh, clear water. Same neighborhood as me. Yeah. Well, it's about an hour, about an hour and a half north of me. And let's take a look at those scorecards. There we go. You know, I'm glad the holding shows. I think a lot of guys are missing the boat. Look, there's not that many guys in the show and this isn't a lumpy of qualifier here. Peter Scallow wins this from West Palm Beach, right here in Florida. Second place, Arturo Mendez and third place is of Vladimir Saisoff, who used to be a bodybuilder if you remember. Remember, Vladimir was the guy who does those the Circus Act, you know, where he spends, it does all the crazy acrobatic. Bob, I'm Graskin with Saisoff, it was cookie process. I, you know, he's got to be, he's got to be in his 40s this guy. And he's placed in top three in the classic of the show, you know, that's pretty damn good. But well, you know what Dave, it's easy to say. It is easy to say like, oh, you know, people should have showed up, it was an easy, you know, people could havEQualified for the LMPR, but the fact of matter is, is a lot of people that I know who are getting ready for shows, pull the plug and they pull the plug because of course shows were delayed or canceled, but then they ran out of money. IMean, just like, not ran out of money. Nine of you said, nine of you said, if they were doing personal trening, like it, like, oh, I'm doing it down my garage, but I used to have like 35 clients and I have like five. No, I know what you're saying. I know exactly what's Peter Scallow out there, what's your impression of him? He's from the front. He's diced. It looks very good. I'm impressed. Yeah, me too. A lot of muscle, a lot of muscle maturity. That's not a good picture of them. Actually, the front last spring, that's a decent picture of them. I think he's, you know, he's he's got to be a dark horse, you know, I'll pull up into the picture of him. He's got to be a guy that, you know, people didn't see coming. I think our tour of Mendez, the second place guy was really good, too. Yeah, I did too. Pull him up now because, uh, yeah, he looked good. The guy got second. He's guys are in good shape. I did the class. I gotta say the classic guys are I've never seen a classic show where the winner was at a shave. Did you? It's like, 2012. Yeah, IMean, because, you know what, you know, I did because, IMean, it's when you're doing open bodybuilding, you still have in the back of the mind. I gotta be the big and I understand that because, you know what, a lot of times shows, you know, we kid and you say, you love to say shows and what on conditioning. Sometimes they're not. They're just one on size. Then, let's show. You know what IMean? So, some of them can say, God, you are just crazy conditioned. You know, why didn't you win? They said, well, the guy, you know, who won wasn't really hard, but he was, you know, really big. So, when it comes down to classic or, or let's, yeah, classic, IMean, you, you, by definition, you know, it's not about being big. So, you have to be in super position. Yeah. And the same thing goes for, IMean, the two 12 of the courses is a scale. So, yeah, looking a lot of my size of look at good. Yeah, he looks good too. Yeah, it was a good show. I wonder if he did one of those crazy, uh, acrobatic, uh, posing routines. That would have been cool. That, that's worth him. That gives you money's worth, right there. You know, yeah, he looks good. He, um, he'll teach trensition good from open, you know. IMean, because it's amazing that guys could bring themselves down to that, because I, you know, I, who's feeling, embody building, once you, you know, you, um, you like kind of, blow up, try to, yeah, try to lose the muscle. It never leaves like your waist, like you never get ever, oh, yeah, of course. You know, what, when you blow up and you, you work backwards, you end up with usually a worse physique because you, you better figure. That's almost right across the board. Yeah, it's like you can't, you can't go backwards almost, you know. Yeah. Two people can. I like this guy who came in 4th to Tim Tevin. We're pulled picture of him, hold on. Lee Bank did. Oh, Lee Bank was there? No, no, but when he came down, he, yeah, he looked good too. And he was natural supposedly, right? I'm sure he was. I'm sure. You didn't help. You helped him when he wasn't natural. Yeah, but he, that's why you know, that's why you know that you know that he doesn't really need a lot of help. I can always say, you know, what he did not use, which people would say, oh, you're so full of crap. Right. Come on. Yes, he, what he did not use, not what he did use, what he did not use with Chuck you. He did leave Banks as a geetic freak out too. Yeah, very useful to seek to for he still, you know, if you want to compete with your, he, he, he probably got a gun good in the show. I think so. Oh, we pulled Tim Tevin here. Yeah, I'll take a look at my side with my reading glasses. There's Tim. What's up? Fourth place. Yeah, he's in condition. Yeah, I think all these guys were ripped. I love it. I like when I see the guys that are shredded to the bone. It makes he feel like, you know, at least these guys are doing their job. Yeah. And then there was a, there was a show in the, Texas too. The hard of Texas. They had a, um, I don't think they had a, um, I think it was a master's of that home. I'm going to go this. They had a mast. Oh, this is a master's classic physique. Lorenzo, general friend Lorenzo Jones won that to the Chris. Yeah. I love the Lorenzo Jones. He's one of the greatest characters in our business. Still bad. Yeah, he's still. He's got to be in his, he's definitely in his 50s. He's not in his easy. Right. Yeah. I don't know. I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, some guys bodies just hold up better than others. I think I'm, I think every day I wake up. I think this something else wrong. I hit per place. Maybe this I'm almost like, I'm, I'm worried. I get worried like I'm like, oh, but then I realize that, you know, you know, you're 52 things are not going to feel like 100% over time. Yeah. I go for no tissue there. I go for no like massages with COVID and three kids who has time. Is it a funny, you're finding out enough money to actually get the things that you need and you don't even have a time to do it. It's the ultimate irony, isn't it? Yeah. I'd love to go to the Chiropractor like three times a week and get a massage once a week. And I can afford to do it. And I can't even, first, I can't find anyone who's a good massage therapist around here, but that's to get that. I just don't whys the time to do it, you know? My good friend Tom Ocarman, I'll give you a plug-tongue, and Maui, who I came into town here in Florida and gave me a massage man. He brutalized me. I, I, I, I, I forgot what it was like to get a good massage. This was a, well, going back a year ago. He came because he was visiting in the file for the area. And I'm like, man, do I need that? Well, that's why I gave IMade fun of you. I'm not, I never go to Facebook. I went to Facebook to look up some of my other pictures. Yeah. And I thought it was a fake, I thought it was a fake person because you never go in Facebook. And in a, in a puff up on me of a picture of me in New York, it was like four years ago when I said the first thing that came to remind is, that's when David tons of time. No kids. Nothing. There would ever I wanted every weekend. And I was never bored. You know how people say, oh, I'm so bored. I was never bored. Yeah. I'm still amazed how people with kids nowadays, I see these guys travel every weekend. And it's nothing. It's one thing for us to leave you kids. But, you know, during these these time where, you know, you don't really, you know, you could catch COVID and bring it back. And it's like, you can't walk around scared. I agree. But at the same time, you know, you got to, you know, there's got to be some modicum of, you know, you have to be a little worried, right? IMean, you're not going out every weekend. IMean, I understand you're going to a couple of shows. That's fine. But you're not going out every single weekend. Yeah, they were just, who made? Yeah. Yeah. What? What? So much to can't find. I know. I'm saying, yeah. I can't find a mask on like the like scaredy cat almost like people would be like, oh, you know, where I'm at, you know, okay, I'll wear it. I'm worried about it. Did I ever, did I on this show that we talked to, did I say that picture someone posted or gave me from the set of Batman? Did I ever post that? No. I'm going to be really pulled that up for my first. I'm making sure I'm the set. No, and back in the 90s, there was a, um, let me say a little. There was a kit, let's see the name of it. There was a casting call and they would, they were casting for Batman, the movie, the third Batman movie with Val Kilmer and I'm going to be Jones. Jimmy Jimmy the bowl. There's Jimmy the bowl, right? Is that out, you girl, lead to the left? Out, you girl, lead to the left. Yeah. So you probably won't know anyone else. Is that you to the rear right? Yeah. Yeah. And then in the middle, I have no idea what that is. Yeah, I forget everyone else is, but this is the one guy all the way in the back of the left is he was 19 years old. I was treninGHim at the gyms, IMet Mike Naples. They need to one more guy and I called him up. I said, get your ass over here. I said, you want to be on Batman movie. He, the kid almost got to an accident coming to the set because he was like so excited. Actually, my friend RJ was, I don't know where he is in the picture. I don't see our picture. I was probably never wanted to film our acting date. I, you know, Al Q was convinced that he was going to make it in Hollywood after this movie. I said Al Q were extras. We were well paid extras because you couldn't even see us. They had masks on our face. I said, Al Q, no one's going to know who you are. I said, I said, it was great because they were paying us. It was night, they filmed all the Batman was a film that night. So they had a past night differential and then they was stunt paid because we were doing like games or stuff. Tell us what you were paying for this, for example. For two weeks, I think IMade like abouT3 or $4,000, which was a lot of money, you know, for me back then, you know. And I had to be there six at night. You get there to six in the morning. Now, half, one of the first week we had to go to Wall Street. I had to be there. That was a pain in the next. I think the tren, you know, a cab. But then the other, the second week, we were actually out of Long Island at like a mansion they were filming at. So that was like 20 minutes from my house. That was nothing. We could drive that. My girlfriend at the time would drop me off. And then pick me up at six in the morning. And it was all night. And basically, you know, Chris, they had this, they have craft services, which is, you know, for big movies, they have food being catered 24 hours a day, you know. And when I talk about food, I'm talking about the best quality food that you can possibly ever eat more. And they had everything there because sure they got, I think I timelyly, Jones there, they got Jim Carrey there. And these guys are in trailers, you know, they are they got to be fed and in the staff and the whole, you know, it's a multi-million dollar movie. It's probably cost them 150 million to make the movie. So there was no, there was nothing spared. And I basically, Chris, basically 90% of the time we were there, we did nothing. We just sat around. So all right, we're sitting. All I did was eat. I ate every hour I was eating. Did you talk about trening? Oh, yeah, yeah, we've talked about it. We talked about everything. But I sat there. These other guys were like sleeping. They were like, they were like, they were like, they were just both. No one was, yeah, I'm like, no one's eating. I'm like, are you guys bodybuilders? I know Jimmy the bull. He's hot dogs. But I was eating every hour in the hour. I probably, I think I gained 10 pounds. You know, muscle when I was there. You think I paid 3 grand a gain 10 pounds? Yeah, I ate so much food. Everyone was looking at me. Like I always had to play to food. They were like, and the great thing was I had that leather jacket that was part of my costume. So it wasn't like I had a, it was like I had to have like a tank top on and I had to worry about my stomach being like full of food. Didn't that? You know, I was being paid to be a big, you know, biker guy. So why didn't you pursue acting after that? Because you know what, I was stifest typecast. I did a lot. I did a lot of commercials. I had about, I landed like four commercials. One really popular one I've talked about the moment, Howard Stern's wife, ex-em satellite radio commercial. But I was, I was typecast, so I couldn't get anything because I would have had a lose, you know, like 50, 60 pounds of muscle if I wanted to get into the movies. And I just wasn't willing to do that. I was obsessed with body, but I probably should probably would have been good. But you know what, it's such an acting, it's such a like sporadic thing. And it's so like it's whether these, these casting directors like you, it's like, and they, they don't even know what they're looking for. You go in there for a casting call. I go in for a big freaky body. This is the part. I'm like, who's going to get this in New York? I'm going to get, it's either going to be me or Frank Zephy or, or, or, or, draw a denty. Those are the three big guys at the time. And I was the biggest guy of all of them. Drawed probably had the, the best crossover look because he was like a good looking guy and he, and he was a marketable looking guy. And Frank, Frank was like the pretty boy type of thing. So it depends on what part they want. So they want, I never got the body part. I don't think any of them did either. We, we would get like the football player part. I guess you guys were too big. The guy right, the men's physique guy's got the body. Yeah, exactly. It's the one on men's physique. It's the one on men's physique. It's the one on two intimidated. For, they didn't know what a big body, but they thought a big body, but it was a guy like who did men's physique. And so I would get, like I said, wrestler or bodybuilder, bodyguard, I did a commercial, a comes commercial that never had, but they paid me anyway. And it was me, I think I, there was a guy from the New York Giants, and there was all fat comedians after that. I left my ass off for like three days we filmed in Jersey at this diner. And all we did was eat, again, once again, eat and crack jokes. These guys, IMade friends with these. I just still to this damsel of friends with them. They were the funniest guys that I've ever met. Big fat comedians. So, why didn't it ever end? It comes for a fair. Because they didn't, if somebody's native pick it up, I don't know. It was weird. I don't know. They just, I thought it was a great commercial. I thought it would have been hysterical. Who has some most commercials out of a bodybuilder, a bragma? He had a couple. I don't know how to do it. Yeah. Well, just like in some sort of, there are dead thing landed. It's some really good commercials. He made a lot of money back in the day. I know that for a fact. He did, but he did way better than I did. Yeah, who's your agent, Steve Lines? Mike Lines, you know Mike, Mike, you can handle all of us. But, George did really well for himself. This a couple of I do. You know, he did a lot of commercials that Kelly, muscle did a lot of commercials too. That can a couple of years ago. So, to get into acting though, you have to lose. Nowadays, muscle, you can't have that much muscle and get into acting. What's happening with Kyle Green and his acting? Oh, is he still doing the Friday show? I don't know. It's a good question. I should check that out. See if he's doing the the kind of in variety show. You probably stopped it. I told I they should have into the kind of variety show like on the Olympia stage. Yeah, one, they could do it. They could he had that one man show, right? Yeah, you did. This is more like a Karabonet show. I think I thought I loved it. I know you loved it, Dave. They became a big fan of the guys when Kyle came out with the talent show. The variety show. He got the shows as verks. I always said that he should have his own. He should be on Broadway. Really? He should be on Broadway because... Still young enough. I guess. IMean, I don't see the recurring variety show anymore. Maybe he can't. Let's do it. He's doing some posing. Oh, his new variety show is this it? Oh, that was two months ago. No, I don't think he has a new episode. You know what? He must have spent six months filming that first episode. He takes too much time to put together one. It's got it. It's got a Chris. There's no doubt about it. There's no way he could do that in a short period of time. Anyway, so what's your prediction for the fight? Remember in Rocky? What's your prediction for the fight? Pain? Which fight? For the Olympia. What's the, it's a high-risk shape enough? What are you thinking? I think I'd like, like I said, I think some of the bill's check versus Brandon's got a crew himself. You know, did you see that picture they posted a Brandon? He looks like he's like 500 pounds. That a good sign or bad sign? It's a good sign because he probably can come down. Yeah, it's got a lot of time. You know, the Brandon's phenomenal phenomenal and it's made such amazing progress. The danger with fillers that he's beat everyone all the time most. And the other danger with fillers, people forget because he wasn't in the show last year. His level of cartoonish roundness. You know what IMean? He's remarkably round and you can't nobody's going to outround him. Does that make sense? Yeah, the only way like Roden could slip by, which I think he's slip by twice in eight years. Ten years, whatever, is that Roden has extraordinary clients that look like something greater than times when they're all put together on a totally shredded physique of that experience. He's got a bigger bigger structure. He's got a bigger structure. He's got a very big structure, which people don't realize. But I guess what I'm saying is it's hard to negate that crazy roundness. Look, look at this picture. This is his first day of crappy post of the picture. Yeah, look around he is. Look at that. That's pretty good. It looks pretty good to me, right? He's pretty lean now, actually. I think you'd like that shirt he's got too. I'm a homo and I'll issue her. I love it. But I was an oddly famous when no one was an alley fan. That was a little kid. Yeah, look at his big. IMean, it doesn't look at his name. Chinks in the armor right there. That's true. Maybe maybe fresh as well, you know? Sometimes taking time off, taking time off either works for you or works against you. One of the two, it's no 50-50. Well, he took off by his own, you know, his own. He didn't wasn't forced to take off, you know, so. But what IMean is he had a rest of full long time period your rest. And that he is good for you. Yeah. It doesn't work. It's either good or bad. There's no middle of the road. Now you're right. You're right. I've judging from that picture. It looks like it may be good. It looks very good to me. What do you think? I think that he's going to be very dangerous. How do you think flex Lewis does? That's what I was going to ask you next. Now, you know, it's funny because flex Lewis is what is he? Five foot six? Yes. Five six. IMean, IMean, fills considerably told them that. IMean, fill, and I never, you know, we don't consider fill a very tall body. I've not even. Yeah. IMean, I love the show. I'm going to pop a good shot of flex Lewis all of a sudden. I don't post that. This is an Instagram back picture. Yeah, I love that. Thanks you. I'm like that. I just had. It's like a smoke dory in there. Yeah. You know, you know, I'm going to predict a bit. I talked about, yeah, that's it. Yeah, I know. It's a great shot. That's from two years ago. It's great picture. Yeah. I talked about the phone today. Oh, you did. We would just start. Yeah. Second time I've talked to him ever last time. He called you and you called him. He called me. Oh, because oh, because what's his name? Come out of the day, man. Well, you can't get into the country, so he needs me to fry them. He needs you to. You have a lot of technique. That was dope. He has Neil right here. Look, Neil. He has my puppet. Oh, Yoda. Did I send you that? I don't know. Someone sent that to me. Yeah, I think I sent it to him. No, because Flex is wonderful man. He really, he, he, he, listen to this. So he invited Kamal and he invited Kamal. He told Kamal, you better come over here now because you don't know what's going to happen with COVID and what if rules change and they say like you can never come. You know, right. No, Kamal told me that on the interview we did with them. He said he's going to be in there. Yeah, Flex invited him to tren with him. They're going to tren together, which is good to have because Flex and him and I competing at each other, so there's no real rivalry there anymore. So Kamal had to go to Turkey and stay there for two weeks before he flows. Right. He, I think he flew yesterday. Oh, so he's he should be in town by now. Yeah, and the in the interim Flex called me last week and he said, what's happening with a son? I just figured, well, if he's asking, he must know him. Right. And I said, oh, he's just, he's just beyond shot. IMean, he's, he's shot like shot. What happened with the whole, um, the whole, um, you know, hammering thing is it. Well, yeah, you know, Dave, he's just, he sent me some pictures like like two days after the cow pro and this is like from the new pro to the, this is, like his, his, from being a hospital. He's been in the hospital, of course. And they he's going to rebound off the diuretics and all that stuff. So, um, anyways, Flex had invited him down to said, I, I wanted to see if he wants to come down here and stay with me for a while and tren. And very nice of him. Yeah, I said, I, I'll answer for him. 100% yes, but just in case, I'll send text message to Hassan, who doesn't speak English and he'll put it through Google trenslation. And he's going to, yeah, two seconds later, he said, yeah, yeah, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, so he's on his way down. Oh, so, so Flex is putting up the tour of them at the house? Wait, he's not puttinGHim up. They're just staying in the neighborhood, you know? Okay, okay, yeah, I was going to say, but I would never be allowed to keep it in my house. It's like, it's like, you know, how you when you're kid, you're bringinGHome a little kitty cat from the neighborhood and your parents are like, no, bring it back. Well, third kitty cat, which Flex misses, is Raphael because Raphael was up there for a long time. How I did know that? Raphael Brandel, trened there? Yeah, and Raphael was there and making like, outstanding, whacking progress. Right. Look at John Del Rose did really well. You're going out there. And we'll get to John. And then, so Raphael was loving it being there and then he had to go back to Brazil. And once he got to Brazil, they said, you can't go back to the States because of the United States. Yeah, it should never have left. Yeah, I didn't want to say to him. I didn't want to say, but he had a family issue, you know, can you sky, you know, do an Arnold? You know, an Arnold and Papa and you know, my mom's gonna die. Yeah. So he's trying somehow to come back. So that means Flex was kidding and saying, you know, I got all the guys you work with, I got Hassan, I got Raphael, I got Kamal, I said, we have my ex also, my ex. Who? Del Rose? Oh, Del Rose. He was joking about that. But anyways, I'm shocked that these guys could afford to stay in hotels and tren out there with Flex or whatever. I think they're going, you know, you can get a farm. I guess, but it's expensive. They're not making any money. IMean, I guess if they have contracts, some of these guys they can like unjustify it. Yeah. No, everything is expensive, right? Everything's expensive. We know it a lot of times. There's some of these places. There's no gyms available. You can't tren. So you go to Flex, as you're going to, you're trening at his gym, you know, next year, no the, well, Florida doesn't care if you have gyms open. So that's good for him anyway. But if you were in another state, someone would have ratted Flex out and they would have come through his gym and try to like, you know, shut it down. Loats is on private gym. Yeah. So so anyways, um, I love Flex. I think it's a great guy. Except the guy said he hasn't, he hasn't lived up to his fulfillment of coming on my show and letting me interview him. He's been talking about. He didn't want to be there. He didn't like, I don't have any time. He didn't like. No, because he wanted me to come down to the gym and I was going to, but then the whole COVID thing. And you know, you know, I have no time to do anything. So thEQuestion is, we spoke, IMean, how's he going to do in the air? Yeah, more what do you think? Yeah, what do you think? I think I say top five for sure. Oh, it doesn't doubt. Yeah. With always shadow on the doubt. And, uh, you know, the stars could line up. I told him when he told me that he didn't even know her son any, I didn't know. I said, I think he can win just based on karma. Ha ha ha, I can't. But you know, it's, it's a show of all weaknesses. And of course, Phil and Brandon technically don't really have any and people can't say those stuff. It's not a weakness, really. IMean, it's just only a weakness when he's standing next to Rome. You know, you know, the, thEQuestion is really, IMean, Flex looks great standing alone. And when you see these pictures, he really has, he's really brought his physique up to a point where he doesn't really have any weaknesses. But, you know, when you put him in a line up against guys, you know, now you start exploiting structure and there's other aspects, intangibles, that, you know, a lot of people see Sean Rodin and pictures and they're like, well, he's good, but he's not great. You sent me these up, they pictures have been before these. And he's like, okay, but you see him in a line up. And it's like the guy just makes everyone look bad, you know, it's time. It's time. Brandon carries the same way. He looks way better in line up than he does standing alone in pictures. He's not overwhelming by any means in terms of muscularity or conditioning, but he's impressive when he stands next to guys because his structure is so good. Structures phenomenal and he's round and he gets, he gets hard enough. IMean, yes, IMean, he gets hard enough. I wouldn't say. If he comes in with the conditioning that he added the Arnold when he won last year, I think he's going to be very dangerous. I think he's going to be dangerous even in the film because he's not the same bodybuilding that Phil is used to beating, you know? Well, I'll say this. The first two shots are front double and front last, but those shots are extremely strong shots for Brandon. Yeah. You know, of course, Phil's got tons of muscle too, but just structurally those shots. Well, because Phil's waistline is not what it was when in 2011, you know, and so even though he's ripped, I think Brandon has a better taper and, you know, lines. Of course, now you hit the side, try sepshots and the back shots in Phil is like devastating, you know, in our shots. What about Roli? Desroli, we've ever seen Roli and shape, but do you want to? No, we saw him in shape in 2018. That was the only time he's really been there. And he was barely insured, you know, he was still was like, he could have been better, you know. But the idea that there's nobody's talking about him really might be that there's no pressure on him. He may be able to sort of grab it out of the hat. Is hEQualified to do the Olympia? I don't even know if he is. That's a better question. He's not quite a thickest ball time. Are we going to see him in Chicago, maybe? He could have done the hurricane classic. And will we see him at the the Alicante Spain? Maybe maybe if he's not qualified. I would think he would do a warm-up before he would do the Olympia, don't you? IMean, top, top white go from last year. Five was he six? So was he? Well, he was, he wasn't in the game, right? He would be in the Olympia. Oh, he was, he was fit if I think, but I don't, is it top five of the go? It got him. It's not top five and they got we think that yes, he has to be top five. Used to be top 10. Daxter. Daxter is going to be the guy who is going to be standing there in the wings, waiting, just waiting, waiting, waiting for people not to be in shape. Then then then everyone's in trouble. Yeah. That's the way he always does. And that's his whole career, right? Yeah, but it's his whole career. But IMean, it's not like he just like not worthy of winning all these shows. No, no, no, I'm not saying that. I'm sayinGHe's always been the guy who's waiting in the wings to just take these guys out. I'll tell you who's qualified. Curry's qualified bone-ax qualified. Howdy, shoot-in-squalified Daxter. Rulia's qualified. Okay. So that takes the answer to that question. So he doesn't have to do anything with the Olympia. Phil Heath, set to make millions of qualified Nathan De Ashe, Juan Morrell, Flex Lewis, Huntel Abraata, Ian Valier, something sung, sung cool from South Korea. I don't know, this guy's the last time. It was an Antoine Valier. And they get the point guys. They're the point guys. We have max Charles's the number one point guy and Lucas Oslo, a second. Big Rami. I don't know how he's third. What did he do to get points? On win is tied with Rami in fourth and Reagan Grimes is in fifth tied with Ku Klou and Justin Rodriguez. How many point people get to go? Top threEQual five they said. I always thought it was top five, but maybe it's top three. We have it ran to get points from what do you do? You did the Arnold? How he did the Arnold? That's right. The chop three field, the Arnold's not. The guarantee. No. We have a pretty good line up right now. I love to see Sean wrote it in that lineup. That would be nice. Obviously his situation is not, he doesn't seem like it's fixing itself in time. Why? But it's weird that he's nice and on the court yet. It's his bizarre. It must be so ironclad that they're just like, both sides. If you're his lawyer, if I'm Roden's lawyer and I'm like, and I think that they have a weak case, I'd be like, look, my client has a right to a fair and speedy trial. That's part of the Constitution. Speedy, speedy trials. The words are in the Constitution. This is not speedy unless they're purposely delaying and they think, you know what? The longer it goes, maybe they'll drop a case. I don't know. What's the difference? But it's killing, you know, he's like Muhammad Ali now, Sean, because he's losing the best two years of his career. Two years? He's lost. For an innocent guy, that's pretty crappy. He was Mr. Olympian. He take away his best two years. Well, that's why I say persistiously, you know, that ironclad case that they're building up in Utah. Yeah. Now, if he's found guilty, then obviously, then, yeah, whatever the punishment is, is, well, deserve, but maybe he's delaying and unpurpose. So he just nothing to go to jail. I don't know. I don't know. I'm not hearing anything about it. So it's weird that we haven't heard anything about this case. Usually, you get, you know, something's leaked out at some point. If I haven't heard, I haven't heard a word. I would imagine you would have heard something. Obviously, Sean would have been preparing for the Olympia. You would have been prepping. I'm so that's not happening. Yeah. Well, I just heard that the girl was, was a bank robber at one time. I don't have some, you're asking a bank robber. You're like, you're like Trump. You're like, you have nicknames. Well, she was just, she was, she was, the bank robber. She was, oh, guilty of committing bank robber. I think I think her family, I think her husband was on a horse farm. Her husband, her and nine of her husbands. IMean, it's, IMean, God. They're all in cohoats. IMean, well, fine. I feel bad. I feel bad that the case hasn't been said. I don't feel bad for anyone person because I don't know who's guilty and who's not, but I feel bad that the case is still pending. And if it's because of COVID, that that's really a shame, you know, that it's being delayed this long. You know, what's, let's face it. IMean, people have a right to, to be exonerated. IMean, this is affectinGHis ability to make money, you know? Yeah, IMean, look past that. It's his livelihood. This is lucky. IMean, if you look, you and I can't really relate to it because we don't compete anymore. But when we competed, if someone were to set to you, Chris, when you were in the height of when you loved competing and they said, you know what, you can't compete anymore. We got to settle some some. You'd be like doing everything in your power to get the things settled. When you Yeah, of course. Of course. So That's not what we're talking about. That's just logical. I think Flex is going to, I flexed Lose is going to do very well on that stage. I think that he's, I think he's definitely, you know, he's certainly a fan favorite. Well, this doesn't hurt. Of all the people I would guess, he has to buy definition of guessing, show the most amount of improvement, just by the fact that he can't be too 12 because if he's too 12 he's going to get killed. So, IMean, not killed, but he's just not really big enough. So just the fact that you know, he's going to come out all by himself, you know, when you do e-mended towards whatever and you say, wow, he's bigger, bigger and he's never, ever been not in great condition or he's never been in not strong condition or better. So without a doubt, his condition will be probably really good of 100% spot on at a big abiding weight. So he's going to have some type of like, wow, he looks like better than he used to look or a lot different than he used to look. So that's going to be a plan is his, his, a fact, because that helps him place higher than you would expect because, you know, let's say you're judging and you say, okay, that's the same role, just the same film that's the same Brandon. Not the same, but you know, IMean, Phil is not getting five palms. Right, Brandon is not gaining, you know, he may gain three to four, but he's not getting eight. You know, IMean, what's make him on stage 10 pounds bigger? Well, we see Heidi Schouppen in this line, I think, I think. I don't think so. You don't think he'll be able to get over here? I just don't think so, no. I think whatever he got here last time, I'd love to see him in the show, but I think that how we get here last time was anomaly. I think people even care about that now with the COVID, it's like everyone's so kind of like, I'm like, what's that? Well, people have forgotten about the terrorist states that they don't want to let the people and maybe they'll go the way. Well, IMean, don't forget, Iran has a huge COVID issue too. Oh, they do. I don't know. If you reach COVID issue, they have big of diplomatic issues now worst diplomatic issues this year then they did last year. I wasn't aware of that. So, you know, trying to get him to slip in. Unless he goes to Turkey for two weeks like, that would be pretty funny. But, you know, the excitement of the Olympia is always that you never know how it's going to pan out. IMean, what was the sharper two years ago? The sharper was that. Trying to run one of the show and ran a bomb out. Yeah. You don't mean it was like two shots. We're not even talking about, we haven't even talked about ran a contender. He's obviously qualified for the show. IMean, how can it can ran a win this show? Um, um, on paper he could, but things really have to line up bright. He's not being branded on the front doubles. Who's he was? Yes, thEQuestion. Who's he working with now? I don't know. Chad or Milo's? I don't know. No, I'm talking about it. You can never get into them. No. IMean, no one has more muscle than ramming that lineup. Well, he could third at the arm. Yeah. Well, he wasn't noticing in the shape. You know, we're still waiting for him to show up in shape, you know. Yeah. Well, IMean, he's he's going up in those back show against two crazy dial people. Yeah. So it's a show. Those shows he Arnold and the Olympia is just nothing but shows of contract where life folks. We got our money. I'll quite back in. I'll be done in five minutes. David, David, what's your ever psychological reading is up there? Yeah. No, my, my psychothreading. Psychothreading. What is it? What did we reveal? I don't know. I don't know. She's, I don't know. She's referring to. I think she's referring to. I think the guy told me that I was going to get it. It was going to buy a real estate. This, I had a psych reading with this guy in Facebook. Just because he was like, he was like a crazy guy that I knew from Westchester and I did it on luck. And I think I think he had mentioned he goes, you're going to buy something. You're in the process of buying a house. Is it my dad? No, now I'm going to buy any house. Roachers. You can buy groceries. Psychothreading. No, no, no, but that I forgot about it. But then we went up and bought we bought the house across the street. We closed in a tomorrow. My wife, my mother, my wife, you're going to buy something. My mother and Laura and I bought an, and Amanda, we all bought this house across the street. My mother and Laura are going to live there. And that's a major real estate deal. He knew. I didn't even know I was going to buy. Who knew it was going to come up? You know, this house. I'll give her one of the 12, doing arts, muscle day, day in the life of tour. The house is really cool. It's really, that the property is really cool. They got a horse stable on there. It's like five, seven acres. They have like a, a quay pond in an adult in an adult in a adult in pool cage, and the backyard. It's fucking awesome this thing. It's like, let me set it up for the listeners because when I went down there, you sort it. That's right. Are you kidding? If I got you like that house, too. You brought me across the street and you said quotEQuote, I would love to buy this house if it went up for sale. I did I really said that's yeah. You said, I'm glad you remembered you said that because we're looking at it. I wanted out into the universe and it came to it. And there was exactly what you said. And you said it, not like this. Like you didn't say it like this. Oh, you know, I liked the buy that house ever came up with sale. You're just like looking at it. You said, this is a beautiful house. You went through the whole thing. The horses, the fence, the ground, I said, I loved to buy this house. I loved to buy this house. You know, they even have a big, they have a pot like a runoff pot. They built on this thing. And now it's completely full. It's like, there's like a little alligator living in there. IMentioned that in the last show. And I guess when it comes to the dry season, over the winter, it almost goes down to no water. So, but there's fish in there. So, I'm like, how a freak of the fish survived. So, the guy who went on the house, he puts a hose in there, like in the dry season, keeps it full and absolutely the fish can live. And he said, there's like eagles come there because they all the, like the birds come there. I guess in the winter because it's so low the water. You can pick the fish out like, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So, he mentioned having a, we have, we have bald eagles in our backyard. You know, cool that is. We were kids. They were like in nature. Right? They were the almost extinct. It's so funny that you say that because I was driving down the main highway last, last week. Yeah. And I've never seen a bald eagle. They're beautiful, right? And I saw this like thing flying down the highway. It was like, they'll go in low and then high and then coming close to the car. I was about bald eagle. I worked crazy with my kids. They're like, what's the reveal? I said, they were endangered well. Yeah. They had like, like, ten left or something like that. You know, they're all, but they're, IMean, they're the most majestic birds. They're like, no wonder why they made that the bird the United States, you know. Yeah. I was in the United States. I wanted to mention one thing before we close up shop here. Since it's pretty late. My wife pointed out it's almost to the morning. The Brandon Curry had a Jim opening. He has a new Jim and had a big opening. I know the Antoine Volillian was there with I think Dorian and, you know, they all, he had a bunch of, I don't know if I don't think Brandon made it to. I don't think he could leave Kuwait. Uh-huh. But they had a bunch of people show up there and I know I know I know I get the whole scoop from a Susie. My good friend Susie. Oh, you're a She drove a bit. Well, it's in, it's a very close to where she lifts it. She was like a two-hour drive. She took a drive over there. She must have loved it. Brianna Ansley was there. Yeah. She's like a picture with them. So, I was free on that. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know where anyone lives. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Back in the jail, everyone that they call on. It was easy to remember that everyone was in Venice years ago. Now everyone's all up in the place. But some Brandon and his wife, Randy, opened that new gym, so congratulations. So, do you guys, and one of these days, I'll have to try to make it down there? Yeah, sure. I'd be going to all these things. It wasn't COVID and I didn't have any kids, but that's one of the life-charging. The old sure is like not the one. It's just like kids. Well, you know, this guy contacted me via email and he said, I'm writing a school thesis paper on a bigger waxy, you know, people that think that they're never big enough. Yeah, I look at the mirror. They think this small and they're really huge. I'd like to, you know, interview you and ask you, I got all this stuff. I want to get your opinion. I said, look, if it's a homework assignment, I got to answer 400 questions on the server. I said, I can't do it. I said, you know, I used to do everything. Anytime anyone asked me, I would do everything. I would always say, and I never turn anyone down. Nowadays, I still have the time. I'm like, I can't sit down for an hour and fill out, you know, like a survey and answer all thesEQuestions the way I would want to. I would do it at this service. He's like, no, I'll just talk to him in the phone. I said, I can't talk to him at the same time. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you don't want to do, you know, when I talk to people, I'm clening like if I, like, 12 midnight, I'm clening snake cages. That's my therapy. You know, when some people go on the meditate, I go in clen snake cages and I kind of just zone off. I got to do, I got to do like phone calls like that around that time. That's when I do it. They're always like, what's that? They're sliding noise here while I'm opening up steak. It's true. I was and everyone said, I'll be like, oh, I know. Like, what was that? Yeah, I got bit by a snake. I said, and I think they think I'm kidding around. When I say that, I don't think anyone believes me to be honest, but it's the truth. That's what I do. My uh, that's what I do. My interviews. I do my interviews then. Well, you got to let us know what happened with the reading. It sounded like your wife was like, I got it. So I think the guy told me I was going and being in, it was going to be a major real estate deal. That's what I think it was. And so we were in sure. I think I remember, I think that guy said that we wouldn't do some kind of real estate deal. So she must have gone back because I recorded the whole thing. I did with him. So she must have gone back and she must have watched it. I wonder if she must have found something out. I'm going to call it back. Yeah, I think that's it. All right, guys, we're at the end of the video that I show here. Good stuff this week. And we're seeing more and morEQualifiers for the Olympia. It's getting exciting. And I'm, look, you know what, I, I really hope they pull this thing off. I know that there's all these restrictions and they get now, but I think that with Dan Solomon over there and the whole crew, somehow they're going to make it happen. I know they're excited. They're going to be announcing. I think this week some new exciting stuff that's going to be happening. So bodybuilding is still alive. I get an issue. And even during this COVID times, I just hope I next year, Chris, all this stuff is is under the table. I just don't think it's going to go away that quickly. That's, that's my fear. It's, it's not going to wait now. I don't, I can't see it by January, February, March, like, being any different to you. Well, that's why I say it's not going to wait now. It's like, if, if you like your house is on fire, it's like it's going to be still burning next week. I guess the, the, the, the true test will come if no one, if the, if there's not another up surgeons in cases of COVID after now, everything's kind of opening up, that's good news. If there is, then they, we can go back and they may go back at the lockdown again. There's still lockdown in Melbourne, Australia, you can't go anywhere. It's like, it's like, Marshall, there. You know, it's terrible. Those guys. All right. Let's wrap this thing up. Remember guys, with heavy muscle radio, the truth hurts. See you next week.

=== FILE: FLEX LEWIS DROPS THE HAMMER! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸8⧸18) [0bkSPI-qL1k].txt ===

Welcome back to Bustle in the Morning. I'm Dave from Loveboy Today is Wednesday, August 8th, 2018. It looks fine that what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, let's jump right into recap Wednesday by talking about the only action in town last weekend. Tim Garner's at Tampa Pro. In the men's open Alexis Rullo and Nate History, when he became the first native born Puerto Rican citizen, the punches take it to the Olympia stage and what turned out to be an amazing win of a surgeo all leave a junior. And just as we predicted right here last week, the 2012 crown went to second year powerhouse Nicholas Bullyad. Alleen, a pulpit dominated from start to finish, as she put on the best women's bodybuilding performance we've seen in a long time. And repeat, or no, was absolutely brilliant in classic physique on his way to capturinGHis first win. And once again in the open bikini it was Canadian knockout, Lorolye Shapato's bringinGHome the win, with the over 40 bikini going to on swans, Ariel. Logan Franklin brought in the best look ever of his career to win in men's physique. And in the men's physique, over 40 it was Virginia's own Andrew Jenkins Jr. who brought home the gold back to sportsmen. Melissa Bumstedt, sword to victory, over what might have been the biggest figure line up of all time in an IFVV event and Cinderella Richardson took home top honors in figure over 40. And wrapping things up for the evening in women's physique with the statement when was not on an informal, ornal classic camp, Autumn Swanson. You want to be an entrepreneur, rule number one in business is making sure that you never leave aromasingle stone unturned because the details always matter. And in the run-up for this year's bikini Olympia, I can promise you that nobody knows that better than perennial title threat, Casey Samsel, of the weekend we saw a Samselin or team drop a short clip from one of their latest leg day sessions where we catch the veteran starting to turn up the heat. Now that she's a little more than a month away from Showtime to our credit, Samsel's been awesome every time we've seen her this year. And with this year's bikini race shaping up to be one of the closest we've ever had, this is usually the time and the Thorbres like Samsel start to separate themselves from the path. The truth is great, Dr. Eric Thomas, success is never on discount. You always pay full price. And I bet you won't find raining and defending figure international champ, Candace Lewis, doing any effort trophy shopping in the clearance section. This week we saw one of the best in the business paying off under dues in the gym through the tune of a serious Monday morning leg session. Where we can start to see some of those flashes of brilliance peeking through that we saw a back at the start of the season. At this point I think it's a pretty well-established fact that Lewis is one of the most gifted athletes to ever step onto a figure stage. But if she wants to bring this thing full circle, and put herself up there with the rest of the elite athletes, she'll need to finish what she started by winning it all this year to really put that final stamp on her legacy. What just in case anyone out there thought that Flex Lewis was packing it in this year, since it's his last title run, let me be the first to say you guys were dead wrong. Unless you've been living under a rock then by now you've probably seen the latest round of official updates from Flex and his team that were released on Monday. They showed the greatest two-twelfth athlete of all time looking like a straight-up beast. Regardless of how you might feel about his impending retirement, when you look at what he's doing right now, knowing that this is his final ride, you can't help it admire the way he's single-handedly raised the bar for what's possible in the division. And I know that I personally can't wait to see him come out one last time and put on a show for the fans that I guarantee you no one there in the sold-out arena will ever forget. With all the hype in the ways that goes on sometimes in body building, at the end of the day, it's important to remember that this thing we all love is really about entertainment at the end of the day. And as far as I'm concerned, there aren't too many guys in the two-twelfth division who are more entertaining right now than second-year-man, Dwayne King Q, Quamina earlier on the week. The best trash talker in the division dropped a new update on his fans that probably brought a few smiles to some faces. To his credit, it looks like King Q might be on the way to delivering some of the promises he made back at the start of his prep. And if he really does end up coming in this year as a top-five finisher, this season could seriously end up being one of those changing of the guard moments. That does it the yet another addition of muscle in the morning. On day polonbo reminding you to always be sure to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FLEX LEWIS INSANE PHOTO UPDATE! [daAkiZi3O0o].txt ===

watching What's up body building fans? Day Palabo here for another RX Muscle Special News Update on our 2018 RX Muscle Iron Road to the Olympia. And guess what? Flex Lewis is the name of today's update. If you've seen the pictures, you know what I'm talking about? I saw hit the ground when I saw it. Wow. 225 pounds shredded to the bone. All I thought was 1993, Dory Nights. That was it. If someone would have showed me this picture real quick and flashed across the screen, I would have said to myself, that's Dory Nights. I wouldn't even thought Flex Lewis. That's how good this picture is. This shows you why Flex is having so much trouble, okay? Making way. In the 2012 division, it's why Flex is leaving the 2012 division. I can guarantee that the guy can't make way. He texted me the other day and he was asking me somEQuestions we were going back and forth. And he said, man, I got to lose 12 pounds. I don't know. I'm going to do it. I said, well, Flex, you know, you're a tough guy. You know, you can do or anything. I should do it. That's what makes you the best in the world. And I'm thinking, this guy's probably what's what's complainin about. He probably has some fat to lose, right? Then you see this picture and I understand now why he's rockinGHis brain. He has nothing to lose. There's nothing to lose. He only has a little bit of fluid to lose at this point. And that is very nerve wracking. Because that means he's probably going to have to sacrifice some muscle, some fullness, some roundness, some of that frakyness that he has right now. And this is the reason why he's leaving the 2012 class. He can't be as best. He's as best at 225 when he comes down to 225. He's still really good, but he is vulnerable to some of the shorter guys who have full around their muscle belly who don't have trouble making way. So it doesn't feel good to get up on stage and know you don't look your best. And that's a short what's going through flex Lewis's mind. Now he has nothing left to prove he's won the division at how many times now you know, a million times. And so he doesn't need to prove anything anymore. But yeah, he's big enough now that I think he realizes, hey, I could do some damage in the open division. If William Bonac could be third at the Olympian, that's not taking anything away from William Bonac. But he was a two-twelf guy. Why not flex Lewis? You know, I think he could certainly hang with those guys up there. And I think he could be a top five guy if he really poured his mind to it. From what I hear rumors, not coming from flex. I hear he's taking off 2019 next year and he's going to come back and do the Olympia in 2020, which would be about a two-year window when you wouldn't compete. I think that's a mistake. You know why? Because I don't think he needs to gain that much more muscle. If he can gain five pounds of muscle, which is an easy task for him, because he's been holdinGHimself back because of this two-twelf weight limit, he could at two-thirty could be crazy dangerous on a pro stage. His height, you kidding me? He could certainly do the Tampa Pro next summer with that and be very dangerous at the Olympia for next year if you really wanted to. I have no doubt in my mind. There's no reason I have to wait. If you wanted to take off 2019 and then come back and do the Aron Classic in 2020 in the beginning of the year, I think that would be a good move. Imagine winning that show. What kind of momentum you got going into the Olympia? That later that year. I think that would be a very good move, but to be honest with you, I'd like to see him compete next year. I don't think he needs to wait at this point. He's not 24 years old anymore. He's got all the muscle he needs. He needs a little bit more. And I think he's very competitive and he could win almost every show. Maybe not the Arnold, maybe not the Olympia yet, but he certainly could win any other show out there. With his level of conditioning, we don't see this anymore. It's very right. The only person who has the level of conditioning that Flex Lewis has right now in those pictures is Phil Heath and Dexter Jackson when Dexter's 100%. Those are the guys that bring that ultra crazy dry looking freaky muscle to the stage. That's a rarity and flex is a really good poser. He's a good dynamic, stage presence, charismatic, he can certainly dominate on an open pro level at shows. Lee Priest did it. Lee wasn't as freaky as Flex was from behind. Lee had other body parts that might have been a little better, but he was winning one of the Iron Man, which was a huge show for him. That was in the back of the day when the guys were crazy good. I certainly think that Flex is ready for the open class. I think that maybe if he thinks about it a little more, he'll reconsider doing, and I don't know, we're speculating. This is all based on rumors that I know, of course. He might have every intention to compete next year. Now, what I would like to see at the Olympia this year, which I think would love to add a level of excitement, especially knowing that this is Flex's last year, would be a pose down, okay? A final pose down between the open, the 212, and if you want to throw the classic guy in the throw the classic guy in there as well. For you know what, pull 50 grand away from the open guys prize money. They need us and he's wanted $1,000, give them $350,000, and put $50,000 up for the overall winner at the very end of the show. If they get to people's chip, no one wants to hear the audience guys vote and vote anyway. It's not that exciting, okay? If you can get everyone at home around the world, that's a different story. But if you only get the audience members, it's not that exciting. What's exciting is the overall, and if you want to let the people in the audience vote for the overall, that's fine. Buy and far more than likely the opening guy is going to win it anyway, because he's just too big for the other guys. And if he doesn't get to his 50 grand back, then he was, you know, for fitting. It should always be like he has to put the 50 grand up to beat those two guys, because you know what? Who knows? Maybe Phil will narrowly win the Olympi this year, because everyone's off and he's off a little bit, flex to look amazing, and flex to win the overall. And get the 50 grand extra. Hey, the two-to-all guy in plastic guys, you get no money compared to the opening guy anyway, give these guys a chance. It's like a lottery ticket. If somethinGHappens if they look that great, and the other guys are off a little bit, maybe they can win the overall. Keep won't count towards anything other than an asterisk in the history books, but it'll be exciting. To me, that would be super exciting. I'd love to see Flex up there. Flex would pose as well. It would be the greatest, you know, posing exhibition you've ever seen from Flex. He'd be so excited up there. He'd have so much energy, he'd be pumped to get up there against the top guy in the world, whether it be Phil or if someone beats him this year, which is unlikely, but it's possible. IMean, come on. It would infuse this sport with energy, but you know what, even if it never happens when Flex goes to that open class, he's going to bring new life to the open. I'm telling you why, because people like him number one, he's very, very enthusiastic. He's got a tremendous amount of energy. We have yet to see the best of Flex lowest. I know that for a fact, because he's holdinGHimself back, and people know this, and I think it Flex, while he makes it very good, living for himself, I'm sure, has never gotten the true rewards of a person, a bodybuild of his caliber deserves. Back in the day, in the 90s, he would have been competing with all the open guys all along, just like Sean Raid did. Sean Raid was winning the one on the honor of Classic. Why not Flex Lewis? So I think Flex has missed out on a lot of money, opportunities, and he's missed out on a lot of glory. Because let's face it. The end of the day, who really remembers the two 12 guys? You remember the open guys. My history, you know, you're back at sale, who won the Mr. Olympia? No one thinks, well, who won the two 12 Olympia? I think that Flex deserves to be in that open class. I think he's got a lot of talent. I think he's still young enough, and he can really shine, and I think he's just coming into his peak years now. Great move on his part. But I gotta tell you, that picture blew my mind. I'm sure Dory and H is looking to say, and holy macro, that looks familiar. Good luck up there at Olympia Flex. I know you'll make that 12 pounds, and I think you'll make history this year once again. Day of Plumbo here with a 2018 RX muscle iron road to the Olympia. Special update.

=== FILE: FLEX LEWIS TURNS UP OLYMPIA PREP! [EWAgojqo8wQ].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our third year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pop tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. On day, Palombo and today is Tuesday, August 18th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Sometimes, as outsiders, we look at all the glitzing glamour that comes with success and it tricks us, and to thinking that people were looking at didn't really have to struggle and sacrifice as much as we have to get where they are. In some cases, that may be true, but for those of us who've been lucky enough to see Flex Lewis grow into the man and the champion that he's become, over the last 17 years, we know how difficult that journey has really been. And that's why this mission or this drive or whatever you want to call it to compete for an open Olympia title this year makes so much sense to the people who understand, because for Flex, the struggle in the sacrifice and the anxiety that comes with taking big swings is a new. It's part of the course. It's also why people shouldn't count him out, because he knows how to rise to the occasion when the odds are stacked against him. I forget who it was who told me their next move is always their best move. But at this point, I've known him at Roy, along enough to understand that for him, the whole next move best move thing is how we operate on a daily basis. A few days ago, sources told me that a myth was about to make a push for an Olympia bid, and that he was starting with the Savannah Pro next weekend. I was also told that a myth is planning to compete at the New York Pro the following weekend where the plan is to happen firing on all cylinders in the hopes that he can snag it and let be a qualification. The riders entire career amidst never been the type to pour anything less than a hundred percent into everythinGHe does. So if you just stay true to who he is, and we'll see any reason why he wouldn't be a serious top five contender in both of these shows as long as he's on the money. Here's a pro tip for you. If you want to start making measurable progress towards your long-term goals, start making it a habit to physically write down three to five action steps that you're going to complete every single day. It might sound simple, but I promise you it works. Take a guy like Ronald Gordon for example, heading into the Tampa Pro a few weeks ago. His name probably didn't even register on the radar for most casual body-building fans because he was a second year pro who'd only competed once durinGHis rookie season. But after you take an entire year of small action steps and add them all up, what you get is a top five fish and a lot of attention for being one of the most improved athletes in the lineup. You're talking about attention in action. Once you get those two things to align, most people would be amazed at what they can accomplish. For three years ago, I got really into Stoic philosophy, and there's one passage from a book I read that's managed to stick with me for whatever reason. It went something to the effect of the most important question a man can ask himself is how much pain is he willing to endure, which is really deep in profound if you think about it. I think powerful statements like that have the ability to flip a switch in people, sort of like what Phil Heath did for Sean Clarita. After Phil made his big comeback announcement, something clicked in Sean's head that shifted him into an entirely different year. Not that he wasn't willing to endure the pain before, he obviously was, but now it's almost like enduring that pain as part of a higher calling. And who knows, maybe it is. Maybe the end result of all this will be Sean standing alone on the Olympia stage with this hand raised in victory. And at that point, maybe all the pain he was willing to endure will start to make perfect sense. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day-pollumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FLEX LEWIS： Last 212 Competition! Palumbo Responds [n2rlicoXt14].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding fans? Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. Flex Lewis has announced on Instagram that this will be the last 212 competition of his career at the 2018 Mr. Olympia contest. He already has six titles under the belt and he says this will be his last and I know a lot of people are going to be upset about that and people are speculating whether this will be his last bodybuilding show period. You take a look at his Instagram here. You can see he says with a much speculation and rumor, I had to sit down with Lex Magazine to answer all thEQuestions and obviously there's a full article available, but basically he says that this is one of the hardest decisions he ever had to make and to come with terms with his life. I guess he's kind of a conciduate that he's never competing again, but then he continues to say that this is finally time to say this 212 chapter is over. I'll be finishing with my last 212 show at this year's 2018 Olympia. To me that basically is just sayinGHe's not doing the 212 anymore. I didn't hear any hints of retirement there. I'm thinking that maybe next year we'll see him in the open division. He's only in his early 30s at this point, so I can't see him retiring, but you never know because he continues to make very specific references to the fact that his family is very important to him. He obviously has children now and I know he loves them. I talked them on a regular basis to be a text and we talk about our kids all the time. I know his health is very important to him. I don't know if this is the end of his competition days or if he's just putting the 212 to rest because he really has nothing to prove anymore and maybe you want to see what he can do in the open class. He is a competitor after all. He is an athlete and he wants to see what he can do. I would if I were him, you know, cowfark and he went to. Can he went open and shows? I actually texted him last week or we were texting back and forth and I said hey I heard a rumor because someone had told me that he was retiring from the 212 division. This would be his last 212 event. He was going to do the open and he said who told you that and you know I gave him whatever. I think I told whoever said it. Somehow it came from E in Valier. I don't know how it came through there after one of my minions told me this. He said don't believe all the hype. He kind of tried to deflect me from exactly what was said and I thought it was pretty funny because I didn't really even believe it. It was true. But you know he kind of was evasive. He wrote well the room is for now just rumors and I really can't see past this Olympia. If I think about the open glass he goes my way cause up and I will be able to make the way class. I guess he was just kind of deflecting me he wanted to break the news himself. That's fine obviously, you know, he should be the ones to break it. Obviously he must have told a few people because people were talking about it. Once again I think it's good to have this fun to love to see flex in the open. I think the guy could win a couple of open shows. I don't know if he's going to win the Arnold of Olympia but he certainly could win some the regional shows in the pro ranks in the open division. Look at the guy's sister. You know, guys, did you know he did well? Jose Raymond did well in the open division. So flex is the chance of the champ so I can't imagine him not vying for a couple of titles he picks the right shows. But flex is one of the most dynamic people in our industry. He's the one of the most well-liked. I don't really know anyone who can say a bad word about the guy and he really wears his heart of the sleeves. I know he was really hurt by the death of the Dallas Macarvel last year. I think that flex has a really good balance in his life at this point in between his family and his career and all his businesses he's doing right now. So I suspect we'll see him compete in that open division. Maybe not next year, maybe the year after that, who knows? But I think that flex will be back. So this Olympia will be a special one. Can anyone beat him? I don't think so. I don't think anyone will take him out in this two-twelfth division. I just think he's having a tremendous, really hard time getting down to weight. I know he doesn't like the way he looks, probably when he makes the way because he's too depleted. And it's not the flex list you see two weeks after the show where he's all full and vain and hard. And that's the lucky ones are breaking through the stage. Because after all, as bodybuilders, we always want to look the best that we could possibly look who wants to have to like, you know, take away some of your muscle or take away some of your fullness just to make a way class. You do that in the amateurs and then when you hit the pros, you want to be the best that you can be. IMean, Lee Priest never had to do it to a 12. He was a guy who always brought his best to the stage and then have to worry about making weight. So I think flex list really wants to give it a go and see what he's got in the tank before he gets too old and then says, oh, I should have what I could have. And I think it's like I said, I think it's a good move. It'll be exciting for the industry and he'll probably become even more popular because of it. So best of luck at the Olympia Flex. So I know number seven is going to be in your on your trophy case sooner than later. And hopefully next year we'll see you on an open stage. For now, the Olympia Flex with an RX muscle, news update.

=== FILE: FLEX Sets Record Straight + Lionel Beyeke Comeback UPDATE + INSANE Seth Shaw! [qo7AGL3VVmU].txt ===

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry for the Ocar Poptart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today is Thursday, July 15th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. As the old saying goes, good things come to those who wait. And if your reflex Lewis fan, you better crush your fingers and hope that more good things are coming your way down the road. Because it looks like it's going to be a while before we see the former seven-time, two-12 Olympia champs step on to a bodybuilding stage again. A few days ago, Flex won on the record to say that he was officially pulling out of the Olympia for this second year in a row. Flex made the announcement on his YouTube channel where he essentially said that business in life need to come first right now. Which puts any plans of competing on the back burner for the foreseeable future. But with that said, where one door closes, another one opens and if Flex is closing the door and is Olympia dreams this year, it means there's one opening up somewhere else waiting for someone to walk through it. If you didn't know, it's Shark Week on Discovery Channel this week. I watched something last night about a new theory on how great whites might have been one of the main reasons for the megalodon going extinct. And that was kind of pretty interesting to you, or into sharks. And if that little shark tidbit didn't blow your mind, this should get the job done. I think we're going to see a Lionel Baikki come back at some point before the end of the year. Last week, Lionel's camp released a new photo of him from the back and it seems to be relatively recent. And this says you get from reading some of Lionel's comments, as I said he has every intention of being back on a bodybuilding stage, sometimes soon. Back when he was at the peak of his powers a few years ago, Lionel was wildly regarded as someone who had the potential to be a top-fivalent via finisher. So if you get himself together in time, now that Blacks Lewis is out of the picture, maybe this will be the year we see that come to fruition. After talking about it for months, it's hard to believe that the Chicago Pro will be here next weekend. We already know that this should be one of the most stacked Lion ups of the season, and that we're expecting to see a ton of headliners fill out every single division. If you look at some of the athletes, we're projected to see in the men's open. Seth Shaw is one of the names that jumps off the page to me as a potential star course contender. All the reports we hear coming out of Vegas say that he will be bigger and better shape than he was the last time we saw him on stage at the Tampa Pro last year. And the team feels like this could be potentially a breakout show for him. Seth's always had a great flow to his physique for someone to besides. So these as good as advertised, it'll be interesting to see if he can work his way to a top five finish. I know there are a lot of people looking forward to the Portugal Pro this weekend. And if you're a women's physique fan, this is the one you'll want to keep your eyes glued to because it looks like it's where we're going to see Danny Castillo make her season debut. Over the last week or so, Danny's team has released new updates detailinGHer progress heading into the show. And from the way it looks, this might be the best version of her that we've seen yet. When Danny's firing on all cylinders, she's without a doubt one of the most dangerous athletes in the division. And if she comes in looking anything close to her all time best, I don't know if anyone else in this lineup will have enough firepower to keep her down. And that does it. The yet another addition of muscle in the morning on Day full of elbow reminding you to always make sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on the Facebook Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FLEXATRON IS BACK! [4xk-ZdNjaEo].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA PIDX Road, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Tuesday, September 22nd, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Now, in times out of 10, when you elevate your surroundings and the people you surround yourself with, you almost instantaneously elevate yourself to be a byproduct of your situation. So now that Kamal algorithmic and flexed Lewis are teaming up for the rest of the Olympia prep, how much better do you think these two will make each other as a result? If you think back throughout the entire history of the Mr. Olympia, this might be the first time ever that we have two active competitors with titles on their resumes, joining forces to prepare for a contest. Add that to the fact that these two are still both in their prime, and both looking to carve out a new spot in the history books of their divisions. And you get one of the most uniquely fascinating storylines of this entire season. We're calling it the King's Connection, and it could easily be the precursor to something special for both of them. We've talked a lot on this show about goals and goals setting. And how important it is for these two pieces to establish an intrinsic motivation in long-term success. And with that in mind, I want to throw out a philosophical question. What do we think the goal is right now for Sean Rodin? Since he won't be competing in this year's Olympia, or so it seems, at the end of the month it will have been almost two full years since the last time we saw him compete. One other thing to consider here is his age. He's 45 right now, which means not only has he lost two years of his prime odds are that he's also probably approaching the tail end of his prime too. And that's not to say when or if he comes back that he still won't be the old flexor trying. It's just that history tells us at some point there has to be a drop off. I don't have a crystal ball. I don't know what happens from here, but I do think it's worth asking thEQuestion. For the most part, when we talk about progressive overload and bodybuilding, the conversation is always centered around trening. What I believe there's a progressive overload element to competing too. Take Justin Rodin regus as an example. Two weeks ago Justin was awesome at the New York pro. And truth be told that was probably the best look of his career. And the second place finish doesn't come anywhere close to telling the whole story of how far he's come in these last few years. That's progressive overload at work. It's also about slowly adding and making improvements over time. Now if we play this forward to the Chicago pro four weeks from now, progressive overload tells us that Justin should come in even better, which makes them one of the pre-show favorites. So this keeps moving in the direction we expect. He could be less than a month away from clenchinGHis first Olivia qualification. Last week, the Denver Nuggets made history after they beat the brakes off of the lost Angeles Clippers in game seven of the conference, 70 of finals, could become the first team ever to come back from a three-one deficit two times in the same playoffs. And even though they're inside the NBA bubble in Orlando, I'm sure Brett Wilkins wouldn't mind channeling a little bit of that, mild-high magic over these next few months. According to Brett, he somewhere in the neighborhood of 260 pounds right now, with plans to add a few more pounds of quality stage weight heading into next season. If you compare photos from last year to this year, you can see the kind of work ethic that this guy has. So as long as he doesn't let up now, I think 2021 has the potential to be a big year for him. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always meet true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FRANK MCGRATH COMEBACK？ Muscle in the Morning (7⧸10⧸18) [UACd_pUlsC4].txt ===

There's always something about the summertime that makes people start to get that in shape again. And rumor has it that Frank McGrath might be starting to get that itch again as well. But one time veteran has been starting to generate some buzz on social media lately, about a potential comeback to the stage, which would mark the first time in almosT3 years that we saw the man with some of the craziest forums of all time making appearance at an official IFV Pro League event. At this point in his career, from a graph to get back out there is really more of a mental and spiritual exercise than it would be anything else. That being said, if there's any truth to the rumor, I'm sure all's legions of fans would love to see him get that first call out as he battles it out with the best in the business. Now that we're smack dab in the middle of a July heat wave, it finally feels like suns out guns out season is officially here. So I guess it's a good time for 212 powerhouse Tristan Escalasico to drop some video from a heavy arm day. The former North American champ released a few clips over the weekend to show off some of the progress he's made on his extended offseason, which seems to be getting along just fine as far as I can tell. The last time we saw Escalasico on a pro stage, he was rocking the house with this top 10 effort on the New York pro stage last year. So if you can make a few key touchups and come back with some added muscle to his frame, here's a guy who could certainly surprise a lot of people if he shows up at his old time best. We're right at that point in the schedule now, with his room for a new breakout star to come in and take his mid-summer stretch by storm. And if I were in the market for some hot new bikini prospect to get behind, I think IMight have to take a hard look at rookie standout Jennifer Dorey. A little more than a month after she took the Toronto pro by storm with her scorching third place finish, the former Canadian National champ still isn't showing any signs of slowing down. And the clips we've seen from the Dorey camp over the last few weeks, it looks like she's done her due diligence to keep things within striking distance. And once she gets ready to crank it up, it's a high gear again, watch out because she's got a chance to be a really dangerous competitor over these next few months. When you live down here near the Gulf Coast and the Caribbean, you know all too well that hurricane season is right around the corner now. But come this time next month, Tampa Florida might already be dealing with the aftermath of a storm that's about to roll through the figure division that goes by the name of the Talia Soltero. Back at the start of the season Soltero came storming out of the gates when she put together a high light real performance in her win at the Upper Midwest Pro. And after taking a few weeks off to recalibrate the machine, she's almost ready to open up another can of what fast on the figure division out in Tampa. Soltero is one of those athletes who's good enough to hold her own against anyone in the division when she's at her all-time best. And if she shows up at 100%, I have a hard time believing that she won't find a way to put herself in contention to compete for the win. Confidence is one of those things that as an athlete, you either have it or you don't. And it doesn't take a rocket science as to figure out that 212 powerhouse Duane Cuamino's got a whole lot of confidence right now. The second year man is heading into this year's Olympia, spitting out some old school playground-style trash talk. And as far as I can tell, it looks like he's putting in the work to back it up. I'll say this when you look back at how good he was in the win at the Phoenix Pro last year. You can't give this guy a puncher's chance to come into the Olympia and make some noise. And if he actually shows up and makes good on his work, I think all of a sudden we're looking at a guy who's a whole lot more intriguing, moving forward into this new post-flex Lewis 212 Olympia era. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On day Palombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And they show to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FREAKISH AKIM WILLIAMS TO CHICAGO PRO？ [XRZvxdKktt8].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love this show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Wednesday, August 19th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. In the best pieces of advice I ever got before I started my business, was to find whatever it was I knew how to do well and then become the best in the world at it. That's a pretty simple recipe for success that you can apply to bodybuilding too. Just ask a key Williams. Rumor has it that a keyman is a simple formula for success might be headed for Chicago, where I think he'd come in as a clear cut top three favorite. I came as someone who's gotten better every single year because he knows who he is and he knows what works and when all that becomes that simple result are almost guaranteed. My son Logan is on this kick now where he loves the X-Men. He runs around the house, smashinGHim to stuff, pretendinGHe's juggernaut. I think it's hysterical when he does it, but it drives my wife crazy because the juggernaut is an unstoppable force who destroys everything in his path. Almost like what Derek Lundseurge's trying to do with the two 12 division this year. After last year's Olympia disappointment it feels like Derek's taking on a whole juggernaut personality heading into this year's contest. He's out to smash and destroy anyone who gets in his way. So if I were Kamala Gargni Sean Clarita and George Peterson, I'd be sleeping with one eye open just to make sure I can see him coming. A few weeks ago Kevin Hart was on a podcast I was listening to and someone asked him what he thought the key was to being able to have his hands in so many different projects at once and you know what he said? mindset. Plain and simple and I think the plain and simple mindset is one of the things that also explains how Kamiel Perriets been able to stay at the top of her game for so long. Recently we were told that Kamiel was planning to start her Olympia prep three weeks from now as she looks to add another top 10 finish to her resume. At this point in her career, Kamiel is so polished that it feels like second nature and once athletes like her lock into that mindset, it's damn near impossible for them to get an off-course. It's one of the biggest complaints keyboard gangsters have against bodybuilding today. First what bodybuilding was in the 90s is that today's athletes all have, well, somewhat blocky ways to no float in their physique. But I guess Nick Walker never got that memo. The updates that we've seen coming from Nick and his team have been outrageous. He has a weird old school draining this combined with the new school 2020 fitness intensity. And in today's year that makes him dangerous, especially at the amateur level. Now combine all that with the fact that he plays second in his pro qualifier last year, it seems like the only place to go from here on out is up. And that does it. If you had another edition of Muscle in the Morning, Dave will let me remind you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FREAKISH Blessing Awodibu Update + GP3 & Breon Ansley Dial Up Olympia Prep! [7QYMDEwYRv0].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Votes, our 30-year-to-row, and we're going to be doing today, we're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to the legendary foods muscle in the morning, on day polonbo, and today is Thursday, September 17th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Time, place, and space. In retrospect, those are the three things we always look back at when the universe works things out in a way we didn't anticipate. And up until this point in the year, at least on the competition front, it doesn't feel like anythinGHas gone according to plan for blessing a wavadoo. 2020 was supposed to be the year that blessing finally made his pro-dave you and took the pro league by storm. But that was before we all found out that 2020 was going to be the year when the universe gave us one giant cosmic middle finger. That being said, it does look like blessing might be gearing up to make another run in his pro-dave you, even though time, place, and space may not be exactly what he thought they'd be a few months earlier. There's going to be a ton of attention on the Europa Pro in Spain next month, which makes that feel like a logical landing spot. And since they have three Olympia qualification spots up for grabs, there's still a chance that this whole thing comes full circle and he ends up doing what he said out to do back when it all started. Week two of the NFL season starts tonight with a barely watchable game between the bangles and the rounds. And since O'Dell Beckham was a complete no-show in week one, maybe Baker Mayfield should think about dialing up George Peterson. With the Olympia lesson four months away, now it feels like George and his team are really starting to kick things up into high gear. Everyone I talked to tells me that George is completely dialed in all the way across the board, and that we should expect to see one of the most devastating packages that's ever set foot on the 12th stage. So that's the George we get, the one who's looking to single handedly raise the bar in the division, then this year's contest really could be the dawn of a new era. In his book The Winter Road, author Adrian Shelby writes that the road to redemption is often paved in blood. And you know that might seem a little hyperbolic since we're only talking about body building, but that doesn't mean that Reon Ansely is approaching this year's Olympia prep, like he's getting ready for war. Anyone who's tracked Reon durinGHis off-season, Saudi Arabia was arguably more focused than he's ever been at any point in his career. And now that he's in full-scale prep mode, it seems like that focus has only intensified. This is a huge moment in Breon's career because winning back the title here could elevate him to almost iconic status. But the road to redemption is long and fraught with peril. So that means the only option is to leave a lot of wreckage in his wake. And finally, we want to send out a big get well soon shout out to Sandra Gourholics after undergoing surgery last week. The news came in as a shock on Thursday when Sandra announced on Instagram that she was heading in to have her procedure done. A few days later Sandra followed up with another post that indicated the surgery was indeed successful, that she was grateful for all of her thoughts, prayers, and messages that she'd received over the last 48 hours. Part of the reason why I think this news hit so hard was that we just saw Sandra compete and look amazing. It's a tamper pro a few weeks ago when she took second. So to have the pendulum seemingly swing in the complete opposite direction was hard to wrap our heads around. But as I said, thankfully she is on the road to recovery and hopefully she'll be back to business as usual before you know it. And that does it. The yet another edition of Muscle in the More on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FREAKISH CLARENCE DEVIS DIALING IN & FITNESS STAR AIMS FOR OLYMPIA TITLE! [yTaGYNRgm-c].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car mock tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Friday, September 11th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I always tell my clients that there's no time like the present to take control of the rains, and since the Romania Pro is less than 12 weeks away now, I'm sending those same words of wisdom out to my guy, Clarence the Vs. Early this week, Clarence's team was reporting that he was planning to make his season debut at the Romania Pro Fest in November, where they believe the new improved Clarence has a real chance at walking away with the wind. If you remember back to the tail end of last year, Clarence had a run where it looked like he figured out how to put it all together. So if he's building on the foundation he laid down there, a winning Romania could definitely be within striking distance. As parents, we always tell our kids not to judge a book by its cover, which is ironic considering that adults are almost always more judgmental and dismiss it than their kids ever are. But when someone walks around as shredded as a hard cutie, I think judging the book by its cover is the only way to go. Now even though Sahar looks like he's eight weeks out of source close to his team told us that he's still in full offseason mode and that he doesn't have any shows lined up at the moment. That being said, when Sahar's in shape, he's good enough to be a top five threat, no one's any show he enters. So if he does decide to jump into something at the last minute, he's not someone you want to take lightly. Here's a crazy number for you. 95. Any year that feels like it's been in eternity. Today we're only 95 days away from the Olympia, which means that we're only 95 days away from Missy Truscott taking another run at Whitney Jones Olympia title. According to Missy's team, this year she thinks she can take the fitness division to a whole new level, which is a bold state been considering that she'll need to unseat a two-time defending champion to do it. That being said, coming so close these last few years has to leave her with a sour taste in her mouth, and at this point, sipping a little victory champagne might be the only thing that can clense the palate. But if she does make good on her promise, we might indeed be on our way to taking the division to a whole new level. Part of being an athlete is learninGHow to swallow the ups and downs that come with competing at the highest level, and trust me, no one knows that better right now than my rot-roker. My roommate, Horukki debut with the New York pro last weekend, where she slid into seven places in a lineup that was insanely top-heavy. This week we had a chance to talk with my ores team behind the scenes, and let me tell you they weren't happy. They believe my record of easily placed two or three spots higher, which would have bumped her up into the top five in front of Sandra Kahallis and Maria Diaz. For young athlete jumping into a show this caliber, I think my or did more than enough to prove that she belongs in these conversations. So if she makes a few adjustments and uses a little bit of strategy to plan her next move, I can see her cracking the top three at some point before this year is all set and done. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FREAKISH QUINTON ERIYA 3 DAYS OUT & DENNIS WOLF'S CLASSIC PHYSIQUE PRODIGY! [zQSRc8ZpI58].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry for the low carb hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, a muscle in the morning on Dave Palombo and today is Thursday September 3, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Believe it or not, after months of waiting, the New York Pro is finally almost here and that means the world is about to seEQuint in Eureka on a bodybuilding stage for the first time this season. If you've been tracking the third year pro all throughout the course of this prep, then you already know that he's taken a few major leaps forward since last year. So much so that even I've heard some people throwing out the idea that he could be a challenge for a top three spot. The honest quittins made so much progress since last year that he almost looks like a completely different athlete. So the whole notion of him placing in the top three might not be as crazy as some people think because if it's conditioning is a hundred of a spent spot on, I think he's the type of athlete who could show up there and hurt a lot of people's feelings before it's all set and done. Last week in the news of actor Chadwick Boseman's passing came as a major shock to his millions of fans all over the world. DurinGHis short 43 years on his planet, Boseman was probably best known for his role in black Panther, which was a groundbreaking film for a lot of different reasons. So if I'm Dan Kovie Anderson and my nickname around bodybuilding is the black Panther, I'm making sure that I summon all of my superpowers for my season debut in Spain a few weeks from now. As I know that somewhere Chadwick Boseman is probably watching a few days ago I heard from a source that Anderson wasn't in fact planning to make his 2020 debut in Spain, where he's hoping to take advantage of the extended qualification window pro league officials put in place there. In the past when Dan Kovie was been on his game, he's shown that he can be a real problem. And if that's the guy who shows up in Spain, he can be all sorts of dangers. I have one more bit on the New York pro before we move on. The classic physique division. On paper, or at least what we've seen so far, this lineup looks like it should have some parody to it. And usually parody and good competition go hand in hand in bodybuilding. So I want to throw one name out there that I haven't heard too many people talking about. Corriol Kudiav. Corriol is the longtime prodigy of Dennis Wolff and from what I'm told, Corriol and Dennis are feeling very confident about what he's bringing to the table this year. Corriol had a strong offseason made some key improvements in the right areas. And he's heading into the New York pro with the best conditioning of his career. In the past we've seen Corriol be someone who can consistently place inside the top three when he's dialed in. So if this newer bigger, better version of Corriol is ready to roll, like they say he is, he's someone you might want to keep your eye on. According to Stanford professor Jim Collins, the most successful companies have a clear understanding of what they can be the best in the world. And then they dedicate their time to executing a strategic plan to gain a competitive advantage. And if you sit back and look at the arc of a Roshe Robars career so far, it's almost like he's been locked up with the Collins model from day one. Earlier this week, a Roshe was spotted back in his old stomping ground at the East Coast Mecca where it looked to me like he was doing everything you'd expect on an athlete of his caliber to do. A Roshe is the perfect example of someone who understands who he is, what he does well, and how to mesh those two things together for the successful accomplishment of what he's doing. Because once you canal that formula down, the results speak for themselves. And that does it. Yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day polimbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: FROM ADDICTION TO IFBB PRO CARD! Live w⧸Rory Molnar [Kfp5CEgSavg].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo. And today's guest is a new IFB Classic Physic Pro. His name, Rory Molnir. And he's got a terrific story. So I want to get him on here to inspire you guys. This has been Inspiration Week here at rxmuscle.com. And Rory can grab relations on the ProCard victory. Thank you very much, Dave. Thanks for having me on the show. Man, 32 years old, you've lived a lot of life already. It's unbelievable what you've gone through, huh? Yeah, for sure. There's definitely been a lot, a lot that's happened, but a lot of good things have happened since my past. Let's take people back. Let's start what happened to you. And then we'll talk about how you achieved what you did. Because you were severely into drugs. Tell us how bad your druGHad it was. It was about as bad as it could get in my opinion. How did start? It was pretty typical. I was young. I got in with the background when I was very young. I was into smoking pot when I was in like 5th grade. I started very, very young. But yeah, it was basically that smoking pot drinking. And it graduated to pills and cocaine and eventually heroin. And that became the thing that I did. How does a young guy find these drugs? Did they have that available in schools nowadays? They're more readily available than alcohol, honestly. People that want to get messed up. It's easier for kids to get drugs, really. Then it is to get booze. Crazy. It's an unfortunate reality, but it's just an epidemic, especially in the schools nowadays. Kids are all getting into heroin and pills and everything in very young age. It's like very, very sad. Are kids actually injectinGHeroin? Or are they like snoring at how they're using? Yeah, I think most people start with snoring it just because, you know, it's just scary to inject it. But if you stick with it long enough, IMean, you either will die before you get to the needle or you'll get there. You know, it's good. Is the needle that much better than the nose wrap? IMean, yeah, I guess so. More than anymore, it's definitely more effective. Right. It's efficient. How old were you the first time you took a shot of heroin? I think I was 23. So my heroin addiction with in terms of intravenous wasn't terribly long, but it escalated very quickly. It started off with sniffing a couple bags and soon it was doing like 50 bags a day. Wow. What is a bad cost? What is it cost? It's a couple hundred dollars a day, really. Wow. How do you pay for that? When you sell you the stuff, how did you pay for it? You know, I worked. I was worked full time, but that didn't cover it. IMean, yeah, I sold ended up selling some drugs and, you know, towards the end, you know, I was stealing and doing the stuff that, you know, junkies do. Right. Right. But what was the final straw? You know, I had, it was in 2013. I just hit a low. You know, it was a long time coming and ended up getting arrested. You know, I think I got like 15, 20s that year. Oh my god. I ended up going to jail. And when I was in jail, I just came to the realization I was either going to change or I was going to die. I was either going to live that life for the rest of my life, or I was going to do something about it. When I got out, I had no place to live. You know, my parents were very supportive. They loved me and they wanted me to do better. So they did what they needed to do and kind of pushed me out. And that was the best thing that could happen because if I was, you know, if I was under the wing of my parents anymore, I never would have gotten out of my own and gotten better. So I ended up going to a long-term rehab and I completed that program and when I got out, I was a year clen. Wow. So I was in there for years. I was in there for a year. So I got out, I got my own apartment. And the meantime, I was working a job for a commercial contractor. And you know, that guy was great. He picked me up every day because I didn't have a license to never car. And you know, he gave me a really good job and I continued to work from when I got out. And you know, pretty much the rest is history. I started to work out a little bit here and there in the meantime. And I was enjoyed being active. You know, I was, I have a background in martial arts when I was younger and a rest over in high school. So I was always very athletic, but that kind of went to the waist side when the drugs kind of took over. So I got back in the, you know, working out in my sponsor actually had gotten in membership to the gym. So when I got out, remember I got my tax return. And I was like, I'm going to go to the mall, I got all the gear. I knew shoes and some gym clothes and a gym membership and that was it. And that was three and a half years ago. It's great to trade one addiction for another way more productive addiction for body balleron. Oh, my god. Yeah. Of course. And you get the same feeling really. It's just not as direct. You got to work for it. Yeah. Exactly. You got to actually, I sweat a little bit. Yeah, right. Do you still got a meeting, isn't it something that? Yeah, yeah. I still have a meeting. I still talk to people. I still have a sponsor. You know, for me, you know, I'm not willing to really chance it anymore. So, you know, even though bodybuilding takes up a huge part of my life, IMake sure that recovery is a part of it also because without that, there's no anything else. You want to be, excuse me, getting started. You get a jet. Yeah. Are you one of these guys that like every single day you have a desire to do heroin? No, no. Okay, because I know I've talked to other addicts who like that. There are people that are like that, but you know, I always tell people that that's a huge part of your life and that's like a driving factor when you're in it. You know, you're motivated to find ways to do whatever you want to do in terms of drugs or whatever. And in order to get past that, you need to find something else that motivates you and become something else. So, it's like, if you're always the same person, you're always going to do the same thing. So, you got to change. So, that was the biggest thing for me, you know, I found a goal and I wanted to work towards something and that was probably the biggest part of me continuing to stay sober was that I found a passion. Because without that, you know, I'd be like sitting there like, like, wait, not going at the whole time and that's not in any way to live. So, what is your advice that this guy's out there watching now who say, hey, you know, I'm in the same situation, I'm an addict, you know, I don't know how to get out of it. What's the first step, you know, would you say, to get in clen? Well, IMean, the first thing I think is to be honest with somebody else about it. Because by nature, I think we just like to hide things, you know, human nature in general, like our flaws, we don't like to put them out in the open. Unfortunately, that's kind of what you have to do to get past your addiction is to reach out. So, there's hotlines, there's websites that you can go to NNJ, IMean, for New Jersey, it's NNJA, at NNJA.com for AA meetings and stuff. There's, you know, listings and whatnot and so get to a meeting and find somebody you can talk to. Basically, you have to kind of be at a point where you're ready to do anything. IMean, that's kind of where I was at. I was desperate. So, until you reach that point, I feel it's kind of like difficult to truly get past it. Would you be like the sort of person that if someone out there was in your situation and they wanted to contact you, would you be willing to talk to them? Of course, man, yeah, IMean, I'm always available to talk to people. You know, there's been times when people have reached out to me and I've been there for him and I would do that in a heartbeat. So, with anybody needs to talk for sure, you can reach out to me and reach out to me through Instagram, my Instagrams, approrypovitch.com. If people think that's my last name, that's good. Yeah, that's good. I like that. I like that. I like that. Let's talk about this classic physique thing because you're a pro now. That means you're really good. Did you know you had this natural talent for physique development prior to your whole drug thing? Absolutely not. I never planned on going to the gym and saying, you know, I was inspired by bodybuilding, but I never thought I could be involved in the sport just because I looked at myself and I looked at these guys and at the time there was no classic physique. So there was men's physique and, you know, I wasn't so interested in that and there was bodybuilding and I'm like, yeah, I'm not really on that level. So, you know, it was a nice segue, but in the time that I got sober, I put on probably 55 pounds of muscle, I'd say. And yeah, it was wild. But yeah, I didn't have any intention of becoming a bodybuilder or getting involved or doing a show. I started working out and people were telling me, yeah, you should do a show. And enough people told me to the point where I was like, oh, I'm going to do a show. And I just made it to my next goal. So that's kind of how it started. Actually, I was watching some videos and I wanted to go up to beds to get Steve's opinion, which probably at the time might have not been a great idea, but because I looked terrible, but I ended up meeting Justin up there. Justin, L.A.M.I. my friend, he took a look at me and saw some of my poses and said, yeah, you got something that you can work with, but you got a lot of work to do. So that was a year and almost two years ago now. And yeah, we put some work in. And the Atlantic State's last year was my first show and I won that show. And I won that class, my class B in that show. And then I went on to university and I was terrible. So nervous, I looked around and I think I immediately was just flooded with court as all and was just like, right, just yeah, looked terrible. But that was my mission statement was, you know, next year I'm going to come in. I don't care what happens, but I'm going to be 100%. And that's pretty balsy. Second show, however, you were up on a pro qualifier stage. So you probably ran over your head experience wise, really. Yeah, for sure. I definitely, I don't know that. And that's certainly blown there, but, you know, it was a good experience. It was definitely something I needed. It was humble for sure. Yeah. And you come back this year. How many pounds of muscle in the game for the last year? I from last year, I was on stage at 193 at Atlantic States. And I was I was 197. Wow. Or no, I was 199 this year. Okay. So it was like six pounds of muscle, but I think the conditioning is still so. Sure. So now you're pro. IMean, it was very good year. You're pro now. It didn't pause the game. Do you feel like, is it like a let down now? You know, because after you win, it's like, all right, now what do I do? You know, honestly, I actually had that feeling where I was ecstatic. But we were packing up everything in the hotel room. And I was like sad. I'm like in, like vacation's over. Yeah. It happened too fast, right? Exactly. It was just done. And then, man, now it's back to real life. But yeah, IMean, it was overall probably one of the best experiences in my life. And I got to share it with my girlfriend and my daughter and my family. It was awesome. Is your family like in shock that you actually have, you know, overcome the heroin addiction? And now you're actually done something crazy productive? Yeah. And they're so proud. You know, they tell me you're very often. My father is like 30 years sober from drinking. So he kind of had a difficult time with me. Does he always want to me to do the right thing? Sure. He had hard time balancing what he could do and what he couldn't do, you know, to help me. And, but now yeah, they're very proud of me and they're, they're amazed. You know, my dad is always telling me he's like texting me and saying, oh, hey, Mr. Pro. What are you doing? It's just wild. They're not, you know, they don't know much about body. Right. Very, very, very supportive. Do you guys have, you and Justin, have you picked out a pro show you want to do next year? Um, not quite. I just know that for me, I want to take a four year at least. Um, so what I was saying is maybe Tampa. Um, but that's just that speculation right now. Right. I'm not really sure. I just know that I want to grow and keep making improvements. But also, uh, it have a little bit of some normalcy for a while. You know, just just get back to normal and enjoy my daughter. She's, she just turned two on the 23rd and, um, I'll have to, you know, there was a lot of times. That was a week. That was a week out and I was like, how to birthday parties. So I felt pretty bad, but, um, you know, it was worth it. Excepting worth it. They don't really, it two years old. They don't really know anyway. Yeah. Next year, right next year, my son's two and a half. They don't know. Yeah. Just all of the, the family and the in more. Right. Like, what the hell is this guy doing? Sleeping on the couch. Well, Roy, congratulations. Huge win. Got the pro card. We'll see you on a pro stage next year. You've overcome the addiction of people want to get in touch with him. Check out his Instagram. Uh, you know, I think the message is sending is, is terrific. There's a lot of people suffering with addiction out there. If you could overcome a serious heroin addict, the way you, a heroin addiction, the way you did and come out on top, the way you have. Uh, that's, uh, that's the, that's the, Isn't that the American dream, really? Yeah. IMean, sure. And, you know, I'm definitely, um, very enthusiastic about helping people, so if anybody does want to reach out for sure, please do. Don't, don't hesitate. And IMean, there's certainly a way to overcome this. And, um, you know, if I can do it, anybody can, because I'm, I'm fine heart at heart, pretty lazy. I really don't like to do that much, but, um, when it comes to bodybuilding, I kind of took that in a different direction. So, uh, but, yeah, so thank you very much for having me on the show. Sure. And enjoy the victory and enjoy that, uh, that IPB crowcard. I'm sure you'll be purchasing it very shortly to have it in your wallet. Yes. I will. Thank you very much. All right. That's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with WikiVidi, Specy Nutrition Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbau. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: FROM DEPRESSION, SEVERE INJURY TO NAILING OVERALL WIN! Anna Heritage Interview ｜ RX Spotlight [YoioJERqdZI].txt ===

Welcome back to RX Muscles RX Spotlight. I'm Dave Palombo and today we're going to be highlighting two special competitors and this show is going to be dedicated from now on in the future into highlight new competitors. Maybe not people who are household names but competitors who have overcoming obstacles, people are new to the stage but who have made some of a splash their first time out. And today's guests are Anna Heritage and Gary Cheney her coach. I want to welcome you guys to the first editianavar spotlight. Thanks for having us Dave. Thanks for having me. Now Anna you had a very story that might normally seem like an incredible story of overcoming incredible odds to get the stage but in today's world of COVID it seems like your story is becoming all too common. The lays getting on stage because of COVID not having a gym available. You had an accident we're going to talk about in there as well. How frustrating was it getting to your fairy first show? Would you by the way, one the overall at my good friend Dean Kabudak showed this the few weeks ago? It it was a process that's for sure. Last year was frustrating beyond words. This year was frustrating beyond words just getting to the stage after everything that happened last year and then a really frustrating 18 week prep but we finally made Anne thankfully it was all worth it with the overall and everything but yeah like you said one thing after another. And now you first of all the show is the NPC North Coast championships once again run by my good friend Dean Kabudak who was a great bodybuilder back in his day we've interviewed him before and you decided hey you know what I want to compete you you committed to doing it you had been trening for a couple of years and then things started to go wrong give us the timeline that you basically followed and all the different incidents that kind of popped up. So last year we started prepping before COVID had ever been thought of or anything. Everything was great my body responded perfect no issues. We got to about two weeks out and then that's when everything started shutting down and canceling so of course show that canceled two weeks out needless to say I was devastated. Now when you would I know that you know I have different competitors I work with and sometimes incidents pop up they can't compete did you go crazy need everything in sight after that. Oh absolutely absolutely I it was probably a month straight so that was a series depression yeah. I and then it was just one thing after another after that I ended up losing my job because they're setbacks and the company just had to downsize basically so then I was unemployed and had nothing to work towards at that point or so I felt like I had to help me health issues my dad was in the hospital just one thing after another took it's with the gyms closed up are you at any point yeah so the gyms closed down about one week into my reverse and it was just all downhill from there those basement workouts were not cutting it. It's hard to motivate yourself at home especially after you know stopping a week or two weeks out from your show and I get understand how that could definitely thrust you into depression and it's just losing your job and having you dad in the hospital said you know what pulled you out of all this. To be honest with you it took a long time really it wasn't until like fall when I finally got through my back surgery like well I'm sure we'll talk about but what happened what you're back now was that we were back to the gym or had that happened before the gym closed. So right after the gyms opened back up we were back to trening for maybe two weeks and I just kind of hit it a little bit too hard did a little bit too much right off the back and then we lightly blowing out one of the discs in my lower back so then I was right back out of the gym. What would a woman you know of your size your bikini competitor IMean we do in crazy heavy lifts or what actually blew your disc out. I think it was a combination of trying to go too heavy too soon like just getting back into the gym and just too hard of trening. What did you do? What were you actually doing when you when you had popped it? I was it was leg days both times I was doinGHamstring curls squats, arty else and I think my form was just off a little bit and I was pushing it too hard and it was just so it was of one specific movement it was just like a accumulation of stuff. Yeah I kept making it worse and making it worse and then I was on the squat rack the one day and completely blew it out and then was on the floor. Oh so you went down you went down that's what I was wondering do you actually fell to the ground that that's that's not a good sign usually yeah. Yeah it was hurting pretty bad before that but then that was the final stride and so they actually went you actually had to get surgery to get that fixed. I did I went through that pain for about a month it was really to the point where I couldn't even walk or move off of the couch. Finally found a surgeon and everything to do it and then had surgery about a month later. Now when you started the rehab process is that when you met Gary and Gary started coaching you. Shortly after so I had the surgery and then it was about six weeks where I wasn't allowed to do absolutely anything then I had to go through physical therapy for a couple months and then right after that in the fall is when IMet Gary and when we started working together. Now Gary what when you when you met or what kind of potential did you think you know she had in terms of for for bikini did you see that she had the potential to win a show or did you just you say you know what I'll just a lot of times I get clients I start working with them and I don't even know what their potential is and all of a sudden they start losing weight and getting in shape and I'm like oh my god she looks great. Yeah so you could I could definitely see some potential every night you can wait this because of all time and with any new client you don't necessarily know what the work ethic is or how much they want it those kind of things but you know as we got to working together and so on you start to learn more about her you start to see those things develop and you know we we developed the saying that we were you know we had to come back and that we went to ruin some people's days because she had a long journey to the stage and we wanted to make it all worth it so that was pretty much how things started rolling for us. Yeah and you want your pro-card at the 2019-north American Championships in men's physique and you'll actually be competing wide in October at the Kentucky Pro. Yeah that's where that's the plan as of right now should be starting a flat here with the next few weeks and get to get back to it. Oh good luck at that show. Now Anna when you when you eventually got into shape obviously you show up at the show. Do you feel confident going to to first show right so IMean how did you feel going into the show in terms of like can I win this or were you going there just to you know basically hey I'm gonna do my best you know if I placed up five that's great what was your mindset going in. When I started out I was like oh I'm gonna win this and then we got further into prep but deeper got a little bit depleted a little bit hungry and a very Indian both had to talk me off the ledgEQuite a few times and at that point I was like let's just get to the stage let's just do the damn thing and be done with it I didn't have like any expectation expectations that day but it definitely went better than planned so I'll take it. Right now after you win a big show like that you know you win the overall and the cany obviously now everyone's like oh you gotta do the national you gotta do this you gotta do that obviously you know sometimes you can get a head of yourself reallessly when you look at yourself and you evaluate the pictures and how you did um what do you see do you want to go to the next level right away are you taking some time to make improvements for next year what's the goal this point? Um honestly I would love to go to nationals this year but I know looking at myself I'm not on that level yet even though I did qualify to go so the plan for now is just to kind of take a step back focus on growing getting better focus on my um weak areas and then we're gonna go for it next year and see how it goes in nationals and you know that that's a smart plan you know back in the day when when I used to compete in the 90s and then 2000s and Dean can tell you this too you know just because you qualify for the nationals because you want a regional show doesn't mean you go to the nationals if you're not ready for it so I think that's a smart move in the sense that you're you've evaluated your physique you know what your what your weaknesses are and your strengths and you can go now back to the drawing board so to speak work on that and come back better next year and I think that I think more people should you know take that approach a lot of people think oh I'm qualified I got to do nationals but you know what number one it's very expensive okay to compete and show you've got a travel there you got a paidy entry fees and you got to hotel food tanning make up hair suits all this stuff and then you know if you're not ready it's kind of just it can be discouraging and you know it's sometimes it takes away that little edge you might have had from doing well and winning the show you did exactly I could very more so I'm glad that we made that decision and we are going to wait until next year I just I think it's in our best interest so I'm just excited to see what we can do in the next year and what we can bring to the table next year Gary what would you like to see her improve upon in our physique over the next year um I think in this board you you can you can really improve everywhere unless you have a place where you just destroy everybody and on any given day especially at the national level she can be beaten any area so when we talk about her there's some posing mistakes we saw um shoulders could be more round and we're talking bikini you can always bring the glutes out she has good development in her quads so we just have to watch how big we're we're getting down you know down low but you know it's the overall pack is there's you know there's always somewhere to think her confidence you know I can talk things outside of her physique her confidence you know and just there was a lot of she stresses herself out more than she needs to so just it's just an air and care for and you know a little bit there now I I see a physique with a terrific structure a small waist I almost can see you moving up the figure if you really want to is that something that might be on the table you're not the first person to tell me that actually but I'm not sure how I feel about it I really like bikini so I think I'm gonna stick with that for now if but I'll never say never we'll see what happens down the road mate IMean even down the road IMean if you continue trening IMean you like you said Gary she's got pretty big legs and you even wellness might not be out of thEQuestion you know yeah that's IMean we'd have to tren to the next step or not thEQuestion yeah all right well I wanted I want to congratulate both of you guys Gary on a great job with the coaching Anna on your first big win at the overall at the NPC North Coast championships and I know you guys are trening at Dean's powerhouse gym there so you're and I'm sure you got some great equipment going on over there and I really think very highly of Dean and I'm sure I'll take good care of you guys and thanks for joining us today and hopefully motivating a bunch of people and the bottom line is keep trening don't stop and you can't fail right always thanks guys that'll take us to the end of our first editianavar X muscle spotlight I'm Dave Palembot we'll see you next time

=== FILE: FUNDING LEE PRIEST'S COMEBACK! (Plus HILARIOUS Nasser Impressions) HMR (9⧸28⧸20) [weARP-0nKec].txt ===

10 and 9 You're my and I'm a fool Every for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the truth but we can't be humble Chris Asito Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle What are you? What's up? Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palombo and I'm joined as always By the technician Chris Asito on this September 28th 2000 and 20 evening and Chris We are almost in October ready. I can't believe it I can't believe the summer's gone. We're into full and We're falling down as a Some people would say but We're getting close to the Olympia I noticed, well, I wanted to say that I noticed that we got to be certain that article Where the, um, it's planet Hollywood Which is where the show is being taken place is closed right now Now, I also saw another article Dan Solomon actually said me where it says it's supposed to Reopen on October 8th Is this, uh, is this, I would be nervous Rack of I with the people from Olympia wouldn't you? Um, I'm in business. I'm a nervous wreck So, um, I think they have every reason to be a nervous wreck It's just the idea that, you know, The flow is going to fly in here soon, right? And what that means is that people are going to be sick from the flow And everyone who gets sick from the flow is going to be worried to have COVID Right? So, you're right, you're right. If you work at, let's say one of these hotels and you call in sick and they say, what was the Matter you say, oh, my body aches, I got a high temperature You know, you know, return to insurance, you know, IMean, in liability where you all know, tell or you're managing the hotel You tell your employees, you know, even Chris both have body aches And sick and calling in with high temperatures, but not opening today Yeah, well, I just found an article I'll put it up That shows that planet Hollywood is supposed to Return to the Vegas strip in early October, this thing October 8th They're reopening it, uh, October 8th But the hotel portion opening for the weekend And they can see no back in action daily With return or planet Hollywood comes a batch of restaurants Making the return as well, so You know, what's odd about the hotels closing in casinos When Caesar's had to close down Since they never closed, they didn't even have to close the front doors Right, because the open 24 hours? Yeah, I know. They never imagined it. So they weren't even sure how to do it It's crazy, really, you're better right? Yeah. But look at the real, it's a real problem IMean, I hope everything is, you know, in Florida they open everything The governor basically said no more restrictions on anythinGHe tells you a question asked how much I like No, because I'm not talking to him I still think that it's, you know, it might as well be So that is safe and sorry, I always believe, you know So no, I can see that going that he opened it up Because I have my rentals down there, which That's good to use for you, I guess, right? Yeah, quasi good news until I end up like the, you know, the Olympic hotel I'm shut back down. Yeah, do you think that that might be a problem To be on the Olympic? But they might shut it down again. I think that, you know, the problem of Vegas is Right, it's a trensit area. You know, it's not like main reporters Canada Which is sealed off from the US And then we boarded New Hampshire and the Atlantic Ocean And that's it. If people flying it all the time from anywhere Into Vegas Mm-hmm So it only takes, you know, Whatever Ten super spreaders and intoxicate the whole place Right, I don't, I don't have the, the, this Vegas is surviving This wholEQuarantine No idea If those hotels, thinking about what those hotels Must cost to run A day Per day Electric bill Yeah What about the mortgage on those places, you know, That they owe the banks here? Do you see time, did you have the auto-police Said you from Times Square from, was it? TGIFs Yeah One of the chain restaurants in Times Square Right There income is down 93% since Oh Marko They used to do, they're doing $2,500 a day And they used to do 30, 35,000 a day And it probably cost them like A kangaroo day just to survive there Because with the rents Some of the hotels in Times Square They converting to apartments Are they really, wow? Yeah, cut to them Yeah Maybe you can get in there and grab some cheapies I know Well, we'll call it a pseudo-polombo Ha ha ha I think the governor of Florida is opening everything up Because he wants everyone move it here I can't, you know, I know my real estate friend Gwen here is telling you the people are buyinGHouses Chris I'm sure Side unseen Just on video tours they're seeing I'm like, it's crazy People want to get into, you're like, where you are Yeah Right where I am, I'm talking about, yeah IMean, I would consider your quote out in the country Right? IMean, David's not on top of each other Well, just where I'm, yeah, but you know what? What I am is like kind of like an anomaly Even in my area The house is a closer, most of the house I'm just happy to live in a little kind of, you know, private community But most people don't have as much property as I have So my goal is to, I'm like, you know, I'm a real estate I want the whole block, you know I want the game for the street Yeah What my sister, I got to get my sister across the street I got to get you, I got to find a big lot for you Also to move down to Yeah, IMay have to text us keep going out That's right Because you're going to be a Donald Trump paid 750, you see that I, yeah, 750 bucks don't know Yeah, I'm worried about even main With the nature of each percent, stating, come to act You know, people always ask me this And I'm not that a debt on it But how would, how do, very wealthy people get away with Not paying tax because they have a lot of right-offs Is that with the promise? IMean, that's what they do it They have a pencil with a huge eraser on it No, I know, but what is if they have like a lot of businesses that are losing money So it comes off the ducks from there What they're required to pay I think, I think the thing with him is that He had a billion dollar loss in 1990, a billion And you can carry that forward for five years, right? No, I think it's, I think it's, I think it's about 20 years Oh, I didn't know that Real estate might be 20, it might be in contismal until the To the billion dollars is used up Wow So he has a loss of a billion And then he has income of a billion He ends up paying zero Oh, I said, no, that makes sense But I think it's more to it than that Who knows what's, but I could say I did see the 750 And that is a lot though, you know, IMean, that's probably hurt 750 bucks I know, I'm not making it, you're joke Hey, so this is paying something, right? Yeah But he did take a big cut in salary But he money became president, right? And he said he, and he doesn't take the money from the president, right? He doesn't take a salary He gives it to Donald Jr. I think Oh, he doesn't repeat The old Jr is a big bodybuilding fan from where he's in there Yeah, you know, he watches the show Oh, gosh Yeah, better be nice What did you hear that from? I know people who know He's a little less comfortable show, as I guess He weren't, he trens, he trens, yeah, and he's a bodybuilder He said him is in many products, he if he used I should, if I can get it and dress on him I should send him a little care package Why didn't he send it and carry the white on, so get there Well, Donald doesn't, Donald doesn't work out Because he says he doesn't want to lose any energy, right? Yeah, he doesn't He's getting serious He's conserving energy Yeah Well, for someone who's age, he's got a lot of energy He does I hope I have a chance I think though he's, you know, they always said that Teddy Roosevelt was very manic He, but you know how like some people are a what they called by polar, which is be manic And then they can go into the press or stage in the romantic Yeah Suppose he said he Roosevelt was the only truly manic person And that's why they said he was so, you know, but he, he got so much done The guy never slept, he was just completely manic I don't think Donald's quite as bad as that, but I think he's got a lot of just energy You know, just, yeah He likes what he does He wakes, he can't wake the wake up and then, you know, it started sort of speed He may pop some add-on on those I don't know, when there's, all right, let's talk about some stuff Did you see Lee priest is, um, I'm taking a lot of ribbon Because he has a go-fund me campaign up Yeah, for what? Well, he wants to, he's looking to fund his, um, he needs to get some surgery Hey, look at his eyes Just another COVID related, the last COVID thing I'm going to say I just got off the go-fund me page Because music venues talk about being no business whatsoever at all, period Oh, no concerns, you mean? Yeah, so I was donating to my local different music venues No, that's nice, yeah Maybe you can donate to Lee priest, the neck and operation and stem cell treatment What's he, what's he, how much he's trying to raise? 100 grand y'all see, which is about 69,000 US Because he says he's got to go out of country, he's got to get the operation, he's got to get stem cells Which are very expensive, and then he's good, then then it's going to cost him so much to do the show And get prepared, see if he and I'll just throw it all in If they're, because the fans are always saying they want to see him on stage He said, well, if they want to see me on stage, let him fund it, five bucks a fan And, you know, and he'll be able to do the show Which is he pretty so far? Yeah, buT3 grand, but I, it's funny because a lot of people completely going off And so I did a little, I did a little interview with him last night Just to, you know, get people riled up And people just, they're like out, so I'm most able to don't care But a lot of people just outrage, that he would, how dare he drive around a mozzarella And then try to raise money, you know, well, don't donate money then That's what I said, you know, with Lee, the guy, well, with Keras Oh, I didn't know he drives mozzarella, I think he's going to go find me He's broke, like the music places of broke His whole thing, his whole thing is that he's like, well, if I'm going to, you know, Let's like Trump raised in money or Biden raising money, you know, for his good Re-election campaign. IMean, they have a lot of money themselves, why do they need to raise money? Because they don't want to spend their own money, you know, people want to see him Like the Daytona money. If you want to see Lee, pre-skip back on stage, you know, And have to get his neck fixed so he can, he can compete, you know, with the symmetrical body because he's got like some nerve damage on one side And you got to be got to fork over a few bucks and I think enough people Lovely priest, I'm sure black been probably donated to $1,000 So, to the fund. How long is he, so he has three grand out of sixty nine grand, how long is he, As a man to the three? I don't know, I guess he'll run his long as he's got it. He's only been doing it a couple days. He's up to twenty eight hundred bucks now, twenty eight seventeen. Well, you know, that's good publicity that you've had a lot. Yeah. Good publicity. Nick Trigili is going nuts like on this whole thing. Like so I, which Rich Lee loves, you know, the fact loves to rip a, you know, Rip Nick Trigili stuff. Why would Nick Trigili say? No, he's outrenged it. He's going to do a whole podcast on it, And at least like, you know, making fun of him and everything like that. You know, breakinGHis balls a little bit. So anyway, if you want to donate to the lead priest, to neck and operation and stem cell treatment fund, and you can go on and go Fund me and click on that. I get, I get no proceeds. He did say he's going to have me coach him now. If he gets the, the operation. I know, but he, that's why he's going to use me, just to get people mad at him. I don't know. He wants me to be part of team priest. He would prefer that you, that you tren him actually, you know, but I just cut so. That's true. You'd like to work with me. I bet you could probably do a good job. Well, because he's older. So, you know, you, you got Sean Rotten's older. They're about the same age. Come all's 50, so if you're, you, you, you, you, you may be you're going to be the old man. You're, you old man. Did you, hey, you know what, I heard that, um, Birdle Fox died. Did you hear that? No, I did. And so I'm talking to that. I don't know if it's true or not. I've been trying to look it up. Keep asking you to get Rick Wayne on the show. Asked him, he, he was, he had me in hard. What did he say? No, he's like, I don't know. It's like it was complicated, you know. That's him. He's complicated. But, you know, when you do the interview with him, you'll say, you know, it was worth it. No, I want to, I, I, I talked about what he went back and forth in a little bit. I'm sorry. Nothing against, nothing against no one who thinks they are been around the sport for a long time. Yeah. I'm quite a Joe leader. I don't think anyone knows the inside of the school. And anyone knows the inside with, you know, Arnold, Franco and John, Generation, and as much as Rick Wayne. No, I know. I want to get him on. I've been, I've been reaching out. Rick Wayne for people who don't know, was an unbelievable bodybuilder, phenomenal physique, who ended up being the editor and chief of muscle build of what was muscle fitness. And people don't even know what that is, right? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Which would bring me back. Did Rick Wayne know the brutal talk? Well, you, why you saying it? There I think that from the same kind of book from saying, Richard, believe. Oh, really? Oh, so that's the connection. Yeah. And Rick was Joe's right, right, right here, man. And then he wanted, and one day he said, okay, no more, no more nothing can be with five building. There's Rick Wayne right there for those of you don't know. And the 60s, as I'm looks like Jose Raymond's out. Yeah. Or Bill Graham. Looks like he looked like Bill Graham. Yeah. Yeah, he, he, him and I went back at Facebook a few times and I, I, I, I, I get so distracted. I got to keep on top of these guys. You know, sometimes he's older guys with it with the technology. Or not says good, you know, with the internet connections. And it's a little more difficult to make it happen. But I'll do it. Now, our friend over there at my sugar daddy, you know, that website. My sugar daddy still controlling. That's the name of YouTube channel. He put up another video last week. He had the video of me doing the black bean impressions. This week he had me doing, NASA impressions. So let me see if I could figure out how to put that up. I want to put it up with the, with the voice. You know, you're, your NASA impression and your black man, if all your impressions, so the best when you'recompletely and utterly exhausted. Yeah. So, the only the best when we're literally ready to policy. I know. I think I had a show to you. Okay. I think I can do it now. Hold on. All right. I even look like NASA there a little bit. Sure. Let's let me play this thing. This is worth playing the whole thing. It's pretty, I even left. Sometimes I get embarrassed by this thing, but I actually thought I did pretty good. So, a story in the eight did poison me because he was worried that I was coming for his title. I think I was poisoned at the 97 Olympia where I should have brought home the first place trophy. Many people in the tens, you've, you've, a jumbo, a jumbo, you've, you've told me that yourself. Yes, yes, that I should have won. But I think that the, I think the Dorian has poisoned me, yes. NASA, you know, why would Dorian pour poison you? He won the show. Yes, that, that, that, that, that's very involved. I, I cannot go into it right now, but I believe that to be true. trening is always good enough. Season with the closer come to a contest. The less you feel good, actually while you're working out because you're low carbs. The tired, you're going to three times on a belly base of the gym. So the closer come to show them my exhaustive attack, basically get. Yes, it's exciting though, isn't it? I would say it's exciting if you finish while if you don't finish while it's not exciting. Oh, yeah, that's. Can you depress and you still think Ronnie's the guy to beat? Um, I'm your friend. Um, no, all guys are the top six last year. Um, very good guys and all the top six guys from us here in the previous year. Could have won once or twice the, the Olympia before. It's, uh, not only Ronnie, Kevin is very good. Sean is very good. Flex, there's not competing this year. It's also very good. Also Chris, come here. Thank you. And, uh, for sure, I think I can switch you with the right. So I really like it, the specific day. Well, thanks very much for talking to us and now I'll leave you two fans. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, dude, you look very good. Uh, yes, yes. And I would go to the bathroom and if I was hanging out with some girl, he would like try to, you know, give him his room key and he'd be like, Oh, I have no stress of body. And, uh, I don't know why you were with that guy. I speak eight languages and, you know, he is a drug monster. And if you watch me out on us now, I thank you my friend and I say, Good night. That's awesome, buddy. Oh, my God, do you can't make this stuff off this is good stuff? I believe that, uh, Anyway, that's my tribute to NASA. Yes, thank you very much. Yeah, that was a good question. Yeah, yes. Chris, I think that it would be good for you to work with the, the majitly priest because he, He needs all the help you can get. Maybe you can get the Sean Ray to lend him the, the lifts that he wears in his shoes so that he looks taller at the press conference. Lee, Lee might do well with that. But if he decides to do the, to 12 division, Maybe he could be the midget champion. I think that he probably has, you know, I call him armzilla because he only has arms, but You know, That was the most politically correct to NASA probably ever was. Oh, yeah, yeah, that was even picked the bad one. You know, usually he's insulting to the women interviewers. Well, I'm just he's just throw a second one under the bus lightly. Yeah, he's, he's not the most politically correct person. Let's talk about, um, I don't know, what do we want to talk about? Well, I wanted to just mention there was, there was a, there was a pro show. This past weekend and like Tahoe, there was a bikini pro show that was won by. Actually, you know, Ashley caught us to loss the show. She was she's been in almost every show this year. Can he see Sam's all one that show. He's pulper picture. Everyone says we don't cover the women anymore. I want to at least give them some sort of do. Who's everyone? There we go. I'm stallinGHere. Dave, see my radio to be on me. Yeah, what about that? I found out today that you know, I've ready to just worry about it. I can only imagine why. For during the, I don't know, Mr. the radio. I know. And that makes of 1918. They are meant to heat up apartment building so hot that you can leave all the windows open all winter. Wow, really. So I thought they were to kill the bed bugs maybe back then. So that things could, you know, air could circulate and it could still be like 75 degrees in the apartment. Huh, interesting. People make one of my radio behind me. That's, well, yeah, IMean, you have an old house. Like, you have one of your house built originally. IMean, 18 something something something something something. Yeah, IMean, my father would call that a classic. It is a classic. This girl lives the winter. Casey Sample. Yeah. Crazy. How many people need this spend? That's it. She had the TV Girls so good nowadays compared to what they were when they first started. That is off the hook. She said, I would call them. Your beard. What does it call them? Be your barrel. Yes, I'm kind of named like the. The, the duty to listen. She looks like somebody grow. Yeah, it's IMean, the bikini of these types of bikini girls are really really impressive. I love the physics actually. I didn't like it when it first started because it was really like a hot body contest now. It's Really athletic you know And Ashley she beat Ashley caught once I've pulled that picture and she was impressive too She's always impressive. She's the three-time Olympic Olympic Olympic a chave and the you know what the finding crisis When she won the Olympia I didn't like her physique. I thought that they were given her gifts because I didn't really she didn't really have a lot of You didn't like it. You was Like that she didn't have enough Leanness and muscle right right she was she was athletic but she had no like like her body just look like she had been trening for six months, you know Now she's got a killer body Good sessions IMean, but she's got she's you see her also she's but watch her Instagram She's got she's a very entertaining person. She's got a great personality. I've been interviewed before and She I just love her personality. So For her to lose IMean that this was like an Olympic a lineup here. They had in the Tahoe And she's been doing the old Milo Sarsha. She's been doing every show Yeah Which you know that's hard to date to diet you're around like that. It's crazy Well, there's no bulk and face or keep me that hard. Well, IMean, but still for women Now you know women they don't stay lean all year round. That's so that's so That's so easy Ben body goes bulk up and then they love the eat Yes, ohm home route how many how many guys do you work with? I'm hungry. I'm hungry That's part of the game you know hungry How long are you like what are you so hungry for you? This is what you do for a living. I said don't worry 100 shouldn't matter you It's a pretend you're in jail You were in jail right if you were in jail you would be the hunger wouldn't be so important you want to get out of jail You don't really important Border states was this past week as well and say a go States man that shows me going over years. I've been trying to find picture the winner the guy was from India One the immense physique Who won trial time? Chawan I want to see pictures. I don't see I looked on NPC news. I don't think they have the pictures up yet Yeah, they all know that That's IMean That might was that the first that was that the first Indian ever to win immense physique over overall? IMean, sure Prussia For India Maybe I know what's that guy's name the Justin words with a mid-roy. I don't think you want to show them On you spin second and two twelve shows. I know he just see I don't think you want to show though He switched did he switch right or he's still in class right or is he doing two twelve I don't know that's a good question. I think I don't think he's worked with dust in anymore is he? He loves oh me. Are you you tell me that right me and love yeah Yeah, they don't have to pick them up the pictures up on NPC news yet I'll have to look next week. I'll try to get them up to show you guys But congratulations you're going through the Olympian. That's got to be exciting, right? It's amazing you got over here from India Then that other than happen to notians It's funny isn't it funny how like Pakistan and India they're like basically the same country right? IMean they're right next to each other. IMean the same people basically just you know split by religion and if you're in Pakistan There's no way just into the US What? Yeah, but IMean it did this they're basically living the same region but they like the Indian Indians can fly here anytime They want and then then the Pakistanis that are on the know fly West to right Crazy so We got Chicago coming up in a couple weeks it looks like it's gonna shape it up to be a pretty good lineup How are you and you know it's in that land all right? Yeah, no, they moved it yeah Smart they should actually hold every show in Florida now there's no restrictions You know like we said earlier for me. I don't have a pretty lineup on it No, I don't know who's gonna be exactly in the show, but I know that there's a lot of you have you hiters I know Justin Rodriguez is doing that show which he's gonna be one of the favorites A key mole is doing correct. Yeah, yeah Yeah I He's doing it Yeah, I was gonna ask you that now I don't know why Randy wouldn't do the That Al-A-Cante that Al-Cante Spain show because that's right, you know Top threEQualify and IMean he's in Europe already and IMean he's close to your bereadish say Well, you're gonna see me during Chicago with air one of the two IMean he's got it right he's got to do something I also have to that right or is the show in Romania and November It's at a possibility to qualify to the left Is that an open show? I believe there's an open-end Well, I believe Thank I see they're holding the DubaIMuscle shell again. That's good news for the The Gimmons give him some pro cards. Remember I went through that a couple years ago He loved it That's why you did the joke in Coleman and spirit. Yeah, yeah, I'd love to go back there again at some point Dubai is pretty open. I think I don't think there's any restrictions of or I don't know if there's many restrictions over there I'm not sure why you know I did I told you the yeah, I told you they they called me tested me right before the my colonoscopy I didn't talk about my colonoscopy How to go good? I'm clear. I got nothing no polyps nothing Fiber lies sales with public crash. You know what I was worried about that to be honest with you, but I I said to myself You know I knew I had no cancer. I said there's no way I know I first I don't like you that There's no cancer a lot of my life. That's I don't know what that But I sit to myself look you know what I have an eating doing fiber for 25 years I've been taking my fiber lies for my for 10 years that it's been around and I had the cable you know Eating well and taking probiotics and you know I really take care of my my That gesture system okay, so I said if I have polyps, you know, there's a potential because my father had him my sister had him It runs in the family. I said but I believe and I didn't want to jinx myself I believe that I'll be clen I said because I think that I Do things the right way and I and I truly believe that your immune system is designed To knock out number not only cancer cells because we have a natural immunity against cancer We have these natural killer cells in our immune system But they're also designed to take out cells that are growing even that are not cancers like like a Polypathy because Pob's you lead Pob's they'll turn into cancer Okay, so that's why they you do a colonoscopy they clip them out and then there's no problem But you know they start out like that Now What happens is if you have a lot of stagnation in your colon because it's not the food is not moving through fast enough And it's just kind of hanging out there because you're not eating enough fiber in your diet You call in is getting weak What happens is the the environment and they get very acidic and the immune system that normally functions well in there is can't function It's like a dirty fish tank The fish don't thrive very well in a dirty fish tank because the water is just filthy and they just they can't They can't excrete waste properly out of their body because there's too much waste in the water already So that's it that's kind of like an analogy to what goes on the colon so you want it you want to constantly keep changing the water So to speak you want to keep moving stuff through and when you do that your immune system functions the way it's supposed to an acclaimed stuff off So This was a true statement from the the doctor he actually said to me after and I actually remembered this even though I was on purple Which is a wonderful which is a wonderful drug It's embedded by a real anesthesiologist not by a guy in your and your bedroom like Mike Jackson's guy did He said to me he goes yeah, you I got to tell you this is the clenest colon I've seen in The last 10 years I've been doing this I said I'll really I said that that's a compliment I should have just I told him I said I use IMake a fiber something to go as well You should your sales should be through the roof after this call asked me is I don't need to see back pretend years. I said So who was it so bad and I did it in a hospital because you know I got my defibrillator So because of that they got it they got to do these tests when they knocked out in a hospital Which which actually it took a little longer because of all the but I actually liked the better because I felt like I was in a much more comfortable environment When you got knocked out was out like a vacation from the kids Yeah, yeah, definitely it was it was absolutely it was it was You know and here's the whole thing people make a big deal with this colonoscopy the whole procedure took 12 minutes Gross, that's the whole test 12 minutes It took of I had a prepapher the whole day before that I had a like drink this Go lightly solution it's like it's like four liters it's over a gallon of this stuff You got a drink eight ounces every 10 or 15 minutes between four and six p.m And then you got to do the other four two liters between 10 and 12 p. 12 12 a.m. You know, and you can't have any solid food all day and you got to drink I was going crazy I was so hungry all day and I was I just wanted to eat something but I I stuck to the thing I was eating a lot of jello Sugar free To you know my problem is that my colorically I was probably really love but I what I did was IMixed Like like a Gatorated light into that go lightly so I puT4 liters of Gatorated there because I think you know what I know myself If I don't replenish my electrolytes I'm gonna get I'm gonna start cramping and stuff like that you know I'm gonna pull like a What's his name who cramps all the time let's say I Yeah, the one that we're pulled pull the look so I gulp down the first dose and I realized that I had it in a shaker cup which was actually 16 ounces So I down 16 ounces to start with and they say go they say take it easy on the first couple doses because you know you can get crampy from it So I got a little weird I thought a little weird right after but I don't know if it was just like a lot But you're not my wife say she's like what are you doing? That's like double the amount you're supposed to drink I'm like I and IMust have I probably drank it seriously in abouT3 seconds I didn't even hasten and support them. I think this is gonna be easy. I could do this all day long So after about an hour of doing these every 20 minutes, you know doses Then you start having to go to the bathroom the first couple times a little is a little uncomfortable But now some people get nauseous some people get like really crampy I think because I kind of use five on a regular basis. I didn't have that much in me. So and I had many anything all day So I get the first you know a couple poops were a little you know more explosive I guess it's kind of like diarrhea and that's nothing gross anyone out and then You take like I don't like I'm reprieved from six to ten at p.m. But then I fell asleep in my door in his room so I didn't start to 11 p.m. So I was behind so Chris So I think I had to play catch up, right? So I started started doing a little bit more than I should have But at this point I have nothing left to me. So I'm doing it. I'm basically pooping out whatever I'm drinking, you know It's just going right through me So by like 12 30 25 I actually finished my Therapy of the drinking. I was saying and I was just I was slamming these things that literally I was like there's no way this is going to defeat me because I know some people get they just can't handle it You know I'm like this is this is a joke come on The drink yeah because think about it's a lot of liquid you know and it doesn't taste it doesn't taste terrible doesn't taste great Taste it like I said I didn't even taste it I just poured it down. I didn't if you sat there and you know Some people sit there and they try to sip this stuff you can't do that you had it's like with my Firmalent shit you can't try to drink it like it's like freaking vodka more titty you got to just go up it down Some people don't have that ability get it in a some gag maybe they want to throw up you know So I had no problem that I got it down I did this One sitting so I was I was working I was working I was in the office right here. I was working Until one the two in the morning actually answering emails so I got the stuff down I went to the bathroom every 10 15 minutes you know Relieve myself. I went sleep. I've got abouT3 hours of sleep. I woke up the next morning with the You know I'm at the hospital So Yeah, I encourage everyone. Have you got a call mask me? Or not you got to go get what you got to do you know I because you get 10 years after that if you clear They don't they don't want to see if it's 10 years it's worth it because you know what Just to put peace of mind they tell people It's supposed to get one into your told me Look at look at George Farron. IMean he had but hit cone cancers So IMean you you don't know IMean he and he said I know it needs claim he's a clen eater I don't know if it's was stress maybe induced by him or what what what happened but you know You don't want to you don't want to find out you have cone cancer by going for it Column us be after you have symptoms of something being wrong So at least if you go ahead of time if you do have a couple of polyps in there You can get them clened out and then you can get on my fiber wise product and start doing it the right way see they won't you don't get any more You know that's the key now but seriously I'm not trying to sell you probably I'm just trying to say this certain things that I like to put out there as I'm getting older and you're getting older and we're getting older This certain things you got to start doing and to take care of yourself and I'm learning you know luckily I always knew about fiber And I knew that that that would be something that down the road would be something that would save my call You know just like Not eating a lot of sugar Conchucking your blood sugars is not a bad thing too because you don't want to wait till you have full blown diabetes to start you know Treating so to speak and then taking care of you know issues that you might have if you're runninGHigh fasting blood sugars You want to address it now before you burn your pancreas so Likewise if you have a blockage in the coronary artery if you're heart That's why I tell people to give a cardiac CT scan You want to know about that so you can get a steady put in this so you don't drop dead of a heart tag You know these are Very minor things that will enable you to live a much longer and help your life IMean it's not like they're really that inconvenient, you know It's just that people don't want to do it because it's like the whole idea of you know I thought I put I put I should have had a colonoscopy two years ago. I can't put it off The checklist be there. IMean I didn't know you supposed to get colonoscopy after what 50 yeah 50 and if you have if you have a history of Cancer of colon cancer you should do it at 40 really You know it's funny. I have a lot of I have a history my mother's whole side they're all good cancer But no one no one actually died of colon cancer There was liver cancer. There was pancreatic cancer breast cancer The gram of the somehow had lung cancer even though she didn't smoke I don't know but no one had the colon cancer which was good because you know that that can be inherited But my father's side no one had colon cancer but they only get polyps my sister had polyps I thought that pop but they didn't use any but no one do anything about fibers So My father didn't eat terrible. IMean But he didn't really have any He just he would go for colonoscopy. I think twice and they they clipped a couple polyps out But he was older already so I don't know he was probably in his 70s when even then I 40 50s and 60s. IMean what he was There was less terrible things to eat back you want to hear someone complain about a colonoscopy You should have heard my father with the prep that he had a kind of the complaining that he did with the prep I was that's what I was traumatized that's why I didn't want to do this Chris I remember my father complaining about this prep that he had to do and you know shit my brains That's like my father's favorite expression Oh, it can't take this. It's all right. I can't stop going to the bathroom. I'm scrapping my brains out You know that's that's all you we talk about I thought he was getting like you know I thought that they were like I didn't know what they would do until me He was he made it in like it was like like like a week He was doing the straight there was no way they was only one day obviously and then you know my dad doesn't like to get up early the next morning So of course he was stressing about at the home I to he didn't sleep I think I had a drive of there either I drove him or his friend or I don't remember but he was complaining the whole way I remember the morning I don't know if I I think I was I think at one one of the call-offs Because I was still living in his house or maybe my I think I had gotten divorced at that time or separated And I was living there he was complaining nonstop about this super call and Oscar B and then he complained afterwards Chris That they ripped open his asshole Not my words his words that he was you know they they somehow were too rough down there Now you're asleep when they do this but he when he woke up he said he had like I don't know he's bleeding. I don't know what he had So now I'm now I was a nervous wreck and they were gonna maybe I have the same you know Maybe I think it's gonna happen to me. You know, you know, they can they always make you sign this thing that if they Perfect rate you're interested you know that that responsible Related you can send speeding of Colons and all that you can send a son stop for some Paralyze down it with flexlorus. Oh, that's right You know what I tell me Kind of it makes me the address. I'm gonna send full of innocent flex lures and and them at a send a son must Offer some fiber lies to use because I want to make sure flex doesn't get any hemorrhides before the one beer So so I'm petrified so I'm petrified so I'm on the table Chris you know they make you turn I thought they you got to turn over on your stomach that they have you on your son so I'm on my side I got the IV in my arm and they're gonna they have a huge syringe they're gonna have they're gonna pump in all the The propapher like you you ready to go to sleep? I'm like yeah, so they push it into the IV They're like all right you need to go to sleep. I said before I fall asleep I started feeling right before just be gentle down there. I'm thinking my dad now I'm thinking oh I forgot to tell them about my dad and then and he had a bad expert Everything went fine. I have no problems. I know nothing afterwards My father just makes a biGHe used to make a big deal about everything like this. He would make such a big deal that I I thought everything Every procedure was so dramatic. I told you that I told you about his cat. I don't know if anyone wants to get He had the cataract surgery his cataract is so bad. He I don't think he can't even see he got so he gets the one eye done And then he's complaining Chris for weeks Months that he it he sees I think I told you see it's it looks like there's a the fantasy scene through He's like I had his a grid or I see his a grid because they ruined my eyes. I said you couldn't see before What's the difference? He's like I I said did you get the other eye done? He goes no I'm not going back I kept seeing through a grid. He goes that can't even get decided. I said well, maybe you think through a grid because the other eye is You know It's foggy and this one's read you know you could be screwed up your vision He's like you don't know what you're talking about So finally I guess you went back for another eye exam like two after two years and they told me you got to get the other eye done you got a major cataract So he he finally gives in and get to he castles it like four times and then he finally gets it done And his visions perfect. I said it has the grid because what grid? I said you said you used to see through a grid because I don't know what you're talking about I said you said what are you what are you what are you pulling on me because he kid at this point Maybe he doesn't remember or if he blocked it out I said you told me after the first surgery that you could you was seeing through a grid it look like and that's why you weren't getting the other eye done because you What you thought they they screwed you out It's kind of when you talk to me. Did I said that I said yeah He said well I said I don't say I see fine now. I said well all right Well, that's good. So you know he makes mountains out of mojo. It was my father My phone was the same way did that Was it everything was a big deal Hey, it was a big deal I felt so shoveling this now doing the lead what you what what are our parents make everything such a big deal They ruined they ruined my My mother used to come to his Irish complaint at all me tellyons. She just said it was an ambulance dream I believe it I believe it Believe it So Well, you could have been just that day you'd go into the doctor. He promised would have more hits on that Going to the doctor and now actually the film good Column clenched I should have told all thing you know they send your home with pictures did you know that Oh, well, I can you know my I get I pickas of my colon they actually take with little snapshots Your refrigerator Yeah, it's on my refrigerator. I if it's like you know when you kids brinGHome like an a an a plus paper You put on the refrigerator and I put my colon on the refrigerator Yeah, they show the different portions the a standing the trensverse the descending the sigboyed colon Yeah, and they show all those spots and you can see and then was it did look very clen to me Okay Yeah Yeah, I was looking at an ant one by ant one valiant did a had a great video Who's talking about people who ask them if the dieting is hard and if he's in a hates people who complain about have oh The diet so hard and it was just based on giving relevancy to like you know he was living in like like on the street like eating in soup kitchens He's like that's hard. You know The eating is that eating six meals a day and go through the chimps that hard I thought that was a great Allege Yeah right yeah People think they think everything's so hard like go to jail I think we go to jail for five months. I think that that's way harder than than dining for a you know For 16 week contest diet We got picture answer one did I love his his classic poses he does He may not be mr. Olympia ever but he certainly has a he certainly is a busy Remember that on this show you thought he was gonna be mr. Olympia like three years ago You said I think the sky can be mr. Olympia. I think he's got the talent to do it I don't know if you know, I don't know if it'll accomplish it, but he's got You know he's got a physique that people would look at and say you know I want to look like that and I think that's and them's that's that's better It's got to marketable look you know that's I think people can relate his physique Because they're like wow that's an impressive look I think I could I I like look at Sergio leave a junior two. I say you know that's a that's a physique. I'd be happy with you know I said about Tony Freeman all the time Yeah, how is Tony Freeman? I just mentioned his name with John Roe from today He's got to be like 60 right? He's gonna be mad at me. He's probably like 58 or something but no He's he's the age of somebody he talked about colon you want to get out you want to talk Get someone to talk about colon health Tony Freeman is the guy to get on into the animals He's really into Column health more so than I am. That's for sure Yeah I know I don't know where he's but he's been up to let me see let's look at his Instagram He has a good picture Yeah, that picture I'm not playing with this little yeah, I'm looking at that picture Is that a physique you'd love to have Kill a physique He would wear those he would wear outfits that I'm like holy me. He look like a superhero You know it come up it reminds me of the Aaron Baker used to wear outfits like that, you know Yeah, right? And who did look better in the gym than Aaron Baker? Probably the best gym for C. Yeah It's for you You know probably one of the most underrated by the ones in the FBI Yeah You know they could guys screw it because when he left the I.TV for Vince McMahon's organization You know I'm sure it was making probably way more money there When he came back they they really punished him because he had a physique they can really the other guys really Didn't really have physique that can can do damage he had a physique that can do damage, you know But before he left You know those in question, please things yeah, that's true. Maybe you're right. I don't remember the exacting look at that shot IMean that that's a mr. Olympia shot Tony Freeman he had a front double buy that was mr Olympia worthy for sure With that 29 inch waste, you know you had Did he give me those arms up there? I don't think so you know Chris I think I actually asked him to do it a couple times and he wouldn't do it They weren't Jimmy you had good arms Great by seven He and if you remember he had very good quads Oh crazy watch his legs came down a little you know At the end of his career now, you know, which happens to a lot of old guys, you know, but He had great front quads. He had trouble with the glutes in hand And that's why he's I used to torture him with the with the you know ketogenic diet because He was the only way he could get his glutes tight and dry Manufact I actually had him compete and show that he won when he he wasn't even eating any carbs Chris We'd be going with zero carbs You would just eat that and pro to any good Sometimes you you know he look like he was on like a thousand grams of carbs a day Sometimes you probably cover movement right all the night place Yeah, the only what we would do is we would give him carbs like the day of the show And that was enough that he didn't need a lot to fill himself up he just he walked around so round the ready, you know He was an underrated guy if he didn't tear his peck He would he could he could have been mr. one the two he's in the big guy because he had it he was tall too, you know You had a lot of good shots The year that um Dexter beat Jay that was at 08 You could have made a case for Freeman winning that will be IMean really he looked great That was best effort oh wait He had a lot of the chose and he looked really good in a couple of months and then he was going to write up there One of the shows He was he would win at least a couple shows every year Because if it wasn't like the art of the Olympia it was usually a Freeman one Yeah, it was a Freeman one And he would bamboozle the judges you can I brought him into a couple shows where he was a little off and it didn't matter because he was a great Pozor and presentation and and he just looked good standing in the lineup, you know And so these guys and you can't beat it physically like that that that that that that's what's superior genetics do for you I love you don't realize that Standing front that will once outstanding for lots of friends even as um even as back shots were Side tries up was kill it too You know when you turn the leg like to the front He knew he knew his body too and that that's something that you know You can't really explain to people you have to learn how your body works best and if you do that What you'll find is that you can bring the best at yourself and a lot of people never learn they hey I learned how my body work best It was the end of my career What can you figure out at the end? I figured out I figured out how what poses looked the best for me how to position my body properly Had a pose and I had and I couldn't even really do it the way I wanted to because I had really bad shoulder issues So I was you know it was like two I too little too late. It's like the old saying you know if if I knew now what I knew then you know how much better What I have been you know Oh, here's a good show you'll like this shot He has a shot of his side try set verse shown rod and side try so this this this this goes Sean Ron Mr. Limit this just goes to show you how good Tony side try set pose How's that shot Chris? Yeah, that's not that that's not Sean Ron's best side try so be it but but Freeman had a really good side try She hated like wrote and did it was like it's like almost like it was almost a front pose, right? Because they had both had great abs For a big guy with that much muscle to 60 you know to 65 to be able to blow down on their abs like that That's impressive Usually guys that did that thing they're belly will hang out a little bit when they did it If you remember when Sean really came on in 2012 it was Tony got second to him at the Tampa in the Dallas That's right, right good memory very good memory always there No, I know you were gonna I've been a chosen I can't remember what happens I just told you it was a favorite that's that's why I can remember right? It's a favorite one Yeah What was that 2012 he said 2012 they were filming I remember Ron and said you know they're filming a movie and I just you know with all the bodybuilders I said he would it he said no That was right, it's right that was right before he really had the right one the show tomorrow Which was the Tampa and they were filming everyone What was show except I think they were filming rolly yeah, I think you're right I think you're right I'm sorry Tony should run for like a mayor of like Atlanta or something like that now I think you'd win No, that's what IMean he's a great talker Look at this look at this shot this shot is so good is I actually had a look at I thought it was it might have been morphed It looks so good What about 2008 and the Yeah, yeah, that's that's when I said he looked the best yeah IMean and if he would if you give that if you say that's mr. Olympia does anyone say oh How dare you wins mr. Olympia now what you'd be like yeah of course it is You'd be like of course it is mr. Olympia Yeah, it's Tony We'll get him on the show. I got him. I haven't talked to him at a while so I got to get him on He's always got some new like you know something going on He's one of the years He was good he was good he was good with chose but he took a big jump maybe it was not here No, he was yeah, I had been working with it. I think for two or three years and it was just like a we were building to that and I think that was just you know That was his he just peaked that year that was his best IMean he was still extremely good nine ten eleven. IMean he had a long career. Oh, yeah because you know it is he He was so good shrugially that he he can you know at a week show who's being Tony framing you're gonna you're gonna give him the win look at this shot Look at that crazy yeah, they did call them they did there was a reason they called them the X man IMean in an X frame you can't beat an X frame and shape, you know Put up a front line That's a good shot Yeah, you guys that had that shot very well, sir You're the wheels he's got wet then these that legs He's very comfortable the shot right yeah, I think they match up really well shots better from behind might be better from behind the Tony was because Sean gets morally morally hard from behind right IMean they both a wide Tiny waste I here's a framing from my spread on this I see but I that is best front monster, but this is I don't think I'll find at this point Yeah, yeah, yeah, he doesn't he's not as lean there, but Anyway, he was good Tony was really impressive and Like I said he his career was not what it could have been because he had that peck injury he missed five years He found a doctor who could repair the peck and it was still it still had a divot it did it wasn't terrible But the fact that he was able to come back and then and then so he had to almost play catch up after five years And he was older at that point so Had he never had the peck injury you know and he would have You know never had to take off that time and he might have been IMean he was a guy I remember Tony back in 94 and Dema I won the national's he was a guy who was always tied up in the top six Right, you know all the top the national shows he was and he wasn't even that big man He was like Michael Jackson man Yeah But it was thin yeah the structure right yeah, you could see it the structure But you didn't know if you'd ever put the muscle on because a lot of guys you know just can't grow like that When he when he won the what did he when the USA the nation's he beat me of the nation's oh my goodness And oh two Man, I felt a lot of people think I should have beat him that year because he wasn't that big that was the area just come back And after the peck tear so he was he just didn't have the muscle yet it was after he won that show that he made the big leaps and And then and and grew after that Well, he would have beat you right but standard we last Easily He wasn't that hard that you know what though I saw him the next day in the gym we were both doing photoshoot for empty and I'm like And he sold out a little bit of like yeah, IMean I'd rather have his physique than my physique Even though I was way hard with any of us I'm like I'd rather had that physique I was looking at him in the gym and I'm just like saying I wouldn't mind having that position That's a good thing to say because a lot of people would just look out of it and say but you know say I killed them now Yeah, I I hated looking at pictures of myself after the next day after the shows I always was like But you know as I was impressed him in person because I was so Cranely hard and that really shows off You have to be there in the front row to see that I think in a physique like mine Whereas the Tony Tony's the kind of guy me can be out of shape you see pictures from the show you like have this guy that lose the show you know And you could see him 24 was back and it felt like they were He just had that round V tape or you know Access McCall the x man I I'm gonna give a nickname the x man Woo Who came up with the x man came up with the x I think like man came up with the x man Unless Lonnie T. Perditt and then and blackened stole it. I don't know He used to be in those crazy ads for jack-o-ax products which are the shot the shotgun product yeah V px Right He did a great tour Yeah, he did a whole tour jack-new jack-new that he but he said them all around the country I don't know if Tony made as much money as he probably should have for that But Tony was was that front man for that product for oh for he saw a lot of shotgun product for Jack I remember that What was shot down like a pretty trening it was like yeah, yeah, pre-workout like you know Did you by the way did you see the jack-o-ax interview that I didn't I don't think you did You got to watch it. I told you how he he he was telling me how he made 1.2 billion dollars last year 1.2 billion billion with a big yeah with a big That way I was like didn't like to where I was in Florida How much they were in the same amount of money was in the same amount of money, but you know He he's I thought he was gonna they were like an industrial park I thought he was keeping it you know as an industrial park he was gonna like rent it out. I thought it was like an investment No, no, no, no, no, he's building this three big buildings. He's connecting them and like making some crazy He's gonna have the fastest Drink line in the world They can crank out stuff like 4,000 bottles of minerals so I should settle the world and say in amount Sellers the bank problem. Dang it was got From what he told me banGHe has an exclusive deal with anhyse approach which is Pepsi you know to distribute It's a crazy amount of money But then he has his own line of the red line still that he exclusively To ship it's himself. He said because the problem with the anhyse approach is that they have very wide distribution Or they're everywhere basically But they're slow so like he likes to he comes out with a new drink flavor every like you know every four weeks And they just can't keep up with that because it takes them a while across this everything and get it into the system So he has his own red line where he can pop out new flavors because he's always making new flavors And then he could insert them directly into his own distribution You know Red line product today the same as it was maybe 10 years ago or day now the rich this is the story your original red line had a fedra I think it or by the now when they banned the fedra He had all these backup stuff the DMM and all the stuff that is banned now was still legal He had a crazy crate he had so many things in red line already like you know You know after your him bay and you had all these things that were super freak like you know Stimulence that when they pull the fedra it didn't really affect the potency of his drink so G and C said was buying Like a million a month from them or something like that in these drinks It was crazy and They couldn't they couldn't they couldn't buy enough from them that kind of thing because everyone lost their a fedra drinks And there was no a fedra people had nothing to use he was the only game in town He said for for good year or two So he really made a lot. I think that's where he made most of his money and that was and he was reinvesting it back into the business Basically building better drink lines because he always did a drink in his bars in house which was smart Now he's got like a facility and I think Atlanta and one out west He's got like three and they's building that new one in Florida He said with these drink you know with these drink companies do Chris is that they a lot of times they They'll make they'll make the bottles in one place and they got a ship A million bottles to a to the bottling plant where they actually bottle of stuff He and Florida is building in this these three humongous buildings that he bought he's gonna make his own bottles Which are gonna save them fortune and then he's gonna bottle it right there So there's no there's no trensportation of them so that's that's said you know if you say he said a one penny per bottle He's a that's a huge huge Savings Matter fact he said he got he you know he's been in litigation with red line Every excuse me with redbol which who we be actually and With the monster he's still fighting them he won't give up He said he will he's the only person who has not succumbed to the monster Matter fact he told the great story about the guy from redbol called them up And they kind of became friends during the lawsuit he's like he goes how much of jack how much have you spent on this lawsuit already? He's well jacks take how much of you spending goes with 750,000 because this is ridiculous jacks like I spent the same amount on my first He's a well maybe we could so then they went to arbitration And jack really one because what happened was they were red redbol was saying this guy is you know in order to say Someone's infringing upon you you have to show that there you know that there are not go off in that there Costing you business but jack was actually selling red line for more than redbol So if you're selling a pride for more and you're and you're and you're making money then You're not trying to undercut the other guy so the judge is like Mr. O'oc is not is not doing anything wrong So jack agreed to change it He wanted it yet at white cap on his bottle some kind of color that look like Redbol or something like that. I don't even know what it was he had to change the cap color something that that was that that was what his punishment was at the end of that He's always had like the best colors of that Yeah, yeah He's it he's it he's it he's it he's a genius he really is he's a man sciences genius Mr. He He was a science teacher for many years, you know in school so he's not a dummy, you know He's he actually had a good science background most people hold on supplement companies, you know Don't have that kind of a a background in education so he was an educator for years And you just love that you know he talked about how he lived in a store and in the story and in Wherever one piece of That's your pepper pine tren because he his wife X wife worked at the gym, right? To go down I used to tren at goals in pepper times and I went by his store when he used to live in that's funny You sound so I'm in the store used to the store was unbelievable. Oh, I was all color coordinated He had enormous amount of inventory and I was like what type of stores this? I thought it was like a GSC He had his soul his products right so he said it read yeah Good and you know and here he is now my joke again with you didn't hear he's paying more than seven hundred fifty bucks in time Yeah, yeah, I'm sure he's paying 800 bucks So he He said that when he would order metrics He would order so much of it that he couldn't fit it in the store So he literally had a cell what was on the sidewalk in order for him to be able to And others as soon as he got his order and he added all his customers had a comment and buy their stuff for the month because the The boys he would be able to get get it all in the store that's how much he would order So people metrics couldn't believe it His it's he's been around you know Some of them in owners come and go Yeah, well, they have unproducted and it's you know up and then dead and that's it Yeah, he's had continuous line. What's the name of his brand VPS? He's been around for 30 years yeah, well, he did the original the pro hormones with the with the syringe you remember The computer acts yeah, well, they all they all had a syringe, but you know it's it was what he his idea for was smart because you know if you ever see You know if you give your your young kid like Tylenol comes that little syringe you put it in the top of the bottle You kind of measure it out so you can give them the right amount you squirt in the mouth He did the same thing but he knew that that little that little syringy draw out would would get in people's minds They would think steroid. Oh steroids. Oh, it's supposed to be good stuff right comes in just a wrench I'm gonna ask So we are marketing yeah black room probably Probably I should have come up with that nice house At that time he had the bottle with the shrink wrap around the bottle and the little syringy was on them Yeah, I'll tell you I'll say one thing Jack gave me a lot of compliments like you know for being you know for all those Consumians every day that he he's a very humble guy, you know for and and look the guy is very very wealthy now And he's he's very humble You know the truth to see he would if he was making zero money We continue doing what he does because he really does love it a lot of guys do it because they're business But he just likes what he does I even asked her I said you could sell the company because that I don't want to sell anything I said what if someone came but you know if they offered you a ridiculous amount of money He goes I they already did he goes and I didn't sell to the Anheisen bush, you know, so I said alright well you must enjoy what you're doing because I do you enjoy and love's going to that office every day I too I Said now I remember how I know about the warehouses because I was reading real estate trensactions It was big news It was huge news and I said you like that you said you know I go back to where every swam blah blah he paid an enormous enormous amount of money Wait, it's not like 3,5,7 it was like yeah ridiculous for a targeted money yeah I don't think he got it. Does he sell that much product? 1.2 billion Chris last year I think the warehouse one was 17 million the other was 10 or something yeah, and that's chum change fan If he's making them I'm a funny right and he's the only owner of the company he owns it himself No, that's a success story but that just goes to show you if you're smart An you crazy passion about what you do and you take this you know he I would have never Spranked that with all the lawsuits he's got to deal with because you don't want to think Imagine fighting monster and red bull IMean they got big time attorneys, you know They got deeper pockets, but he he wouldn't he doesn't he doesn't he doesn't settle fight that he doesn't care He used to have what bar there was a super well a really good selling bar that he had Wait oh that zero impact bar was delicious Amazing taste I Eight went off of his assembly line I went there to do an interview when Ramana was working there and I literally it looked at Gautuchiro I took off the he took it off the assembly line and handed it to me it was hot still It was amazing and no kid. I know no net carbs in it Yeah, how what would you I don't know he did it I think his problem I think one of the problems was because it was so it was so healthy it was hard to keep the thing from going like it had AAShelf life or was not that long because it was it was too healthy the bar Yes, like you yeah, you did off the assembly line yeah God too many bugs yeah You gotta get a spray you gotta spray I say pretty time of spray Hey, they spray for bugs you don't know that with the bars It's black and was telling you that once what did they spray Bugs they get a kill with bugs. I said you can't put a spray. Yeah, they're certain stuff they can spray you got a spray in the bars Remember that mass bar that blackpin had that like it was like a big touchy roll Leigh any was like used to endorse it It's like this big It's you Mass field that's what it's called mass deal bar You couldn't you couldn't eat the whole bar it was impot I tried and I can eat a lot of food You couldn't do it because you teeth would fall out it was so hard to chew the thing Right it was like eating a huge touchy roll and I believe Lee Hayney ate those bars because you know I used to believe everything you see those ads man Mass fuel bar you want to get big you got to eat this bar and I'm like I got to eat the bar I got to get this mass fuel I will say the diet field bars were amazing though. You remember those And the other thing you would learn right right the diet field bars with terrific Yeah, the diet field bronchers to look I don't know why they'd stop making those bars that that I don't know what what is formula was Those, but they were really good sugar lower carbs high protein Was it was this sugar in them a little bit a little very little yes The diet field were good even the diet field product was good. Remember that the shakes was really good the chocolate And then I was so good with the chocolate right You could make it into a paste Just add water It was like phenomenal. I was supposed to get a piece of the royalty on every It's probably still up this day. I've never got the the paperwork It got lost the mail You were to make a lot of money on the wealthy on that list IMean only 2.5% or Exile on a dollar's month whatever was higher You really and what happened you just didn't want to sign the contract again contract is never gave me never gave me the reports Which was So he actually owes you that money was supposed to get to an a percent of all diet field sales tell or or certain amount of money whatever was higher what I would ask You know what at the sale That's only three bars Chris What happens when you want to get an answer from Steve? Did you see Kai's gloats? Look Lee I'll donate half the proceeds to your To your go find me campaign if you can collect them I 2.5% the black man owes me a bull die of fuel sales This subject What did you have to try to You have to try to speak this team about that Oh everything Steve you know You owe money to Victor he's he's called me up and he said the check has him said Did you see Kai's gloats Let me show you that this Kai and let me show this pair of an out picture Steve you got to pay Victor look at what the deal is glued to that little little Unbinable killer look at the glue. It's look at the strength look at the Deshia Haitian take the eyepiece look That's his notorious like change something Really You know So yeah, I don't know what to announce NASA did Steve black whenever oh you any money No I don't do business with Jewish businessman Because I know that they did not pay you NASA but he paid other people yes, but I stuck with the I said but NASA you you you you work for Joe weater Yes, but he was not really Jewish. He was Jewish but he was not Jewish What does that mean NASA Means he paid me I think he liked the fact that I spoke eight languages He I got if I would speak to him and and German he would give me a it would give me an extra hundred dollars on my paycheck What why is that NASA? I do not know I do I don't know Joe loved NASA Did Long time now NASA he did NASA definitely got Did well with the leader We don't like the freaky yeah, he knew NASA's sole product to he was a freak you know Yeah, IMean IMean look what it took him to get Ronnie IMean remember Ronnie was on the contract with metrics and then Joe he didn't want to leave because Ronnie was so loyal to Tick Scott Colleen and weater had a like throw a lot of money at him I think to get him believe Sure and Ronnie didn't know the politics Ryan didn't realize that if you work for weater You had a very good chance of winning the Olympia You know I think Ronnie signed the the contract like at the Olympia or something that at the 90th Olympia Right before preaching I think he signed them, yeah, he's got it for sign I don't because I think that I don't know if they were trying to get Chad Contract to like Ronnie was trying to get like his whole family a contract like at the same time Well, me I got to get my Vicki had to get a contract and it's mother had to get a contract Yes, right No, she did no it's I know someone who negotiate that contract from You know who negotiate that contract from or was it involved in that contract? Let me see if I'm blockinGHis name I don't know why and I talked them all the time He's the guy with who does the Oh The Bulgarian trening what the hell's this name you know Emerald Delzic It's a very good friend with Joe weater a lot of good friends Joe said you got to get Ronnie for me and so the Emerc negotiate that and that's when Ronnie kept telling Emerc He's like I got to get Vicki contract too and he's a Emerc would go back the weater You got to give Vicki he didn't even know who Vicki was Joe, of course, she won the international or something like that and she's the top of FEMA money But oh, wait, she You got to give Vicki a contract all right. We'll give Vicki a contract. Well, you got that Chad needs a contract and and and Tim needs a contract Everyone needs to everyone that Ronnie was involved with you to the contract I think we did gave old contracts, don't wait just to get Ronnie to sign on All right, we got a wrap up. It's too We rock we're off on a tangent here, but I think To take home message With the whole show is If you guys want to see Lee pre-spec on stage go donate to his go fund me can't stop breakinGHis balls No, you know, I would love I would love to see as a fan of this where I would love to see Lee back on stage I don't know if it's possible even with the surgery that they're they're saying that he needs for his net You know to release the nerve that's being pinched off at his neck But I wouldn't you love to see him back on stage again? Um, not really because no You know, it's always Comebacks aren't really that good for people Yeah, because we always You know, we we we expect then we think like yeah, you can come back and come back and then you see And whoever that may be and you say oh, yeah, they're not really like they used to be right That's sure You know previous self Never know Oh, I'd like to see him with your pain Yeah, I don't know how much pain he said I just think he can't win in trens. He can't feel the muscle Because it's not activating properly because you know, he's good that love the nerve If need be It's a scary shirt look anything going there around you spine, you know, and they have to like play around with those nerves, you know that Scary look what happened to Ronnie The thing that sucks is that lead it happened in a car accident it even happened, you know from the gym All right guys Let's wrap this thing up until next week guys remember with heavy muscle radio Hurts good night everyone

=== FILE: Fouad Abiad SHREDDED at 269-lbs & Shanique Grant TRAINS for 3-Peat! [c4tOkhyGtxY].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Votes, there's 30-year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Friday September 4th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Hey, say in life, it's not about the destination, it's about the journey, but for Terrence Ruff in the nexT4 months are about a little bit of both. For all of you this week, Terrence went on the record to let his fans know that he started prepped for this year's Olympia where he figures to be right there in the hunt for a top 10 finish. One of the things that will be noticeably different for Terrence over the next few months will be the way he pays attention to his weight, because for the first time in his career he'll be bumping up against the new weight limit for classic physique. But on the flip side, a bigger better version of Terrence should place well on the Olympia stage, especially when you consider that we won't have guys like Keon Pearson, George Peterson and stand along with this year. So Ruff Diesel is at the top of his game, he might be a lock to secure a top three finish. One of the other big names starting their Olympia prepped this week is the raining and defending two time Olympia champ, Sheneek Rand. He also has a lot riding on this year's competition. For Sheneek, there are two factors that play here. One, she's the defending champion, and that means she has a gigantic target on her back, which isn't anything new, but as they say, heavy in the head that wears the crown. And after two straight years of dominance, no one but her, knows how heavy that load really is. The second is that this year, there's an element of history on the line, because securing another win would put her one-rung behind Juliana Melancharrney, as the all-time winning establishment in the division. If there's anything that 2020's taught us, it's that nothing in this crazy world is certain. So if she wants to avoid the 2020 curse that already managed to claim so many victims, now would be the time to put the pedal to the floor. We also have a little bit of Olympia news straight from the IFBV Pro League, who announced this week that they had some form of a plan in place to help international athletes move past the various travel restrictions that are still in place across the globe to compete in this year's contest. If you've watched this show at all over the last few months, you've seen probably a dozen or so stories about athletes who couldn't make one of their target dates because of travel cancellations. So this could be a game changer for the William Bonax and Hottie Schuppens of the world who might have otherwise had trouble getting into the country. That being said, so much can change between now and November. I don't think anything is written in stone yet, but at least for now there is some blimmer of hope. So I guess we'll all just have to wait and see how this whole thing plays out. For the most part, I think people tend to get more patient and disciplined with age and patients and discipline are two things that you need in states when it comes to body buildings. Just ask for what obby odd. A few days ago, biGHost released a new update from his latest venture into the 2020 season where he showed off a shredded 269 pound fresh out of bed. Look, that was better than anything we've seen from him in a while. At least from a distance foe, it looks like he's definitely healthy and back to trening like his old self again, which is great news if you're a long time foe at a fan and as long as he could stay locked into this groove, I wouldn't rule the possibility of seeinGHim on stage sometime between now and the end of the year. Stay tuned. And that does it. If you had another edition of Muscle in the morning, on day polumbal reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Frida Paulsen Update! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸16⧸18) [Ua9WsuWHf5w].txt ===

Wake up sleepy heads, it's Monday here at Muscle in the Morning. At this point in the season last year, there weren't too many people talking about Sidney Gillin as a potential figure-learn beer winner. And for reasons that I can't quite seem to understand, it kind of feels like that, again. And though it seems like it's been part of our strategy to keep a low profile since her weekend at the Arnold back in March, over the last few weeks we finally started to see a few signs of life from the figure divisions raining Olivia champion. From the few breadcrumbs that we've seen Gillin drop, it seems like she's right on track to come back and defend her title again. But give it how much of a grind these last 18 months have been. You have to wonder if she's got enough juice left in the tank to show up and deliver another knockout performance. When you get up to the elite level and pretty much anything in life, whether it be sports, business or bodybuilding, irrational confidence can be one of the things that gives someone the extra little push they need to separate themselves from the pack. And as far as I can tell, men's physique superstar Ryan Terry doesn't seem to be lacking much in the confidence department these days. Over the weekend, the Terry camp released a new update 10 weeks out from their latest Olympia 4A will be looking to climb a gianT4-time defending champion size mountain that goes by the name Jeremy Bwayne Dia. Truth be told Terry is probably one of only two or three guys who actually has a legitimate shot of knocking off the champ this year if he's still not back to 100%. So it becomes out firing at all cylinders. You've got to think that he's at least got a puncher's chance of scoring the victory. I used to think that the only cool things to come out of Sweden were Vikings. Ikea an absolute vodka, which is the ultimate party starter just for the record. But after the year she's had so far, I think it's probably time to add bikini star in the making, free To pulse into that list. After ripping off five straight top three finishes already this season, the Swedish bomb shell has turned into another intriguing storyline in a division that hasn't had any shortage of drama so far this year. Since she entered the pro league three years ago, we've seen Palson slowly start to come into her own as a top tier athlete. But now that she's starting to demand some of the spotlight, it'll be fun to see what it takes to step up to the next level and develop into the bikini divisions next to lead talent. We are near so far in the classic physique division. With a ton of talented athletes coming out of the woodwork, making the name for themselves at some of these shows, including second year standout, Kenneth Owens. After two straight top eight performances, to start the year at the Arnold Classic and New York pro, the former Junior USA star, seems like he might be getting ready to fire up the engines again. Over the weekend, the Owens can't release a new clip from a recent leg session that gave his fans a chance to catch the sophomore sensation in action. When he's got it all working, Owens has one of those round flowing physiques that feels like it's tailor made for this division. With a few more improvements, this kid feels like someone who has the potential to develop into something dangerous over the next few years. If you haven't seen the New Jurassic World movie yet, you're missing out on one of the most badass man-made dinosaurs of all time. But even the boys out there in Jurassic World would have a hard time trying to grow something in the lab that was his badassest seven-time Olympia champ, Phil Heath. Last week, we saw a King Phil release another short teaser in his quest to make history, which some people think is a foregun conclusion at this point. Even with the big rommies of the world making all sorts of waves, it's still hard to imagine a scenario where anyone comes in who's good enough to knock off Phil at this stage of his career. And borrowing someone coming completely out of left field, I think it all likely would. We'll find ourselves talking about how much longer he wants to keep this run up after number eight is officially in the record books. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: GEAR Presents： Mike Liberatore at the 2011 Olympia Weekend- Highlights [IaLv4i0Zk1Y].txt ===

We are the coming stage of the beat. All right. Locked. Here is quite an Olympian. My girlfriend, Christina Voynitz. I'm very proud. Be a accomplishments that's here. Turning pro and qualifying. So how is it? I owe it all to you. All right, we're here with Bethany Wagner and Bethany Wagner. Bethany Wagner. They took the hyphenated off, but I'm sure. Is it okay with just the systeremen? You okay? Yeah, that's I'm competing this weekend. I did the hyphen for two shows and now I'm trying to switch over. Other judges going to know, like I think your name carries a little bit more weight. You are six. Maybe they'll start, you know, they'll call him Guy Wagner. So Guy, tell me how you're feeling. All right, so we finally caught up with Guy. He's done fooling around with PJ. I don't know where they went, but they disappeared for a while. So yeah, anyhow. And that's with your wife told me no cheap meals. No, if I had a cheap meal, it was pretty much a sushi. That's not a micro-vertory cheap meal. No, I actually went to Indian Alperger. That was one of the first things I did when I got here. And I had a chocolate shake and fries and a double cheeseburger. You want to hit that up a little bit later or what? Last time I think about Fried Cheap Mills gives things and I paid. All right, I'm here with tricky Jackson. What up? No, I got to invite to the pro-master worlds in Miami come December to 10th. I'm super stoked about that because I'm going to be on stage with some of the greatest bodybuilders, you know, of the last two or three decades. So that's really cool. And on top of that, they're giving out a nice chuck of money for the best pose award. Yes. So you know, I'm going to be working for that. Lock the LED tonight. Lock if you've ever been a LED to begin with. Lock the LED tonight. Lock the LED channel, man. How nice the same you can be. It would give this is day number two, video number two. But for all you said, didn't see video number one, which is not a you have yet because it hasn't been edited and put up. We're going to do a double release. One or two, we're going to be on the same base and you get bonus for free. Or just finish it up by our lunch. As you can see, you can take those with a little fries with cheeseburger or some onions, plain, big cookie, and the way they're sort of, but the producer is now getting what is considered a quality bodybuilder lunch. I think I read some of the points about if I ate better back or nutrients, my condition would be better. I don't think I'd buy that. But people want more using double cheeseburger to eat out the sauce. I don't know the sauce. So, gain a little weight, huh? It looks like you did it. It's so hard on it. You got to get a pull it in. I got a little bit of water yourself. I actually had this, I had to drop a little water. I got like a delayed reaction. I was like 250, 700. Well yeah, I got to close my hands. Feel better now. I think I'm about 250 now. So I have more comfortable. I didn't go up. I didn't want to do that whole rebound thing. I don't know what it was. I didn't even work out for like a week. I knew they did. I think it was still working out and then adding food that second week and then it was killing me. So you got to go back for the pasta. Yeah, IMean, I ate well. I just ate one. Did you take it? Did you take it? Did you take it? He was going to pass me a try, but that's too cool for me. But not at the season's done. You know me? I know. I know what to find though. So, that's cool, but I'm going to look at the clothes. I don't want to get anything now. It's too busy, but I should have changed her pretty decent. I got in at that, the waist taken it, which is nice. I don't want to go ahead of Barry so they fit pretty good. Lock the lady tonight. Lock if you've ever been a lady to begin with. Lock the lady tonight. Alright, so actually break this down so we don't get lost. I'm going to grab a seat, sign up and go hold up the sofa and set it up. I think George gets arrested for public opinion public. So we're not at that's going to happen, but we may get lost for you. So what would anybody else do on Saturday night? May we end the year? It's when they weather is fighting. We're going to walk the strip, get some food, and see what happens. We saw some storm trip for it's day. They're real. They are real. Do you know what the Mr. Olympia competition is? Do you know what the biggest bodybuilding contest in the world for professional bodybuilding? So make it. Come on, give me a can, huh? Use for a while, I'll go ahead and show. Come on. Come on. Win Vegas and food and alcohol and laziness. You just seen the pool today, it was outrageous. Besides the two girls we were with, we were in the car board. This is the smile we've been troubled with. Like 99% of everyday is spending the same clothes because when you're at the gym you're trading clients. You don't have to wear a suit or anything like that, it's comfortable. So pretty much every time I go on my own stores, I end up buying something. And you end up with a closet full of clothes and you don't know what to wear and it's basically all the same crap. Alright, so if you guys pay attention to what my customer is. Everything you like is Jordan. You can probably write a black guarantee. Write a black guarantee. Did she say that? I don't know that. I don't know why I went to Louisville and I think I'd get stuck with the color. Red and black and white. IMean, it's killing. Like even the t-shirts. If they don't have any stretch to them and they're like regular cotton, I don't buy regular cotton t-shirts. They've got to have stretch or it's got a lay on you. Because maybe just wearing a stupid t-shirt that doesn't fit right. Especially when you start being built a certain way, it's starting to vary. You just want stuff a lay on you. And that's trying to show off putting a super tight t-shirt on. You know, a medium on when you really should be wearing a large or something. Like just to make them so much. They're rather in hang and be flowing. That way you don't look at it. Like, well, I could do this is for educational purposes. I'm okay. So I think Mike just told you that he wears like a size 13 shoe. And he's Italian. He goes to England. It is true. My buddy's with had some water two states. And he's so funny when he had a bigger tank. How much bigger they actually get. They do really size the tank or the environment. So it's kind of crazy to see like a trigger fish. That's like four times the size I've seen. Like my buddies are pouring on the man they got like. They got like, you got a stingray and stuff on. Not float about it. He's swimming. You're gonna be sweating. You're gonna be bad. But it's pretty cool. Lock the LED tonight. Lock the LED to begin with. Lock the LED to begin with. Look, guys, guys. Thanks for your help. Victory Gallup. Well, we're finishing up here. We just got to the Victory Gallup. We're gonna head inside and see what's going on. Maybe we have a couple drinks and eats. And then I think the destination for later tonight is pure. We're at Seasers. This is a maximum party or something going on. One of my buddies from home Chris is actually, I think I got a host which only works over there. So we got to hook up over there and get me head and over there. Finishing out tonight. Not too late because we got the cool party tomorrow. And then we'll check in later after that hit the strip. Lock the LED to begin with. Two tonight. Lock the LED to begin with. Lock the LED to begin with. Lock the LED to begin with. All right, it's day four. We're here in Maraz, at Fielty Burger. We're gonna head some food. And I'm gonna head over to Trudger. We're gonna head some dessert time. I kind of have a sweet tooth. But before this we had a scoby beef burger. So I think a little big signers. Probably beef is amazing. Never had it. So the burger is the great. These are fried Oreos with vanilla ice cream. Doesn't look like a fan, no powdered sugar. I like it's probably going to go down pretty quick. It's pretty easy. So let's see what tastes like. Get a little ice cream. We're talking to each other. We're talking to each other. Considering that all of their shows have acrobatics in it, that it's what they're known for. This was very crazy. This guy was performing on basically what is. We call it the still rings in the Olympics. And he had a cage or kind of a cube that he balanced on his feet. And moved it all around. He was performing strength. You know, acts. And also when he was swinging around the stage, it was couldn't believe that he could actually hold this thing. So this toes and still perform the things that he was doing. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a gentleman. How nice the same you can be.

=== FILE: GEORGE PETERSON BATTLE READY! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸27⧸18) [thsecSnzt3I].txt ===

It's the weekend here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm day polonvo and today is Friday, July 27, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I'm definitely not one of those people who thinks it's cool to demonize pitfalls, but you can't deny the fact that there is something scary about seeing one of those bad boys show their teeth when they get angry. Right now I think it's pretty safe to say that classic physique all-star George Peterson is out there showinGHis teeth to the rest of the division. After spending most of his off-season laying low, Peterson has really started to up his game over the last few weeks, especially back on Tuesday when we saw his newest update. As far as I can tell, GP3 is dialed in and ready to go for his big showdown on the Olympia stage that set to go down two months from now. And I guess when you've got a bite as strong as this, you don't have to do a whole lot of barking to deliver the message. I'm one of those people who gets fired up whenever I get a chance to see or do something new. Because I think that's the stuff that really makes life exciting. And I'm pretty sure my old buddy, James Hollingshead falls into that same camp too. Few days after making an awesome pro-day view out at the Spain big man weekend championships that UK powerhouse sure doesn't seem like he's wasting any time getting right back into the swing of things. This week we saw the Hollingshead camp release a short clip from a new arm trening session as he tries to take full advantage of that previous post show rebound window. Anyone who's followed his journey knows that the progress that this guy has made over the last year or so has been nothing short of awesome. And when you've got all that working like this, I don't see any reason why you don't want to slow things down or let off the gas. I know there are 10 million opinions out there about what exactly constitutes staying in shape during your offseason. But if you ask me, I think 212 big man John Jewett seems like he's got the right idea. Those two months after making a strong 7th place debut at the New York pro the former USA champ looks like he's done a nice job of keeping with in striking distance. According to reports, Jewett is still sitting somewhere right around the 240 mark, which is probably dead on for a guy with his size and structure and where he should be at this point in the season. He's still having a herd as to whether or not he's officially closing up shop for the year. But I think he's a guy who could fare pretty well. If he hit one of those small post Olympia shows that we've got coming up in the fourth quarter of the calendar year. But only time will tell where Jewett lands next. ThEQuote the great late Rodney Dangerfield, I don't get no respect and I bet a good chunk of change that raining in defending Bikini Olympia champ and Jelika Tashara is probably feeling a little disrespected right about now, despite the fact that the top rank athlete in the division was electric to start the season. We really haven't heard much chatter on the wire from people givinGHer the love she deserves as the defending champion. To her credit, all she's done from day one of Role Olympia prepped is show up and put in the work, which is exactly what you'd expect someone in her position to do now that everyone's gunning for her throne. But maybe now that there isn't as much attention on her heading down this home stretch, we'll all get the best version of Angelika Tashara that we've ever seen once the curtain finally drops. I think sometimes it's almost better to be one of those fly under the radar type of guys because it means you can show up every day and do what you do without a million people trying to question and comment on your decisions. And so far this summer, two 12 standout, Calab Blanchard definitely fits the description of an under the radar type of guy. A few weeks removed from putting together the best look of his career, but that second place looked he brought to the Chicago pro the third year pro is still out there plugging away as quiet as ever. At least from the people I've spoken with, Blanchard was one of the few athletes who really caught everyone by surprise with what he did there in the windy city. And he seems like the perfect candidate to slip into a show, like the Phoenix Europe a pro later this year where he could be really dangerous if he shows up spot on. And that does it to get another edition of the Muxhorn the Morning. I'm Dave Holumbo reminding you that the always be sure to your passions and they should follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: GEORGE PETERSON SMASHES CHEST! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸4⧸18) [g3NDtoYpelk].txt ===

Happy Independence Day from everyone here at Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Wednesday, July 4th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Here we go again with another editianavar Axe Muscles World Famous Recap Wednesday, where we kick off today's program with the only show in town last weekend. This San Jose Pro, in the men's physique division, Super rookie extraordinaire, Kyron Holden, came in and delivered a good old fashioned gut punch to the strong lineup on the way to earning the first of many wins to come in his pro career. Second year pro Anthony Woods came out swinging, but was still forced to settle for a very respectable second place. And rounding out the top three with another solid effort was Olympian Long Wu. And the women's physique division, Antoinette Downey, broodinGHer best look ever, and crews to an unprecedented win. The run-rout position went to Brazilian import, Evaline Roca, and finishing third was North D'Obranena, who I watch out for this weekend and Vancouver. This weekend at UFC 226, we're about to see two of the greatest heavyweight of all time go at it. When they finally get a chance to step inside the octagon, but a few months from now, all eyes in the bodybuilding world will be glued to the Olympia stage. When Amad Ashkenoni tries to become the man, who managed to step in and stop defending champ, Flex Lewis's date with Destiny. True to form Ashkenoni's been hold up at his home base in oxygen gym. He's been trying to soak up enough of that crew technology to earn himself a place in bodybuildinGHistory. In Rollana City, Ashkenoni is one of probably only two or three guys who even has an outside shot of knocking Flex off the mountain this year. But as my UFC fans know out there already, well it takes us one good punch to change a fight. Steamed Beach Body Season is in full effect. I know a lot of guys out there are probably practicing old school curls for the girls, work out plans every Saturday morning. And if you're one of those guys, it might not be a bad idea to check in and get a few pro tips from rookie classic physics sensation, Steve Lourius. Last weekend, Lourius released a short clip from one of the more recent arm trening sessions where we catch the defending Pittsburgh pro champ getting in somEQuality improvement work. The contest season moves a hundred miles per hour and sometimes it's easy to forget just how good this guy was against one of the stronger lineups we've seen all season. But if he comes back with a few new pounds of quality muscle, the next time around this guy has the potential to do some serious damage and really establish himself as one of the next great talents in the division. I had a conversation earlier this week where someone told me that they thought this year's classic physical Olympia would be the best that we've seen across any division in more than a decade. And if I were a betting man, I think I'd be willing to lay down a few dollars that George Peterson finds a way to make himself a major part of that equation. The second year superstars coming off a rookie season that saw a miss establish themselves as one of the premier talents in the division. And my people close to the source tell me that as of today he's on pace to come in and blow last years third place Olympia look out of the water. For the most part it's been a relatively quiet year for the Peterson camp, but now they're only a little more than two months away from the big dance. We're going to start to see these guys kicking things up into super high gear. When I look back now to when I was 23 years old, I think there's probably like a 99% chance that I didn't have enough common sense to know my ass for my elbows. But thankfully for him, Cody Montgomery doesn't seem like he's having that problem. This week someone inside Team Montgomery leaked a clip from a chest trening video that shows the 23 year old star cranking out a few sets of dumbbell presses durinGHis morning workout. By all accounts the CEO of Team Montgomery is in a great place both mentally and physically right now. When you look at the success he's had so far this season is it's hard to see why. At this point we still have yet to hear directly from Cody about whether or not he has another show date circled on the calendar. But if you can slide in under the radar hit one of those smaller events later in the season he has as good a chance as anyone to come away with a victory. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day polonbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: GLYCEMIC INDEX EXPLAINED： Diet vs. Off-Season! [4g-iphKkkM0].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro. So it's 30-year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Day of Columbus here with an RX muscle rant. Today's topic, the glycemic index. What is the glycemic index? Well it's an arbitrary, I'm not really arbitrary, I call it arbitrary because it varies a lot. It's a rating system of how much insulin, or how fast a mouth-adventulin will be released in response to a food you eat. Now they rate at 100 white bread or simple sugars, like table sugar, or sucrose, meaning that you get the highest insulin output by taking these foods. That means they digest and get absorbed into the bloodstream. The absolutEQuickest and the cost of that, they cause the most insulin release. Remember, what is insulin's job? The pancreas releases insulin from the beta cells and responds to elevating blood sugars. So blood sugar rises very fast because you're eating a piece of candy or something that's pure sugar. Your body pumps out the most insulin. Now sometimes because blood sugar rises too fast, your body might overrelease insulin. It's not necessarily a good thing because it can cause a rebound, high-poglicing. That's why sometimes if you're remembering your kidney, you can't eat your old juice stuff right after you have it. You're running around like a maniac and then it'll suddenly get tired. You know, and fall asleep, usually it was in class from the beta, but it's after lunch. So that's a distinct possibility. Also, you have too much insulin. You can obviously store extra calories as fat, which we don't want. So typically, when we're trying to limit our body's ability to destroy body fat, we want to eat lower glycemic carbs. That's why usually in the off-season scenario, I give people lower glycemic carbs so they don't overrelease insulin. Whereas pre-contest if I'm giving them small, tiny amounts of carbs, they're not really worried about overrelease insulin because more than likely they're not going to number one. And I know they're not going to store anything as fat because of the fact that the carbs quantities are small. When you're eatinGHugEQuantities of carbs, much more likely that you can store things as fat. But thEQuestion really is, when you compare a white potato to a sweet potato, we know the sweet potato has a lower glycemic index because it's got more fiber in it and just by nature it is. Whereas the white potato tends to have the higher glycemic index is there really a differencEQuantitatively in eating both of these foods. Now if you look at the glycemic index chart, this is why I call it arbitrary because it varies. Remember, all foods have variability because depending on where they're grown and what stren of variety they are, they have different amounts of fiber and slower or faster digesting carbohydrates in them. So not all potatoes are really cool and not all sweet potatoes are equal. But by and far, if you look at the glycemic index of a sweet potato, before you cook and it's like about a 40, 45 which is pretty low on the glycemic index. That's a low glycemic chart. After you cook it it breaks down some of the sugars in it and it tends to bring it glycemic index to up to about 50, 50, 50 sometimes. Whereas a sweet potato kind of starts it like a 65 already on the glycemic chart. And then if you cook it or even instantize it, you know, like you could get mashed potatoes, you know, you know, you even if you make a playing without any butter or milk, they're rapidly, they kind of almost pre-digesting as they made it to a powder. So you don't really have to digest these. You remember thEQuicker something digest and get into your bloodstream faster and higher glycemic index. So if you look at that, a white potato can go almost up to 80 on the glycemic chart. So it is a faster car but thEQuestion is, if you know, if you're designed to die and I give someone say six ounces of sweet potato versus six ounces of white potato, okay, is it going to matter? How about 10 ounces? Let's do 10 ounces of white potato, which is about 45 grams of carbs and 10 ounces of sweet potato, which is a little higher in carbs. It could be around 60 almost, you know, grams of carbs. So we're talking more carbs. Now, if you equate ounces to ounces and you know, one has more carbs than the other. Of course they're not equal. But if you bring them into equality with each other, meaning you take in a little less sweet potato. So you do 10 ounces of potatoes and or, okay, you do about like eight or nine ounces of sweet potato. So we have the carbonypid equal. I didn't do the math on it. So I don't know if that's the. But whatever you have to do to get the carbohydrate content equal, are they quantitatively different in terms of how your body will process them and whether you will lose or gain body fat. And I say the answer is it doesn't matter. I think when you're in a dieted state and you're giving your body a limited amount of resources, meaning that you've, whether you or your coach has figured out, okay, this person needs this many grams of carbs a day. I'm giving them less than that. Okay, whether you get it from a sweet potato or a regular potato, I don't think it really matters. Now, the people who are, if it doesn't, you know, fit your macros would say, well, then you could have a sweet, you could have a pop tart, too. It doesn't matter. Now, I think if you're eating simple sugars, you can get, you can, absolutely, first of all the nutrition, nutritional value, it is not the same. But if you eat simple sugars, you can get a really huge rush of insulin. And I think that's a month's construit things up. But once again, I don't want to get into that whole debate. If, if, if you could eat a pop tart and that's equal to potato, I'm talking about higher glycemic carbs like a sweet potato or like a white potato versus a sweet potato. Does it matter? I say no in a, in a, in a dieting situation, if you're on a limited amount of carbs and you're really, you know, counting, you know, exactly what you're putting into your body and figuring it out, I don't think it really makes a big difference. I actually sometimes like to get people white rice when toward the end of a diet when I'm trying to, you know, if they're getting too flat and I want to, I want to fill them up because what it does is it gets absorbed very quickly. And I can see a change rapidly in their body. So if they said in the past, in the morning, and they're really flat, then I can go back, I can give them a cup of, you know, rice two or three times at the next two or three meals, you know, a cup of rice per meal. And then by the evening, I can see if they filled up. Now, if I use a, a slower glycemic carb like brown rice and they, you know, brown rice because it has high fiber content, you're not really absorbing all the carbs and sometimes it's a slower absorption process. IMight not see by two or three hours later if they've actually made it, you know, a difference in my take told the next day before I see that. So I use faster carbs, but I'm not giving large amounts of giving small amounts. offseason, I've noticed though, if I use too many fast acting carbohydrates, simple sugars or, you know, even, you know, white breads or bagels or, you know, white rice, people can get fat easy. Some people who are really sensitive and who overrelease insulin because they're overreleasing insulin and they're eating in the abundance of nutrients. So there was the eating more than their maintenance because we're trying to grow. They will store some of those carbs as fat more, more easily. So in that situation, I would rather go with the sweet potato, I would rather go with the brown rice, I'd rather go with the oatmeal that has lower glycemic carbs, whereas pre-content is because you're not eating as much and you're not overeating what your maintenance level is, you can get away, I think, with eating the faster carbs and not have a problem. Now also, I don't really give carbs usually every day in my diets to people unless they have a super, super fast metabolism. So that's, so usually their glycogen stores are really depleted when I'm working or dieting people down. So those carbs go right into glycogen stores or a regular glycogenation of the liver or the muscles. And so you don't really notice it. Now if your glycogen stores are topped off already, once again because you're eating a lot of carbs, whether it be dieting or not dieting, but if your glycogen stores are almost full and then you eat a large carb meal, some of that's going to not have room to get stored in glycogen and then very smoothly get stored as fat if it doesn't get burned as energy. During a dieting state where you do a lot of cardio, some of it can be burned as energy offseason where you kind of conserving calories because you're trying to grow, you could get fat from that. So you have to take this into consideration. So to answer the age of question, what better a sweet potato or a white potato, it depends the circumstance. So you can't, there's no definitive yes or no answer. It really depends how the person's body processes carbohydrates is in an offseason versus dieting scenario. Is there an over-bundance of calories versus an under-bundance because you're trying to lose weight. And that's how you make your decision. Also, sometimes people just need variation in their diet. So it's not at the end of the world to throw a white potato when if you're giving people sweet potatoes all day long, just to break it off as well. Alright guys, I hope this helped you. I hope it answered somEQuestions or maybe it just maybe raised morEQuestions and you have to experiment on yourself. On day polonbo, with an Rx muscle rant.

=== FILE: GOLD'S GYM VENICE DOCUMENTARY! Marc Martinez Interview ｜ History of Bodybuilding [9z0dfkaHnFs].txt ===

I think we ordered initially about half a dozen T-shirts. I thought who would want to go to the gold scheme T-shirt. I came up to this area which is Oakland and I went to a bar and I collaborated every and there was a band up there called Mr. clen and something. I said, get yourself a Mr. clen bottle and make me a drawing of Mr. clen with a barbell. Here's what happened. I had designed the golds gym logo. In 1973, I'm an African and Zookies Deli with Kim Waller and all. I think Kim's spring might have been there. He gave an artist Rick Dreson a gym member, Mr. clen bottle. He says, I want the T-shirt to look like this except with a barbell. So Rick made a ball hit man. Looks sort of like Mr. clen with a lot more muscle. And he put a barbell in the middle of it and a barbell was straight. I said, everything is good Rick. It's said, we're just going to bend the barbell. And that's where the original logo came from that we put on the ghost gym stuff. Mr. clen will clen your whole house and everything that's in. Mr. clen, Mr. clen, Mr. clen. And sure enough, that goofy old golds gym logo was born. So they printed up all these shirts and they didn't do it. And they sold them all out the first day. Well, slowly we'd get letters from people around the country. Can I buy one of those T-shirts? So they said, we need more. He's choice to print more. And it built from there and then thousands by the time I sold many thousands a month would be sold. And so they started selling more and more and became over the years in large selling lowland world. The way it was set up to promote it, I tell producers if you need a place for gym location. Come on down the gold. You know, use the facility free. Anytime you want to do a TV spot or a movie spot, you go ahead and use it with one restriction. Have to have a golds gym t-shirt across the chest. And then from that point on, that propelled it into the general public. When I talked to Ken Sprig, he remembers that he says, thank you, paid $25 to draw that thing. I said, I don't remember that at all. I never got a dime for it. I just had taken it. It realizes. Welcome back to the history of body building. As you saw in the little preview clip we aired before the show started. We have a documentary coming out on the history of Venice essentially. And the man who made it is here today, Mark Martinez, welcome to the show. Your documentary is called Dream Big, which is a very apt title for this documentary. Considering that a lot of bodybuilders went out to California and made that total room of Jothan, a golds gym, because they had big dreams and they wanted to achieve greatness. The biggest, probably, dream out. The dream were out there was armed Schwarz and Eger. And we know what happened with him. Welcome to the show number one. Number two, tell us about how this whole documentary came about. Well, thank you Dave. And thank you to Ed Conters for setting this up. I appreciate it. I got started on this on the documentary basically, because I was a teenager. I grew up in Southern California. And about the time I became aware of bodybuilding. I was probably freshman in high school. And probably lived about 20 miles away from the original golds gym. And a couple of my buddies and I were looking at the book pumping iron in school. And at that time, you're looking at these photos of these guys. And there's just no reference point form. Especially in the middle 70s, right? You're looking at that. And anyway, I think a couple years later, when I got serious and I had a car, drove out there. And we found out, like, oh, well, the original golds has been turned into a house. The owner can spray, turned it into his house and moved golds to Santa Monica to second street. So that's that was kind of my entry into it. And that was the kind of own that house. I didn't know he lived in that house actually. Is it actual house for a while? Yeah, he did for a bit. He, in fact, it's not, it's not in the movie, but one of the interviews. He said that Eddie, Eddie Giuliani and Roger Coward saved him a lot of construction gas, because Roger knew drywall and you electrical. So they were able to build everything to code. Anyway, can live there for a bit and then sold it. I think it's, I think it's on its third owner now. But when Ken told me that his oldest son, who was a basketball player, played for the University of Oregon and is now a high school administrator, down in Atlanta, Georgia, he said that was my oldest son's bedroom was for Arnold and and according were squatting, because that was son's bedroom. So that's kind of cool. Is it, I think, I thought the city of Venice turned into some kind of national monument. That's nothing, is that not true? Well, it's, it's true in the sense that the sign cannot be, if you, if you've seen photos of it, it's a house that you'll see that golds gym, font, the sign is just still out there. Yeah, I've won half the million times when I was out there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And the entrence, you know, you could see the entrence on the front gate, but it can send even back in those days, everyone entered from the rear, awful specific they would enter in the alleyway behind it. And if you go in the alley behind it, you'll see, you could tell that people live there. Yeah. But anyway. That's funny. IMoved the, and they moved the golds to the original location to the Santa Monica, and because they wanted more room on the serving, right? Right, right, can, yeah. Can't said it was probably about two and a half times the size of the original, and it really wasn't even that big either. Yeah. I think, I think the one on second street was about 5,000 square feet. Yeah. And it used to be an automotive repair garage. But it had great skylights, it had great brick walls, and a trust ceiling, and a good place to tren. Right. And so when you start researching this and saying, I think I want to make a documentary on the history of this gym, because it's so, IMean, universally known, and there's so much history there, a witty start. IMean, how do you actually get started on a project like that? I don't know, even though I guess, you know, Ed Conner's obviously is a good historian, but you had to go back beyond him even really. Yeah. Well, you know, that was the thing is, I was on the internet, and this had to be like early 2000s, and I'm reading, and you're reading these different things on different websites, and I'm sure we've all had the experience where you're like, that's not what happened. Yeah, that's not true. And one, because I joined when I was 17, and I walked in there, and I was very, very lucky in 1977. I'm 16 out. Yeah. In 1977, and that was the year that pumping iron was released. Right. I think bodybuilding probably just burst into the American mainstream in terms of awareness. It was still so new. Yeah. And can had just organized this crazy Mr. America parade through the street to Santa Monica to promote not only the gym, but the contest, because he promoted that year's AAU, Mr. America at the Santa Monica Civic. Okay. So it was, that's the environment I came into. It's like you walk in. All the stores are there. Right. T local TV stations are coming in constantly to shoot packages for the evening news and interview the guys. And it was just, it fired me up as a kid. And then years later, looking back saying, wait a minute, I was there. I know some of the guys. Right. I can contact him, and it kind of grew from there. What were the main, like, I guess household names over there at the time? Well, when I walked in one, and in the documentary, there's a point where I talk about, of course, there's Arnold and there's Zayne and there's Franco. By that time, those three guys were trening at World Gym. But pretty much everyone else was a goal. When I walked in, Robby was there, Bill Grant, some mic mentor, Pete Grimkowski, high level A, you competitive Richardbol, who was there trening for a contest, Larry Gordon, Tony Pierce, and Mani Perry, a lot of people, the name of people from the 70s and 80s remember the mentors there at that point? Yeah, Mike was and then Ray came out later. I think Ray came out late 78. But I think Ray came about the time that I remember about the time Casey had come out. Yeah. Kate, Kate, Barry tour, and Danny Pothier would come out. When he was trening for a show, he'd come back out from Rochester. So we were in Joe Weedorwood, walk in, and there'd be a couple of photographers like a guy named Craig Deet, he had, and then he also had to build rentals. And they would do photoshoot, right there. They'd set up the lights and do photoshoot. Was Lou there or was Lou at the World at that point? Lou was at both. And the whole, IMean, the whole goal of Jim World's Jim thing is a documentary. I don't know. Yeah, because Joe Gold is in a live anymore, just to do that one. Yeah, you know, IMean, it's, it's, you're getting any Julia, I didn't know for that one, man. Well, you know, it was funny. I saw Eddie at the file. I was down in Southern California a couple years ago, and I hadn't seen Eddie in years since World Jim. And went over and said hi, and we were talking. But he doesn't, I don't think he really likes to be interviewed. You know, I had him on my radio show years ago. It's great. Oh, he was awesome. Yeah, I don't think he liked, I don't think he does a lot of interviews, but he was really good on that show, you know. Yeah, oh, yeah, he's got great stories. Yeah. It's great, great guy. So yeah, IMean, that's how we started the research. I'm like, you know what, I know, I know I'm still in contact. I'll get one guy to contact other guys. I sent out emails and then got some back, some I didn't. But it was kind of, it's been a long, I just processed. I actually started this as a documentary on the 1977 Mr. America parade. So, you know, the guys that were in the parade that were at goals were like, Bill Grant, Ken Waller, Rudy Hermesio, who was Sylvester Stallone's bodyguard. And was a teenage Mr. America. Yeah, Rudy Hermesio. Okay. If you see, if if you Google him, you'll see him in Stallone. It's still long, it's givinGHim the trophy at the 78 goals classic. Rudy, but I got that. But I got that. Hermocio, H-E-R. And he was a bodyguard, okay. Yeah, and he also worked for Larry Flint as well. Howard, huh? Okay. And he was trening people at Jim, like the race car driver Danny Sullivan, a couple of actors from Little House on the prairie at the time. IMean, that was the way that the Jim was, but that's kind of how I did my research. It's like, wait a minute, I was there. Right. IMade it in a kid, but I knew the guys. And so, kind of group, from I think interviewing five guys to eventually, 16, 16 people about seven hours of interviews called down to about 90 minutes. Who was the most informative of all the people you interviewed? Well, I think it depends on what subject, but I would say, I would say, um, three guys, John Baylick. Yeah. Good. Charles Gaines, who wrote, stay hungry and pumping iron. Right. And Ken Spray. And one, because with Ken, you learn the chain of ownership of goals that a lot of people don't know. Give us that chain of ownership. Well, yeah, well, you know, everyone knows, you know, the name of the Jim is Gold's Jim. So, Joe Gold has built Gold's Jim in 65 and sold it in 1970. And a lot of guys, you know, it's hard for people today to realize, IMean, I know Gold is, it's still a large brand. They're still, what, over 500 locations around the world. But back then, um, there was no money in it. And, uh, Ken Spray said, I think Joe got tired of just like, running the Jim and not making any money. So he was looking for a buyer. And then, um, there were two guys in the Jim, but Danets and Dave Sacks. Mm-hm. And, uh, but Danets was an antique dealer. Dave Sacks was an engineer and was also a Jim member. And they bought it from Joe. Oh, I didn't even know that. I thought it went right to, you know, what's his name? Ken. Ken, yeah, I know. Like, that was one thing I found out about. How much did they sell it for? Did you find that up? You know, I know that Ken, Ken bought it from Dave and But, um, and he said he had to come up with $50,000. That's a lot. That's a lot. Yeah, back then it was, but what, what, um, he said what, um, Well, but Danets did when he bought the, the Jim from Joe was he bought, there was an empty lot next to the Jim on one side. And then there was a house on the other side. So, but Danets boughT3 lots. So, when Ken bought the Jim from him, um, he bought those three lots. So, it's like, okay, I bought the Jim and I bought, whatever reputation was at the Jim. IMean, it's hard for people to believe by 1972 and Ken bought it. Goals hadn't promoted a contest. They still were really known outside of people about body building magazines. Right. So, he almosT3 plots a land. Um, $50,000 is super mortgages. And, um, but Danets was desperate. He had some antique sprang-coat on me, but had some antique that were in the port of L.A., on a ship and he had no money to get them off. And that was his business. So, he's like, I have to sell the Jim to get the antique. Oh, my God. Yeah, they were going to sell the Jim anyway because they weren't making money either. Right. And, uh, I think, um, Ken said they came to me pretty much as a last resort. Like, hey, maybe this guy's got some cash. We can get the money for it. That's a lot of money back then. Yeah. Well, you know, um, Ken had a, uh, uh, production company. And he said we did everything from the O'Leo Marjorie commercials. Who religious programs to, Pornographic film. Oh, really? That's funny. Oh, yeah. It was on the, it was on the sound stage. And he said it was kind of funny because he said I'm not going to be shooting a blue movie on a Saturday night. And then, you know, we strike the set and then Sunday, we'd have a local preacher doinGHis doinGHis. And he's like so, and Ken, um, uh, Ken also had done, like, a lot of the guys, some modeling. Some, some modeling that was, Like, do you know, like, do you like stuff, you know, right? For certain magazines, it went not, but he said he, he got connected with a lot of people and Hollywood a lot of film directors whatnot. So he said all of a sudden, he was, I kind of had some leverage. Like, it's like, if they liked me, they would invest. Right. So, yeah. So I think that's kind of how it came about. And he just marketed the gym. I think something that Dan was, yeah, could. What do you think Joe sold it to the original guys for? Do you think, uh, you know, I think it was 50,000. Oh, so they didn't make any money on it. I, I, I, they stayed in the money back at Yatsha. Yeah. And, and, and only because John Bailey can mention that was the amount the Joe gold had mentioned to John because he wanted to sell it to John and John's, like, I can't come up with the money at the time. Right. But Joe, Joe had incorporated it. So he had shares in it for what that was worth. Yeah. But it was, it was pretty on the cheek. Bailey, like, if Bailey, when he got into Hollywood, that man, that would have been a, you know, a score for him. And he probably like banginGHis head against the table to get the money for that thing, you know. Oh, I know. I know. IMean, you, IMean, Bailey was a great interview because he mentioned his, his, his ideas for the Iron Man Jim's years later when when he owned the magazine. Right. But he, you know, he had ideas, but I don't know if that was in hindsight after what he solid happened with colds or not, but I enjoyed John's interviews. Just so knowledgeable on such a great guy. And he's a very good historian. You remember everything? Yes. I don't, I don't think I would be able to come up with all that information. I don't know if he's going to interview the him before it's really good. Yeah. He's got like an idetic mind, you know, I'm telling you like a story about Dick Tyler in 1964, then he'll tell you about some story in 1989 or something. It was just amazing. So, all right. So we got the, the chain of command went from Joe to them to now. They said the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, now how did he decide to finally solve the Jim? Yeah. Well, I'm 10. And in those seven years, uh, games of Butler come out to Chronicle and write the book pumping iron, um, shoot the movie a year or two later. And so it got really, really famous under under Ken's ownership, right? But his, his wife at the time, Marion, um, had gotten really sick with cancer. Oh. And, and this was in about 1978. And he said at that point, he had a lot of violence in the fire at the Jim. And he basically had, um, taken control of amateur bodybuilding with the AAU and gift raptured to the leaders because they wanted the AAU under the IFPB banner, right? Which eventually, I guess became the MPC. Sure. What he said, he was doing that. He was running the Jim. He had started running in other high end Jim, uh, in North in West Hollywood. And, um, and then he also owned a restaurant as well as real estate holdings. And then his wife gets cancer. So he says at that point, he's, I just had, yeah, too many plates spinning. And, um, his wife was dying Marion, had befriended Pete Grimmowski. She just says, you know, I think Pete would be a really good stewardship for the Jim because he really cares. Yeah. So that's, I think that's when Pete recruited, uh, Tim and Ed. And it was a fourth guy for a while that dropped out early. But that's kind of how the change of ownership went. I thought Ed was the guy who kind of got everyone else. But it seems like it was, it was Pete that actually recruited Ed, huh? Right. Right. Interesting. Yeah. What did they pay for that Jim from, at that time? You know, I think it was, I think they paid, uh, it wasn't a whole lot. And I think one again, because Cam was, he didn't need the money. But I think it was about Tim, Kimber, if you've spoken to Tim or Pete, they verified. I want to say it was like 125,000 or 150,000. But, but can had maintained ownership of some of the licensing fees on merchandise. Uh, at first. I think he eventually relinquished that. Okay. But that was, that was, uh, the, it wasn't, it wasn't a whole lot. And can actually, um, was approached by another buyer group that offered way more than that. Like, can't it said it was over 10 times what a cow keep. But can't like, one, I don't need the money. And they're like, we're going to sue you because sue me of what? It's my property. You can't do it too well. You know, they, they wanted it. But, uh, it went to the right hand. For sure. Yeah. Well, you knew that the bodyables would protect it. So now, when did they decide to move goals? Was that after the purchase? Um, yes. And again, this, I think, um, I had a really, really great interview with Pete, uh, Grimm Kowski that I think I have about two hours of pee. That I have to call, I've called it down to like maybe four minutes. Oh, my God. But there is so much and the movement of goals from second street back to Venice. Yeah. Probably has a little bit to do with the whole world gym, gold, gym war. Because Ken Spray was offered the building that gold was in on second street. Yeah. The guy that owned that building. There was a, uh, a Delhi next to it. And then on the other side of goals was pussycat theater. Yeah. And, um, and, um, but the guy hole at the guy owned the entire, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Billed it. And Ken's like, um, you know, I'm, I'm out of the real estate game. I'm out of, I, I've got other things on my plate. Well, Robert Blake bought that building. Oh, uh, right up the actor right. Oh, right up. So Robert Blake, um, bought the building. And, uh, Pete says, you know what? He goes, I know that that Robert was chemming up with Arnold and he was showing up over at World Gym, even though he was trening at Vince's and the valley. Yeah. And he says about that time, we started getting a lot of holes in our roof and a lot of leaks. No way. And all of a sudden he goes, it goes, he owns a building. And all of a sudden our rent quadruple. Oh, and he said, yeah. So he says we, we didn't want to cast dispersions, but it was very, very suspicious that we, he goes, we started sustaining a lot of water damage and other buildings in the same or other businesses and same building weren't. And we were. And so, um, they locked out. I think Pete went over to that building on Hampton. Yeah. And, um, you know, at that time, and it's kind of revered to that, but in a different way. It was kind of an war zone. And, uh, but it was cheap. Like, I already read a lot of games around there, right? Exactly. Exactly. A lot, a lot, yeah. A lot of gang activity in that part of Venice. And, um, Pete somehow had, uh, connections with Ruth Gellantre who was an L.A. County supervisor. And she also owned property in that section of L.A. and in the Venice section of L.A. So he got a really, really good sweetheart deal. And so they were able to get out of second street, um, over to Hampton and dirt cheap. And, uh, it's a good story to know that. And it's interesting, Robert Blake was the guy who was accused of killinGHis wife, too. Yeah, exactly. Years later. Yeah, years later. And he somehow got off. So it doesn't, you know, it might not be that shocking of a story to, to buy into that, that there was some sabotage at that point. But, uh, because Joe Gold did not like the, you know, if you trened at World at Gold Gym and didn't come to World Gym where he opened his gym, he didn't talk to it, right? IMean, from a leaf priest kind of insinuated that to me, you know. Yeah, it was, it was a long, it was a long standing, um, it's odd, I had to kind of, I had to kind of, um, can you still see me? Yeah, yep. Okay, because it just said my internet was unstable. I was just going to apologize for that. But, um, there were guys that were Joe Gold, Loyalists and guys that were Gold Gym, Ken Spray Loyalists. And I kind of had to, when I'm interviewing these guys, you know, because I belong to both Jins. Yeah. Once Ken sold Golds, I joined World and I joined World. But Ken Spray could beat Joe Gold into lawsuits. And so there was a lot, a lot of bad blood. Um, Joe. Over the lawsuits, over. The lawsuits were, um, you know, Joe, Joe wanted back in the gym business. And he offered Ken, he offered money to Ken in like 76 for the gym. And it was a lowball offer. And Ken says, you know, no, um, no, I'm doing well. Thank you. And Ken said, the only reason I did change the name was out is just too lazy. Because I could have changed it to Silver's gym or Ken's gym or gym gym. Yeah. He goes it in really mad, right? Just kept it on it. But anyway, so Joe wanted to build a gym. And part of the non-compete clause in the original sale was Joe could open up another gym. He can't use his name. Right. But you, you can't use your name. And you can't open it up within a certain distance. Oh, okay. Well, Joe, Ken says I see Joe break round on Main Street and Santa Monica, the less than a mile and a half for my gym, which is way inside. And he's already break. He was, I let them finish the building and then I suit him. And so he goes, I had Joe go dead to rights because there was no way he could open up a gym because but I looked across the table, the guy loves the gym. That's, it's like, yeah. I just made, I told him I said, look, we can coexist. Yeah. It's going to be a great gym. We'll put forth some other restrictions. You can advertise, right? Right. And you can't have photos to be in this gym in any magazine for two years. Joe, like, sure, they hand-shake their, the lawyer side off. No food or does that happen. All of a sudden, their show photos, the world gym showing up in muscle digest. That, um, what I guess what they did was they set up a ladder and took pictures through the window. Um, you know, but Ken's like, well, here we go again. It's like, right to my face. So there's so, so much bad blood that started with that that a lot of people don't know. I didn't know. But Ken said, you know what? After that, it's like, you know what? If fine, you know, we're both doing fine. Um, but so that was interesting. Yeah, I was just, I don't know. I don't know. Sorry, who told you that story? Well, I've heard it. John Baylick, Ken, Rick Trace. IMean, it was, it was one of those things too that I think because, um, you know, we all make a lot of it for our friends, right? You know, um, you know, people we know and they might do something. We'll go, oh, you know, I probably wouldn't have done that, but you're my friend. And I'm with you. And I think they kind of stuck like Franco and Rick, like, yeah, Joe, that probably wasn't too cool, but you are a guy. Yeah. But there were a lot of guys that went back and forth. There were guys that lived in both worlds, Plats, Lou. Yeah. Quite a few guys could go back and forth to both gyms. And Joe was okay with Lou going back and forth. Yeah. Yeah. You know, he loved Lou. Like, you know, Lou was just great publicity and for some reason. I don't know. Maybe because he was called Arnold guy. Yeah. Well, aren't, but Arnold never went to golf, right? No, Arnold. Yeah. After, um, after that lawsuit in 76 and, and that was the, um, he's, we're getting the lawyer talk here. I don't know if this is too interesting or not. No, I think it's very interesting because I didn't know. Okay. But Arnold, um, right about the time education of a bodybuilder and come out, you know, in the book, I believe he had said that Gold's gym no longer exists and now it is world gym. And then, yeah, if you look at the first edition, or he had said that, well, he also said going from Gold's to world as I going from an outhouse to a penthouse. Oh, wow. And he, he also repeated that on the Johnny Carson Show and the Murphy's Show. Oh, my God. And, um, and then Bobby Schreiber, who is Maria Schreiber's brother, you know, he married Maria, and Bobby was writing for the L.A. Carol Examiner, which was her herst newspaper in Los Angeles. Yeah. And, and, and all of a sudden, the world, all these articles in L.A. Carol Examiner, shady dealings and Gold's gym is both gym and front for, just Gold's, just, you know, and so Ken says I called up my lawyers that this is it. Just we're going to town, you know, and they slat he goes, we slap the lawsuit on Arnold for slander and liable. Oh, wow. Really. And, um, and he goes, and we also sued Gold's Gulf Western Paramount, which owned Paramount studios, which was investing in Arnold's career at that time. And, um, Arnold got to testify on behalf of Arnold, and he was a part of the party's elder and Joe Weeder. Joe Weeder testified on behalf of Ken and already, was kind of like a hostile witness. He didn't want to testify against anyone. And, already, that's just I don't want to get involved, right? Um, but, um, anyway, I took a lot of Joe Weeder action testified theoretically against Arnold in the sense, right? Right. Right. And, and it was, it was a lot going on because Arnold's contract with Joe was, uh, expiring. Of course, he'd already retired, right? It was like 1977. He was never coming back. No. And, um, but he was chumming up with muscle digest. It was a smaller publication. Yeah. Published down in Southern California, but Arnold was trying to use them for leverage. And Joe felt kind of hurt. But then, you know, I think it's funny, because I have the deposition papers. Can gave him to me. Yeah. Um, but it's pretty interesting. But anyways, the, um, the lawsuit to back off, um, I don't know if Gulf West Trinit said, you know what? We're not going to win this. Let's kind of fold our tents. And it kind of just went away. But that's, that's a lot of the world gym goals gym, bad blood. Do they have to pay anything to, can? You know, for, for what? I think the lawsuit was still going on. Peacrum Calves, he said he dropped the lawsuit because he did and the stomach for it. Got it. And by that time, I think Ken's wife had died. Uh-uh. Um, if you look at the, if you look at the, if you look at the deposition, I don't think that Gulf Western would have won that. I think Ken would have because, um, just because of what was imprint and what was said, you know, so. So when Ed and Pete and Tim took over goals, um, obviously moved it to the new location, which was way bigger. Um, yeah. What was the, what changed? Because it looked like that's when gold kind of like took off into orbit, so to speak. Yeah, you know, um, I was a member there for a little bit. And, um, I think one, the space was larger. Uh, they eventually opened up a few, a few more days in that building on Hampton. Right. Um, you can probably get like Tim or Ed to talk about it because that you want one, that was their gym. They owned it. They knew what they did. But it, it, it, one, I think the magazines, you know, it was like body building became huge, right? Everyone was doing it. Um, and I think the magazines, when when people would look at the magazines and see these guys trening there, um, that everyone wanted to go there. And, and it exploded. I think, um, you know, Ed had mentioned this that, uh, the logo of goals, um, was over the window, so that when the photos were taken inside the gym, he would all see the goals logo. Yeah. And so it just kind of reinforcing it and branding it. And, um, at that time too, let's, it was before the internet. Um, and people had to go to one location. They hadn't started licensing those gyms yet. Right. Um, and it was still a destination. So I, I think that's what, what did it, you know. I think the size of the gym helped tremendously. Yeah. Oh, yeah. And Joggle was very, you know, he didn't play music. He, you know, he was very restricted in what you could do. And you couldn't do there. So I think a lot of people didn't feel comfortable, maybe, in that gym, you know, you're right. So obviously, goals became the place that they wanted people in there. And totally got the whole marketing aspect of it. IMean, if you were a bodybuilder, you trened there for free. They gave you free clothing. They wanted you to wear the clothes. They, it was a very welcome environment. At least I remember in the early 90s when I went there, you know. So I think that was really what made the gym so welcoming to the masses, you know. Oh, yeah. You know, yeah. You mentioned that when you said, um, the clothing and the branding and and two, I, I noticed that not only a personality shift, but an age difference between world and gold because a lot of the world guys were probably the original Joe gold guys from back in the middle 60s. Right. Because I've ever seen a lot of guys that to me were old back then. Yeah. They're probably the age I am now. And they stuck with Joe through those years. But you're right. It's like, you know, peak room, Calstukits. And we gave way a lot of, he called it activity. Yeah. And by activity, you know, free gym memberships the clothing. He says that they became walking, you know, walking, it advertised for our business. Yeah. But also Pete, you know, I told Pete, I said, you know, not a lot of people would do that. And I go, you, I think Pete comes from an abundance mindset. Mm-hmm. You know, he's just like, everyone can be successful. And, um, he's, uh, Yeah. Are you okay? Now I'm good. I'm just, oh, my, my producer. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You know, you're just giving away gym memberships and, and, and clothing sweatsuits, um, paying, paying guys' ways to compete, you know, feeding them. And, um, and yeah, Yaki, like you said, it was just a way, way, way more welcoming environment for, for young guys. What was the most, um, I guess monumental thing that you kind of, you learned while doing this documentary. Like, what was something like you said, holy, Mac, I didn't even really realize this is, this is, this is, like, this is something like that people are going to see, wow, when they, when they watch this documentary. Yeah, um, got, um, in terms of the documentary, the content, I think it would be the history of the ownership of gold, because like you, uh, you know, when I joined gold, can't own it. I didn't even know about gannets and sacks in between. Mm-hmm. And, uh, unless you do a deep dive on that, right. You, you wouldn't, you, you wouldn't know. And I, I think that's it. I also think the backstory of the book pumping, the iron, the album, and it's, uh, Charles Gaines to get that thing published. You got turned down by, I think, three different publishing companies, right, um, before he finally got that, uh, in print. And, um, those are two things that are huge that we don't realize that those things don't happen. If gold's Jim doesn't stay open, then the book pumping iron never gets written. If that book never gets published, a movie never gets made. We never, you know, sure. So many things hindered on those. So I think, I think those are the two, the two biggest. Mm-hmm. Do you think that you see or saying basically the pumping iron put gold, Jim on the map is really one of them out to do? Yeah, I think so. IMean, one because of Arnold, right. I think one, I think, um, a lot. Charles Gaines just said, we just, he was the first time IMet Arnold. Um, I turned to George Butler and go, this, this guy's going to be a star. He goes, and this was like 1972, when they met at some little tiny contest in the East Coast, because there's just something about this guy, man. He's just think it was in, uh, he was, we should do a book on him. So I think that's kind of how pumping iron came about. Nice. You know, IMean, Well, IMean, dream big, it looks like a really, I thought you sent me about it. I think I'd worth it about a six minute or a 12 minute clip for something like that. I watched. Yeah. I was completely engrossed. I forgot. I was a clip. I was watching. I was also in the stuff. I'm like, I wanted to see the rest of it. You know, I was so engaged in it. So I know you spent a lot of time. You labored a lot. I know you're still trying to raise the rest of the money to kind of finish the project and get it into some of these film festivals. I think it's going to do really well. What your projection in terms of life when you think this thing might actually hit where people can actually, you know, watch it somewhere. Well, I have to get it submitted to the Venice Film Festival in California by Middleson, Timber. And if it's accepted, uh, the festival was October 1st through 3rd. Right. So my hope there is that it gets some recognition and hopefully gets picked up for some sort of distribution. So it'd be after that. The plan B, let's just say it gets no recognition, then I will probably do itself self upload to like iTunes, if the meow. Yeah. Amazon. I think it will get well. What's the length of the film? It is, it is about an hour and 20 minutes. Oh, good. It's starting to finish, not counting credits. So and and I had to cut a lot of stuff out. IMean, it just, you know, it looks like a like a like a blooper reel. That will, you know, or direct this guy as soon as. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's, there's some really good stuff. I want to see it all. I want to see all the footage. I want to watch all the raw footage, too. That's a great. You probably make another whole movie from the raw footage you have. Yeah. Yeah. Probably. Just from the green caskies interview from what you're telling me. You know. What, what an amazing character. IMean, just, you know, he's, it's, it's funny. I just think he's almost like the epitome, you know, a guy that flew out from Florida. You know, he was, he left raw chesters and Florida flies out with less than 70 bucks in his pocket. It's sleeping under the period and Dale burgers. You know, and he goes, I didn't people were laughing at me because I knew they're making fun. IMean, he's like, you really got it. Sleeps under the pier. You know, and, you know, two years later, he was in a position to buy gold and then a couple years after that, he had license it to a few hundred locations. So, you talk about a seat of the pants, believe in yourself, kind of guy. Yeah. He peed it. You know. Hey, he envisioned it and he made it happen. That's, that's really what it amounts to. IMean, it's phenomenal. Now, you are trying to raise somebody to finish this film off. What's the go fund me account if people want to donate to this? Yeah. I sent a link. It is, is go fund me. They can check it on Facebook. If they do. I want to put it up on the screen. So where can I answer this? Okay. What's the name of the go fund me account? What is it under? It's under, uh, more important. It's go, uh, dream big documentary, more important. We'll pull that up. And um, and what are you looking to raise? Well, what I'm looking to raise, uh, my initial ask was about 30, 30,000. Right. The, you know, insurance is the most important. We almost have that covered. What is that? What exactly is that for? Well, it's, uh, air is an omissions insurance. And so when, um, when you write a book or, uh, do a movie. And you put it out there for public consumption. Um, there are people that might take offense. Um, although this movie, there's, there's all heroes in this movie. There's no villains. Yeah. So there's really little exposure. But you still, uh, in terms of also stuff that had to purchase, there's a B-roll footage from, um, producers library and on ball films and getting images. And all these other places itself stock footage and photos. Um, I have to have to pay for. I just don't, um, well, so I have to protect yourself, uh, indemnity against, uh, anyone who might be in a photo that takes offense to it or something. And it's just, it's, it's, you know, what you have to do in the legal world. And, and so that's, um, uh, that's the air, the air is an omissions insurance. There's color correction, professional color correction and sound mixing. And then, uh, film festival fees. So, um, and you're fun to be solving yourself pretty much from your pocket. Yeah, pretty much. I had a life coach named Mike Murphy. He's living in Columbia now. He runs a, uh, a cancer foundation, uh, for women who don't have funds. And he's putting a lot of his money towards that. So he, he helped get me started, but it's been pretty much mostly me since then. And, um, um, I could enter it into the film festival with the best color correction I can do in the best sound mixing. I can do, um, and hope for the best, um, would prefer someone who professionally does that to be able to, uh, Yeah, sure. I'm kind of giving one to you. Yeah, totally. Yeah. Well, good luck with the rest of the project. I am, I am, for everyone out there who's watching. If you want to see this movie, go donate a few bucks to Mark's, uh, fund. We put it up on the screen because, you know, the history, well, we got as a history about it. A lot of people know nothing about the history of our sport about the gyms and gold gym and Venice. This is, this is great. I can't wait to watch the whole thing to be honest with you. It was really captivating what I did watch. I know a lot of the people in it. I know Bill Grand very well and Bill's in real character as well. So, yeah, you didn't get Lee on Brown in the movie, did you? No, I didn't. Yeah. That was fun. Oh, I know. Yeah, an original character from the book Pumping Iron, too. Yeah. Yeah. Well, good luck. You'll keep us updated when the movie is ready to come out. So we can tell our audience. And like I said, great job with this and I really enjoyed the interview today. Learn a lot of. Well, thank you. Thank you. I did as well, Dave. Thank you very much. I appreciate having this form. So, thanks again. And guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of the history of bodybuilding. I'm Dave Palumba with Mark Martinez. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Gregg Valentino's WILDEST Fan Mail Stories! AH Podcast (8⧸25⧸20) [VaiFziQ40U4].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA PIDX Road, there's 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the Ocar Hot Tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm Dave Polumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in this Species Nutrition line of products we use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results, and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. When you're asleep, they're just getting started. John, Dave Polumbo, after hours. Welcome back to After-Hours. Once again, I'm Dave Polumbo joined by my co-hosting crime John Romano, and John, it's funny. I have a very good dear client of mine, Phil Klohari's an IFVV pro. I just play fourth at the Tampa Pro, and Ron Harris contacted him from Muscle Development to doing interview. Ron has to do pre-interviews with these guys because he doesn't follow really anything that's going on, so he doesn't know what's going on. During the pre-interview, he's like, well, who trens you and he's like, Dave Polumbo does my diet and he's like, oh, we can't talk about him. Can you believe Blackwyn is still censoring the guests? That's the way they can talk about it and I talk about it. Oh my god, yeah, of course I can believe it. You know, we haven't let go of him. He's not going to let go of us. Yeah, we can't fit it. But IMean, we do it because we have an endless comedic value to him. He's still the freaking guy who can't fit it. Now we're talking about Dave Polumbo. Ron, take the editing. Ron just doesn't want to have to re-enate the interview. That's all. Like, God forbid Blackwyn actually listens to it, you know? Exactly. Or imagine if you did his diet trened and took your supplements and he lived with you. Yeah, he does. Yeah, he does. What? We're taking a talk about it. Right. Well, I said, yeah, you're interviewing the person except you're really not askinGHim about how they actually had success in their prep because you're not allowed to talk about certain aspects of their life. So I said, what's the purpose of doing the interview then? What? Talk about something else. I don't know. It makes something up. You're not going to talk about sport. We need to write. I just imagine how tormented he must be in his head. How just absolutely conflicted and tormented. Yeah. I would bet that in his deep darkest places, he is in agony. Yeah. Well, he is. Yeah, of course. He's got all this money. He's got all this money. And he could buy all the glutes in the world with it. He could, we wear it a smoke and jacket every day in a freaking tower. 10,000. He could buy a tie land or something. Yeah. And he knows it. But he can't do it. And the thing is, when he eventually dies, probably at 120 years old because he'll live forever because he's so healthy. You know, God bless him. I hope he does. You know, it's going to happen. Jordan when he gets his, his son when he gets his inheritance will spend it. We'll be spending like he's like Donald Trump, you know. The money will be, but healthy spending the way Steve wants to spend, you know. Right. Well, except we'll be spending it on marijuana and skateboarding. Oh, whatever he's interested. But I'm saying, he'll enjoy his life now, you know. Oh, yeah, no. He won't be tormented. Blackman's torment. Yeah. He's absolutely tormented. He is, he, it's like, it's like you feel like this pile of cash right here, you know, 300,000 dollars. And you wanted to buy this and you wanted this Ferrari in the worst. But you, you can't spend, yeah. You can't do it. You have the money. You have his right there. And you can't buy the Ferrari. That's right. So he, he's, he's an agony to court. IMean, what, what do you think he thinks about the David Pecker, you know, being a let go from MMI there? Oh, that's a victory for him. Yeah, I would think so, right? Oh, absolutely. That's, that's a, I beat him, you know. Maybe now he can retire, you know, maybe now he can, you know, he can let go, because he's outlasted everybody else gone. He's, he's the, he's the last ship in the Armada that hasn't sunk yet, you know. Well, let me look at Iron Man's gun. Muscle mag is gun, flex is gun, Muscle, they're all gone. He, he, he actually won, I don't know what he won. And he won the booby prize, but, uh, maybe he's the stupidest person to keep printing a magazine. That's about the only thing I could think of, I guess. It's like you live in this neighborhood, okay? And Thursday night you take out the trash, right? And, and you hate to look of trash cans in front of the house. So use the guide of weights to the last possible minute before the garbage man comes to put his trash can even if he's got to wake up at 330 in the morning and do it. So, so that as soon as the trash can is empty, he can put it back and he doesn't have to deal with the trash can in front of him. It matters that much, you know, that he's the last magazine standing. It's like, it's exactly like it's, you're the only house in the block that doesn't have the garbage can out. There you go. That's how it works. That's a good metaphor. I got it, bitch, and we can play them at something you see this. This is, you know what this is, John? No. It is one of those little bleach tabs that you drop into your toilet wall. Ah, yeah, it's okay. You actually put it into tank of the toilet wall so that you, right. The water stays, I don't disinfect it, is that what it's supposed to be? Is it a blue one? Do you like the blue color? I do like the blue one. This happens if you're a white one. Just for disinfection purposes or everything smells nice. They don't tell you something about these. These things disintegrate the internal components of the toilet wall. Now, how I know that? Because my toilet wall was running. You've got a non stop. And when the toilet, when you have a water system on your house, a very expensive one that has A-500 gallon storage tank, and you make our own water and you cute, you alkalineize it and it has stored. And then you go to turn the water on in the morning to brush your teeth and you got no water. And you say, why don't I have any water? You sound like I'm selling my father. And it turns out that this stupid tab disintegrated the toilet in my office here, which then made it run all night, which depleted my tank. I didn't believe it, but it's the truth. So my gut, my plumber comes, who was always at my house for some reason. He's, by the way, uses species nutrition supplements. I wish I could pay him in species supplements, because every time he comes across me, 120 bucks. And he's like, I have a change in eternal guts. Are you using any kind of drop in the huge tab? So I'm like, I had the fact I am. I said, I'm a, we like keeping clen here. He's like, well, it's eating away a corroded away the internal components of the toilet ball. I said, well, why do they sell these things then? No, no, this goes in the tank. Oh, it goes in the tank. But it's the, it's rubber, it's rubber, it's. I think it's a conspiracy. I think the plumber of America have designed this tab purposely to disintegrate the internal components of the ball. So they have more work. That's my, that's my conspiracy theory for the day. It's an interesting theory. But there is evidence to prove that this, this, this, this does kill the COVID-19 virus. I guess this, this, this, this. So you have what does it. This, this, this, this, this, this, this, this. The other thing that's asking me today is I have these one guys. Okay, they come. Actually, to law and woman. So first, one, the first part I've ever seen, uh, there was a female that, that does one service. You know, not that does anything wrong, that she does a great job. But they like to come early or early or early or early week, John. So I have, you know, I have the little dogs, the multi, and the, and the, the, and the Yorkie. And they don't really do anything, but they're alert. They're alert dogs. They hear noise they bark. So they come in at seven in the morning. They do in my lawn. Brrrrrr. And then the dogs have got on crazy, of course, because they, they think someone's, breaking into the house. Oh, what? Since when did they start doing the lawns at seven in the morning? Is this, is this a freaking new thing? Well, then let me come at night and do it. When the sun goes down. I don't want to hear it in the morning. Tell them. Do you speak Spanish? Tell them. No, you know, I need, I need, I think, I'm hiring a groundskeeper. We bought the property across the street for my house. What's cool? Any, they have a guy there who does all the, the grounds. And I'm thinking, you know what, if I'm going to, if he does their grounds across the street, IMight as well have to do all my properties. You know, I'll just hire him, you know, he's already full time with that guy across the street. But I need to speak a word to English. They got for Google trenslate, which I got to tell you is pretty amazing. I can help you. I know. I need a John Romano brush up less than in Spanish. I'm going to do the same thing. We, you know, with, with the, the rain has been so wet this summer, the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Everything is grown like, I can't, there's no way I can keep up with this. I'm hiring a crew. Oh, yeah, you got, you can't do it yourself. The whole bank of the river is just freaking over a king and see the water. It's like, overgrown. It's not like you're admitting the feat. You're just saying, you know what? I have better uses of my time than getting out there and, and mowing, that's that you can't do it. Of course you can do it. I could do it too if I really wanted to. Well, who wants to spend three hours a day, you know, mowing the lawn and cutting stuff? IMean, I don't know if some people get put, put pleasure out of that. I have, I get pleasure out of other things that I'd rather be doing. So I don't mind paying someone to do it. I fall into that category wanting to do everything myself. Yeah, because it just kills me to pay somebody for something that I can do. Right, but think about how much more money you're making, being productive, doing something else, like doing this shower. Nice. And you know what it's, I argue with my wife, but this I got at least for the front of the house. I want to get a weekly landscape. Right. Okay, do the edging, do the weeds, the paniest stuff. Yeah. The all pan and the ash shit that's, but mindless. Not that it's, I'm looking for somebody stupid. I'm just talking about my mind is going to mind or moan or moan or long. I'm thinking about shit and then I'm going to run over my foot. But you can't be able to empty my ankle. So, so, so, so, and just, just every time I go into the, to the tool shed, I get the trim around the fucking thing that the line is off. I can't, I spend so much time digging around. Wasting, wasting time. I know. So I can do the edging and I change the blade and then I go in the belt is broken on the track. I got a little bit of a bad, you know, I got a fix. I got it, I got to go get gas, I got to move back. You oiled it, I got the blow, I got it in the net. And all of this shit breaks and who's got a fix it. So, you know, my life doesn't understand that. That is maintenance and all of this shit. It's time. Right. And if you just paid a guy 40 bucks a week to come and just mold the freaking lawn of season and blow it in the bone, done. Yeah. I don't have to worry about any of this. And then you can do the fun stuff. I like the plant, like the trees and fruit trees and I do my tomatoes. I don't want to do the stuff I don't enjoy doing. I don't want to have to do the maintenance work. That's not, and once again, if it was 20 years ago and I didn't have anything to do in my biggest, you know, the conundrum was should I go tanning first or should I eat my McDonald's meal first, so go to the gym. Then it's a different story, but now I got too much going on. And you know what, yard work in the summertime sucks because of the bugs, man. You get those nuts flying around your head. That right there, the kids just do not endure 30 minutes of nuts is worth 40 bucks a week to me. That's right there. Yeah. So, I'm very, very cool. And you know what? Yeah, please. And it's a thousand degree. Florida, I thought the summers were the same in Florida, New York. I go outside and do some just some planting and you know, I'm not really even exerting myself. And I come in a dripping sweat. I feel like I need it. I get it laid out. I'm so exhausted. The sun just drains the life out of you. And as my wife always points out, I always do it like noon with the worst possible time. Because that's what I have available. You know, it's the humidity. You're many. Yeah. I don't even know. I don't even know. It doesn't feel that bad when I'm out there. It's after what's when I come in. I hit my head. It sucks. It sucks the energy out here. I think we're just all, that's really what it is. But it really, I remember being a carpenter. You know, back at Framer back when I was, you know, the 1920 years old, you know, slinging a hammer out into Sunald. I didn't bother me. Because I was doing it every day. I used to it. Now, you know, you go out and you do it now when it's. I haven't done that in, you know, five years. I haven't exerting myself. That matter, you know. It's the human body is so weird. If you could do something like over here, you do it like this. You're lifting this thing off or carrying it over here. You do it every day. You have no problem. If you alter that by on the canics of that movement, one degree. Yeah. But it's your sore, your beat up. Everything's different. That's why you have to change up the workouts, John. That's what you know. You're bodybuilding. You're working different muscle groups. All right. One more bitch you're playing. So I, so when I first moved here, we had, there was no internet in this community. It's like a spread out community. So no one, none of the neighbors wanted to rally with me and get together and get these people to install a high fiber optic line. So I finally found one company, Century-Link business. Luckily, I have my business on my property, I have a separate building. I got them to run a line and run it a mile long to my house. Well, I thought they would have charged me a fortune. But they just snuck it into the bill. So I never choice. I was paying 1100 dollars a month for internet. 1100. And I played off the business. Obviously, I worked muscle with species, but it's ridiculous. I had no choice. I had no choice. And I know what they did. They amortized the cost of the install over three years. So three years is passed already. So my neighbor comes up to me and she's like, oh, I got high speed. Because when they ran my line, they ran another line there for the neighbor. So basically, I paid for all the neighbors to be able to get internet. But they're just now, they just, it took them about two or three years to realize that they can do that. Because then originally they're like, oh, it's fast enough. Fast enough, it was DSL John. It was like the, it was like, remember the dial-up when you used to do AOL when you were when it first came out in the 90s and you had the moment it would go, B, B, B, B, B. And that was the speed it had. You couldn't download a picture. That's how slow it was. That's what we had to do this. So my neighbor comes out to say, oh, the internet's great and how's your internet? I'm like, oh, what's your speed? Well, you know, I pay for 100, 100, 100, max, up 100, max down, which is a good speed. If you have the live stream and somebody that, he's been in 450. No, she's getting 950. 950 up and down. So what do you pay for that? She's like $65 a month. And like, what? What? $65 a month? So I don't believe her. I think they lied to me. I call up century like, that not the business, the other one, because they don't communicate obviously. Right. She's like, oh, you can hook you up, because I'm, of course you can hook me up, because I'm the hook up, right? It's already, it goes to the edge of my property. That's as far as the line goes. She's like $65 a month. I so have what's speed am I going to get? She's like $950 up and down. I said, you know I'm paying 1100, they don't know anything, because they don't, business doesn't talk to residential. So also my dogs are barking again this morning. This is yesterday was that was the long ago. Another this morning was the long guys. So I fall back asleep after the long guys leave. Eight o'clock, the dogs are barking again. So it's not the end of my front door. It's century like we're here to install the line. I say, you know, it's supposed to come full Thursday. He's like, well, we got to run the line and the people will hook it up on Thursday. I said, well, I already got a line. The like you have a line already. I said, yeah, I know like the five rest that I have fiber. He's a will let me see it. I said, we can't see it. It's in a conduit. I said, you got to come into my building. So I think I'm in the building. I showed you, we got fiber here. I said, does anyone talk to anyone at your company over there? Does anyone know what's anyone's, I never seen a confidence like this in Florida. Any other state, I would live in Pennsylvania when I was in college. It's something about the South John. I think or Florida. I don't know what it is. I think the sun may drain the logic out of people's brains. Yeah. They just, they just move at a very slow pace in the South, you know. And IMean, people, people, tireless cities giving up. We're just talking about it. So I was like, they just, everyone just throws their arms up and they'll want to work. That's what they do. I've had four people. I can put a fence around my property. No one comes back after the first visit. Oh, that's a common complaint everywhere. I'm not going to say it. Who is the head of all this? I sent out all the time and what can my construction company do? Why? When the one that comes back, you say you give me a video. You say you're going to come Tuesday. You come Tuesday. Nobody else comes. Why is that, John? Why would don't people want to work? I think what happens is they bite off more than they can chew. When you work it, when you're a small contractor, you know, you're a one, two, three men show and you're doing all the work yourself. You're working on a job now. You think, oh, I'm going to be done in two weeks. Right. And that's why I'm going to line up another job to take to start when the two weeks is up. But nothing takes two weeks. It takes four. It takes six. And then you can back up the job and then you have the another one in the funnel. And now that one's backed up and they find somebody else to do it. And then you move. So it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's never a system. When you, when you do a, when you do like more than one day stuff, like if you will, you can go in and do a job in a day or two, like a final job or something fast, that's, that's one thing. But when, when you do a protracted jobs, you know, like a fence could take a week, you know. And then, but it, but we can turn into two weeks because of the weather, because of material, because of help, because of COVID, because of you name it. So the hardest thing in the construction business is to accurately plot time and, and make it come true. Let me ask you a question now. If you're a fence company and you, all you do is fences and someone wants to hire you to do a fence. And you got a lot of fence to do and you're going to make a lot of money on the job. Why don't you're going to come back and do the fence? Because it rained three days ago and the other chin and the other fence job got delayed. And now the one you had come in between you and him is now delayed. And then two guys call in six months. Yeah, don't mean six months. I don't care. I'm just telling you on the calendar. But I understand your position because people tell me all the time. Nobody shows up, nobody shows up. But when you're actually, you know, having to deal with this shit, it's, when you got to rely on other people, employees, other people to shop, the weather, tools, not break. And IMean, it's all kinds of shit you got to deal with in that business. It's frustrating to the whole motor because they just wanted them to come back and do the job. You know, I've had guys come at and I've told them other people didn't come back and they're like, oh, we're not like, I never hear from them. They don't even give me like a proposal. It's crazy. I never did that. I always, if I was getting delayed or something, I would contact them or say, look, it's not going to be next week. It's going to be a week after. Or I'll send somebody else to do it if you want. But so I got this, I got this rooster next door to me. It's actually $2 down with the rooster comes into my name as backyard. And it's always, there's a few of them. They're roostering it up. Now the girl, the seven-year-old girl lives in that house with the owner of the roosters, she clens snakes for me. Like I pair like the clen snakes. She's like, whoa, she clens snakes. Like she comes to clen the snake tubs for me. Because I have so many snakes. She's like, wait down. No, no, no, no, no. She clens the tubs out for me. She's like clening cages. Okay. She's into all the snakes, everything like that. So she comes in. She's like, you know, we have too many roosters. I said, I know I hear him every freaking morning. I said, they don't stop. She's like, my mom, they're starting to bat the other hands. Because I guess if you have too many roosters, they only want to do his breed all day. Kind of like a bunch of male bodybuilders, you know. And she's like, you know, do you want any of the roosters? I said to the feet to your snakes. Because you know, the big snakes will eat, you know, the leech chickens and roosters. So I'm thinking to myself in my head, like I got this evil devil on one side of the little angel on the other side of the devil's say, they eat them, feed them, get rid of these freaking roosters. You won't have to hear him in the morning anymore. And the other one's like, you can't feed a live rooster. Like in other words, if it was dead already, I wouldn't mind dangling it and give it to the snack. John Scuderry would do it. Yeah. Like I can feed a rat to a snake, no problem. So you got like a giant like boa constrictor in a cage, you're going to throw a rooster in there. Yeah, IMean, the bird is popping. We're happening, wrap it around, strengling, swallow it. Right. Well, and Logan would love to walk. Oh, I know. It would be a great video. But I always feel bad for the rooster. So I said, I can't. If you want to kill the rooster, bring it over. I'll feed it to the snake. I said, so. Yeah. Oh, you got a video. I don't want to see that. I thought I wanted to know rats are smarter than roosters. They probably are. Yeah. The rat hurt the snake. You got to be careful. Yeah, those snakes are pretty, you know what? The snakes are stupid in this one sense because if they're in shed or they're going to shed their skin or they're that in the mood to eat because sometimes they just don't want to. They'll let the rat eat them basically. They're dumb like that. But if 99 times out of 100, you put that right in everything is amazing. So it is what it is. It's funny. I love all animals. But you know, sometimes there's like, when things are too big, it becomes like it almost becomes too traumatic for me in my mind. Like a lot of people feed rabbits to the big, the big, the big python's. I'm really. What's the biggest snake that you have in captivity? I have, well, the Burmese python's get pretty big, but I don't feed them a lot so they don't they grow slow. I probably have like a 12, 12 footer, you know. They get pretty sick. They're like about that. I did a video up on my polombos python's Instagram if you on the story. If you go take a look at it, you can see a pretty big one I have. You can swallow one of your kids. Now they can't do that. But I wouldn't leave my kids alone with them, but they're very tame these things. But once again, you know, with kids you don't you can't leave around. That's why I have a separate building. So the kids don't get it. Yeah, but the kids like them. Oh, they love, they love really. Yeah, IMean they're from use by them now. Well, we'll see who as they get older really is attracted to the whole, the whole hobby if any of them who knows. Probably one of my daughters if you know, knowing you know how my life goes. I've just tried to show you some of the states, we took pictures of it. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. So it's week number nine that John Ramano has no Mr. Pots cookies. Uh-oh. And of any type variety or anything. You know what the problem is? I get them, but then they're eaten so quickly between the kids, a man, that myself, Tyler, digs into them. And so they're gone like in a week. So it doesn't matter how many of you send me. John, the TN brother once or way. Yeah. Well, so what I did was IMade cookies over a week and I put it in the tin. So at least I have a week on. Can you guys hear us? Maybe we should have had a make of myself. You want to see him? Yeah, let me see him. Yes. Oh, we're going to be right. Let me see you talk. Hello. Hello. Can you see? You're there, Greg. We see you. You can hear me, right? Yeah, we hear you, we see you. We're talking about Mr. Jesus cookies. I think what we should do is, I think within the, I would do it for the whole public, but I don't trust anyone to send me stuff. But maybe between you, Greg, myself, John, Mr. G and Jenny, we should all have like a protein cookie bake off, like we should all make our own protein cookies recipe and then like, you know, cross, submit them to each other and then do like a taste test or something like that. Or wherever we're just sending it to me and all face them all. Tyler can taste them all. He's like, he's an objective third party, you know? I would do it. My face is so I had to put my own cookies. I said what you should do is we should do a bake off job. We should have all the whack packers do their own cookies. Yeah, until I get a refill, I'm gonna be doing it myself. Okay. So if anybody walks into my house, Mr. G, and they open the tin and they, oh, these fucking cookies are great. Where do I get them? Well, you gotta get them right here because Mr. G, you don't send me no cookies. So I gotta just, you know, I gotta make, I gotta make my own. It's basically what happened. Oh, those things sugar like high and sugar and everything already. Yeah, they're real cookies, man. Oh, okay. If we do a bake off, it's gotta be a cookie that has protein. You're gonna have to put some- Well, what I do is IMix in some protein powder with the flour. I'll say to some I slice protein, you can put in there and then, and we'll make it that way. Because this way they're all standard. And then you could add your own cookie recipe, too, whatever. Everyone else use the same protein, because otherwise if we don't use the same protein, then it doesn't, then it's cheating. So use the same protein, and then we gotta see what your cookie recipe is. Like Mr. G, we know uses omega-3 eggs and mac and amin' that oil. I don't know what kind of flour, you know, John uses or he might that, but the fucking good I gotta tell you. I'll tell you, Mr. G's peanut butter cookies were really good, and I like the mac and amin' a mac and amin' not white chocolate. Was it white chocolate and then too? Those were really good, too. Those are not white chocolate. I'm dying to try them. Yeah. Oh, good. I like them. I wonder where is Mr. G? I'm surprised he's not mine yet. He said he's bringing someone from down here in the corner, is he? When you roll it right. That day looks like he's, I can't tell what that. George, you hear? He's with the golf course. Hey Dave, what's going on with the gym again? He texted me and he said he was bringing an old rat-pack guy from Vegas on as a guest today. Turn your phone sideways, Mr. G. You know, him and Jimmy go in these golf courses with the phone, with no reception, and then they wonder why they came here us. We came here, then, and I got it. I got it. Exam out. Hey Dave, let me ask you a question. What's with all those guys that you post that are from my, they all fucking look alike? Like that guy you just put up, he's like really jacked to shit. They all look alike. They all look alike. They say all the Italians look alike, too. No, I don't mean look alike in a face. IMeant all their builds. Like if you cut their heads off to tomato, all of this thing. The genetic, it's a genetic thing, you know, all middle Eastern guys have the really good abs. You have to notice they have the lined up abs like some ear head. That's because they fuck a group, not eating food. No, I'm not talking about the alineas. I'm talking about how their abs line up. They have that perfectly like that perfect six-packs. They have to do. Yeah, but you really believe that they don't like, they're, that's genetics. IMean, it's got to be. It's a great snake. If I have a snake that has a lot of red in it and I breed everyone and the same, I breed all the red ones together. You get red, you know. If the middle Eastern guys, you know, marry someone from America or someone from Australia, you're gonna see different genetics in there, but as long as they're, you know, they're breeding within, you know, they're country, you know, you're gonna keep a small man. Yeah, but, Paul, yeah. The way I disagree with that is because most guys, you go over in the middle Eastern, you see Middle Eastern men. And they're not naturally jacked. It's different if you see a black dude. You could go down in New York City and see some crack, crack head laying in the corner, fucking, you know. And you say holy shit, look at this guy. You think? Well, the middle Eastern guys are not actually ripped, but when they die it down, they have great physics under there. Nobody's seen that. Nobody's seen that. And American guys just have good genetics. They, they stay lean, you know. What I noticed is the certain nationalities that have different thickness to their skin. I find it Latin people, African Americans, they have very thick skin. You go to like the Dorian types, you know, the northern Europeans, you know, from England, Ireland, and Netherlands, those people, the genders, they're skin gets freaking thin as pain. I'm not even talking about that. I'm talking about their structures. I'm like, you see guys, like, you know, you could see a black dude or some Hispanics. They got no fuck, they could not touch a weight. And they look like they live weights. I had a guy walking my gym after trening three months. He never touched a weight. Came into gym, worked out for three months, and won a natural show. Right. I want to go out when you go out to Brazil and you see these Brazilian women with these butts. Because that's not what they have the influence. They take butt in, you know. No, forget about the button. They have butts anyway. That's a genetic trait that's in Brazil, you know. But listen, I'm gonna try to start a fucking racinGHere. But that's because a lot of them have a little bit of black blood in them, black people have a butt, you know what IMean? Give a black. Black people don't have a butt like the Brazilians. It's part of that. No, that's not that. That gym pulls down its down there. But Brazilians got a Dutch, they got a somewhat... Which give me the master race stereotype or we need them when we need them. No, I'm not trying to race stereotype. No, we're talking truth fear. Right. We're talking legion people have great calves and no butts. That's a well known fact, right? That's sort of the mixture of the blood dough. You could see in Brazilians have a Spain, they have Dutch, they have an Asian and a lot of them. You know what I'm saying? So they've got a lot of little things going on. Right, but when you see an Asian person, Asian people have really good calves, usually and they have no, no glutes. They have very flat butts, right? Yep, warm in. Give it to me. But you're trying to black blood in there to get big calves and big butts now. I was... I was the chicks. I was walking down the street the other day and I'm about a block half a block away. I see a black kid sweeping the sidewalk, right? And I'm looking at this kid and like, Skate looks like he's just won the Mr. Universe. IMean, Mr. America. IMean, he's like tiny ways wide back shredded. His dad's roll out, his cap delts. I'm walking up to this kid. And I was like, get closer. You know, he's a piergy. He's very young. So I go, dude, where do you tren? You know what? Because I got to the most hardcore gym in the area. I never seen him. I go, where do you tren? Because what do you mean tren? Where do you work out? He goes, I don't work out. And I, I could, this kid could have walked off the stage. I'm tellinGHim, he was thin. IMean, it wasn't a big dude, but proportion, structure, condition, the guy looked at a competitor. John and... I was like that. John and the deathplate. I was like that as a kid. I still, my shoulders are still broad now. And I don't even fucking work out. And I haven't done an actual shoulder exercise 10, 2003. I'm just saying, D, I've, in the middle east, if they were so genetically elite, you would see even guys when they take off their shirts, they'd have musculature to them. And I don't believe that they do. IMean, you know, I'm just looking at him. But what's the level of... Kevin Lebroni. Kevin Lebroni was not a big guy before he started to do it. Wait, let me think. But he was a hyper responder. So when he started trening, his body just exploded. IMean, Flex Wheeler wasn't a big guy. Look how skinny he was when he started. His body just responded. I'll go to that. But it was a little guy, Ashkenani, or whatever the fuck is named me. I heard that he was at one point when he came out and competed in the Olympic. He looked all super jacked and shit. But he was only trening for like five years. Like five years ago, he was like, Randy wasn't trening that long. You didn't know what he was doing. Yeah, Randy was like, fuck, three years? Yeah, yeah, what he did. He did a hyper responder. But it's got to be more than that. Because that's why every American guy goes to CoA puts on 20 pounds of fucking muscle. They don't all do that. It's some, there's nothing, there's no drugs coming to play, but it's not drugs. There's a genetic component to everything. I look, I did a concept when a guy last night. He's 82 years old. He started powerlet. He never lifted away. I went to high school in him. Yes, he smoked for 60 years. 60 years of pack a day. He drank alcohol almost every day. He played pool. He was like a guy. He didn't do anything athletically. The guy, when the doctor look at his extra area of his lungs, he said, I can't believe you don't have anything wrong, you'll once. His dad lived to 99 as mother lived to 96. He started powerlething at 77. He's got all these records that he said. The guy looks amazing. He never worked out his whole life. He didn't start to 77 years old. The guy will probably live to 120 because he's got genetics. Nothing but 60 years. He can't do anything. He knows that. He just had 60 years worth of freaking injuries chasinGHim right now. He's smoking Johnny. He has no damage to his lungs. How do you explain that? He's trying to do his butt. His muscles. I know people look. I have a friend of mine. His mother died a one cancer. She never smoked to cigarette the day in a life. And he's talking to his second. He's talking to his smoke. Andy Kaufman, same thing. And I'm not saying that. I think you're missing a point. I'm saying at least when you again here in New York, you could go down. You see in Times Square, you'll see, you know, homeless black men. And I have no shirts on. I'll be like, do this guy looks like a gazelle. His fucking tiny waist abs, pecs. Every little muscle on the back. You don't see that in the Middle East. I know people are going to say, if I don't do this. I don't know. How many times have you been to the Middle East? I was like, you said it for them. I'm saying. IMean, it's a legit question, Greg, because you're generalizing. I'm sure of your soil like these guys that build the pyramids. You know, when they were building the pyramids, I'm sure they were shredded to with no shirts. Oh, no, where? I bet you, I bet you if you went, I bet you if you went to Dubai and walked around on the beach or not, but you would see it at completely different places. I just don't see it. I see it, Defam. Just don't say, I'm saying to you, these guys are so fucking like the digger from zero to hundred and they either do a hyper respond or is true that they're doing something to quit because every fucking American bodybuilder wants to go. What? What? Look at horse racing. Why? Look at horse racing. Why are the thoroughbreds all the Arabian stallions? Why are they so, why they so much faster than all the other horses? Because the bread for that. Exactly. From 100 years ago, they did. Right, they're, right. IMean, but that's exactly what happened. When you're in a population where you have to, in order to survive, you have to have a certain, you can't have a, you have to be able to eat a little bit of food, but yet still stay lean and active and in a hot population. In Africa, people develop, you know, developed differently than in the Nordic parts of the world where people hold more body fat because body fat in the Nordic parts where it's cold is a survival advantage because otherwise you, if you have no body fat in Finland, you die, you know, back in the other thing. The other thing is that in that part of the world, the religion and the belief system is not very supportive of something like body building. No, what about the fasting, the fastinGHelps you to lose fat, maybe that's what it is. You know, but what I'm saying is you got, you're making a generalization, you know, I'm not, I'm asking you, is it, I'm not saying that people themselves have seen why is it that everybody goes to Kuwait? It's those guys. I think that's it. Yes, he drugs that, Jai Greg. Yeah, they got, they got a place where they can live, eat, leave your tummy. And that's all they got to look, the best athlete, the best body builder is the one that's going to be able to concentrate the hard. You're a move. If you're a move, that's why big Miami can't one and you structure his life is wake up, eat, tren, sleep, wake up, eat, tren, sleep. If that's all that you have, you removed everything else, and you got for drugs, everybody's paying your bills, you got you and eat all the, whatever you got, it's all taken here. A lot of American body builders got that here. Oh, Christ. There's a lot of, there's got a lot of, there's got a lot of guys don't work, they don't work here. You know, IMean, a lot of guys don't work, but nothing's provided for them. I'm not studying in Korea, but I'm saying, they're actually, they're like, I think you better. So, he's just going there and subscribe to the, how could you not gain 20 pounds of those? Okay, so you're agreeing with what I'm saying, that's what I'm saying. I'm saying, don't give me that shit that they were born like that. It's, if, how come, if you took big Grammy and you, you started out by saying, why did these guys so wrapped in lean by nature, certain people? You're chasing, you're changing a tune. No, you shouldn't have done that. So when you turn off, they're not. You say, why are they all look the same? They all, everyone and those guys are super jacked. My followers, viewers look the same. I guess, I bet you, people would have said, why the old guys in gold gym, Venice back in the 90s and 80s look the same, right? Come on. Listen, I'm saying, I'm gonna, I'm gonna mafia gangsters look like Christ, listen, you I'm missing one of trying to say, I'm saying you I know why I feel I think it's the fucking gym out there with the drugs and all that shit because if you brought big Rami here and he wasn't able to fucking I'm talking about what is it called tiny ramping yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah if you imagine if you had a run the hustle here do you know if I'm gonna ask him to say Diego from Egypt he didn't get losinGHis eyes because he was a it was a big fuck but NASA was a big new I believe that NASA was genetically elite I don't think some of these guys are genetically I think the old drugs you know what's wrong on an island and it'll be fucking p.m.e. Herman you're in me look at me I fucking fucking wait I haven't done shit I fucking throw kids off or should go and a doctor an hour after with dumb at the show what I'm saying it to you is that if you have a natural bill I get it you know what IMean but I'm saying I don't think these guys I think I just think the world drugs I don't know you know you see how these guys when they come off look at my staff a moment come off you would never even know if you saw I'm walking in the street you would never know he was even a bodybuilder you know what IMean but yeah but great everyone's using the same drugs though you know that yeah but we don't I don't know about over there you can get of what I hear everything is fucking you know well the difference is Greg it's not illegal there if it's not illegal you can buy it and you don't have to worry about the ramifications of it and there's not going to be a little bit of you know we're not only that but you're getting legit shit that's right over here you're getting a shit to some guy trying that shit's made that's not made no fucking you provide it when you provided your services back in the day IMean you were providing you probably 99% real stuff and that's why guys grew from it right well I got stirriest shit was just a real day yeah I say you guys had the American stuff it was the best stuff I had that stuff too that's why us 90 bodybuilders were jack baby drugs were better that's what we were jacked we were on a big rammy diet yeah you know IMean you know what I had I had guys in Mexico that I had you know put under a similar you know set of circumstances they had very little to do they just had a really trened and eat and dedicate you know it makes a tremendous difference when you remove a lot of those stresses from from an athlete so I don't know you can say necessarily that they all look the same I think that if you put anybody in that situation they would look the same because that's when you just said the same thing when I'm trying to say is it cause they're genetically elite or is it because they're in a fucking gym that's like shoveling fucking juice down the throat in a food bag it's both we listen what you guys got to understand you guys watching this you you you watchers you supporters you fans you know what I'm talking about bro come on you guys got to go to work you got to bust your nut you know Jay Coliver with tren taking nap at home make sure his food was done somebody be cook good his food's girl with shave his back his ass you go back to the gym get a second workout in go back home taking nap you know what IMean eat some more food these guys over here they're not fucking it's not like our shit fuck man I got to be back to work they don't work they're idea work it is personal trening which really is fucking you selling juice a little bit on the side you know there's not a pro bodybuilder who hasn't made a little babanya you know I just had to make a little babanya had to make a little uh schedule by selling some babanya that's telling you it's a nobody it's just that's the way it works it's a water land these guys ain't they're not fucking bust in their hold you know working jobs and shit like you're Dave it Dave if you had to go back to being a Dave plumber you were in the 90s when you when I knew you had fucking massive you wouldn't you wouldn't you certainly wouldn't fucking you know you wouldn't be able to do hefty shows am I right or wrong I'm feeling very dirty from this conversation I had to put my ass down I just want to say I want to add this one thing it's both it's both you don't take somebody without the good genetics and we know that who do you on okay so I know they're only getting and that is in oxygen gym and quit you're only getting the best that's why they're there I know the Schmodre gym rattle another chance in hell because he's got no calves or nobody for arms or no back or whatever he ain't gonna go to it's not going to quit they're not gonna take them I understand you have to genetics we all know that you know what I'm saying but I'm gonna go Dave if you right now had to get humongous again right let's say God said listen save your kids or your family you have to get humongous again and you know that you could do this Dave I know you don't want to do that to your body and it's just your organs and I'm opening up carbon dioxide gym I'm in high toxic trening we do there and it's gonna be a brand new franchise here in the US I'm gonna have all the big ram you will come stay I got the idea from Johnny say I have all this money I'm gonna spend it I'm not going to I'm not giving it to to the kids I'm spending carbon dioxide gym coming into 2021 all right if you had if you had to be humongous again you wouldn't have time to be doing all these shows you have to do it and when I said Jay Kohler used in this example I like Jay it's all the body voters are like that I would not I would not be able to do what I did back in the 90s and early 2000s if I had a family with three kids no no no let's I'm saying if God came down and put a gun you had said listen to say the families life I want you to get you out again if you had to do it you wouldn't be able to do all these shows and do all the trenings you're doing all that stuff because you'd have to do a lot more focus absolutely sure right am I right wrong yeah absolutely I wouldn't want to do it it would be distracting to me right well you wouldn't be able you know you wouldn't have time because you got to go to the gym in the morning right didn't you got to get your food you got to take a nap you got to come back what I would do is if it was if this if it was this we create this little fantasy scenario I would stop doing as many shows I would do one rant a day I would do one thing a day on a video camera I'd upload to YouTube and that would be it I couldn't I wouldn't want to focus on anything else but that but you also wouldn't be able to put the time in you have to do one or the other you wouldn't be able to do to you'd be sittinGHere going off fuck I got to you to meal you'd be in the mail where you're talking yeah being a gym fucking I feel like I just need you know as he's on the Instagram eatinGHis food yeah I think there's I think there's an element of time gone by you know life is a lot morecomplicated now than it was 30 years ago you're right you know IMean 30 years ago in Venice you could get an apartment for you in a place to live for 200 bucks a month and you spend another 200 bucks a month on food and you could make your whole nut work at a door somewhere so you know it's not like that today that's another that that and back then IMean what guys were trening you know six hours a day Greg you know I was one of them but the thing is those guys back then there were doing a lot of the game for me get some guy with a lot of scuttle right and you don't give a shit here make sure you go to the gym today right 30 minutes opposing to them you know probably naked in these guys we're you know get a nice little paycheck there right when people listen I don't mean I don't mean it this your god or anything but Arnold Schwarzenegger always talks about how he laid breczen he did one job one you know what I'm saying you'd be that dude Arnold Schwarzenegger you really believed that he him and fucking Franco went around buildinGHouses no that's new old you know chimney in a wall I think that's all it that's all he ever built and I didn't tell you something that fucking guy okay I won $1,000 for the Mr Olympian so how did he survive he told me what he said they used to go to with these pool parties if these rich guys houses up in the middle of that shit and he said you know Arnold would disappear into the house with the guy you know a half hour later he'd come out with you know 500 bucks you know I know some I know some of the guys that used to fucking give him the money they're dead now but I'm just a gold man back there you remember this guy named Gabe no a grace shit he was a he was the sea is the sin he used to facts people pictures of Arnold Lacy rich Lacy rich I know the name I think he's the facts pictures are Arnold to everybody you know like like out of pool make it or yeah I've seen I've seen the one pitch we've I think we all seen that one pitcher and he ended up getting remembered he was they found them dead of an insulin over those oh yeah it's just like the fucking when he ran for a governor and shit they were fucking people were like kind of getting you know because there's a lot of people his pictures were circular I know a guy was out there with wage Bennett and he said he was going oh I don't want to say his name on the side I know Dave you're friends with him and he's sayinGHow we opened up a draw at the guys house over there in England and it would pitch his a Tom Platts and chaps you know what IMean and they're hanging out and all this stuff and it wasn't these guys we don't know this is for sure this is Greg's opinion I don't know what he and this is true I'm thoroughly Greg's opinion you're not from you it I did it once I did it once I didn't get naked but what I did was I blew thoughts in this guy's ass I did this show what did you do what did you do this this guy I don't another body brother who I'm really close with okay he was my buddy he called me said you want to make some money and he had this rich guy okay and it was it was Andrew Chrisbow who was a famous art dealer and he was in prison once for murder and the guy paid me with a check tool which is really crazy yeah this master and I did this I did this show for generation and we went into this room right I get over there in the master and it's a great deal with the police had on his fucking clock hanging out and shit and we go on I go in a room and my friend is in there and my friend is doing all this fucked up shit he's hittinGHim with a fucking paddle and all this right the guy's naked on an ex like this this and his ass is facing us so when I had to do right was the master tells me okay he goes you got a fucking I'm gonna give it his darker it's a darker and he looks syringes they're long dark like this and he would put a lighter to it like this make it cherry red and I would blow it this it would it would write into the guys ass and the guy would scream it was crazy and then he'd go you got to do it yet and I would do another and I was starting to sweat you know IMean I was like getting nervous because but you could actually smell the stuff like there was like burnt you could smell this skin was burning and shit it was the most fucked up thing but he loved it the guy was getting on on the master with him now what hello with the mystery question what what did they do you there for to do that it doesn't seem like it was like I said they had a bodybuilding they were because we were even a master was flowing me a master you know they were they had a fetish for big mosquitos when you know I'm giving you the fucking name of the guys they was Andrew Chris Boll. And how much did you make for that from throwing blow and darts up his ass? Three 300 bucks not a lot. Well you know they were hot darts you know maybe if they were cold darts you would have been 500. This was back in like 1990 my just had a kid you know IMean I was moving to gym I was kind of needed some skyddle and my I close friend I'll tell you to his office sit to be broke you want to make a couple bucks come with me you know what IMean and that's how they have what what's that yeah it was in the ass of him but I got an article on him right here Chris Bob. Are you f***inGHe went to prison looking to kill the guy during that SNM a guy named Wayne LaGaro she killed them and he went to prison for it. Andrew Chris Bob. Yeah Andrew Chris Bob. Yeah. He's got to be like fucking 80 now who's old when I did it and he had a master to master like something you see right now I'm a fucking movie he had chap saw this fucking cock was hanging down just trapped across here a baseball like a like a leather fucking pre-spaceball type at Studge and it should look just a biGHandlebar must have he's only one time murder suspect that's it he looked like Freddie Mercury. Studge is going to make sure this guy has been in killer awaits parole ruling after fire to kill murder. Yeah and he was prolly he this is after IMet him after. A various you see the story after after that murder he was because he became he used to be like a supposedly a dom now he's in submissive dude he was fucking they were calling me master J. O'Connor shit I don't want to take anything away from Mr. Did you see these things Greg and we're pointing up oh you can't I'm okay. No I can't see him. I think that's him that's an entry Chris Bob. It is an art dealer I will think is fuckinGHe he it was on the corner of 14 street and 11 to have and you he had a bed like art gallery and you walk in there it is like I'm probably I should have fuckinGHouse the painting because there was like fucking means of paintings all in like boxes probably worth a fortune. Oh dude he's he's like a fucking billionaire and it like I was 300 fucking dollars. You should have gotten on his payroll you should have been working. You haven't didn't matter dude I I gave them other fucking scars I was hitting them with I shot you can do that all day long man Greg. If you if you didn't use the blog on you'd probably get more money. But the master was making the fucking thing cherry right so not only when the dart it was like a syringe. Did you ever see a guy that looked remotely like Steve Blackburn dressed up as a woman over there? No then I don't like that he can you remember Mr. G and Bob and Spals insisted that they saw a black went outside of studio 54 in the dress when he still had the mustache. Yeah. No I don't believe me. Hey dude I believe. I don't know. I don't know. Yeah. We got a verify a lot of story tell us too so I don't know if I believe anything. Why is it Mr. G talking what the hell are you that George? He's in the corner he's been in the corner all day. I always in Vizwa I don't see him. It just says something. This is Mr. G. This is Mr. G. Yeah I was master G. He was master G. Yeah. Yeah. That was the sickest thing though if you saw that shit the guy had a fuckinGHe was on that. Sure Mr. G is Mr. G. He's Greg so maybe we call you master G from that one. And I shouldn't have said anything. I don't know the president. Oh, so IMight have a dip but my partner is just sayinGHis name. F fucking my partner Paul was the guy. And we always talk Paul does everything. What do we know? What are you talking about? Yeah we used to do it. He was the crazy motherfucker. He would do all that shit. I know guys that would do that. You know what dudes are in the same thing. They guys were a level of girls. They're like feats of strength. Right. You know that. But you know what I'm talking about Dave. What if the female body bones going there they lift up. They're lifting parry. Yeah. They're fates. Right? Well the hand it's called the handroomers. They know they do the fucking they're into feats of strength. You know. Put me in a headlock. Make me faint. And it's just the boy there should put it on bar on him. And it got on my face. And it'll wake up. Here's fuckinGHis and not 100 dollars. Do it again. Oh my god. I've been being killed the guy. I actually. Greg is that part we shouldn't do it on the dinner. Living real floor. I'm going to do shins of horror. The wrestling mat. They should put the furniture against the wall and roll out the wrestling mat. Yeah. And then he's guys would come in and you know wrestling. He would like some legs, scissors, a room, you know, and the neck and they pass and they stop it on the. He, he made tell him. We're going to be banging on the bit. But don't let go. That's and they make a safe for it. He's not like banging on the back. Stop it. She won't stop. And he. And you hear this shit, you know, through the wall. He bang smashed the goggles in the floor and then bang it. You know, and he's screaming and shit. And then she's like, you know, she's got a wigs drying up out of the pack patio with the romantic heads and these guys are coming and going. And she's lifting them up throwing them around smashing them legs, scissors, and them in the head all for fun. We knew this one. She was she used to do what she was the lifting carry likEQueen. She would have she could lift anyone up. I know a million of those girls probably my friend is the day. T a fannington. She was like six one six two. Did you remember her? Yeah. You remember Chris Luthke? I'm sure Nicole Bass probably did something that too. Cause she was very strong. She did it to me. What time to call Bass? Knuck up from behind me and put me in a headlock and lifted me off the ground. And then threw me on her shoulder. Yeah, I started doing that to Troy more once too. I was like he was like a like a like a dwarf like she threw him up in the air. He threw me. She threw she put me in a fuckinGHeadlock. Knuck all bass from behind. I didn't know she was there. And she was fucking around. It'll play around. And did you get excited? And it, no, not at all. I'm not into that shit. But I could give you stories. You know the story. So who is the best lifting carry queen of all time? You know, think the most popular. You know what? Anybody who competed in a woman's extravaganza? All those fucking girls. Yeah, they were all that. Even Tazzy, all the neighborhood fucking. People in the street will be able to give us quite the one that I know. I know, dude, I know stories with chicks with fucking knocking a guy's door to guy with open a door. She fucking crack him in the jaw. And he think his money. He got, she took $1,200 from this guy. And she, he opened up the door. She fuckinGHit him with a right. She dropped them. You know, he gave it to eat, gave it to $1,200. And she, she leaves. But a time, she told me by the time IMade it out to the fucking street to where the car was, he called me back to that was on unbelievable. Come do it again. I'll give you more money. You, you guys know how those schmows are. They're fucking nuts like that. They're crazy. They're obsessed. I'd love to tone names my God in heaven. I used to get a show. When I was with Shelley Beaty, she used to get mail from these guys. His handwritten letters. They were the most pathetic things you have ever read in your entire life. It was a great call. It could have waited for her to go to the freaking mail button, her mailbox and get the mail. They would be money in it. This one guy, this one kid would send cash. You know what he was talking about? He would go on these long rants about cigarettes and alcohol and pornography, you know, and then put in $100, $50. And then it's another guy with a bag and a cellar on the way. I got $1,000. He went up to like $1,500 for a fucking pair of all. Yeah. Fucking son. Oh yeah, John, you could go get a pair under where white dress would it pay off panties and send it in a box and some guy will spit it in your closet. I'm just gonna put it in a day and then I send it. Oh, you got another one I'll pay for it. No, but listen, dude, I got the sickest fucking mail. Dave, I got a show you this. I still got it. Some fucking fan from the Philippines who was a bodybuilder sent me pictures of him with guns and then his girlfriend naked with guns, right? Right. And it did pictures ever of Filipino shoot herself with like heroin and she's off. Dude, I got it. I'll show it to you. Yeah. I still haven't. They said to me like fucking, don't you see how long ago was that? Like fucking 15, 20 years ago, I got that fucking thing. Wow. It's this joke broke. It's sick. There's a lot of sick shit. He sent me a lot of pictures with a lot of crazy shit and with a lot of. Really? But it. And you saved it, too. I saved it because I couldn't believe I fucked up. When I did the movie with Chris Bell, bigger stronger faster, I had a garbage bag full of fucking, now kind of mail. Oh, real? Big black garbage bag and he, they filmed it and he was, he filmed all segmented. I think he put a little piece of it in where they show him reading something about the mail. I'll tell you, I have more than a garbage bag. I had two garbage bags. It was the sickest shit these people. Somebody's dude, I had one more thing. Why would they send it to you? Because they, you know, the ram of freak and I give crazy stores that they think, yo, I got one for you. I got a thing for you. Oh, I said listen to me. I think it for the mags. There's a lot of jail. This one guy said to me a jail. He's freaking out because he's got to stop himself from killing people because this is in jail because they just brought some kid into jail. The kid was like 110 pounds. He was a little twink and he said, he had a shootout with the cops, a cop shot him. And now he has a colostomy bag. And the fucking, and he said, the other inmates were rape and I'm in fuckinGHim in the holes. Oh, I still, hey, you think of fucking Kenya. Chris Bell read that and he goes to me, I can't put this in a movie, but this is the sickest fucking shit I've ever had. They were rape in the sky in the hole with a colostomy bag. Somebody to misty tell you. And it's this kid and yet a cell wants that a kill a kill. I'm going to kill all those rapists for doing it. The context would, would stand somebody and then they fucked the, the stab wound. Really crazy crazy crazy people. Well, I can not sick of that guy there is hell except now they're like, you're running out. It's standing in the wall. It's not something they get a hard on. It's stabbing the guy because for me adrenaline. Yeah, well, it's the dominance. It's the power. But let me tell you something. You live in New York, well, then on a gel number whatever. I just said they let people out. You need to get real people. People are leaving New York by the truckload. But you didn't even get bail here unless you sell steroids. Then you go to the toilet. You're right. You're right. I talked to Rick Collins and he says, there is he goes, they get it. And they go right back out. He goes, it's the biggest problem. The cops are havinGHis dead. So whatever they're doing, they'll be back in 30 minutes. Yeah, but you do this a guy here. Just a fucking guy in New York. They arrested over 100 times for bank robbery. 100 times they let him out. And the same day he'll rob a bank that he got arrested. And they get him again. He's not very good at it if he's getting caught. But no, it's the blusher. It's the blusher in Cuomo. Do Democratic fucking bullshit. All right, no politics. All right, I want to end the show. I want to end the show with, I want to just do a little remembrance. Because Mercury Morris Clareborn, who was, I believe, second place at the 1999 PC Nationals in the Bannerway class, he looked at a little mini flex wheeler. He passed this past week. Maybe you can probably put a picture up from my Instagram. I'm posted one. What he died of, Dave's. You know, he had a stroke 10 years ago evidently. And he was in a wheel chair as a quadriplegic fatteneers from what I from his family wrote on the show. No, you guys do him, right? I know a Charles Clareborn. No, not Charles Claremon. This is Mercury. No, Mercury. No, Mercury. A little guy. Yeah, very, very, very. Right, Dave. He had like a mullet. Yeah, jury throws. What, what do you guys know about him? Can you talk about him? So we could kind of honor him a little bit. He was an off. He was a light boy. He was like a writer. He was legendary in the Cangins in LA. Now, what did he do? Was he like, did he ride fast? IMean, what was he? He was a really smart bike fast in the Cangins, like a GP racer. He was really good. It says, it's a Zuki Honda's to Cadi's. That's what I said. Everything but a Harley. Yeah. Crazy. I wonder why you never competed. He stopped competing. Do you know why John? I don't know. IMean, because he was like a lightweight and stuff. I don't really smell. He was a little bit. He had to, I don't think he had. I think he knew that he'd have to like take a lot more shit. He knew a lot of people were going to do that. He would have been a good class and bodybuilder. Class of the Zuki. Well, look at texture, Jackson. Dexter Jackson started out. He was a lightweight bodybuilder. Banner was Bentley. Banner was. Was he Banner was he actually that low? Uh-huh. 130 or 135 pounds. What he wouldn't, he won the nationals. I thought it was a lightweight. Right? He won the North Americans as a lightweight, but he was, and remember, light heavy weights up to 198 pounds. He was about 184 for that show. That's how good he was. Yeah, but he was worth it. When it before that, when he was quality, when his first contest, he won, it was a Banner. He was Bannerweight. They didn't want to Southern states overall as a middleweight. Right. So, that's the one I think I remember. The Southern states as a middleweight. I know that he was really small, like light. And then look, he had free key genetics. He always had crazy muscle separation and just like, like, he was a fun boy. I remember the way, but I thought it was going to be a lean. Yeah. I remember being like that little Jerry Crowley had to fucking mull it. Like Jerry Crowley. That was Mercury Clairborn. Yeah. Right. And he had to light eyes. But his name was Mercury. That was his nickname. Morris. Morris Clairborn. More okay. Yeah. He was a nice guy. Yeah. Trash tennis. Gold? Yeah. IMet him backstage at one of the fuckers shows. Oh. I don't know where he trened. And that I couldn't tell you. But I remember him. He was small. Yeah. A lot of guys, you know, he was 60 years old, you know. So he's probably the same age as you guys. He must have been, you know, contemporaries with you. Oh, how dare you. He was. Well, you know what IMean? We're getting to an age now, guys, where it's not just bodybuilding related deaths anymore. It's actually people die of old age, you know, at 60 years old. Hey. I'm 60. No, I know. But I'm saying we're in good health, luckily. Oh, I know. But they're not. I'm not going to die of that. People have died at 60 years old. IMean, that's that's that's the side. IMean, people get diseases. They have drugs, heart attacks, cancer. Hopefully, our lifestyle now is a healthy lifestyle. It'll prevent us from having to succumb to some of these, you know, chronic the buildative diseases like, you know, the heart disease and stuff like that. But there are normal people that kind of went back to just living normal lives that, you know, we're eating right, we're taking care of themselves. Maybe in the, they succumb to you. That's the genetics. It's genetics. Because you, you know, you could eat shit and live to be a fuckinGHundred years. Yeah, but I think if you eat right, you tren, you exercise, just keep, you know, you take care of yourself. You have a much better chance of living longer without disease. That's the case. My mother ate organ meats in all that shit. She died of pancreas cancer in her six. Wow. Wow. And we don't know if that's what caused it. She might have had a bad G too, that just kind of kicked off. And my mother died of caveat cancer 42. I don't know if you're a mother. Yeah, 42 years old. No way. What? No way. I didn't know your mother. Yeah. Yeah. Same thing with my mother, pancreas cancer. That's crazy when you outlive when your parents, like if your mother came alive today, it'd be older than her. Yeah, old and her. Isn't that crazy? Yeah. It's, IMean, I'm glad IMade it. It was a little nerve-wracking. Even my sister, I'm sure, probably up until that age. We were all like, oh, you know, we're going to be, you know, have the same fate. But the truth is that, you know, I live a completely different lifestyle the way I take care of myself and, you know, the supplements. They didn't know anything about nutrition, about eating back then, you know? Right. No, what you mean, a little calling me. All right. Well, let's wrap this thing up. I'm sorry, Mr. G. didn't couldn't join us. And then Jimmy, the bowl may be next week though. They'll kick in. But I, this was a good show. I feel like it was therapy for me because I was like stress-statt. It was too much crazy stuff going on. I went through all my, oh, my aggravation. That's because of my fucking story that blown darts and that's right. That's right. That really did lie. That gave me a smile for the rest of the day. I'll think that, no one can complain about their life. They've got to up the bubble way better than the, uh, Colossity backstory. I'll play that much. So I'll try to envision the darts instead, you know, for the rest of the day. Thanks, guys. I love you guys. I'm Dave Palermo. Here with John Romano. Great Valentino. And of course, Tyler Shore. We'll see you next week. I love you, guys. Love you, guys.

=== FILE: Guy Cisternino Posing Routine at 2011 Europa Super Show [nCtWwHHPXac].txt ===

Ok no further ride without posture. Great 3.ively.

=== FILE: GuyCisternino [G8Gp3fXx7ew].txt ===

那請你一套

=== FILE: HADI CHOOPAN AT THE 2020 OLYMPIA？ [LhhhE9SR6AE].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Motor 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car cocktail. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Thursday July 6th, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you follow the financial news, you're here for pastors talking about our current economic situation as being in a bubble that could be on the verge of deflating at any moment. And that's why the savvy investor tries to position themselves to be bubble proof. Almost like what Chonsey Wilson is doing with his Chicago pro-prep. A little birdie told me that last year's junior national champ is planning to make his pro-day viewing classic physique in Chicago a few weeks from now. We're hoping to do his own version of bubble bursting for everyone else in the lineup. Late we've seen a lot of rookies come in and have success from day one in classic. So if Chonsey is one of the next in line, this could be the perfect opportunity to get himself on the map. Right now, there are a lot of fans and athletes who really looking forward to this year's New York pro for a lot of reasons, especially with this year's contest being so important in terms of qualifying for the Olympia. And from what I understand, Milan shot, I guess hoping this year's contest will be one to help them punch his ticket through the big show. A lot was another one of the international athletes who was supposed to compete in Tampa, but couldn't because of travel restrictions. But a few days ago, Milan announced on his social media that he was aiming to compete at the New York pro a few weeks from now if he can manage to get everything in order. But that feels like a big if right now. There are so many variables to account for that's almost impossible to know how these things might look in a few weeks. But if everything does end up falling into place, Milan's someone who could be a dark horse top for contender. Certain professional sports are star-driven leagues. Basketball and football definitely top that list here in America. Even though bodybuilding is in a team sport like they are here, I'd say that it's definitely driven more by individual stars like Hotting Schopen more than either one of those two I just mentioned. But here's the thing about star-driven leagues. Fans actually want to see the stars compete. And that's what drives the economic engine of these things. Even if you're a die-hard fan of your sport, you're still not tuning in to watch the role players. The same way you are if you knew that they were all stars in the lineup. That's why we need guys like Hotting on stage this year. He's a star and that means he's a draw. Someone needs to figure out somethinGHere because you can't have a star-driven league without its stars. It just doesn't work that way. And finally, we're ending today's show with some important news about the late Luke Sand though. As some of you may already know, Monday would have been Luke's 30-second birthday. And we reminded of that by the hundreds of posts and messages from Luke's friends and fans all of social media. But for me, and a lot of other people I know, the most impactful words came from a post-made on Luke's Instagram account by his family. In the message Luke's family ended the speculation about his cause of death. It's been swirling around for the last few months by saying Luke ultimately passed away from a heart attack. Even now, sensitive to this subject is, I don't think this is the time or the place to offer up any commentary on this. But I think the best thing we can all say is happy, belated birthday to Luke, who's a great man, a great friend, and a great father. You're truly missed by friend. And that does it. The other edition of Muscle in the Morning on Daypal Lumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: HADI CHOOPAN GETS STATUE! [9u_V5msnAbU].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning! On day polimbo and today is Friday, January 31st, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. People like to say it's not where you start, it's where you finish, which is mostly true. But that doesn't make where Sam pierces starting off his prep for the season, any less impressive. This week, Sam announced on a social media that he was officially 20 weeks out from his season debut. Which should put him, well, on stage sometime in late May or early June, based on a quick look at my calendar. Sam's someone who might not be a household name yet, but he is a really talented bodybuilder. As we've seen so many times in the past, so I wouldn't put it past him to have a strong mid-season run because he's more than capable of making it happen. It can say something crazy, like 90% of the ocean still is yet to be explored. But that being said, I'm pretty sure that even out there in the deep blue mystery, scientists won't be finding anything that looks like Rafa Brandeo anytime soon. Much to everyone's surprise on Tuesday, Rafa dropped a surprise check in via Instagram that managed to stir up some controversy for the next 24 hours. Somehow Rafa managed to emerge as one of the big winners of the offseason this year. But I think the goal coming into this year has to be earning a trip to Vegas because that's what solidifies him as one of the top tier guys. Right now, there are probably less than a handful of athletes who we can look at and say, yep, I expect him to be in the first classic Vizzie call out at the Arnold. And no matter who else you want to toss into the conversation, to me, Steve Lorace has to be near the top of the list. George Peterson was the only one who beat him last year, but George is not competing, which means it's Steve has to come in here as the number one contender. Add that to the fact that he's coming in more rested than at any other point in his career, which makes an even more dangerous. And now you've got the perfect storm. This could be a career changing moment for Steve Lorace, but it's still on him to capitalize on the moment. I'm not sure you guys have seen the new statue in more to-liesy hotby shooting. It's pretty bad asses for our sports monuments go, but early in this week, hotby posted videos to a social media that show a behind-the-scenes look at how the crew constructed the 10-foot piece. Created by a team of local artists. Honestly, outside of Arnold's iconic statue in Columbus, this has immediately become one of the coolest pieces of body, building sculptures that I've ever seen. So if there are any art majors out there, still trying to figure out what they're going to do for their final project this semester, I'm sure we can find some room outside my studio if you're ready to commission a new piece. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the April Lumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: HADI CHOOPAN vs NIC VULLIOUD! Heavy Muscle Radio (7⧸16⧸18) [uPV4SRv-VXM].txt ===

10th and 9th You're my and I'm a group There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lomble Chris Asito Orangemuscle.com presents every muscle What a deal What jazzy Welcome to another episode of heavy muscle Radio on Dave Palombo and I'm joined as always by the technician Chris Asito on this July 16th 2018 evening and Chris This is a late one for us we're recording very late but better late than never We have to wait till everyone goes to sleep and disappears from our house Thanks It's like we've broadcasted from out of space It's something it's so late It's like mission impossible Bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb Kids are gone to bed We're gonna do it We're gonna do it We're gonna do it You're kidding That's kind of like I got like a high tension wire and it sounds room It's a dip toe I don't like the worst Leaving the room quietly IMake a lot of noise I bang into things But if you If you make like I'm I creek in the floor board See wake up Is that you? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You try not to move, right? You try not to move a breathe, don't breathe. What you breath, what you breath deep. Say, how do you guys become, how do you all<|tr|> become bank robbers? It's incredible. What was the skill sneaking out of babies' room? Yes, when they're, you know, you try not to wake them up. Right? Right? You don't even move, and you'll stay in a frozen spot for like six minutes, right? Oh, just did not have to go lay back down and wait for a sleep again. Absolutely. Yep. Yeah. Unbelievable. So, yeah, we had a, it was pretty fair. I wouldn't say a super quiet weekend in the pro bodybuilding world, but we had a quiet weekend. We had that one show in Portugal. I didn't even know the show was taking place. The Portugal Pro. Yep. And, uh, how do you shoot? And, came out of nowhere. You know, he's, he's, he's, he's the guy like we don't know where he's going to compete next because he's, he's got to get a visa to go compete in different places and it's very hard for Iranians to go anywhere. IMean, I think I thought Canada was easy, but evidently from what I understand, it's not easy to go to Canada for more people telling me it's just as hard as the United States. So, hiding went to a Portugal and he clened up there one straight first, being a very good, Nick was volia. I don't know if you, uh, they both look good, but Nick was, issue is the structure, right? He's, he's, he's, looks like somebody hit him on the head a little bit with a hammer. So it like, I don't know, something's off. There's nothing really off with the structure, um, but he doesn't have tremendous flow. He's a little like heavy and ass heavy. Uh, take it the funny, um, what does he do? What does he do? Yeah, he's got freaky muscle, which people are going to love. Um, but he got, you know, he's, he's, he's, put it this way. He was freaky last year, not as freaky as this year. And I said, someone sent me a picture and they said, have you ever seen so much muscle on a little short guy and I said, well, it's not that impressive and they like, oh, you're such an idiot, nice to walk listen. He's going to be competing in North Carolina. He's either going to win it and go straight into the Olympian B top three. This is a prediction date. How close is this? Or he's going to North Carolina against, uh, Craig Richardson and who's the other guy of two, 12. He's now open guy. He's really killer for the Z from Slovenia. So, you know, when you went up against the, I know he's talking about. So I said, he's either going to get first this weekend in North, uh, North Carolina. And he's going to write his hype tren into the top three. You'll be this year. This was last year. Or more than likely, he's going to run up against like a Craig Richardson and then the sky will be Craig. Craig was second the sky was for us. I forget his name. Come on. He loved him. Dave the size was he where we stuck in the jumbo at the North Carolina, to 12 last year. Oh, you know, you know, I know you talked about Nicholas Nick Vail over the guy's name was third. I said, or he's going to end up third place because he's going to go up against people with a lot better flow, a lot better structure and surprisingly, when they say next to him, they're going to look like they have as much muscleism. And that's exactly the way it went down. He got very Craig at second and deservingly the guy who won the New York pro last year. Oh, no, no, no. He got seconded to New York for after that. The guy won the North Carolina, the North Carolina. I can't believe you can't remember. Yeah, IMoved up to the open. I know what his name is. I, I don't have it like a like a mental moment right now. Google it somewhere. You're supposed to come up with these on me. Come on. The listeners want to know who was the guy besides Craig Richardson, who beat him last year. It was perfect because the kid had the super X frame, the white guy from Slovenia. And, and, you know, he went up against Craig's crazy frame when Craig's in shape and Craig was in tremendous conditions. He went to the show. Yeah, we went shot at him. So it was me lawn, then Craig and then Nicholas. So the knock, the only knock on neck is not the muscle, not the density, not the hardness. It's a way it all flows together with the backs of little shallow for the legs and the legs, something's a little short. I think he arms maybe. Right, but you remember he had like he had some Jimmy that muscle groups there. Yeah, the skateboard showed the last year. Right, right. Yeah, that's the skateboard. It was a skateboard. And he got the skim off and the shoulders. The skateboard. That's right. That was the excuse, right? They said, you and you fell off the skateboard. But a choppy, just ate him. IMean, choppy looked phenomenal. He's really, it's a shame this guy can't go to the Olympia because there's these issues. I'm really kind of pissed off about it actually. IMean, this was just 1,000 percent all-time best. He's a freak. His waist is a little thick, but he's so big. It doesn't even matter really. Yeah, no, he was more conditioned here. He was just Denny's been and he just, I think, you know, it's always who he's been next, or two, but I think he was just better than he's been here. He's also a professional. I don't even know, this sounds like, you know, like a story you listen to, like, in 1960s, like the guy, you know, can't get to the United States for whatever reason, because this is some cognizant nation. And you know, and you look back 20 years later and you're like, why didn't they let this guy come to the US to compete? He was the top level athlete in the world. Well, the present had an issue with Obama who signed up. You know, some people were there. Trump Trump. Yeah, well, one of the world met a man. I know, but, you know, is that the reason? Isn't Trump preventing, like, somebody's trying to force? Right. There should be a way to, like, you know, appeal this thing, you know, just doesn't make sense to me. You know, they shouldn't let it talk to your athletes in this country. At least let him in. You don't have to let his family in if you don't want to, but let the guy can come compete, you know, what the hell IMean, I can't even believe it. It's ridiculous. It should be a way to, like, you know, have, like, some kind of a professional athlete's option. Well, it should be like, you're a big attorney. You know, how like, they have, they have the United Nations ambassadors who come here. It should be the same thing. They should have, like, some kind of, like, a special, you know, exception. I am, look, I don't want any terrorists in the country. And I understand what Trump's trying to do. I don't necessarily agree with the way he's going about it, but I understand. So I support that because I don't want terrorists in the country. But you can't just, you gotta have exceptions to the rule, because there are certain people that are in a different class. They're not in the political arena. They're in the athletic arena. Well, the whole thing is, uh, political. I wonder if there was, like, a guy who was, like, a real, like, top-notch, like, music. You can, you can, you can, you can, you can, you can, you can come from Saudi to to to the US. Right. All the hijackers in 2001 were from Saudi. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But how do you chop me and, you know, can't come and, you know, I help two, 12 guys and, you know what, I'm so terrible. Good. Stay there. Better for me. Right. In other words, let them come to God's sake. It's, it's ludicrous, really. Why can't he come to compete? You would think to the Olympic if he, maybe, like, you think on Ronald's would get involved, at least, too. You know, you, you just, you know what, you would think someone. You think of Ronald making a, made a call to Trump that he couldn't make up. No, because they hate each other for God's sake. Oh, that's right. They do it for guys. I got that idea. That's probably it. The Bible doll. Then you just see Trump recently live at the Bible, though. Well, you know, the, the, the, am I on, so you're like, I'm sure they like, I'm sure Trump has some kind of relationship with him, right? Well, he's, the Trump was telling, am I. Did you see that? Trump was telling, am I what headlines to write against Hillary's help when running into the election? All right, so they have a relationship. They have a relationship. Like, yes, so it, it's a relationship. IMean, you can't write this stuff. Yeah. So crazy. No, they have a good relationship. So, they, they get a Chris. And then they would do, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, And, A. M. I would do the catch and kill stories on Trump's, like, hook or girlfriend. You know, they would pay, the, they, they, they, they pay the playboy girl to be a consultant for the magazine, And they, they, she told her like, in exchange for never writing the story that she had never been with them for her. And that's not even stormy Daniels. That's the other girl. Is that, is that they got by the whole film? The playboy boy, but, but, yeah. Yeah. The playboy boy, but, he goes, you know? And the, well, you're, never, never dull, Never at all moments. It was a side we get talking about that we get more. It's a side we get a little bit. It's a very good. He looked very good and he's not going to be in the Olympia because all the hijackers were from Iran. IMean, oops Saudi Arabia. Yeah, he has a good one for you. IMean, what a good one. Who wins on the Olympia stage? How do you shoot in a flex Lewis? I'll say how do you just to be totally controversial with this off flex Lewis. Do you believe that he could challenge him? IMean, does hEQuestion? Well, did he challenge him in Korea? Some people would say he beat him, yeah. Okay, is he improved here than in Korea? Yeah, I have to say yes. Yeah, this is, yeah. IMean, my point being is this. He is beyond, beyond, worthy to be at on stage. Let me say this. Let me ask you this, Dave. Who's better? Him or Oscar Nani? Oh, he destroys Oscar Nani. And destroy him. Yeah. End of story. Oh, I don't think Oscar Nani ever challenged flex Lewis though. So I don't, that's not necessarily a good analogy. IMean, we did Oscar Nani beat the Jose Raymond for that point last year or the April March. It's got no legs. No. He's got, you know, muffin duck arms and delts. I'll tell you what, I'm looking at some of the video of Voliad, you know, posing against. He's phenomenal too. He's really good. Yeah, I got this. Very perfect. This might have been better than two to wilds. We had all year. Right. Mendus, but IMean, not to a tremendous. I'm going to do way. Voliad. He has like a B version of, he's like that. He's like the, not the B, but not the A version of like a, he's like a leap priest type. Yeah, I see it. I see it. Big legs, big arms, torso is a little long. Asciss, glutes a little bit too big. But, but I guess if you have straight glutes like his, it doesn't matter. And then the back is a little weak on the back double enough. So with over blown legs that it looks a little funny. Yeah, I agree. I agree. Very good, very good analogy. As soon as you said that, I saw it. Great side chess pose man. What? The two of them. I want you to think I'm a crack pot Dave. But I will say one thing, I think the Voliad still has some issues with the delts. They're not, they're better than they were. They don't have the, they don't have the, they don't have the, they don't have the. They don't have the, they still look mildly suspicious. Small this this Cartesian. That's a, we should, we should find out from all the internet warriors, but they shot in that. I'm liable. Unbelievable. What else? Well, let's see what else was going on that show. They had a, The bikini. Oh, they had a third. It's one of the had hotty and then they had, you know, Nicholas. And then it was like, guys, we really didn't know. They didn't look bad, but they obviously was not. No, just here. I call them European peeled guys. Angel Frost from Spain was third, fourth was Zorin Colesz. Excuse me. Colewski from Macedonia. Manuel kind of dillus from Spain was fifth. These are guys, I saw the pictures. They, they look like a gamma trees compared to these other guys. Because let's face it. These two guys can definitely be taught five at the Olympia, you know. Unfortunately, Nicholas will might be there, but unfortunately, Heidi won't be there. Yeah. There was immense physique. And then, in Portugal here this past weekend, David A. Mazzalari wins from Italy. And then there was a figure, pro division. Zorin, Doran from Italy. Italy clened up here, huh? And there was a bikini, a lot of myla. Nasa nolva from Ukraine one. So we're going to see a lot of people in the Olympia that we don't really, we've never heard of. And in women's physique is only four women. Here's a good, this is a good chance for women's physique, women to get in the Olympia education and no one took advantage of it. Lanka, Farina Cobra, for Ren Cucova, for Ren Cucova. Sounds like a tennis player. He wins from the Czech Republic. So congratulations. See Tim Gardner was out there. Tim Gardner's all over the place. I don't know how he does it. I got it. I'd have it. I'd have it. I'd be divorced and have it. And then I'd be divorced and have it. I'd like to see these international shows. To me, it really shows that there's interest around the world. I think this is great. Before there was every show in the United States, I like to see these international shows. Even if the lives are not as strong. If I was a competitor nowadays, Chris, I'll be honest to you. If I was competing nowadays and I was a pro, I would go and do these international shows. Just to say what I know it's more expensive. But a lot of times you can negotiate deals and hook things up with spots. Just to say, hey, I'll look at us. I'll say that you're both the whole weekend. Because usually they have to expose with these things. And I would go do these shows. I think you guys out there who are pros should take advantage. Especially if you're good. This should have been a show that more Americans were in. I think they missed the boat by not doing this show. Especially the first year you do it because this is when you get the biggest advantage. You know, over these people because no one shows up. But I would be doing travel. I like to travel. I know it's a pain in the estimate of dieting and stuff like that to have to get you stuff up together. But at that point, if you think about a course at the end of the diet, what do you really have to do with that point? If you're in shape, you're in shape. You pack your food and you go. Yeah, did I ever tell you a Gustavo Padel? You got to get Gustavo on something. You get the full story of Gustavo. I, it's a regards to travel and to shows. He, the first time he turned for a week on, I don't know how he gets a profile card. Maybe he won the Puerto Rico. He probably won the South American Championship some of these things. Yeah, South American. And it's such a small world. I, I got up the Boston, but, did, go down. I went down the Boston to see Jay in a snowy, like December. We're going to see this contest. And Richard Jones won. Remember Richard Jones? He was a Sean Ray knockout. Of course. If Nicholas would, whatever this kid would, the big legs is like, Lee Priest, then, then, what's the kid's name I just mentioned? Look like the Sean Ray look, the Sean Ray look alike. We're Sean, Sean, John. Richard Jones. Richard Jones. We saw like, so we're fucking in St. Pete. I don't know. We can't take it. We're just like our parents. Yeah. Richard Jones wins a show. And low behold, I never knew he beat at that show was Gustavo Badell. I talked to Gustavo years later and Gustavo could not believe I was at that show. Yeah, me and Jay went to see it. It was the show. It was like a show in New England by the guy. Oh, there you go. You used to guess post for the guy down in Washington. Oh, Jimmy Dakota's. Jim, no, no, there was another one. There was another guy. He actually had a heart attack in die. Oh, Gregco? Gregco? Yeah, Lenny Greco. Not Lenny Greco, I think there was something else. Yeah, Jimmy Greco. So anyways, I, he is later, IMean Gustavo. And I, so I forgot to build this time because I never really noticed him. And then once in 2000 on the tour, he got like 18th place. And I was staring at this guy backstage and I was like, oh, this guy's really good. And he'd keep on getting like 18th place. I'm thinking, why is he still not placing, you know, I was there with Jay over in Europe. And I was like, why is he not placing like, you know, 10th or 7th or 9th? IMean, that's where he should have placed. And he'd be like 18th, 18th, 18th, 18th. Well, years later, I told him that. And he said, well, you should have seen like two years later. He said, he got his pro card and he called up Wayne Demilier and he said, I want to compete. Wayne gave him the list of shows where they were and they were like, you know, 15 shows in 18 days in Europe. Right. When they have the European tours in Europe. And Gustavo would take like the Gobus on the tren because he had no money. He would literally take the tren to every single stop. And I said, how'd you do on the tour? He said, I got dead last and every show. He said, but I was making an impact. I was getting some experience. Right. So he had good stage. He had good stage presence. It's good stuff. Right. He'd run in the challenge round twice. Who don't he be a boost of them? He worked all year on which poses. He was like on a game show. That was like a game show. He's trying to get $20,000 per minute or something. He, you know, a fairly few. They would sell, you know, he out thought everyone would have it. I believe because he won that challenge round. You easily two years or so because he could beat someone on something. He could always beat Ronnie at the side try seven. Then he could beat the other guys in the other poses. So you only had to beat Mr. Lippie once, you know. He knew the pose he had to beat him in. Yes. It was such a, what a crazy file. I got to get Dorian on Dorian used to judge that. I got to get Dorian on the talk. But they just, Olympia's on it. We had like, Samir and Zayn on the panel. Which is the worst thing. These are all guys that like, why don't like that physique? I don't like his physique, you know. What someone else we said is this, they said, All the Mr. Olympias will vote for us. It's a physique that looked just like that. Yeah. Samir would want the guy with balance, right? Zayn would want the vacuum in the small ways. So Haney would want someone with the front, Ladd spread in a threEQuarter back pose. You know, Dorian would want total grain in his. Right. You know, common would want a freak. Larry Scott would want someone with big biceps. Frank O. Columbo would want someone with a peeled chest and peeled most muscular. Anyway, who's under five foot sex, yeah? Yeah. Yeah, definitely would be biased against like a gunter. It likely priest. Yeah, he likely priest. So we're gunned all day long. Well, I don't know. I don't think well, see that. And we only have the people's chance this year. You know, I, it's funny. I had him. I don't know if you saw the part one, but part two will be this week. I interviewed Dan Solomon. He was in a came coral, ironically enough. So that's how my son Danny says, oh, you just don't do it in that video show. We're on like, we're number one and we're on time. So I'd Dan, you used to be number one. Yeah. Like when you say pay you $85,000 an episode. We were talking about that. How, yeah, he's to have a, he's not the radio station. Yeah, because black men stop competing with me. I said, I got you those those years. He's like, they can get a raise in like 10 minutes. Hey, Steve. Dave offered me a, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, if it'd be 100 grand a month. I can't get 140. The true story that you know what, Dan came to me and wanted, he must have, ultimately, got a theater. And I was, you know what, I was just thinking about starting up muscle in the morning. That was my original brain child. And I said, you know what? Yeah, was in Miami, Dave, he came to you. Yeah, I said, Dan, you know what? I didn't trust Dan, but go ahead. I still, I don't even trust Dan now, but now I'm just kidding. The Dan has nothing to lose now, but back then I didn't trust him. And he, by his own admission, was always trying to sabotage, you know, to get to get the scoop on everyone. And I said, you know what, Dan? If you do the radio show on mine, or ex muscle, you know, channel, I said, I also want you to do part of your deal with me. It's going to be doing a show that I have created called muscle in the morning. It had never been at you. I'm going to, we're going to build you a little studio and you have a little backdrop in your house and you're going to record it. You'll send it for it every day to my, you know, video guy. And we're going to edit together because I think it'd be good at that. And that's my original intention was to end the du muscle in the morning. And so when we couldn't, when he really was just getting me to give him a bid so that then he can tell black man I'm willing to pay this and then black man would outbid it. And because he didn't really want to work back then. Yeah, he's like, when in real estate, you go look at something. They said, we got a contract coming in. Like, oh, I'm sure you do. Yeah, right. Exactly. So, so that's how that, that's how that happened. And then I just started muscleing morning and I said, fuck it, I'll just do myself. And that's how it started. So, thank you, Dan, for pushing me to do muscleing. And I'm sure you'll thank me for all the money you put in your pocket for those. Whatever it was, two, three years, the black man paid you for doing nothing, basically. Have you got to have a radio show? I'm going to have a radio show. Yeah, because he got excited about how it's turned black man. Right? Now he was excited that he didn't have a radio show and he didn't want me to get both the radio. She was not that it would have mattered. I don't even know why at the time I thought it was important, but I thought it was important at the time. And it was probably just to take it away from black man. It was stupid. I'm glad I didn't want to be the paydand all that money. Although, I think if he, I think we would have got sponsors at the time, if I had brought Dan on. But who knows? Back to the, the Pro schedule this past weekend, Len the Murray had a pro show in North Park, Virginia, and she had immense physique show, one by Greg Brandt, Congratulations. And the big pro bikini was won by Ashley Janell, Colorado, and Jack one Fuchs won the women's body building. A lot of women's body, but they have an awful lot of women's body building pro shows for a division that doesn't exist anymore. Right? I don't want to be a division. Paracelts are a second in a body, a papas, Switzerland, however. How last name is now is third. So yeah, the wings of strength people doing great. They're freaking, they're showing killing it. They've got a huge lineups of people. They're going to have their world championships, the rising Phoenix, coming up in September, giving away more prize money than all the women's divisions of the Olympia. Yeah. Who's better than them? Women's body building is doing great. I would do women's body building now. Women's physique competitor. By the way, did you hear Julie Adam Malikorni retired? No, I didn't know. She won't be doing the Olympia, big news. That actually is big news. I wonder why. I wonder if it's because she just, I got to, you know, I got to go to the show. I hate speculating, because you know what I'm going to speculate now, and she's going to come on this show and say, no, no, no, this is the reason. I want to have a family or something like that. Yeah, yeah, I know you're going to say that. IMean, I know you've done a set of things. I would like to have one. I don't know if that's the reason. I got to reach out to her. Well, just have a come over and put your son to bed so that you can do the radio show earlier. I wonder if anything to do with the rise and the rise of the Shini Grant star, you know, on the rise and after winning the Arnold, she's going to be a little bit of a success. I would have seen the battle that went to you. I would say, well, you know what, I would, I would, Shini Grant is off the hook, but but or and, Julie and Melcarni is as well, and she's, if she puts her mind to something, you know her, she's, she's, she's, she's sort of I believe crazy in a good way. Yeah. But, but I'm sure Shini gets as well, you know, sort of five, really crazy. You know, IMean, they take a very, very serious, it'd be a battle of the ages. Sure. It'd be like a J versus Ronnie type thing. Yeah, but we're not going to say it, obviously, because she's not doing the show. I'd like to see Candace Lewis, crossover from Fierre into, where I see Z. Last show, man. She was talk about being off the hook. She's so dangerous, it's ridiculous. I think she can, I think she can challenge Shini. She's a little bigger now, but I think she can challenge her for sure. She's great to be able to think about that. I'd love to see her head a couple poses against Shini backstage, you know, especially if they both win the Olympia. That would be crazy. All right, anyway, so, Linda had the, the Linda congratulations to Sun to the Cure Pro show. It seems to be growing every year. They keep adding new divisions. And, you know, it's, it's great. It's great that they have a way for former competitors to actually make a living. You know, as promoters, and the shows have the trens and not the competitors in the mob. See, I'm sure that I know the Linda show had an amateur division. The probably was packed to the health. So, a great job, you know. Great job. Great job. See what else I have in my little list of stuff to talk about. What's going on with this Steve Lourious? You know, let's, let's remind people what's going, let the whole Steve Lourious story. Steve Lourious originally worked with you. He claims to three weeks, you claim for six weeks. Then we saw him go over to my friend Justin there in it in New York, who he claims he went over there because Justin lives local to him. And we saw Lourry, and Lourry has been to talk about, by a, an enormous amount of people that has been like the air of air to the, classic physique Olympia throne. He's got the small ways to vacuum the whole thing. He wins Pittsburgh. Pretty easily. Or I am clen. But by one point, by one point. Some people say easily, but other people, divine Wilson would question that. Well, IMean the judges would question it. Yeah, he won by a point. Yeah. And he, the following, or two weeks later, he, instead of doing New York again, doing New York against divine Wilson again, who was second in Pittsburgh, he decides to do the two, 12 division because a friend of his is doing the open. Oh, it's doing the classic. That was the story, at least. And you predicted on the show that he was going to get destroyed. So like predicted, I was taking my predictions back to fill he's not shouldn't have been left muscle tech, or go ahead. You said he will be destroyed because he couldn't stand X for these two, 12 guys. And turns out you were right. He was like out of the top 10. I said that and I said his friend would be destroyed. And the, uh, we wasn't competing against in his position. Yeah, I'm hitting do well. And that other few. And a very weak class do. So IMean, New York pro was, New York pro did not have, uh, excuse me, New York pro did not have Reagan, divine and what names, my goodness. And the, and the freak from Germany, the classic, who was a guy from Germany? Look, I can't remember anyone's name. Wasn't divine in New York pro, but it wasn't. Yes, so my point was, I said that lineup, which IMet was in, radically different than, you know, the top three in New York, which was like those are three, those three guys could win. Right, a Mitch is sort of second behind what's his name, visors, what's my, what's my, what's my, my gosh. He's got, he's got weaknesses from head to toe. Yeah, yeah, he's, he's not the greatest either, but IMean, he's got a, he's got a great one. IMean, it made hard. Yeah, true, true. So let's get back to Steve. So Steve Lawrence, did, did any disappeared? And, uh, no one heard from a nail, he pops up and he's, uh, he's, all of a sudden, Neil Hill is treninGHim. And, that's an air and special to it. I can, of course, of course it is because it's season right. Yeah, but it came before you even, how's that? But, um, he seems to be, I guess, but I guess Justin, who's his former coach is upset. I'm not upset, but he's, I guess he's, I guess he's, well, because he bent on him, dude. Well, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he seems to be giving all the credit to like, uh, Neil Hill, who's a great trener, by the way. But I, I just, you know, Neil has a work with this guy, you know, for any shows yet. Credit to one. As like the greatest coach of all time, IMean, you know, it's, you know, let's face the guy, the guy he did win Pittsburgh, you know, with Justin helpinGHim. So, true. I don't, you know, we never heard any, any. So you, you did predict that he was not, he, you might have had a few screws loose, I don't know. Well, I, I, I, I predicted that, um, I predicted immediately off, um, I did, I did not predict that he would leave Justin and Hartley. You did, you did predict that. I didn't say it on the show just because it, you know, it probably wasn't the place yet. Why not the guy, switch coaches so frequently. How could it be the coach? How could the coach be that bad if he won the Pittsburgh first of all? First of all, first of all, a lot of these, this is what happens. You, you quote coach someone and a lot, a lot of these guys talk to each other, right? And then a lot of these other coaches, whoever these are, I don't mean everybody, but a lot of, quote, these other coaches follow the money and Instagram and then like, you know, jerk them off all day long. But that's that meal, that's not meal, he'll start. No, I know, but I, but that's why I said that's an air, special idea. So, IMean, Aaron's panicky over there that he's panicky, Laura's, and he's, you know, not in the lobby. Right. Well, he isn't, he's not, oh, he's not doing the Olympic or is he doing the Olympic? Of course he's not doing the Olympic, not yet, at least. Or he wasn't, I don't know. Well, he said he wasn't doing it, but, you know, maybe with Neil, well, that is definitely not doing it because that talk about head case. IMean, you either are, you're not. Right, we'll find out, I guess. So what was the, what was thEQuestion and how we answered? Why did guys keep leaving coaches, especially when they have the results of them? You've had a guy leave, you too. And I've had people leave me too, and they were winning shots. IMean, I've had, and I don't bother me. No, I know it's a lot of it, but it's like they think the grass is green, it's a place off, they're missing it. Well, that's what I'm saying. First, they follow by other coaches on their Instagram, who, you know, raking grounds will post up a picture, and, you know, Justin is there to like comment on every picture, a post is called, troll in the guy. So if you've got for a bit the guy, like, doesn't want to share of their, they have to say, you know, if you need any help. Got you. And they do it like this because people are fucking certifiably nuts after they don't want to show. You're right. And they'll do this. You know, you pecks could have been a little fuller. Why does it this? You know, if you would just a little drier and a little fuller, they'll say, look at someone's cell that I coach. If you had that condition, be like me saying, you know, look at, you know, rodents legs, I'll give you a leg workout. I don't even know what the hell he does for legs, and I don't care. They look good. Just get the fat on water off on them. You know what IMean? You say, well, look at what I did for the water carriers condition. Right. IMean, that's what people do. It's a sale. It's just, so that's what people are crazy after shows. And it's susceptible to any advice. And I know that Dave, because well known people, email me all the time, with other coaches after shows, who may say, what do you think I said? I think you look great. Because it's a worst time to give, it's totally disingenuous to give advice to somebody coming off a loss after a show, because they're just searching, grasping it's draws. God, blackmanship, pay us for to do the show. I'm going to say a dance all the time. It shows better than anyone of dance. So I'll get him back to show. Get him back to Dan. Get him back to Dan. Get him back to the show. So it's true. Get him back to Dan. So Dan was in the... No, we talked about Steve. What do you mean? Well, forget Steve. You already gave him the answer to thEQuestion. I forgot. I was originally talking about Dan Solomon though. So Dan Solomon was in town in Cape Coral. He's from Florida, obviously, he's from the other coast. And he was over. He was like, Dave, I'm going to be in Cape Corals. That way you live, I said, yeah, I live in Cape Corals. I'm going to come by. So I said, come by. We'll do an interview. So I got him, came by the studio, met my kids, whatever. And we were bullshit. And I'm like, yeah, let's go into the studio and let's record something. We recorded an hour. So we did two parts. And we talked about anything. We talked about everything. But we talked about the people's champ. Well, you know, words that they're going to be doing. And what is thoughts on it were. And we talked about, you know, with Kai Green come back. They compete. And why he should come back and compete. You know, the timing is right now. And, you know, it would be great for the sport and great for the show. And we talked about some other controversy. I talked about why, you know, how ridiculous and he agreed with me, which is amazing. How ridiculous these exclusive contracts they still have are. We're like, fill he can't come on my show or can't go on his show. Whatever it is because, you know, they got some kind of like exclusivity that they don't even use, you know, any more. It's, it's, it's outlived its purpose in other words. There's no magazines anymore. There's no, there's no even flex magazine anymore. So I don't know what, why they won't let fill, you know, going other shows and promote the Olympia. I think that, and I even brought up the point, and Dan, I'm agreed with me. I believe that Phil would be a more liked champion. Oh, I was a little, if he was able, because he's actually like, if you watch an interview with him, I've seen interviews on other talk shows with him. And the guy is pretty entertaining, you know, he's, he might not, you know, like his physique, but, or you might not like his attitude, but he's actually an entertain. He's got very insightful as well spoken. Well, I don't know if he's entertaining, but I know this. He's won the Olympia a lot of times. And for every person, you know, I know he's got this reputation that people don't like him, but he's got a massive fan base. And the reason why people don't like him is they don't really know him. Imagine if I, if I'm like, well, that's part of the game. IMean, I'm agreeing with you. If you can only do one interview a year, and, you know, you say one thing that's controversial, people can say, what an idiot. He said this. Well, IMean, everyone says something, you know, quote, stupid, I do all the time. Who's ever in whose interview do IMean, actually asked him about his upbringing? And then how he, you know, IMean, what we know is we shot a few fucking baskets at the University of Colorado there, you know, and played basketball. IMean, that's the only thing I know, I don't really. I want to know, you know, everything about him. And so, you know, it's kind of foolish for them not to let their Mr. Olympia, the guy who represents our sport, you know, the guy who, you know, is in the social media world, you know, dilly downing around that because he can't actually go on anyone's show and actually tell people what he's actually thinking inside. He winds up making posts on Instagram and then people take it the wrong way. And then you can't, you need to sit down and be able to explain yourself to people. It's like, you ever get, you ever get into a texting thing with clients, and they get insulted because they're not really, because you don't really pick up your tone. You might be being sarcastic, maybe you're just being short with them because your kids are driving you crazy. Instead of just picking the freaking phone up and calling you up on the phone and talking to you, which usually completely negates everything that's been done in the attacks. Now they're like, oh, I didn't know you. I thought you were mad at me, right? So it's the same way. Social media can be taken the wrong way because you can't hear the person speaking and the general, you can't tell if someone's being genuine or not. So I just said, Dan, it's just, I can't believe that they're still playing this card. Yeah. What do you say? He's like, you're right. It doesn't really serve, you know, he's misdeculably correct, but he agreed. He did agree with me. He did agree with me that it doesn't serve. It's purpose anymore. It did when there was magazines. I understand it because the magazines wanted to have a scoop. They wanted to get the adjunct people. I want to sell more copies of MD because I have selling, so in my magazine with an exclusive interview, versus Flex magazine per se and vice versa. That makes sense because that's when people read magazine. It was important to have cover lines. But no one reads magazines anymore. And that's not relevant anymore. So, you know, any, why any would company would even spend money on trying to pay someone to be exclusive to them is, is the biggest waste of money in today's, so he's wrapped up with who? Flex? No, he's wrapped up with no one. He's doing the Amazon.com broadcast this year again. No, IMean, IMean, Phil, Phil. Oh, Phil, yeah, I guess he's flex AMI. I guess he's got a contract with them, you know, because they only Olympian, he's Mr. Olympian. I understand that, but, but they're not usinGHim. So let him, they don't care to use them. Right, but take your chance, but take your chance, and put a free conteshered on him. It says, Mr. Olympian, AMI, Flex magazine. Whatever you want to put on. I'll tell you. Send them around the country. You want to, well, that's not going to come to date. I'm not going to happen. Because you'll get a just, you know, nobody's a, I'm not, no, it's not scooping anyone. It's, it's going to promote. Yeah, but unfortunately, you would be scooping because you said him, okay, I'm the lead run interview him too. And then send him over to whoever else wants to interview him. This is, IMean, Dory needs made the rounds easy. You know, popularies from doing all these interviews and all these different media organizations now. It's, it's the biggest mistake I think that, that's out there. It's an antiquated system. It was, it worked. Like I said, I think it was great. And smart, I look, I worked for him. We were trying to scoff up anyone. No. It made sense back then, but not in today's social media, you know, world, it just doesn't, it doesn't make sense anymore. And, you know, I just think that it's killing Phil, he's brand. I think it's killing a lot of guys brands, you know, because they can't get on decksters, one of the most that deck, it's he decks just smart. Dexter goes on his own in Instagram, it does his own like videos. Even though he's exclusive to AM, he can do whatever he wants on his own page, which is, which is also ludicrous, because here you are, they want exclusivity on you, but you can go do your own stuff. Like, IMean, these guys hire their own, video guys, and they start their own channels, which is fine. But in order to promote your own stuff, you need to go on other channels that are popular as well. So that's just my suggestion. Like I said, I, it doesn't matter today. IMean, it's just, I just, you know, Dan and I did a very good interview in the sense that we talked a lot about about a lot of controversial subjects. And we gave a lot of strong opinions, and I think it will be, the first part was well received. I think people will even like the second part, bad luck, because I started getting animated. You know, I started getting into the whole interview thing. At first, I was, I was just interviewinGHim, and then I became more of a discussion between him and I, as to, you know, what our opinions are on everything. And I told him, I said, look, you know, I said, I had to take a, you know, an approach to how I covered dirt my journalism, and my approach is different than yours is. And I said, you know what the funny thing, Dan, is you could interview Kuy Green, I could interview Kuy Green, you could interview, I could interview you, they'd be two separate interviews. Completely different. And they would vote with you. Just as entertaining, it's a great point. And, you, you've told me yourself, in fact, when I said, I don't Dave, that was a great interview, and you said, you got to see the interview with someone so-and-so-do with them. Yeah. And I just agree with you. You said, no, you're the best. You know what it is because, and Dan, you've... I said, no, go see someone so as interview with them because it's a totally different perspective of their mind. Right. And you have to take that as an interview. Because if I see this five interviews out there on a person, most involved the same, I don't want to do the same interviews ever. So I'm going to be like, all right, well, I get to get to a different angle. That's why when I interview Dorian, I waited for everyone else to interview him first so that I wouldn't ask the samEQuestions essentially. And then I asked him, my set of questions. I said, Dan, what do you mean? I said, well, Dan, you're not going to ask controversial questions if you get filth. So you're going to ask him questions relevant to what's going on in his life and in the world in terms of his bodybuilding world. That's what you are. I said, you're like Larry King. You ask thEQuestions that they're not super controversial. But they're what people want to hear about. I said, that's a gift that you have. You know how to ask questions that people want to know the answers to. I ask questions that people never thought of necessarily, or maybe did think of and thought no one would ask. That's how that's my approach, I take. And because that's also interesting. You know, it's interesting in the different way. You know, it puts the person in a different perspective. It's not them just talking about themselves. It's them having to think about themselves and give answers because it's what makes them tick. And I think that's what also people want. I want to know, what makes filth he's tick? Why is he that's acceptable? That is absolutely 100% demosimportant part. Right. But he's also interesting to know how he came up and shows you one. You want to hear, you want to know everything about the guy. You know, Kigrain same thing. We've heard all the Kigrain. We know Kigrain's, you know, history already. We know what shows he's won already. But what makes Kigrain tick? Remember when he, remember when he did that on a classic that he won? I don't know if it was on 9 or 10. And he fell off the treadmill. He was like, so like, let's start. And remember that he actually fell off the treadmill. And everyone was like, oh, Kai, he's not going to make it to the show. And I want to know what happened. No one ever asked him. Yeah, I wanted, that's a question I would ask if I had Kai and what did that happen? That's what he was working with. Oscar. Remember, there was so much drama around that whole prep. And he looked right and made it to the stage and looked right. I wanted to know what was going on behind the scenes. There was another one. If you remember, he remember when he did that Olympia. He was like, him and Oscar like, sequestered themselves for like six weeks in Vegas. You know, we, we speculated for the full six weeks. We said, dude, we were speculated on the ambient temperature change. With humidity and it was fun. Right. And you remember that. And why am I? Day, way, way, way. Day, you asked me. You asked me, Dave. I remember that prediction. You said, what do you think? I said, it's going to be a disaster day. Are you right? You know why I know that? What? I said, because I saw that video of you made for MD Dave when you went. And I said, only, I know I said, only Rocky can go to Russia and went and tren with it in the snowstorms and in the logs and stuff. But you know what, home is where your heart is. Or whatever that saying is. And you have to be most people, especially artists and Kai is an artist. And he didn't even be there environment. And I predicted that. And I said, I predicted everything a week. I said, and pictures will put out posts and videos. He said, it's not going to end well at all. Poor Mike posted up Mike, most in Ella was sent there to videotape that whole six weeks in Vegas. He sent at muscle men sent them that they paid for the whole thing. And he couldn't get, remember he couldn't get Kai out of the hotel room? Kai would be sitting in this hotel. There was like a sweet they were saying. And there was like the main room and then there was the bedroom. And Kai was in the back bedroom and Mike was like, Mike posted on my post and I'll, he all day long was in the regular room. The main room with Oscar. Because Oscar was there in the room with them too. Oscar was cooking food like, like, Oscar was cooking like he was an old Italian grandma, all day long for Kai. Mike's like, is Kai coming out? It's been like six hours already. Doesn't he have to go tren? Yeah, well, he might come out in a couple hours. And some Mike was there all day filming like Oscar and the cooking and like, people coming in and out of the place. But no one saw Kai green for like, at all. We don't even know Kai. I want to know what Kai was fucking doing in that back room for so long. And what Kai? Yeah. Can't you? Don't you want to know? Well, I had to guess those for something. I know. And the person had the gym and just like, oh, Kai, green's coming to the gym. Kai, green, Kai, green. And so Kai said I'm going to go into the locker room and come out. You know, he went into the locker room. He didn't say he was going to the locker room and it was midnight. And they're waiting for him, like the owner and his friend to come out. And it was like 130 when he finally came out in the morning. They didn't know if it was a long trip. It was overseas. And they didn't know if he had fallen asleep. If they didn't want to go in and disturb. You know what IMean? But the the identity, I said, why did you guys just go into check on him? Maybe he had fallen asleep. They're like, well, you know, it's Kai. And if Kai threw his hat into this year's Olympia, IMean, talk about Olympia, hype. Oh, god. And I think it would be crazy, right? It would be crazy. Yeah. And you know what I was just saying about how much time this guy really left it to do this, you know? And this might be the year to do it, you know? Who knows? Big deal, you know? Who cares if you don't win? Kai can't lose. If he does the show and he comes to the second or third, it doesn't matter. He'll still be the most popular person there. Well, the fans would go to number one for sure. Because they're not fan things. And he'd love that and hit him, he'd say, you know, you know, what I would say? Well, no, he'd say it's harder to win the fans, but it's easy. IMean, it's easier to win the judges vote because you're the current winner and the same judges and judging you, you're the year and it's the, the garnering the support. Look, let's say they did the show and really and he came in and he came in the second or third. OK, and he deserved it. OK, let's say, you know what? You could win this year, Dave. Who cares? He still would be the most popular guy there. You can win the end of story. No one can. You know what? He could win this year because the line-ups are always, it's important who you stand next to. And I know it's important about Phil, but, you know, he could, if he looked anything like what he's capable of looking like, he could win because he's got the cross-strated quads, which means he'd have the best quads up there. They'd be, you know, not as big as Rami's, but there would just be cross-strated, very few people in that line-up have deep, cross-strated quads. Technically, he could demolish the outshot against Phil and Rami, right? I'm not even mentioning a bone-ac. He could win the back double, arguably, although Phil is, it fills, well, I should walk that one back. Phil's been named Phil too. He's 20, sure. Yeah, it really is. But, you know, IMean, you never know. I agree with you. I think there's only a benefit from doing the show. If I was to love the people that just pay him to do the show, they'd probably already offered him to do it anyway. And they'd tell him to do the show and he wouldn't take it. A lot too. Then he'd try it one more time. Enough. Aaron offered him enough that you would do the show. Yeah, they offered you that money. Aaron, my number is 2075. Oh, my God. So, yeah, I thought Aaron, Aaron had a big announcement. He was going to sign a big name, and I thought it was going to be Kai, and I was wrong. It was actually Brian Shaw. Sign the world's strongest man, Brian Shaw. It's not that big, but go ahead. I guess he figured he's the biggest guy, because it's 450 pounds, but anyway, I don't know the note. I'm going to deviate from bodyboy a little bit, and go to muscle science. Let's say go to my father. Yeah, muscle science, muscle science. So, I don't know if you've seen this new article that you came out. It was another line was how to put it in Google trenslate. I wanted my father to send this to me. They found that blood bear, the bear from bloods, especially when they're hibernating in the winter, can make you grow more muscle. Do you know that? Blood. The blood from bears, like in other words, if you take the blood out of these bears, they're finding some protein in there, some kind of factor that can actually prevent muscle weakness and older people and can build muscle. Of course, they apply for weakness and older people and weightless astronauts, but let's face it. The athlete's going to want to use it. They haven't really isolated what it is yet, but they're trying to figure it out. Pretty interesting, right? Because they find why did these bears, when they hibernate, and when they don't lose any muscle? Think about it. Think of the whole went to, they don't even think. They don't lose one gram of muscle. Because they bear. But they have something that's preserving the muscles, but what I'm saying. So they're trying to figure out what it is. So should I be having my cousin, Ocellan, grass fed cows, let's start raising main black bears? That's pretty big. That'll be the newest thing. Everyone's got to find a way to cheat you know that. There are muscle cells evidently swell in size. They can get bigger. I think that's what makes them more antibolic. Because we know for a fact that volume-wise muscle cells tend to be more antibolic and just like dehydrated muscle cells tend to be more catabolic. Imagine that. If they can come up with a pill or something like that, it contains this factor in their blood. It's only produced in the winter, by the way. If you take a bear when it comes up wakes up from hibernation and it's eating normally, doesn't have that in there. So it's adaptive. Something that helps them get through the hibernation. I'm sure someone who will exploit that. It'll be on one of these peptide sites like next week. They'll have to be bare-factor number one or something like that. They'll go out. Unbelievable. So I like you, Sue. You see my underarm that's burnt down. Yeah, I saw that. I saw that he was trying to find Jews, the guy in Burn the Burn Jews, right? Is that what happened? Chris has a kind of an Miami. He sends me to Sardico, but it's this creating lunatic. 70's something you're all was trying to burn down the condo. Because he thought they were Jews in there. Is that what he was trying to do? He'll Jews. Yeah, he lived there. And he poured gasoline down there too. Yeah, he lived there. And he poured gasoline down the trash tubes. Oh, really? He went out and he was doing. Two, he poured two out of another, I think he had 26 other containers of gasoline. Wow. Like if they don't get him out of the country, he sounds like a terrorist to me. Well, he's going to try to kill you so crazy. He thinks you're going to qualify in the 2012 Lempio. He didn't. That was, he didn't have any belongs where my dad is. My dad tried to light his house on fire too, because he thought he was trying to warm up the house. But they, they rest some charge, some with a temp that are shouldn't have been a temp that murder. Well, was he have seen mine or is he was he a guy who was like, he like, he's cemented. Um, I don't know. He's likinGHis mid 70s. Crazy, though. Yeah. He probably has to mention. You know, it's, dementia is very sad. They went so much fall for today. You know, and he obviously, I told you this, I think IMentioned on the show. He broke his femur and four places. They had to redo that. They had to put his leg back together and they put, he had to redo that hip or placement in that side done 25 years ago. And he's not doing well. He's got the touch in ammonia. He's when old people start falling. And they're, and they're, you know, they have mental, you know, memory issues. It doesn't really go well from, I, my dad at the stage where he's like, you know, I'm done. I'm like, what do you need to do? He's like, I'm done? He's like, I see you're done with life or you're done with the, you know, because you're pissed off that you're in pain. No, life. So, when people give up like that, that's it. It's over. Unfortunately. So, I, you know, I don't know what's going on my dad. My sister's flying down here this is coming weekend. So, I don't know if my tail long. I know everyone always asks about my dad. So, I don't know if my dad's going to make it past this one. I don't think he wants to anymore. I was, you know, I try to give him a little pep talk, but, you know, also, he's very confused because, you know, whenever you get at it, my dad was in undanesthesia for six hours on this surgery. So, he's definitely whacked from that. And he's, he's actually pleasant in the hospital, which is a bad sign also. Everyone's like, you know, we love you, Daddy. So, plus I said, that's that a good sign. I said, I said, when he starts cursing you out and yelling at people, let me know because that's a good sign that my dad's back. So, he could use, maybe I kind of get him some bear blood. I kind of go find some, anyone who knows, I know we'll have some of our viewers out there who are listening to his, probably he has brown bears. Unfortunately, they're not going to hibernation right now. I'm at my dad's going to have to make it to the winter. I can take some bear blood and trensfuse it into him. He was, his iron was a lot of money. So, he probably could use a blood trensfusion. It's terrible getting old. It is a little depressing. But it happens to the best of us, I guess, right Chris? Well, some people don't make it to the wall. I told my dad that too. I said, I said, I gave it to the overcomes a lot already. I said, there's no reason why you can't keep going. He's like, I don't want to. You know what? When I hear that, I don't even get sad. I kind of like, you know what? Yeah. Maybe he's right. Well, it's not quality life isn't it, after all? Well, it's always about quality of life. We're really, right? IMean, the only reason my dad is really living at this point is to watch his grandkids get a, you know, grow old and get a little older so they can interact with him. I don't know. I think he's going to, he's better off in another place. I don't want to see him suffer. It's hard to say. I'm saying it about it. Father, it's about a parent, you know, to admit that maybe, you know, maybe the living life is not as good as going to the next realm. But you know, I don't want to see my dad suffer. He's suffering and he's not happy. I don't want him to, you know, I don't want to see. No, there's a lot of people try to save people because they, because they can't. In other words, it's bothering them. They don't want to lose their, they don't want the parent to die because it's going to bother them. But you know, if that's what you pair really wants, you know, if my dad is done and he's given up and he's like, all right, you know what? I'm good. Enough life. I want to move on to my next agenda, whatever that is. I'm not against it. I want him to be happy. I don't want him to suffer. And, you know, for people like your dad or my dad losing their memories is worse than, you know, physically handicapping them because that's their whole life was based on their, on their mind, you know, and the things that they said and the things they did, you know, terrible when you can't, you have no control of that anymore. Totally. IMean, someone, there was a, you will mention to, made the comparison with dementia in terms of, you know, like sometimes you ever fall asleep and you wake up and you're like, you know, just like totally lost where you are. Imagine being like that, you know, the time. Four, seven. Yeah, no, it's not a good pleasant to live your life. So, but like you said, a lot of people don't make it. IMean, is it worse to be to die at 40, you know, and IMean, I think that would be worse, you know. Look, as long as my father can kind of drift off to the other world in a very peaceful way, I think that that's the best way to go. And that's how I'd want to go, you know, I don't want to, I don't want to be pathetic, you know, my dad's not pathetic yet, but I don't want him to get to that point. So, we'll see what happens over the next couple of weeks. I'll keep you guys updated. The World Health Organization Chris officially declared bacon as harmful as cigarettes. Did you see the redista? This was last week. That's insane, dude. This should be shot. They're saying, and look, I've said this also too for a while, that processed meats are very course-inogenic to you. I know, what don't that for like, the years that they're course-inogenic, but for God's sake, really, you know, how about this? It's, what would you use, you see, a 10 year old on a corner in the BLT sandwich, just smoking a pack of marbles, which 20 can tell it's worse for them. IMean, or these people are just retarded. But, you know, sorry insulting people, IMean, they just stupid. IMean, really, they say they found, they say, this is the article they say, they say, the World Health Organization says it's claimed that they found sufficient evidence in humans that the consumption of processed meat calories causes colorectal cancer. Meat consists of multiple components, such as heme iron, and meat can also contain chemicals that form during meat processing or cooking. For instance, carcinogenic chemicals that form during meat processing include end-initroso compounds and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, cooking of red meat or processed meat also produces heterocyclic aromatic amines, as well as other chemicals, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, which are also found in other foods and in air pollution. Some of these chemicals are known as suspected carcinogens. But despite this knowledge, it is not yet fully understood how cancer risk is increased by red meats or processed meats. So, IMean, if I didn't go to medical school, I probably could have pronounced all those terms. Now, they actually have a chart. This is really funny, Chris. You know, I love what they do to say. They probably spend 10 million miles on this study. They have a chart on bacon's cancer risk. How much bacon you could eat to raise your color-rescilled cancer? Color-reactable cancer. The E2 strips of bacon per day, you only increase your risk 5.9%. However, if you eat 10 strips of bacon per day, you increase your color rate, it percentage to your chance of color-reactable cancer by 9.5%. Now, Aaron, I know that you have, you are in singing me, it's a lot of bacon. I've watched it breakfast for, you better cut back your 10 strips to your two strips or maybe no strips. I don't eat bacon, so I'm not worried to be honest with you. But cured meats are not good for you. We know that it's sad, like you said, if you have a hot dog once in a while, it's not a big deal. But if you're eating it every single day, I guess it could definitely cause problems. I think not using a fiber supplement is going to increase your risk of color-reactable cancer. A lot more than eating a couple strips of bacon in the dough. But they claim it does. Well, how does two pieces of bacon compare to two borrows a day? I don't know. That's the chart I want to see, you're right. You know, that's the chart. And who are the guinea pigs they use? IMean, it's just, it's just, you know what the problem is? They do these retrospective studies. They look at old people who got color-reactable cancer and they say, well, what did you eat? What was your diet? Look, I can't remember what I ate this morning for breakfast. I don't know how these people come up with one thing. I was fucking 25 years. Unless they're just eating the same thing every day. You know, why? You know, two eggs and two pieces of bacon every day, every morning. You know, after I read the article, all of a sudden I got this craving for bacon. I'm like, I want to fucking eat bacon, all of a sudden. I don't know why. I don't even have any pieces of bacon in 28 years. I'm really curious. All of a sudden, I want to have a craving for bacon now. I want to go make some bacon with good eye hop. This is the show three in the morning and we'll get some bacon. So... Well, as long as my dad is ready to leave this mortal plane, maybe I should have me eat a couple pieces of bacon. He might as well, right? Get as much bacon as possible. Did you, did you, did you find the smoke? He did smoke for many years. I thought he was a smokeer. He stopped though. He's not, he hasn't smoked for 20 years, but he bespoke for a long time. He smoked the PIPe. He smoked cigarettes. He stopped to cigarette. He started to mess him, smoking the PIPe. Yeah, my dad is smoked the PIPe. Yeah, if he had to be considered an outspoken probably. Right, he claims he hasn't inhaled. I said, you'd like you to get mouth cancer. He destroyed your gums from it, but this is you're lucky to get. My dad has got a very good constitution, because he obviously has endured a lot of to help issues over the years. But father time beats us all, that's the bottom line. Time is longer than time. Yeah. His father lived in 92, but his father never smoked a drink. So definitely get an extra five or six years at yourself if you don't do that. It was back to quality again. Yeah, yeah. You're right. It's a littlEQuality life. It's really well comes out of it. I always said, you know, who cares if you live longer, but if you're miserable and you're feel terrible while you live longer, it's maybe not a good idea. But that's why I always said, I want to live. Well, I want to live to be old, but I want to be functional. You know, that's the key. You want to be functional. 90 would be great as long as I'm functional to time to 90, a hunch it would be better if I'm functional to a hunch. If I'm disemble, then it's not to me. It's not worth living. You're going to keep, you know what? You got to keep your mind busy all the time. Believe me. You got to keep it all, you know what? You got to keep it busy all the time. You're planning going on. Not that anyone cares about. I did, I produced a very rare bowel to Shrick the Chris. One of the only people to do it. And I think IMight be the first person in the entire world to produce this, it's called a crystal bowel. It was a combination of these two babies I bought and it produced, I produced a bunch of them too. And so I am now on the bowel, constrict the breeding, I guess you could say rankings. I've moved up the rankings quite a bit recently with this, with this, the production of this animal that I produced. The real rankings because your radio show is ranked, what was it? 30th or so? I think we're lasT3 with the lasT3 of this show. But yes, so I just, to me that was like, that was like, getting your pro-card, you know? I got my pro-card in reptile breeding. The crazy things we do. It's funny that I always tell people that it's very important to have hobbies outside of bodybuilding. Bodybuilding is my source of income and my job, which I love, because it's always nice to love your job. But then I have to have a hobby. I would say breeding reptiles is my hobby. Even though it could become a good source of income in the future, but it's not right now. So I enjoy doing, Chris likes bodybuilding too. And I know your real estate is really a source of income, but you also love it. And that's important because you have two different passions. So if something goes wrong in mind, you get the other that kind of fold back on. If someone burns down your house because they think you're a Jew, at least, but you can leave them to the radio show and get your depression and frustration that, right? You got the craziest fucking people who live in your buildings. It's unbelievable. Well, that's, that's, I agree with you. You know, there's never a dull moment. What happens if like, so in the lives that burns the building down is what the head of the head and work with insurance? Well, Joe Cherry would have been down there and IMean, it would have been like, you know, right? IMean, but does that like, you know, how like, you know, how if you kill yourself, you don't get like, you don't get like, you don't get like, you're someone's own barge building down your insured. Okay, it doesn't matter. This way you have insurance for, but isn't that considered arson kind of like if you live there? Yeah, but arson is like, if it's not insured, if like, you know, me and you over insure of the building, it mean you own and then we have like a mander of my wife. People who say they don't put up that crazy lunatic that burn the building down because you want to get his fucking insurance money from it. That, you know, crazy things of happened. Yeah, no, it's scary. Thank you. So now, Chris, here's thEQuestion. Did they arrested this guy, right? He's probably going to do jail time. I would think. Oh, yeah. Right. Maybe you could pick up the apartment at a good rate. Yeah. You're the as the getting. No, no, I'm sure people are on it like up, right? I would be on it, Chris, you better get to get that right. Come on. Like, why don't rise, stay. What do you think those things? What did he do? You know if his apartment looked good? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Maybe you could pick it up for a song into dance. No, those things are always like curses. Yeah. Right. I don't know. You never know. I'm sure his family's going to want the apartment, but maybe you can bite. Maybe they don't want to take care of it. It probably needs to complete. The guy probably was living like a slotted there. It's probably needs a whole redo. I'm sure. Yeah, but it's a solution for my immediate. Right. That's something that's right up your alley. You like to do stuff like that. I heard our friend, Jose Raymond, just going to check out the area. Oh, yes. I didn't know that. That's good. I'm still there. Wow. The West Coast on my side. In your town. Really? How can we didn't tell me this? Jose, call me. I got a lot of people moving down here. He said Lloyd Dawlar, who he prepped and looked tremendous at that most recent show, wherever was Lloyd, there in your town or in your body. Those right here in my town. Those in front of my eyes on the kid, Carl. And he said, you know, I don't know what he said. He said, you know, that $400,000 house is going to be in 10 years, whatever, a million dollars. That may not be true, but I said, Jose, I said, his reply to has, it only has two things, whether in no taxes. So that alone will always make it a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone area, which means real estate prices will always go up. And who can't you buying a hat? You can spend half the amount of money, or a third of the amount of money you spent wherever he is in Boston there to get the same house. So you saw my house, I think it is. Oh, yeah. I remember more inch, you know, so it's who's better than me. He could sell his house up there and move down here and he'll live like a king. And you know what the funny thing is? I'm getting a lot of people moving down here. My friend Cole, Hansick is down here now. He's working for me. And who else was telling me they wanted to move down here? A couple people told me they wanted to move down here. A key Williams is thinking about moving down here. I'm going to turn the west coast of Southwest Florida into the new Mecca of Bodybuilding. Everyone's going to I want everyone down here. I'll have people, the studios will have TV shows telling you. This is Cape Crawl's the number one growing city and I didn't move here because of that, it just is. It's the number one growing city in the United States. Everywhere you look this house is being put up here. I'm shocked that you haven't been down here yet, scouting out. You know, I'm not shocked. No, well, my, you know, my really you've never met on me that my really good friend in Miami has a builder and he's always maybe we could start a little company, Dave. He's always asked me. It's not like, let's build the house, but you know, he still built these houses in Miami that, you know, they're not like on the west coast. IMean, they've just, they take a lot of money to build and, you know, they sell for a lot of money. So I always say like, you know, what if somebody can't come up with $665,000 per, you know, $222 square foot house. You could put up a 100,000 house you spend in itself or 200 here all day long. That's the thing. Dave, we should, we, yeah, we just, let's make a person out. New hobby. New hobby for me. New hobby. Oh, no, it's going to be a hobby. Joining Chris is hobby. Yeah. I'm trying Chris's. We can call ourselves three, three, uh, three, three mandrels. Three of me, a three, three mandricks. IMean, Chris, see, that was a minute and they pull up a buildinGHouses now. We could start a reality show. We could, we could. There would be a reality show. You see the guy with snakes and he's got like a racer show and what? And what are you talking about? The place is lucky not to, the two of us couldn't fucking change a light bulb together. We have to do anything. Like, and no one wanted to work out. I was going to actually, I was embarrassed. I was going to post. I was dead serious. Yeah. I was going to send you a picture. You were on a crack-out. Of a towel bar that I had. And I was proud of myself. Me too. When I just thought my value, I very proud of myself. A towel bar. I can put up do anything I want. Anything I put my mind to. I can do. I just choose not to do it. That's all. So if we have any house builders who want to move to Florida, also, and work for our new three, two weeks. No, we have the guy in Miami. I'm telling you. He's a one-stop. I'm sorry, me up. Sign me up. All right. Well, that's uh, it's getting late. I have still have 600 emails to answer. And uh, you know how that goes. Mondays always a busy day. In the body of all this coming weekend. What do we got up? We get some shows coming this week. Uh, we do. I forget what it is. There's something probably show coming this weekend. I'm going to come and schedule right now. Tell you. I hear Chris doing work in the backdrop. Yeah, I'm just looking at that property slowly. See, Chris is doinGHis hobby while we're talking. You know, well, you're, you're, it's in addiction, dude. Yeah. Los Angeles championships. Next week. So that's a big one. Pro, oh, it's only pro figure. Nevermind. Thought it was a big one. Kenney show next weekend somewhere. There's a bikini show everywhere. John Lindsay's got one every single weekend. Yep, battle the desert. Pro bikinIMen's physique. Is it really battle? What's a bikini? Yeah. I want to just a bikini also titled battle. Big man weekend show pro show jackpot 25 thousand dollars men's body building in Spain. I'll accompany Spain. Which weekend? Give me, give me a line up. Of course, if the god forbid they release the line up, you know, I don't know why they can't release the line up, you know, two weeks early. So the Chris and I could handicap it on the show. I have no idea. I'm sure it'll be up. They have this radio show. We unfortunately were, you'rEQuite the radio show today before that. But yeah, no, it's going to be a great show. It looks like it's at the Grand Hotel Bali. And they got a really nice website for it to 25 grand plus to give in our pro cards. Another one of these big European events. I like it. It's a great idea. See if they have any athletes listed here. Yeah, check it out. If I were Heidi Schouppen, I would do the open. How about that? What do you think about that idea? I think it's a good idea. You might get a good idea. Right? 25 grand up for Chris going to beat it. Let's, let's put it this way. Who's who's going to beat him? You know? Well, the guys who, the big, the big names of the Olympia are all qualified right. They're not competing anymore. How would, how would Heidi Schouppen do in the, how would he have done in that show that, um, we're a micro lock and beat Sergio? Oh, man. Um, he be no lower than third. Yeah. By the way, Justin Rodriguez through Sid. Sorry, sorry, I don't know if that's true. You just, IMean, Rodriguez is pissed that I think that Sergio deserves to beat him. I didn't think there was like, yep. Let me see if I can find the email. I'll read it to you. Oh, oh, no. He didn't contact me, but he would contact me. Sid and Sid isn't good. So here it is. Oh, let's hear it. Huh, from Justin Rodriguez, I'm going to read on the air. Because since Justin will come into any interviews with anyone, I don't know why, but I've reached out. We've reached out them before. Hey, Dave, um, I have great respect for you. I see your art special programs every day. So we watch this. That's good. And I know you're a master and body building, but I cannot understand how you can say that Sergio beat me. If you're looking for a pose by pose in Chicago, maybe he won in most, it seems a child next to me, the big winner that day was Michael without a doubt was the best man. So Sergio, if you're listening Justin, think you were a child next to him at the other stage. I don't think that happens to agree with that, but how do you respond to that, Chris? I think Justin's a great buy-bill, though. I think that, put it this way. When I saw him last in New York, what he placed in the New York Pearl? You think I can't remember what I did this morning. I told you that. Well, I just, IMean, I, I think that, you know, I think he's trying to buy a bill that just even that. I don't know. You know, Justin was third behind one. Remember? Yeah. So he's right up there. He's going to be winning pro shows next year. I'm telling you, he's right there. Yeah, no, IMean, he has ability to win. But I think that Sergio is better than I do. Pro shows next year. I think he's, I think when we talked on the show last and reviewed the show, I said that he's improved, you know, every year that he's cope and on the scene, which he's been on the scene very, you know, short period of time, but he's improved. And he's got a good structure. His, his, his issue is just, it's not conditioned and it's not maturity. It is like, it's, it's that density has to like simmer like he's a little bit. Yeah, that's what it's called. It's cool. It's cool. Ah, let me get it out for God's sake. I was going to say if it came with William Cinderl. Yeah. In other words, when a came first came out, people would say like, you got to get peeled. IMean, dude, if he tries to get peeled, he's going to probably have to drop 40. Yeah. And people would be like, what are you talking about? I said, it's going to be really, it's going to take some time because he just got big so fast. And it's the Jacobus syndrome when Jerry was like 18, 19, 20, 21. It just took it to that like, you're 99. You don't even took him a while to let that muscle on that frame. I guess you call it simmer. simmer. It's really good. And just get dense and you can't force that. In other words, you can't force it. That was the example with a came. If you try to force it and say, I'm just going to get peeled to the show when you just put on all that new muscle that first two three years that back time. It's time. It's time. That's all. I agree. So, but I thought, I thought he deserved third place at that show. You know, just like I thought he deserved, you know, roughly what he got in New York. I don't think he's being judged harshly. No, I think he's being judged fairly. Yeah, I do. I love the him and the him and the surgery go out of the. With surgery, he has this whole probably starting up the Instagram war again. I'm sure. That's probably why he said to me. I'll get him on the show. I'm going to show. Who listen? I think he's lazy. That's all. There's no reason for not to come on the show. All right, Chris. Let's wrap this thing up. We're at a time until next week. Remember with heavy muscle radio, the truth hurts. Good night, everyone.

=== FILE: HAFTHOR's 1-2 COMBO + THE NEXT BIG THING AT 255 LBS! + BREON'S FLEX! [nmlmBL9CDdQ].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pot tart. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Tuesday September 8th, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. About 10 years ago there was a once in a lifetime Egyptian exhibit that came to the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia where I saw some of the rarest treasures on Earth up in close and personal. But if I never get a chance to see any of those things again, catching MOTFOTORN action might be the next best thing. A few days ago MOTEL released his first update in the early two months where it looked to me like he might be creeping closer to making a 2020 debut. In MOTEL and pro a few years ago he was one of the rare international amateur athletes who already had a huge following. And I think the intrigue about what his future looks like at the pro level has only gone up since then. And now that we have so much attention on the few Olympia qualifiers that we have left on the ticket, if he does decide to drop it to something between now and October. I think he has a real chance to make a huge impact right from the get go. As of today we're about eight or nine weeks away from the Europa pro in Alacante Spain whether we'll be a ton of Olympia qualifications up for grabs, thanks to our provision from the IFBB that we talked about on one of last week's shows. And a firework betting man, I think about laying down a few dollars on Priscilla Limebacher grabbing one of those open spots in the DeCandy division. Over the weekend Priscilla's team announced that she'd be makinGHer season debut in next month's contest where you have to think that she'll be looking to punch one of the last remaining tickets to the O in December. Traditionally Priscilla's always placed well in European shows and since she's so well rested from not competing all year long, you'd imagine that would be a good case here too. So if she comes in anywhere close to 100% I see her as a lot to place in the top three. We'll be now the economist and not seem to let use his what he calls the Black Swan Theory to describe rare events that occur beyond the normal realm of expectations. According to the teleb, when a Black Swan event does occur, the impact is usually catastrophic. But when we look back at hindsight we probably could have seen a coming if we paid attention to the signs. So if you apply to Leb's theory to what might happen in the classic physique division this year, I think it raises the possibility of a former title holder like Brianna Ansley coming back to her redemption. Think about it. In the brief history of classic physique there's never been a time when someone has lost the title only to come back and win it again later, which makes it beyond the normal realm of expectations. But because he has the championship precedent, if he does win in hindsight it's something we should have seen coming. Add that to the fact that Brianna's nickname is the Black Swan and it all lines up on paper. So four months from now if this ends up being the way it plays out, don't say we didn't warn you. For the most part, boxing powerlifting and strongman don't have a whole lot in common. Over the fact that you can't fake being good at them for too long before your opponents figure out what's going on. But since Hap Thorb your and since already mastered two out of the three, you have to think that it won't be long until he adds the sweet science of Pugilism to his repertoire. A few days ago Thor's team released a new video of him working on his one-two combo and preparation for his upcoming battle with Eddie Hall. Now to his credit, even though his jab looks like it's in slow motion, Thor's definitely dropped a few pounds over the last few months, which has to help with his hand speed and footwork. But word on the street is that Eddie Hall looks like a complete savage in the gym. So we'll have to do a whole lot more than slow walk his way through the two punch combo if you want to avoid gettinGHis butt kicked in front of a huge paper view audience. And that does if you had another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Ape Lumball reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: HEART OF A BODYBUILDING CHAMPION! Heavy Muscle Radio (8⧸13⧸18) [vwtPhH5UP2w].txt ===

10 and 9 You're not an unworthy who? There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lumball Chris Asito Orangemuscle.com presents Every muscle What are you? Watch us! Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio on the Pulumbo I'm joined by the technician Chris Asito on August 13, 2018 Evening in the Chris Another big weekend in the bodybuilding world Maybe not so big but we had some pro show Action obviously A lot of people don't realize that From this point on after the Tampa Pro show last week There's no morEQualifications for the 2018 Mr. Olympia Everything is now for 2019 So whoever wins things like this past weekend and thus forward Even though it's before the Olympia still don't qualify them for this Olympia Do you like that roller or is that not good? No because I actually gave him Someone I was helping one the classic this week Jason And I thought I thought he was going to the Olympia But I know I'm hearing from him From Jason Low that he's not going to the Olympia till 2019 Now I understand why they're doing it because you know Look they need to have a month to book flights and get everyone old Oh he'll ride his bicycle out there Yeah, but that's why they're making me cut off at a certain point But you know what I don't like it because it used to be exciting back in the day You know remember people would qualify but week before the Olympia Oh yes It's not going to happen anymore It would be the tremendous to like a last minute all the time Yeah it was fun IMean come on IMean there's not that many people that I guess with you know You can have 40 divisions in a show and you know It's become more than just one person qualify Plus now with the point system it screws everything up And they can't figure out who's going to be going and not going So I understand why they do it But it's whatever It's a little lengthy, cool notic But I guess you know it is what it is You know the rules ahead of time and you know Hey look the temperature last qualification So and that's the way it goes So but we'll talk about this shows as past week This is coming in a minute I want to do definitely an hour so that the I will be going to the Olympia This year for sure Redcon one an Aaron segment will be sponsoring our coverage So I will be out there haven't booked a flight or anything yet But we do have a few other best possible answers So you don't want to get too big with the Olympia We do have press passes that's a good sign for us though If you have anything released with speed because you used to have I still have some here that Aaron's like like guy used to send me Wanting and I think blackstone I haven't even case I have to pull an all night Chris right over taking a multi-vitamin in 20 years No I believe they cause skin cancer Yeah I've never seen Chris anything you know Remote we bought I've been taking a vitamin in like you know 20 years I know I just said that and I was obviously pretty accurate and I didn't even realize it So yeah it is what it is I get all the polyphenols I need from the Capyp coffee beans Yeah poly canoix Poly canoix You see you know Sid who works for us obviously suit for Rookie My co-host in a couple shows He will be out of the team let me do but he just he's very excited I have to announce that he has softball team won the world whatever the championship I don't know what to it's so funny I always find the whole softball thing so funny But you know people to get into there these leagues that they do you know these softball Yeah a lot of these leagues also though they'll recruit like these ex You know major league baseball players to play these things too It's like very very competitive Especially in New York and I guess there's like 6,000 leagues Sid's team won the league won the championship so he was all the same They won the league championship for the world series Now whatever the one ever whatever the one I don't know the long I don't championship Whatever it is let me look to see what he said What position does Sid play Chris you asked let me guess let me guess Alright let's first you I don't think you'll guess but let me you go first base No, I thought he would be there what's the the guy of the worst position they put him in right field usually Um well that's the worst player I'm just kidding I didn't think so it was the worst player but let me see how lonGHe sent me this pretty funny No, I think it first base because that needs to mix every play Right right right You know I don't even know what's his capabilities are as an athlete to you No I don't that's why first base you just catch you don't have to do much you just cold the glove up He said we won our softball championship today whatever that means they have leagues on one And they're pretty competitive so I'm sure they they were good so I said so I asked him I said what position do you play I said that's the first question I asked him just you and me think the same because I'm thinking I don't know what Sid plays with position so he said he was originally a short stop He said until I literally lost all athletic abilities because I'm going to back to the gym tomorrow So he reinvented himself as a picture he said oh my what is his slow pitch when you do the mob? I'm sure it is yeah, and he said he said he had the best e-r-a in league history this season So he must have knuckleballs and something a stiffball I think it's I think it's the team playing behind the pitch that really makes the pitch a bad good You know because people hit the ball every single time I would think right? Well if it's I don't know if he's throwing a super slow if you know if if he's throwing if it's not fast pitch softball and it's slow pitch Yeah, and he's throwing a super slow knuckleball That's like a bug spun a you can't even you know it floats in the air. It's like trying to hit a balloon There was a picture who used to pitch like they remember Yeah He had a brother his game was he played for the pod race he paid for the roll of fingers. Was it no? No, it was Famous knuckleball Not a film negro not negro Yeah, he grew or gamewood Perry rather, but not them there was a guy in the through the ball in the air It was a it was a long time ago before I died, you know It was like lobbed up in the air and it would come down and it was very hard to pit I don't remember, I'm sure one of our listeners will remind I don't know. I'm just like knuckleball pitchers. Do you remember Marc Feasier? I should talk to the ball. Yeah the bird, right? Yeah the bird Take out stock to the Call the news, talk to the weights before he get on the Yeah, like weights Yep you you you you you you you you you Yep you you you Recallants posted an article online that some of this guy from Jersey the staff there His license was taken away. For, they said he was indiscriminately prescribing steroids to undercover investigators posing as bodybuilders. He had a Kevin Curtis agreed to surrender his license to practice medicine and surgery. The state attorney general's office said yesterday. Physicians who indiscriminately prescribed dangerous drugs for profit are no better than street corner drug dealers. And we will do everything we can to protect our communities from such danger going into the attorney general. Yeah, parks, so you can get parks like, you know, kill like it's candy cane. Can you believe what they're, they're busting this fucking guys balls because he was legally prescribing antibiotics. You know, not even antibiotics like testosterone replacement. He wasn't like writing like cycles for these guys. He's awaiting sentencing scheduled to November 15th this poor freaking guy. You got a jail. Yeah. When I was in jail, there was a lot of dentists that were in there for oxy cotton prescription writing. Dentists. Because they were all, you know, he was a addict too. So he was selling prescriptions. Oh, yeah, to keep him to pay for his flow. He was giving prescriptions to friends to fill and then they were givinGHim back the drugs. Yeah. The whole bit crazy. Other doctors that lost their licenses or had their license to revoke the according to the state, they list the, the, the, you're all just to plead guilty and genuine to writing illegal prescriptions for oxy codone. Uh, and then build Medicare and Medicaid for it. Another guy from Kate May. Uh, he was writing oxy codones, annexed an animal. That a medical purpose. He agreed to retire. He was 74 this guy. Another doctor. She was doinGHormone replacement in estrogen. They said she didn't comply with regulations. It's so disc, you know what, I'm so happy people always asked me, did you regret not being a doctor? I said, you know what, who the fuck hell needs it? Because I wanted to be a doctor that was on the cutting edge of prescribing things that you know, preventative medicine type stuff. And I would have, they would have been all over me probably. I would have had these guys on my back and they would have been trying to revoke my license and I would have to be fighting them in court. Who the hell wants to be bothered with that man? That's not even fun to be a doctor anymore. You got to, if you, that's what really turned me off to being physician. I got to be honest with you, Chris, all they do is push pills for for for symptoms. And they do nothing for preventative medicine. And you know what, they're all afraid to do anything for preventative medicine because it's not in the book. And if something goes wrong or some guy decides to get into sue them, now they have a freaking lie, now they're fighting like for their life and for their livelihood because you know, they're doing stuff that, you know, is off-label, you know, you know, the best way to put it. Look at the poor whatever his name is, um, a mad, like, remember a Bruce Nathor? Bruce Nathor? He would happen to him. He was one of the guys and you were so guys who had done a lot of the gynecromaccia surgeries. He wasn't a great surgeon, but he was very, you know, forward thinking. He would, he would do surgeries that a lot of the plasticers were going to. And he was making money. He decided why he decided to do this. I don't know. He decided to start doing one more replacement before any moment doing it. growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone testosterone placement. He was a plant, he was a plastic surgeon. And he was prescribing it. And I guess he got caught or they, you know, New York is a pain in the ass. It's very, very, a lot of, you know, strict laws there. They've revoked his license. He knew that to kill his wife. He was very, very well known. Oh, I know. You know, it's funny because my sister was runninGHair removal clinics. It was lazy hair removal clinics at the time. And they were rentinGHis office space in his office. So I used to do them very well. And Bruce's wife would run the office. It was one of the office managers. And so when they took his license away, the guy was like devastated. He moved to California. And they were trying to personal tren people. Imagine going from being a physician to personal trening. And I guess they just weren't making any money. And it was going downhill. They killed themselves. I think I think his wife did too. They committed suicide. Oh my goodness. I didn't know that. I didn't know that. I know the name very well because maybe how long goes that's has got. So use the nicest guy too. Yeah, I used to see my shows. Right? They blew their brains out of everything. terrible. All because and I blamed it on the eye blaming on the New York state. I was doing, you know, don't harm to anyone. Wasn't right. Why didn't you just stay with the, uh, I don't know. I don't know. People get people get nuts. Who knows? They mean, it was easy money. If I don't start. Because he was started using it himself. And he, oh, I think he got big after one. Yeah, remember he started believing it. He was very, very, very into the whole longevity. And this was before was a little more accepted to it. Yeah. And he said screw it, man. I'm going to start writing growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone on one prescriptions and prescribing. Because I really believe in this. You know, but the medical board doesn't care what you believe. They only care what they believe in. And they took his license away. Yeah, said. But that's, you know, that and that's what these doctors, if I, and that's why, you know, you go to your doctor and you're, these people are cursing their doctor. I can't believe we wouldn't do this. He wouldn't write me the description. They're afraid. You know, they don't want to lose their livelihood. They have to, they have families to support and bills to pay. These, I don't blame them. You know, they spent hundreds of thousands on med school. It took them 10 years before they were able to make any money. After going to school, me and everyone else has been out working for 10 years. And they don't want to lose it. And that's, that's what, that's what medical school and the whole medical association is, is doing to the doctors. It's making them scared to, to, to really be creative and to act, you know, how they really want to. And they're making them into little robots. And so robots don't, don't do anything. They don't do any good for the society. Yeah. The only guys that are really, I think who really shine, I like the orthopedic surgeons and the surgeons because the surgeons kind of have a little bit more carpalonched to, to do creative stuff. If you think about it because they're kind of creating new protocols and something to add for joint replacements and all the other stuff that are doinGHeart surgeries. But anything outside the box, like in terms of keeping people healthier or, you know, doing stuff that's maybe off label with drug prescriptions, they will eat you alive. And it only takes one person. You can help 6,000 people all who think you're God, you're Jesus Christ. And one person doesn't like, you know, the outcome of something that happened or doesn't like you and they complain through the medical board and you lose your license. Yeah. It's crazy. That's, I should've done a rant, that's my rant. Well, my rant. To preview your game, right? You get more and done this week. Another, another ridiculous study came out about saying there's no benefit from fish oil. No benefit from taking fish oil. How big time it takes you to a substance in 20 years? I can't figure out what to take and what not to take. I don't even understand how these people, you know, it's so irresponsible because you get 6,000. Let's go back to that another 6,000 positive, you know, studies about how fish oil is good for your heart and all this stuff. And IMean, the science is there, obviously. And then you get one study that shows this. And what did you see the study this week about, it said, I think the government put it on and said, we should double our salt and take. I'd been saying that for years. I'm serious, did you see that? No, I didn't. No. There's a study out that said, not we could double our salt, but you can safely and actually it is a benefit too, increase in your sodium. I've been saying that for years. I've been seeing what people are taking from, you know, refining food diets. I've been saying that for years. I think there's nothing wrong with consuming salt. Assuming that you don't have congestive heart failure. Yeah. That was the only caveat. It doesn't cause congestive heart failure. But if you have congestive heart failure, you obviously have problems with water retention. So you're not going to eat a lot of salt. But eating salt, especially for bodybuilds, I've talked, we talked about this. You should be downing tons of sodium so that when you pull it out at the last minute, something actually happens in your body. If you're always restricting sodium, the whole diet, then your sodium sets it, and it's really hard to get rid of excess water at the end. It just makes sense and it's all out of gastroenteralyden. You know how the gastroenterologist's sodium intake in the body. And if you don't have a lot of it, you have you, to high-end gastroenteralybles. And so that's never going to let you get rid of water. If you eat salt all the time, you're all lost, you're going to be loved. IMean, if I had stand-at-fitting on it, we did a great interview. If anyone has caught that interview with stand-at-fitting, it's really, it's really entertaining and informative. And he was saying, you know, he's a big advocate or a vet too. We both agree on that. Just he believes in sodium loading, like before you go to the gym, because that really super hydrates your body. You know, because it'll allow you to hold fluids. Because a lot of times, if you're eating low carbs, it's hard to hold water on your body. Which is, you think is a positive event, but it's really not for athletic performance purposes. You know, because if you're even five or six percent dehydrated, your exercise performance goes down by almost 20 percent. So, you know, hydration is huge. Not totally good. Not totally good, you know, 100 percent right. Anyway, so this stupid, stupid study. They say, well, you can't prove it. The official does anything. So, therefore, it's probably that doesn't warrant you taking it. You've got to prove it. You can't prove it. You can't prove freaking zero benefit. It even says this study. Well, you can't, you can't prove zero benefit or zero risk. But our statistics indicate people just more on. Someone else sent me this thing. He's a study on a bodybuilder who was 60 years old who got a heart enlargement after heavy testosterone, snake hole. And it didn't experiment he was doing with stem cells. The guy was injectinGHimself with stem cells. I don't even know where he was gettinGHim from. Oh my god. Ridiculous. What are Ridiculous? Frick him. You read the study you'd throw up. I'm not even going to it. The thinGHe was injecting stem cells. It's a quasi-sauce. What the fuck? First of all, I'd love to know where he was getting all these stem cells from. They're really expensive. And maybe robbed the fucking stem cell way up or something like that. Can you imagine that? Unbelievable. You have the same thing if you inject stem cells into your muscles now that the could possibly increase muscle size. Well, I just sound so like, and it sounds like, I don't know, sounds like one step beyond growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And why not? I don't think people would do it. IMean, I can't say you think about it if you damage. If you go in tren, legs real hard, then you inject stem cells into your legs. Would you grow new muscle? Maybe you would. There you go. I'm giving you guys a freaking, it's going to be my next, I'm going to do a separate video about that. I skip my heart. I'm not sizing. Get his opinion on it. Yeah, let himself. Boston, go and check six million, a million stem cells into your body every day. Think about that. That's the next thing people will be selling. That's what I said. That sounds great. Think about that. I wonder if it's illegal. Are they going to say, well, this is a prescription only. Like, if you decide to grow your own stem cells and make it a little lab in your house, the back room, forget sinful. Just inject stem cells into your arms, right? All day long. Yeah, I'm injecting three CCs of stem cells. You know what's going to happen, Chris? They're going to figure out a way to make them really cheap and grow these things. People have fish tanks in their house. They're going to have a fish tank for stem cells. Meas and animal stem cells. You buy a little bit. You get how you buy seeds. If seed you're lawn, you buy a couple of sample vials of stuff. You put them in this like, broth and a fish tank like in your house. You just breathe these things and then you just bottle them and you start selling them. Well, I'll be sure you have to keep them. Sure, you start selling fake stem cells. Of course, not sure they were. Absolutely. Or dead stem cells. Then after make like a, how I can have the right test, I don't have to have a stem cell. I don't have a stem cell. Step cell. Test kit to make sure the stem cells is still viable. Think about that. Certainly we increase potential to get bigger. Might not be a bad idea. People injecting stem cells, you know, now into their pet, scalp to grow hair. But I haven't seen any evidence yet to prove that it really works. Believe me, I'll be, I'll be going to the stem cell. That's one thing I'll spend my money on. I'll definitely get stem cells injected into my scalp if it grew hair. Forget about it. IMean, you got good hair. You don't care, but that's something I would try. No doubt. I know people that have had stem cells like infused it through an IV into their body. Like thinking that wherever they have a damaged organs, that these stem cells would just migrate to and just start repairing them. It's possible. You know, I guarantee in the future they'll be doing precise like micro injections of stem cells into the various organs and stuff like that, repair, even the brain may be, you know, like, I know they were experimenting with that with Parkinson's patients. We weren't trying to inject stem cells into the substantiate nigra, you know, portion of the brain with the substantiate nigra cells that produce which produce the dopamine. Because that's in Parkinson's, those cells die for some reason. And they can repopulate those, then, you know, they could potentially cure the Parkinson's. I know it wasn't too successful 20 years ago, but I got to believe that we're probably at a much better place now to do that. You know, they can do it in diabetics. They can replace here your beta-pacratics cells. The problem of diabetics is they have an automobile immune disease so that what happens is the immune system destroys the cells after they regenerate. So it's important. You have to keep taking the stem cells or that. Well, they've got to see around a way to suppress the immune system. It's suppressed that one, that one immune cell that happens to be going crazy and destroying the pancreas, you know, the one immune cell. I don't say do that. I think diabetics will be cured. I think we already have to take an allergy to cure it. We just don't know how to stop the immune system. Autoimmune diseases are big in this country, you know, now they've really between rheumatoid arthritis and renaud syndrome and soagreens and, IMean, you see, speaking about all immune and diseases, did you see the company that makes round up with suit for $289 million? What's round up? That's a weak killer I use. Oh, I thought it was the bed bug killer. No round up is said, you won't use round up? Who knows, you think I do it? I don't do anything myself and Cardinal who does it. I don't know what they do. What do they spray for weed? Round up is the great. You spray it on weeds and they die. Oh, they do. And why they having problems with that? I got it. I got it. Apparently it causes cancer. My mother-in-law told me never used round up. Of course it does. What do they expect? It kills fucking all the. Look, they cockroaches have lived since the dinosaurs. We can't get rid of these fucking things. If we find a spray that kills them, don't you think a kid's going to kill everyone? Of course it is. Yeah. But kills a cockroach. You don't want it any way. You're freaking food, you're your kids or anything you're breat. Because guaranteed it will kill you. It might not do it today, but it will do it in five or ten years from now without a doubt. I see also new news that New Jersey talking about outdoors stuff like round up. New Jersey now has flying ticks. Flying ticks. Round up. Fly. Hmm. Do they carry these? They apparently, well the flying tick comes from Asia. Don't they? Don't know. Don't know. That's all the terrible bugs come from Asia. It's pretty. It's the tick from Asia that flies has made it found very attractive. The New Jersey tick. Oh, really? So they cross the cross mating in the little time. But it pairs that the new flying New Jersey tick does not carry diseases like the native tick, the New Jersey. Oh. So what does that mean? Ticks are insane in me now. IMean it used to be like, oh you hear someone get tick or lime disease. No, they're everywhere. Do these new ones, these flying ones carry lime? No, it pairs at the flying, the new flying. Yeah. So off-breed, off spring, what have we called it? The grandchildren. Don't carry disease. Oh, that's good. Maybe that'll be fine. If we ever, I always kid David and say I'm dense here. I always kid and say a kid about flying bed bugs. That would be terrible because then they could grab. Because once I went with the, I went once with the bed bug company and I was like, Dave was like, I was walking through like a minefield or something. A literal like minefield like if you and I were out like a war zone. I didn't get a step on anything. He said, they're not, you know what the guy? He said, what's the matter? I said, I want to get a bed bug. He said they're not Mexican jumping peas. They don't just jump on you. You have to get into a bed or lie on a couch. When I'm in a room, when I think that a house or something, it's invested with anything or if I think I have anything in my house, the itching that starts and soos on my body is not, you could take 40 showers. I couldn't stop pitching. It's crazy. I went to the end of court recently. I wouldn't sit down because I was afraid that it was your fiction court. I was afraid that they might be a dead dog somewhere. Right. Pick them up when they're addicted to tenants. Yeah. Without a death. Let's talk about this San Antonio Pro show. It took place this past weekend. It was a classic physique. You helped the winner. Jason Low. We look good. So consistency. What was he in Tampa? He was second in Tampa. I think. Yeah. He was third in Tampa. Third. Right. And he was, I think he was 11th at the Arnold. And then he got 5th at a show, 4th at a show, 3rd at a show. And then 1 this show. And I told him from running into the Arnold. All you need to do is find the right show and you will absolutely win a minute. In other words, you know, you just picked the right show. Right. IMean, last week in Tampa was A-50 person line up. No, it was really good. Fam to come in third was like a big win. It's win. I think in other shows, they didn't really quite know what to do. I'm not with the Arnold. To me, Jason looks like a bodybuilder. Good bodybuilder. This commissioning is freaking crazy. Yeah, I just said, did I just say like they didn't want to do with them? Yeah. I don't think it's some of the shows. They knew quite what to do with them. Like the last who running into Tampa. So not the Tampa show. Right. But the previous two, like I've looked at pictures and say, Jesus, I think you could have been first. And I think, well, these guys had classical lines too. And taller. And so, you know, I can see where this judge or whatever. You know, I can see where they might have had this guy. He had a B.U. Because I thought in a lot of ways, he looks like a bodybuilder. And you know, if he didn't want to show that she had, he was thinking very much, and moving up to 2012. I think he'd be a good two-to-all guy. IMean, he's really tight. IMean, he's got great legs, crazy conditioning. But so he'll be, he'll be in next year's Olympic. IMean, 2019. He said he didn't make getting it up points, and then we're all because he only did one show. I don't know. He didn't do enough show. I don't know where he landed on the point thing. Is there a point something somewhere where I can see that? Let me look at the point. I'm going to look at the points right now. Where do you find a point thing? IMean, PC name, let's see classic classic classic classic. There ain't no, I'm listed. And then it's physique. I'm here at this classic, see. So it's divine Wilson. Aaron Lennon, all more Batista, David Patrick, and Chen Kang from China. There's actually a tie. I go to a union from Russia too. So I don't know who actually is going. One, two, three, four, five. It's the fifth and sixth person or tied. So I don't know. It's funny. The sixth person, it says Russia. Oh, I've been able to, I see they have all the countries next to. Okay. Crazy. A lot of guys in class, thEQualifier, the Olympia, I'll give you that much. Yeah, how many people they total? No, no, no, Ferguson, Brianna, and Sleak, Chris Bumstead, George Peterson, Arash, Danny Hester, Robert Thames, Estatimal, Medi, Lorani, Matteo, deep line. Hi, who, courage, or parah, Danny Union, Hithemel Siddik, Steve Lourius, Peter Duper, reading rhymes, Ellie Shem Sharhar, Terence Ruffin. I'm laughing up, I'm looking at the Brazil, David Har. Classic, just people, you know, the classic, I hope they, I hope they. I know people can say I'm full of crap because I help Reagan and they're going to say he's a bodybuilder, but I'm looking, there's people winning classic shows, not in the US. Who are not plastic in anybody? Yeah. Panacee Pierre, Wesley Visters, Khalid, Chikawi, and then you have the top, those top five guys out. It's going to be a great lineup, I get an issue. It's going to be a really, really good lineup this year. Should be exciting to check this out. I'm excited to see it. I think it's probably the the freshest thing to have that because you never know who's going to win, whereas bodybuilder, he's kind of like tied up, right? Yeah. Let's see who else, bikini was one by Monica Ellis, or you look, I'm still totally right, classic. Jason Lowland's Fabio, Lopes, or Lopez, or second. I don't know much about him. I thought he had really good legs. Good conditioning. It seemed like it was a conditioning show. That's what he said. The best ones in the world. They got a secondless peel too. Nobody wasn't really a classic either. You know what IMean? No. He's not really a small arms. Usually class, the guys have the big arms, but he's shredded his guy. I always tell people, like you never know who's going to show up. Sometimes he shows it are not good. That's why conditioning always trumps everything else. No pun intended on the trump. Jason Martinez third. I don't know much about him. David Boy, fifth. He's not a guy, but shred. Every single person in the top five is shredded. The one, Jones, fifth place. He's got a big scar down this abdomen. Really, you must have some serious surgery. Gotta get the story on that. I like stories. humaninterest is really what people get inside of that. That's what people like stories. Tony Davis, guy I helped six boys. You know, I always tell people when you give me a speech if you don't know. You're going to talk about just a story. You know, even if you don't even know what you're talking about. That's the YouTube mantra. IMean, YouTube is successful because people just talk on there. And that's the people like to hear. They like to hear people talking. And in bond wins men's physique, Devon Lindner, second-ash when Lucas III, colleague Courtney fourth, and Jeremy Grant fifth, the Keeney one by Monica Ellis, Amy Landry second, and Taliarichards, Nelly Richards third, Joey Riley fourth, Mia Sanchez fifth, and congratulations to the San Antonio people, all the winners. I've had a lot of masters of that. I don't understand the whole master's thing with these brochures because they don't qualify for anything. I like Gary's thing. I like how Gary holds it. The North American, the masters, world championships. What he does is he charges an application thing. We talked about this before. But you win prize money. So it's kind of like paying into the system. You pay in some application money. It's a game life. But yeah, right, if you win, you get it back. Plus some. So I can't wait. It's just, it's good. It's a good idea. At least it makes it exciting for the masters people. Because otherwise, if you go to a show, you get a trophy as a master's pro. And that kind of boring. Yeah. So, because what it is, let's see what else. Oh, now let's go on this past weekend. Oh, the Brazil shows that were you talking about? Yeah, the guys look a little big for. But that was only, that was amateur. Yeah, you too. But they still look big in the classic. Big, like. Yeah, it was classic physique. You're right. There was classic physique pro. Chen Kang won from China. So good. So hard. Nick Comboura. How come all these Iranian guys can go into every country for the US? Because they don't say death to Brazil. They say death to America. That's true. Yeah, so IMade a board of Iranian and other Iranian six second and third. It was a week. It was a very, very, very class. I wonder why no Americans went down. I would have gone down. If I was a, I would have gone down to Brazil. Yeah, people go to Americans haven't taken it all yet. That they can compete at these shows anywhere. IMean, well, when you have, you know what the problem is? They had the San Antonio show the same day. So IMean, it's like, but if I was trying to figure out how to get a qualification. Yeah, IMean, it might be, but who view to like take a trip down there? And sometimes, you know, you don't go down there because the judge is different, you know, and they, they, you know, they judge differently. So I guess, you know, it's a, it's a pretty big financial investment to have to go to Brazil to compete. Yeah. Then, it was equal to one of my Carlos Day, Oliver, from Brazil, pretty much all of the resilience. Edvin, Palmeira, second, and it was the name, right in the third. So it's basically our Indians and Brazilians. They had a pro bikini, Elisra Pesini, where we know the terrific Brazilians bikini competitor. She wins. So this is, I think, a John Lindsay show. John Lindsay muscle contest, Brazil. He's spreadin' out his wings all over the world now. I know Tamarale, good to you, is orchestrating all this, but, hey, you know what? I love it. It's a great idea. Why not? We're sent to be on these people on Brazil and they come up the stage. I don't know. I don't know if anyone's probably interviewing at all. Who has the time? They're too busy, they're, they work to try to get the show over with. Showing the things so long, right? They get, you don't get any of you. You're lucky. You're lucky. We have a show here, you know? Just for those people who have been asking me about when the next, the secrets that becoming a diger, of course is, you're holding it in a Cape Corolla, Florida on October 20th at Saturday, October 20th, you guys have to sign up at Davepalumbo.com. There's limited seating for some reason. I don't know, this is always a busy, this course is always a busy one. The October one. And I've had a lot of million people asking me about it. If don't wait, I'm telling you guys, I know a lot of you out there have been asking me about it. You better sign up because I don't want to hear anyone complaining if I run out of space. Because this one's usually a popular one. I think people don't like to do that to the courses over the summer because they're like, it's a dieting for shows and the vacationing. But then once this full comes around, everyone's like trying to educate themselves and figure out how to make money. Because they spent all their money over the summer, you know? It's tough in this day and age to make a living, you know, for us. It's, you know, it's just... I just want to work. We were talking about that earlier. Well, that, and just think, IMean, it's tough to make a living because things are so expensive. And it's just right into a father of my son's friend's father. He's got a heating and a condition in business. You know, he works 60 hours a week because he's got a lot of kids. 70 hours a week. You know, people say, I work 60, 60, he says, no, no, no. I'm out of the house 70 hours a week at work. Sure. He's got five kids. You know, the funny thing is that you and I probably work more than that. Just because we're in our house, we, we, we, we, we realize we're working that much. But like how we know, right? We don't work that much. It's done thinking, well, I worked like 18 hours a day. So well, how is every day? Seven days a week. What does that add up to the 80 to four hours? Then you just do it all over again the next day. Yeah. Yeah. Well, just one day, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait. It's one day blends into the next day. Yeah, we know it is. I'm like, I'm so happy, like, aT3, 30, the morning when I finally answered that last email. And I know as soon as I shut my computer down, I'll have 10 more emails, but it doesn't matter. Like, I've caught up to the day. Yeah. When I finally catch up and do the last email, I'm like, all right, I can go to sleep. Well, there is no real catching up. Yeah. It's like the post office. It's the never stops the mail. So I'll go upstairs now, you know, to get before getting the better going to the bathroom, I'll see the toilet, whatever. And I'll look at my phone, which is the worst thing because now, now I see 10 more emails. Because now I'm like, all right, fuck, let me just get these 10 emails. I can't go to sleep, but conscience is knowing that there's nothing waiting for me. Which there always is because, you know, I help people all the world. Like, I'm sure you do. We're going to sleep there already while they're waking up. So it's never ending. It's never ending work. You know, it's just even when I get to a point that we usually do a lot of recording on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, sometimes Thursdays, or TV recording. So I'm like, don't let that on like, oh, they got it. I get the weekend now. But it never stops. Monday comes in and it's like, shh, it's starting to roll up. And I got to start just thinking, oh, who am I going to get the interview? What do we got to get on the thing? It's like, never stops. It's like, you know, I don't have people, you know, say it helps a little bit, you know, pretty much. I get the, I get a lot of the people myself, we're going to interview for the show. Are they contact me? But I'm always setting up schedules and I have all these little notes all of them. I don't write notes down anymore when paper I have in my phone. All right, this guy had two o'clock, this guy had three o'clock. And of course, I don't remember anything. I don't go back and check it. I'm like, I tell these people, text me in the morning of the interview, or my auntie. Yeah. It's amazing. We get all the interviews. We do it. It really is because, um, you did that. Did you get Henry P. other's week? Yeah, we did. Luckily these people actually want to be interviewed by me. That's a good sign. Yeah. You know, I heard that big Rami's no longer on the contract. Did you know that? No, I didn't know that. Yeah. I thought it was a good. No, with, uh, with, uh, am I? Well, there's no shingles in my animal. Well, they still have some, they still do have some contracts. And it fills that under their contract number. But I know there's a couple of people that still are, but. Rod, you get fill, when you get fill out. I am. I'm working. I'm going to set up a minute of sending, uh, an email and gives my, he, he, he basically wants to see what kind of questions I'm going to ask me to. I don't have a card. It's okay. Sorry. And, uh, what about Rami? What are you, Rami? I was going to tell you. Let me text him right now. Hold on. I'll actually get a live. Tell me what to interview before the, Okay. Hold on. Let's see. And tell me that's nothing to do with body, but I just want to know about, like, fishing and stuff like that. I don't really want to know. I want to know about, like, what do you, when you used to fish back in, in Egypt? Okay. Hold on. It's all right. Kim, Tom, welcome. Tell me what you even talked about to your one bit. Not even a stream. He wants to interview you. The topics about, What, what, what, what are we getting on here? The most, the most popular fish to catch in in Egypt, you know, fishing and fish. I'll just some fishing, it's just favorite topic. I know. I know. And even ask me about it. That's why I got to ask about it. I'm going to do a whole show on the head of catch. He's probably doing cardio. Let's see how long it takes him. See, Ronnie, Ronnie actually has a skill. How many body balls I think it's, say, they actually have a skill. This guy, if body building ended tomorrow from he can go back and he can become a commercial fisherman probably and then make a good living for himself. He's obviously going to be different. He's content. But I'm sayinGHe can, he can feed his family that way. IMean, that's, there's four seconds he hasn't returned. Maybe, maybe he's texting beta. Beta. Priced just text me. Said. Take what's anime. You mean. Well, no, I'll let you know if he responds. Yeah, I'll tell him to tell beta. I know interesting talking about the L.D. or body building or anything. Magic mirror is enough. And I just wanted to talk about fishing with him. That's it. It's all interested in pretty much. You know, I did a rant, you know, day on different testosterone esters. Yeah. Suspension propane and anti-sipping. And I, you know, I basically included. After, to what 30 years of knowing about steroids. Yeah. They're all the same. And there's no difference. Well, testosterone is just having to say. Well, how can we make an absorbent. We have to get up the long ones because the water. Right? Yeah, the difference is that everyone's taking the short acting ones every day or every other day. So it's the same water. It's, it's, it's, it's no water. You know, it's, it's, it's testosterone. It doesn't matter. IMean, I, I don't understand the water. Like, people don't understand that you can get, if you have no fat on your body, then water disappears really easily. You know, when you stop drinking, the energy, the energy, the energy, the direct. So it's just, the whole thing is, if the people just don't know anything about anything, it is, is the problem. And so I want to explain my life. Double-day, because I like it nothing about nothing about that. The problem is that we all were, we're brainwashed. And even today, people brainwashed people that you have to use, like you said, certain esters, it's two times the year. And it's just not, that's just not the case. Because you and I know the one guy, we always know that that one guy from the gym that said they competed on like two, two, C, C's, it testosterone a week. And that was it. They never took another drug. And they looked at a major drug. They were destroying people on stage, you know. Yeah, just I have no money. Just two, C, C's, it testosterone a week, you know. You know, that guy or the guy who took a half an anodrol day, you know, for six weeks before it's shown. He looks like he could win the Olympia. There was a lot of those guys back in the 80s and 90s, you know, there was a lot of it. All the time. It's just, you know, there's a huge genetic component. There's a huge component of how hard are you trened and how do you eat? And the bottom line is that it's not that difficult, guys. It is nothing that complicated. If someone makes it that complicated for you, I remember I was doing, I think I had to get who I was filming. I was filming someone in the supermarket. And we were buying food. And I forgot, I don't want to say I know who was coaching them. I don't want to say because he's going to have a nervous breakdown. I probably can guess I can get it. Yeah, he could. And he was makinGHim eat like white rice at one meal and the next meal he had to do brown rice. And then another meal he had to do, keen one and then he had to go back to white rice. And there was some ridiculous explanations. This was in the same day. It wasn't like, you know, all right, offseason. I do brown rice, well, because they're white rice. It was like the same repertoire. Like it was so complicated on my guys. I said this guy. I said, it's just not this complicated. I don't, he's like, yeah, I'm just listening to him because he's telling me what to do. I said he's making complicated because he wants you to think that he's smarter than you are. And he's really not. Let me, can I guess, can I, can I text it to you? Yeah, text it to me. Okay. You know, I'm going to guess it right. It's not the white car and the dry car person. No, I know that. No, I know that. Kristen, I have all these, you know, before the show started. I guess it, you were right. You were right. You're right. Great. But for Chris, I started the show. I was just telling me before we start the show. Well, the time we always talk and my, and my recording program, on the Mac, it records. When we're soon to Skype, it's up. I said, Chris, man, if we ever released the show before the show, it would be way, way more popular. And we'd also be together better. We'll be ban for life from everything. And everyone. They get's not some, not mostly, but all of the, potentially devastating gossip. Like if you want to like blackmail people, people think I have a big, people think I have a big mouth. I don't tell anyone anything. You know, I don't say anything. Listen, the off the record stuff that you hear, that people tell you that you don't call that they text you. They email you. You know what a lot of it is to, because they want you to open up a mouth to and say, of course, because they don't do it. Of course, they want me to spill the beans. I don't say anything because I think it's humorous, but I'd love to talk about it because it's so, it's so juicy a lot of the stuff, but it's, it doesn't serve any purpose, obviously, but other than to be a TMZ type of thing. And that's not what I'm trying to do. We're trying to be teach people stuff, and we're trying to like, an analyze stuff. Yeah, IMean if someone, if I see someone doing something that's not right, I'm going to point it out. I'm all about injustice, you know, exposing injustices, speaking of which, who was the competitor that candy with? Oh, forget it. I'm telling you, you know, I, people, you know, obviously the empathy in assholes is coming up now, right after the Olympian, you know, remember, people, yeah, people, you know, I have a lot of clients and there people ask me, am I going to go into the show and I'm like, no, I'm not going to go into the show because Steve Carroll. I'll go. Well, you can go, you want to. I won't go to the show anymore because I, oh, Steve Carroll. Yeah, even if I, I'm sure they'd give me presents. Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'd be thinking, but I don't want to go. I won't go because I said, what are you, you know. I'm not going to the show because I'm not going to deal with Steve. I don't even want to look at Steve Carroll's miserable face. I shouldn't have to even waste my time doing that. So, it's a shame because they do like the nationals. And I think it's a great show and I like to see everyone last show of the year, but I won't be, I'm not going to go at a principle. I'm boycotting it. I'm not boycotting it with my athletes, I'm boycotting it with myself because it's the athletes get treated. You know, well, they don't really get treated that great, but at least it's a terrific show to be able to, you know, turn pro at it and something like that. One of these days they'll get rid of Steve Carroll, and they'll get a real promoter in there, which is pretty much anyone else. Anyone else can do a better job than him. And that's it. I'm not going to even bring it up anymore. I'm just telling them, I'm like, going, what else do I want to talk about? Did you see my interview? Oh, yeah, the interview with Henry Pio, Pierre and I, I was up already. I'm surprised you haven't seen it. I've been tuning in yet. No. You're behind. I know. Kids. I did a great show with Iron Raid with Lee Priest also. People should check out. It was on ridiculous, fair diets. Speaking of which, Lee is really funny. I gotta say, Lee missed his calling and life. He should have been a comedian. He wouldn't have been, you haven't seen the Steven Wright type like comedians, like the real offbeat humor. That's the kind of stuff he's got. He would be great. He just sees all the crazy shit that people do and he just notices it, you know? And none of what has that ability to do that. That's what's served. Yeah. Did you ever see the absurdity in my, I didn't really get an interview to it. I forgot. I did it a couple weeks ago. We just put it up today. It was another interview with Carl Anor from Superhuman Radio. I'm known call for 25 years. It was on, we talked about pretty much everything. We talked about how he thinks you can cure the bubble got. That's the big topic. Can't be cure. Now he has some theories. So he has a few more points. Well, what does he think of food allergies? Now, I'm going to let people move to listen to it. It's interesting. His theories are interesting on it. But I believe it's a lot of, I think it's a lot of, some of it's some organ enlargement, but it's not permanent. I think it's a swelling of the organs. A lot of it's, I think, a mental fat. You know, underneath the, you know, underneath the, between the, I guess you could say the rectus abdominus layer or the trensvers abdominus any organs. This, this, this, this is a layer of fat there. That's growing. I think that that's part of it. And I think it's just a lot of muscle. You know, that the guys have. So, but he has some other theories. So, I'm not going to ruin a few. You guys watching. I interviewed all the guys in one of the USA. Most of them contacted me. So, if anyone wants to see that, even though we weren't at the USA, there we got all the interviews. I'm getting, and the men's physique, I'm getting the overall, this, this week, you just contacted me. It's great. I love the fact that these athletes actually want to be interviewed. You know, it's so funny how these promoters say, they don't care. You know, we don't care about these, they, they're, they're interviews. You know, and we want to get contacted by all these guys. They may not want to get that face care. Yeah, well, I'm, I'm, well, this is a distinction. Yeah. You know, IMean, that, that is a sad commentary that some people don't care, but the athletes care. Well, think about, I've been asking for, for so many years now to create a press section that all these shows where the press can interview the people backstage, you know, and, or even, or even sidestage, you know, and it means that the people want to jump through hoops and run to lobbies. You know, that was the, that the problem with the whole NPC, Nash was getting back to Steve Carre. If they would have had a press area there, I went there had a problem. They went down a problem, and me and it would have been easy. But they still won't do what I told them to do. What I suggested they do, which is just to make a press area. I don't know what the so difficult about it. These athletes want to be acknowledged, you know, and, yeah, hopefully, it's, I don't understand it. Even if the Olympia, I understand backstage is too busy, but, you know what? Create a little press area in the lobby. So these guys can come out and get interviewed by everyone. IMean, come on, they won the Olympia, the God-Sex. Yeah, it's one thing to get interviewed on the TV broadcast. That's fine, but these guys want to be interviewed by everyone. You know, I would, if I want to show of that caliber, wouldn't you? Don't you? Don't you? It's good for business, whatever one's seen. It was interesting for, it's good for the, IMean, it's good for the athletes. This is missed to whatever easy one, but it's also good for, IMean, it makes the athlete, which the winner is, right? Feeling good. Not like a, arrogant way, you know, not arrogant from someone doing the interview from the athletes perspective. You know, you want to feel, it's not validated, but, you know, you know, it's like they, it's kind of like, this day, which is version of like, a newspaper article. You know what IMean? You do something successful and the local newspaper or newspaper, you get an article in the paper, and you can show your family or whatever or your friends and your people helped you and it's the same with winning a bodybuilding show. You know, you want to do an interview where you can say, hey, check that out. I talked to, you know, I said thanks to the gym. Thanks to the love of a lot, I'm trading part of it. Thanks to, you know, my guru. My guru. Who I need to pick the girl, of course. Right. Right. Exactly. I believe me, I've been hearing from a lot of people who have been having a lot of problems with coaches lately and I don't even know if they tell people to be honest, yeah, I feel bad. I feel bad for them, because there's a lot of coaches that they don't know what the hell's going on. Text me a couple of names. I promise not to even though you mentioned handy-same of thEQuinilar. Well, that's a part of it. Yeah, but I'm just saying, guys like him, there's no problems. I'm talking about these new gurus like that are coming up now. These guys that have coached four people, you know, and they're just trying to make a living for themselves. And you know, I understand the whole concept behind trying to make a living. But, you know, if you don't know what you're doing out there, you're doing a disservice to people. And I see a lot of people being, I don't know if I would say hurt, but they're time-wasted. A lot of money being spent. And they're not really getting really with their looking for. Well, they get custom diets. Yeah, they get a couple of diets. Oh, my God. Yeah, you know, I did a whole ramp on that. We talked about that last week about how these people think that, you know, there's some kind of unique dive for every single person. I, you know, I sort of, I'm not going to even say who he was. He's actually a friend of mine. I feel bad, but someone sent me a chance. But I, I'm not going to say that. You won't get to speak. You won't get to speak. You won't get to speak. But this guy said to diet to a kid, who I'm not coaching. It was so complicated to diet. That I, I was getting it. I was getting it. I was getting it to diet. I was getting a headache, reading it. Like, it was like, so detailed. And so, Well, I sent a diet to someone Dave abouT3 months ago. And the guy flipped out on me and said that it was not scientific. And so, I agreed with him. But I didn't know what, what I was supposed to do. You know, so I just said, you know, I'll just send you money back. I just, I'm not a scientist. You know the person that real paying in the as a new set of a day. I just don't know. I just don't know any. You know, I'm not going to. You're right. It's not scientific. Yeah, some, some people just just pretty nuts. Yeah. Pretty nuts out there and there. But you know what the truth is? Nothing is that complicated life. I think it's what is it. It's what is it. It's what is it. It's what is it. It's what is it. It's what is it. It's what is it. It's just the case. IMean, things are just not hard in life. When it's too hard and it's too complicated, you're probably barking up the wrong tree. And even if you can do it once that, using a difficult situation like that, it's probably not going to be reproducible. And when you have too many variables, I think this is the issue. Here's the issue. When someone creates a diet that's so complex with so many different foods and this and put this in, and I want you to put a sprinkle this and and create yogurt and this happens. It doesn't work. Yeah, that's the thing. If it doesn't work, what do you do? What do you do? The right to probiotics, something. Who knows, calcium. I don't know what people are not. People are really crazy. IMean, if like I said, if you saw this diet, and I can't tell you how many people. And once again, I have nothing, but good stuff to say about like, like, branched chain amino acids, amino acids, and glutamine, and create a thing. If you want to use it, new offices, and knock yourself out. I don't know if it does anything more than what you're already taking and then eating, but can't hurt, right? It could definitely help. Pre-contest. I can't tell you how many people's diets it's in. And this, and IMentioned this before. I'm helping a lot of guys from Indiana. Everyone in India is on glutamine, create a team, branched chain amino acids. And at almost 20 times a day to take them to stuff. And they wonder why they can't lose any weight. A lot of times, just don't change anything. I just take that out. I just stop taking those. And all of the things that you thought we'd get in shape again. When you consume extra calories, whether it's from protein, amino acids is protein. Your body's going to use that as fuel. When you're exercising, rather than stored body fat. And if you're trying to get in shape, and you're taking an extra fuel, guess why? You're not in a calorie deficit. You're not going to burn fat. So I think that's one, in today's day and age, with all these, like, you know, we have something like meal us come on. He's a great guy. He's smart. And these people here, oh, you're going to eat 40 million grams of carbs, you know, liquid carbs, you know, and take 6000, you know, I use of insulin, you know, pre, you know, pre-workout, intra-workout, post-workout. And they do this, but they think all day long. They've got to be paying in down, essential amino acids and branched chain amino acids. And believe me, I saw a lot of branched chain amino acids, such an amino acid branched chain amino acids, you know, with my, you know, of all product. You shouldn't be banging that stuff down, like it's like it's like it's crystal light before you show, because you're not going to lose weight. You're not going to get in shape. People, I think it was Bob Grushes said, right? Didn't Bob always say, it's good to be hungry. Yeah, yeah, it's good to be home with that. Yeah. Doug went to the bank for me, because he's just, he's always say, you always have to have something in your mouth, you know, because I was doing a few extra shakes here and there. I was helpinGHim once, kind of he gave me a Grushkin diet, you know, and it was working. And then also, I wasn't really getting really dry. Bob would just say, stop eating, stop eating all this. I remember he, he reading too much food. That's a Doug said to me, he gave it to me. You know, he was like, you know, he had that, and it's like, you know, he's right. He was right. He was right. He was right. He was right. He was right. He was right. He was right. been right there. It was like it weighed him, great, it's like no course, instead of leaving. So he wanted to open me up. And then he wanted to be on theINF. I wanted to start learning and he wasn't. I told him. One of those people Kniesman's were like, you know, He's just sitting in front of me. That was how he worked. Cool. That year, like, he couldn't guys talk about how he was going. He was puttinGHim back. Did he have kids that were going to teach? You went to the operations center. feel good. You should feel depleted. You should want to eat everything on the on the Chinese buffet. That doesn't mean you should do it. IMean you should feel like that. That's normal. Yeah, I'm stopping all that food. Bob would say. Think about it. IMean the guys that are suffering the most and who have that like that Ethiopian look to their face you know with the hollow cheeks. Those are the guys that are the most dangerous on stage. Aren't they? Well they're easily. Well they still like they still are. No, IMean yeah, IMean I'm just kidding. You know a lot of people do. You don't have the fact cheats up and told. L'Avroni never looked big and close backstage, you know, the show. The next or never looked big backstage and close at the show. The next is looking big right now. Dude. Yeah. I haven't seen this way in a few days. But my point is that you know that it's when you have that when you're in shape where you're ridiculously peeled. You only see it when you take the person's clothes off. Yeah, actually it might even look small and close. The guys that look huge and close are always the guys that are out of shape. Well Henry P. was he's not he's not big anyway. Who'd break it? I had one who hears this. But I said hey I'm you know I'm coming in around your time. I'm gonna wreck the car and I'll pick you up at the airport. I drove by twice. I picked him up on the third time because I couldn't find him. Because he was to be didn't look like. Because I was talking for like you know IMean I was just looking for someone like a big guy. He was just hanging out on the corner. No he just blended in with all the people waiting from you know in a t-shirt he looked like nothing and he won nothing. What does that mean? What does that tell you? What does that tell you? Tell you what does that tell you? Tell you it means that getting shape man. Get your ass in shape. Suffer. It's about suffering. Yeah well you always say suffering is good for you so which is I would agree with. My free contest you shouldn't feel good okay I remember and I don't know about you you can give me your own you know insight. When I would get down to that last two three weeks I couldn't even sleep at night. I was you know people can't sleep in their eyes. I would be up 40 times going to the pin going to the bathroom every two minutes. I was I would be pacing I remember when I stayed in Ed's house two weeks before the for two weeks prior to the USA in 95 I could or maybe 96 no 95. I couldn't I was I was going crazy I felt I had no place was I comfortable we would go I would go out I was walking around beach I was trying to stay busy during the day you know be to in between meals and I just I was so uncomfortable I was like like crawling out of my skin but I was so fucking lean you know there was not an ounce of fat anywhere in my body I was like fibery hard and nothing felt good no matter what any of the touch my skin irritated me including the sheets on the bed and that's how lean I was when you guys get that lean out there then you know you're in shape you know that's when shows and you know that wasn't because I was a guy I had a gifted metabolism that was because I suffered I had a gifted metabolism and I suffered and that's why I got to the level of of leanness that I did you know people think if you have a gifted metabolism you're not a diet no it just of me it just means that if you die at heart and you have a gifted metabolism you have to look ridiculous just like you die hard and you're getting ready IMean just no because even Ronnie Coleman yeah Ronnie Coleman has great genetics probably what's something the best genetics and all body volume but if he didn't tren the way he did and eighth the way he did okay he worked to bend Mr. Olympia he just would have been another guy that that had a potential you know right IMean how many guys you know I said it say oh remember that guy remember Edgith Flatcher oh man he had good he had good he will yeah Edgith Flatcher didn't get a pro card because he was a fucking a nutcase obviously he's just a cheat on his diet J.M. used to tell me that they used to see him from the NPC gym was up on like the second of the third floor of this building and they see Edgith sitting on the street corner you know like two days out IMean a week out from like the nationals I eat and like donuts you know and any of you guys out there who remember back in the Edgith Flatcher was a freaking certifiable freak-as-o-a-dell IMean what if some of the best genetics I've seen and body-boy you know yeah for sure the year he should have won the USA I believe was that to you you knew him and won it he was he he didn't make it through pre-judging right my making that up you're a core me or one why did he cramped up right he cramped up but he was unbelievable that yeah he was that's where that famous friend told by said picture comes from yeah unreal his waist was like yeah back in the past he had a crazy back in yeah totally Jimmy up arms yeah even though they weren't Jimmy up another one say look Jimmy up yeah they were huge his arms yeah great back hit a little bit of a long torso but he'd amazing quads and but he never gotten shape after that after I think it was afraid to use diorudics after that but his glute was striated he was nuts I remember my friend Doug Wins was in the speed Doug's figure DouGHe was in that show he's like Edgar Flatcher was at pre-judging when I saw him at the way in and at pre-judginGHe was unreal that and I don't know what happened he goes he's really cramped up or whatever he almost died or something like what did he ever have I want to say 93 he was at the year dentist yeah yeah yes I think you're right 93 USA yeah we knew Orleans unreal never one but that's guy who didn't had great genetics who didn't didn't do what he needed to do didn't want to suffer maybe it was afraid to suffer but he's to cheat on his diet I like I said I've confirmed people who saw that so once again getting back to what we were saying if you want to be the best you got to be willing to go to that point doesn't mean you have to be stupid and do you know dangerous things IMean you have to be willing to suffer to the point where the other people would not be willing to go I was willing to go places no one else was willing to go and that's why I beat guys I never should have beaten in shows and I didn't do I instead of the same thing when I interviewed him he said there's no one who could have worked harder than I was no one was going to go where I was going so I knew no one was going to be in bed or shaped in me and I knew that no one was out working me that was that was a that was a powerful mental advantage I had over people knowing that I worked harder than them and I felt the same way and I I don't I never heard Dorian say that but I kind of insinuated that that you know what this guy's a workhorse if I work as hard as Dorian who's going to beat me you know if I if I can put on the muscle I need to put on you know and I didn't have the structure of Dorian I didn't have the structure so these guys but I still beat a lot of guys I never should have beaten just because they weren't in shape you know I beat out of your flexor you know a couple shows that he was even terrible shape you know for and I think that's that's a huge you know if you're going to do this sport and you want to be the best and you got to be willing to go there don't just find a coach who gives you a program that you that makes you feel good oh I feel much better on this coach I had energy to tren I got to pump in the gym pump in the gym doesn't mean I can anything the last fucking four weeks how lean you are is what it's about it's not about getting a pump in the gym how many pumps did you get in the gym crisper before you can be I'm just thinking about someone just told me they got a great pump I don't think I don't want to think I'm going to be in shape no IMean you're lucky if you have one good work at every like you know every six workouts oh I had a good workout I don't know how I did it well you know what Chris gave me you know 50 grams of carbs he last night before begs I'm like I was going to die you know sometimes you get a sometimes you get a good you know you can get a great pump on just no carbs sometimes you know you know you know it put an extra the tablespoon of olive oil or macadamina to your meal before bed you wake up the next morning you're like you feel like you just ate 16 cheese burrs you know and you know sometimes you know what I do is I and I'm treated the same thing you do with muffins I do with cheese burrs but I'll make you know some of my guy suffer suffer suffer suffer suffer and then just when I could tell they're on the brink of almost like dying you know and they're like ready to give up I'm like okay I want you to go I get a doublEQuarter pound of a cheese and fries tonight what what yeah I didn't know this is yeah sure yeah I know I could say go eat it and they look amazing you know you might tell me to muffin whatever but that's when that meal like that will actually kick their metabolism even to another gear but it's only after you've suffered for a long time that you can actually do a meal like that you can't oh you know what it's been two days I've been dyinGHard you know I'm gonna have AI'm gonna eat AI'm gonna go to you know the Chinese buffet and and load up you know because I have arm data marah you know can't do that I can delusional if you think you can do that but that's not a big deal you mean you're it's you know I'm done you're right IMean it's some of the you know it's funny some of the Some of the best looks I know of help people with the camp from like the most crashing diets right you know you have kind of weeks again I'm ready and you just crush yeah just just No just IMean I think a lot of times I see people on Instagram when I see like crushed I know someone's so I'm helpinGHe still fat seven weeks out but he can crush diet you know to me not crushed diet but you know gas so when you need to yep you gotta be willing to go where no one else is willing to go if you want to be the best and that's the best advice I can give people you know if today show you know people are like thEQuarter of the week that you know this is you're getting a show of advice this week you know because it was kind of like it wasn't a crazy you know heavy week on contest competitions but you want to have to be the best bodybuilder out there you gotta be willing to do things that other people not want to do and that doesn't mean risky dangerous things I think people get that confused oh well I'm willing to take 100 I use a GH day now that's just that's stupid you know that's not suffrake it means going without it means suffering you know when you don't want to suffer it means if you have a full-time job still being able to get all your cardio and get your meals and go out of the gym and work your full-time job and then come home and and take your kids that's what it means that's suffering that's that's that's that's soul suffering and you know what the great thing about it is and the reason I why I was able to get through all that suffering and I'm sure you're you're nodding to yourself I'm sure you went through the same so because you know it's not gonna go on forever it's only a temporary thing think about it IMean think about the guys who have to go to the army you know in fight wars that's gotta be way more dramatic I use that as an analogy from some people I said I'm dead Sarah says you're not going to war right you're not gonna tell you I could shot what you're going to watch just you know you just dietinGHard for a couple more weeks right IMean come on you can't you can't give up the pleasure of eating and just doing what you want I have I have a couple clients they're like I I have to work all of my my colleagues they go out and have a drink you know it's up like that I feel like a loser I can't drink I suppose then you don't want to lose weight obviously because if you drink you're not gonna lose weight you're not gonna get in shape you know obviously you're not willing to make this sacrifice no matter how smart the diet I give you is you're still gonna this still components of sacrifice right you gotta give something up if you want to lose weight okay you can't have it all you know so funny Dave is you know I know genetically probably has a you know he can get a great shape but um it won't create I always had to like suffer big time to get in shape and he was always in shape which tells you people I was like he's like oh I wish I could get lean like him you know and you know I would forget sometimes you know you know it'd be like seven weeks out and I'm thinkinGHe's still checking like what do we do last time and then you know I was done a mess and I asked what do we do he said oh are you you know you try to kill me and it's okay we'll do that again I have a lot of clients like that and you know and it's funny because a lot of them have no problem with suffering and they may not be the most genetically gifted guys and they may not ever you know win a pro show but these are guys that are doing well because they're they're out conditioning people and they're they're maximizing their genetics and that's something that you have control over you know you can't control who your parents are and what they gave you but you can turn the control how you look on stage and what kind of commission you bring to the stage and if you find a coach who's you know a lot of people will leave coaches who push them too hard because they don't like the way they feel but you know I'll treat this sometimes it's necessary you know no I'm granted sometimes people overdo it but but you got to know what to pull the trigger and went to and went to not pull the trigger and that's what makes a great coach too obviously knowing when it's time to make the person suffer you can't just make someone suffer for 16 weeks straight you know you you it's not gonna be productive but if you want to be the best in the industry or be the best in your class or the best whatever the Mr. Long Island show you gotta be willing to do things that other people aren't willing to do and sacrifice that those things and if you're not then maybe it wasn't cut out for you you I always to me I always feel like well why why can't you be happy or best IMean You know I I've told a lot of people hey I don't think you should do this show you and I could be ready for it and 50% of the people listen to me and we we change the day to show and the other 50% of why are you paid for the application of people family going to see it I got to do the show and like all right whatever you can see it on top well it's just that some people it's not that important for they want to be their best but this this is the best that they can do and that's fine you know not everyone has the has that insane desire to be crazy I'm saying they just want to be good you know they just want to compete it doesn't matter if they're if they're I always say you're a better good is the enemy of great true true when they want to be good good is you know a lot of people good I just want my kids to stay I always tell my kids this is who cares about the good always I tell them tonight who cares about the good you know which means just pick something anything that you want to be great it just pick something can be playing the casoo yeah and then you know it's like when you really like something that you really like you know that you really love to do but you want to be great in there's no better feeling than going to a show and going to that way taking your clothes off at the way and because I don't know if they still do it anymore they're probably not they used to have when we werecompeting up until recently until they had a thousand people to show you know they would call the way class so our heavyweight's up step up next and never one would take the clothes off and it all the competitors we're seeing around looking at are who looks good there's so and so there's there's Chris Cito there's Dave Plobba there's what ever running common and everyone's looking at the guys lining up they're all waiting online to hit the way in it was like a whole big psych out thing and the judges were all there looking who's going to look good and it was photography for the magazine taking pictures of all the competitors and you know you see so and so they check this picture out you know it was a big it was a big my fact is nothing better than going to that thing and knowing you're in the best shape of anyone there it's the greatest feeling it was the one of the things that always made me really feel good at the end of my toward the end of my career I was always the biggest and and and and hardest guy there like I said maybe I didn't have the best structure of everyone there but I was certainly size wise had had most people beat and I had them unconditionally so I was at very very big confidence booster for me to go into that take my clothes off in the way in there knowing I was one of the head probably the heaviest guy unless there was some guy like six something six foot something that weighed a little more than me but usually those guys were out of shape anyway so I was always the heaviest guy and then the most shredded guy so it was a to me that was a big you know mental boost for myself and even before I got to that point I would do shows where I knew that all right I wasn't the biggest guy there but I was shredded you know people were impressed and it's like you did your homework it's like you got there and you knew you did all your homework and you didn't have to fake anything and then it's the guys who like are trying to like pull last minute pull water they're not in shape you know I got to check out the tricks you know you probably know how it is shift around yeah shift shift to interstellar water right the extra cellular into the interstellar you feel like you're a fraud there you don't even that's a terrible feeling so take home message today guys don't leave anything to chance give a hundred percent remember after the shows over you can eat whatever you want the pain will go away the suffering is done and it'll all be worth it because you work the whole year for this one freaking show give it a hundred percent of what you got because you know what if you do that and body billing it will trensfer over into life and you will be a success at anything you set your mind to doing and on that note we're out of time until next week remember with heavy muscle radio the truth hurts in that room

=== FILE: HEATH VS RHODEN at 2020 OLYMPIA？ HMR (8⧸10⧸20) [t6lwBJJS6nI].txt ===

10th and 9th You're one and only two Every for two guys who can't hit a tree The truth you can't handle it from what we can't be Lomble Chris Asito Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle Leo Watch us Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio on Dave, Lomble and I'm joined as always By the technician, Chris Asito on this August 10th, 2020 Evening in Chris Wow Big announcement and sweet Finally You have an abate You have an abate The fourth child date Okay No he in the Olympia Now it's the Oh my goodness You surprised huh? Not at all You didn't predict that though No I did not predict it Usually you are pretty good In the predictinGHe's Yeah But yeah he's in Where's your take on the whole thing? Well IMean this is just total Conjection Of course But Phil He's already gotten into it with Brandon right? Yeah Or war words And Phil probably looks back and said I would have been Brandon if I was there I'm sure And then bills come in And bills come in We won through we 52 after the After his lost eroden up the week 104 And he says you know why not do it So you think it's a money thing Well it's always a money Well no I should say it's always The money doesn't hurt I don't play it But I think it's a little less Because of the money alone But I think that in this case Outside of the money Phil wants to prove That he's the best bodybuilder in the world Still Still So But the money factors in for sure Because if the money was only like 80,000 It'd be sitting on the sidelines If the money was 120,000 It'd probably be sitting on the sidelines Maybe So We have a weird year You'll empty take place at the end of the year We have possibly a lack of people in the lineup Because we don't know if these international people can get over here The bone acts and ramies And you know there's a lot of great Really winklers A lot of great guys in this line I think might not be able to make it But IMean they might, they might not And Rodin, we're not sure if I know we want he wants to do the LMP But the case doesn't settle We can talk about that a little bit But IMean who does he have to be? I'm not sure He's actually Jackson He's beaten Yeah, he's beaten him before Easily Easily So he's obviously the guy to beat And you know if you put him in last year's lineup He might have won But he means he might have won IMean he probably would have IMean we don't know he would have won Look, here's the thing I think it was a good move on his part I hate when people give up money It bothers me If I loosely, I'm like, I could have made four inch of it The bottom line is that I'm taking the year off Chris People kind of forgot about the fact that they didn't like him And I don't know why they didn't like him Whatever the case made it seem Whatever they perceived him as beinGHe wasn't, you know, they always start to hate all the champions at the end Because they think they get sick of seeing them Whatever you're Now people see him as kind of the savior of body-villing Films coming back Yeah, we want to see Phil get that number eight Have you felt the sentiment changed towards him? No, not really Honestly, I don't think the sentiment has changed I completely think I think people are very good I didn't know that I'm coming back It may be excited about him coming back But I think the sentiment has not changed with regard to people like Phil I don't think the great I think people are excited about it I think the people are excited about it No, no, no, no, there's a difference between So what, what does change in your mind that now you like Phil Well, I didn't, I never dislike Phil But I'm just saying I, you know, I thought it shouldn't One of few times, but that doesn't mean I dislike him They're genuinely, IMean I went to the interview to vote it like him They're genuinely people out there who don't like Phil I don't know, they just felt like, you know I feel, you know, we wanted to lose, you know Well, you know what? People don't like Phil because he's arrogant Is hell But he has a reason to be arrogant IMean, there's, you know, it's one thing People hate somebody who is arrogant And they can't deliver the goods But, you know, Phil I guess the word's arrogant I have no problem saying arrogant You gotta be arrogant to win the Olympia, right? You gotta be confident yourself But he backs it up Right, Jay's got a confident, a Arab out himself Yeah, but that's different, that's different Well, Jay's just, Jay's a, has a better delivery You asked Jay, he was competing, who's going to win the Olympia He wouldn't even hesitate to say, me, you know That's arrogant, IMean, it's, it's not, it's just confident But he wouldn't have meltdowns You know, he wouldn't have meltdowns Well, press conferences win Now, because I look really good And I'm going to win this year Jay's just very good at handlinGHimself Politically speaking That's, that's a skill he's got IMean, not a lot of people can handle themselves With that much pressure When you have the, the world of social media on top of you You got people asking you a million questions And, you know, they painted him as a bad guy in that film And, you know, generation iron, you know, so He had a lot of, you know, there was a lot of pressure on the guy And he just, he's not as sad as Jay is I did not make people out there that are Ronnie Hammel, the, the Heightman hoop, I remember There was no social media when Ronnie was around But he handled it because he was, he's so laid back That, like nothing bothers him, you know Yeah, well, you know, that's different Air of confidence, you know IMean, you'll see the, you know, the supporters For Phil, they'll come out of the, you know, the woodwork As a shell approaches and the, you know, the haters will come out But the haters are wrong because you can't, you know, Hades success in his physique Right IMean, he's, like I said, he's always delivered He's been the most consistent body go there In the last 10 years, bar none, including Dexter Had Phil come back the next year And rodent men in the show Don't you think the fans all would have been rooting for rodent Oh yeah, because Phil was still on the Height tren But for these guys, yeah, yeah Now, he, after a year off, I know people have such a short memory Oh my god, guarantee people will be cheering No, they would be cheering because he is the guy Up there who has the most amount of Olympias You know, he's, he's competed You know, for 10 years, 14, 15 years at the highest level You know, he's no rookie He's exciting to watch Absolutely So of course people are going to be excited about him Right, but he, but they went to Bennett But I'm saying they went to Bennett as excited If he would have just come back the following year And rodent would have been, he's titled it It would have all been rodent He would have been hugged it, yeah, yeah They would have been hugged it, yeah, you'll come back Yeah, they would have been mad at him all this year Yeah, yeah, that's right They would have been pissed at him And so, you know, this is rodent's show, right? You're sure Now rodent, no, no, no Phil also has this new relationship with Danny Garcia And the rock, you know, they're, Danny is his manager Danny, Danny, Danny, the XYZ rock They have a production company together They just bought the XFL for Bolvian Yeah, that's right That's right, man Yeah, I want it, what do you think the motivation behind that was? For Vince to sell it or rock the body No, for the rock to buy it Like why do you want it for Bolvian? Um, you know, I don't know I can say this, it's exciting to own an entire league Isn't it seem to have a lot of stress Not if not if you can delegate the stress and get people to run it for you Or content Right And, you know, regardless of how much money the rock has What's really exciting is to own an NFL team So, right, it's so easy It's so crazy, crazy expensive now Even the, IMean, the valuations are like I don't even know what, a billion enough I know, it's not right It's just made it a by team 15 years ago for, you know, a quarter of that Right, less than that So, IMean, what if you, you buy the XFL And it takes off and you have your own, you know, league Right You have the country, there's nothing better than controlling everything from beginning to end I haven't even been following it I remember when Vince launched it, does it do well? IMean, did it have like I don't even know, I just know Vince launched it with like Vince and from the, from what I've read, Vince wanted it Thought he was going to compete with the NFL Right He was going, going, ho on it And then I was surprised it You know, that he sold it But if he could've sold it, seeing the writing on the wall in terms of Okay, what am I going to have it? There's no baseball has no attendance Right And if that has no attendance NBA has no attendance Sure Why am I going to like launch this at a bad time IMean, Vince has bad luck launching bodybuilding I know, remember when the money is stuff went down with Hulk Hogan Yep That could be day with the steroid charges and stuff That's right Then he had the fold up the W, you know, the bodybuilding league That would be F, yeah And then he has the XFL and here he is, you know, holding this up IMean, it's a fold, right, when you sell it And $15 million is not a lot of money No, we have to definitely cost a lot in that to run that thing Probably But he's a genius when it comes to wrestlinGHe can't do anything wrong with that He's so good at it And obviously now triple H is there helpinGHim run it and Stephanie and the whole families of, so IMean, there's nothing, they don't even need to do anything else IMean, there's so much responsibility with that alone I don't even know why I'm going to want even I always, I always ponded with this Because I like to make money Just like I know you like to make money Because anyone who doesn't like to make money No, but IMean, you like to do big things You don't, you take risks and something that you buy big buildings You know, I take my own risks, all right I like to, but at the same time, I am so busy And now with kids and you guys can just talk about this before I can't, if someone came to you and I say, hey, Chris, We're going to give you the New York Giants Okay, but you can't sell, you got to run it You're going to be 50% apart I'm going to be a crisis, I don't know if we can, I don't even know if we can do it I said, don't even know if I want the responsibility Well, I would take, I would take responsibility No, but you know what I'm saying? It's like, after a while, it's like, you know, How much more do you want to do? IMean, it's like, I always, I'm always amazed by people who just continue to do IMean, I'm creative, I like to do my own little projects But I don't know if I like the idea of the burden of responsibility over so many people Well, the time factor, right? The time factor, how much time do you have in a day? I don't know if we can do it. Just think, how many hours a day? Four hours a day, so you have a 20 hour day, you might not sell the kids, you have two minutes left. Yeah, no time enough. You know what it is, Chris, maybe once, because their kids are all grown, They have like more time on their hands and maybe they think, well, I, I'm not spending time, my kids are doing their own thing now, you know, I don't have to worry about them, so let me just, you know, Let me get another project, you know what IMean? Yeah, I, I, I just spoke to someone who is like a real estate, I don't love mine. Mm-hmm. And he can't comprehend the idea, I said, I have four kids, So, you know, because he's critical of me. And I go into defense mode of how many kids do you have? He says, no, I said you have no idea. The freedom, I said, you get to wake up whenever you want. Right. You've never had kids, so you don't even have a adult because he's older. You don't have a girl, kids calling you. Yeah. You know, it's completely different, it changes your life and your, You can't say no to them, it's not like it's not like it's like someone A pain in the escrowel, jep on the phone says, hey, do you want to come over and, And you really don't, you know, like, no, I can't do it. Yeah, if you kids say, I need to go here, you got to a car drive for you. Yeah. Yeah. My daughter says to me, I want to show you something, I can't say, Not now, I have to go see it. Yeah. I'm busy right now, show it to me next week. All right. I plan, I plan to do it a treat today. I had bought this mulberry tree, Amanda loves mulberry trees and I was in this low as, Like, one of those stores, whatever. And I saw this mulberry tree, I'm like, I took a picture of her. She's like, bye, bye. The thing, Chris, the thing when I bought it, I didn't realize how big the, The base was of this thing. I'm like, how the fuck am I, I'm sorry, boarded. I'm like, how the fuck am I going to get this into my car? Now, luckily I have the X5, but it's, it's not that big. So, if Amanda were done, it there was to be a stitch and dirt anyway, but, you know, I'm sweating, it's hot out, I'm like, I'm like, man, and I'm like, I'm, I've become my fuck. I turned, I turned, I turned, I really turned to my dad. I lose all patients whatsoever. I think I'm alone, I'm not yelling at anyone, he's throwing me all of it. And I get the car, I'm reclining the seat, the second row of seat. I can't do both of them because I got the car seat or the kids car seat, I'm one of them. I lift this thing up, like, as I'm lifting up, I'm like, my A-order is going to rupture something like that. I just, I could see it already, something like, I'm trying to breathe while I'm doing it. I'm like, don't hold your breath. I'm like, this is the car, if someone would have a video camera, would have been hysterical. So, I lift this thing into the truck. Of course, dirt's going everywhere in the back of the truck, I'm like, fuck it, I'll just back him when I get him. I don't care at this point. I had put some plastic down, but it's not the plastic I've moved aside. So, I get the thing in and I'm like, all right, it's not all the way in. It's not going to jam the thing. If Amanda was to ask you to be screaming at me because I'd be breaking the branches up, I'm like, no one's here, no one's leaving the note. I'm like, I squeeze it into the car, so I get this thinGHome, right? Of course, but it was raining. It's such raining while I'm doing it, too, of course. I get home. I unload it, whatever. It's sitting in front of my driveway now for two weeks. So, I got a plant at, right? That's what I bought the tree for. So, of course, I picked the one day because I've been so busy. I'm doing it today. Kids are in the pool. It's got to be 97 degrees out today. She's like, why do you have to do it in the middle of the day when it's hot? Because I said, there's no other time. You know, there's no time. We have no time. We can't think of that. That's because you choose to have no time. My bet is the answer. Go ahead. Because you've got to go play with your snakes. That's the usual reply. But so, so I go out there. I get the wheel barrel. I put my monstrous tree into the wheel barrel. Get the shovel. I pull it out across my property. Get a big piece of property. She wants it on the, like the, the property line. It's the furthest point from the garage you could possibly get. I've dragged this thing out. I'm, I'm already exhausted. I'm just pulling the cart out to the, as is the property. Now I got to dig a hole. I think a biGHole because it's a big tree. It's not like a little plant on the ground. So, I started digging. The grass is like a rock. Okay. Luckily, I got two shoulders of ways. Now I got new shoulders so that I could do it. I, I start digging and digging and I'm going to pick my time. And I get down to a point where I'm like, I only need to go another few more inches. So I can get this, I'll, I'll be able to get the pot. And I hit, I hit basically. Sennet. That's what it feels like. I hit the rock and your broth. There's no way the shovels going through this rock. Okay. I'm not, there's no way I'm digging another hole next to it or near it. At this point, this tree is going into this fuckinGHole. One way or another. So, I get the tree and so the trees, like a little too tall for the hole. So, well, no one, make it sure no one's looking. I'm pulling off the roots on the bottom like to make it shorter. Yeah. I can get it in the hole. How, I took so much dirt out of the hole. How I didn't have enough dirt to fill in in the hole. I, I don't know where the dirt went. I'm like, where the fuck did the dirt go? Blow away. It's impossible. I took out a ton of dirt. So, I get the thing I pack it in and I get the hole. And I get a drag the hose is not on a water, right? Because I, I watered the thing, drag the hose back. I go to get in the pool. I'm almost ready to pass out. I'm like literally, I'm completely become my father. I'm like angry and I'm like sweating to death. And you would have thought that I, IMode 41s. That's how much work in it. It only took like probably 45 minutes to do it. And so, in the pool, we get out of the pool after that. And I'm in the house. And we could, it's hard to pouring out. Like, that got to do it. So that was my, that was my exercise that, that, that, that was huge tree. I would have just had, you know, I would have pulled it out of a ton deeper or a hose, wherever you got it. And I know my, I would have tried to put it in the car. And then I was like, too much work. I would have called someone, bringing it to my house. I can't do that. You know what I'm trying to do? I'm trying to plan it and I call someone say just plan it. Well, I could, I would have done it. But see, if I do that, I'm in the things that I'm like, it's not, like, you're ruining the whole process. Like, it's one thing to have a big palm tree planted. But like, she thinks like, I, like, I pay everyone to do things. I'm like, I do. I said, I had my time's valuable. I've got to be in the pool. I wanted to prove, I wanted to prove to her. I could plant this fucking monstrous tree on my own. I would have just paid someone just like you. And I would have felt better about it. I would have been enjoying it. I would have loved the idea of not having to do all that work and be in the pool. You could have filmed the whole, you could have filmed the whole reality show around me. Go and pick the tree up and bring it back and planting it. It could have, it would have been rated. The ratings would have been off the charts on it because it was a. You, you would have said, you see the fill. He said, if you, I said, yeah, I got 30,000 hits. I'm a planted the tree 300,000. Yeah, exactly. So fill my go back to the. You didn't mention curry. I used Mr. Lumpia. Right. Don't lie. IMean, he's the guy to be. IMean, and with, obviously, flex Lewis entering the show this year. There's another guy in the lineup that we didn't have, you know, the last time around. A lot of people think he, when the Lumpia. What do you think about that? What's your feeling on flex? What do you think he's going to fall? I think he's going to fall in the first call out. And that. There will be a get favorable calls closer to the middle than he probably. Should be. What do you think will be a strengths and weaknesses? Let's look at it for now. I'm still turning it into a very strong gluten ham show, which is not gluten ham. Right. Two body parts. Strengths, standard relaxed. Strengths is back double. Weakness is. I'm going from how he's looked to the past, right? But that, you know, he had to suck down, you know, think as one of Karan, you know, like you are doing, there's a freak show, you know, until he had a naked weight. You know, the, I think the weakness is probably side chest side tricep. Absent dies. Because of his height. No, IMean, just close your eyes and, you know, picture what a side tricep look. It's really just standing like he doesn't hit one. Yeah, I'm going to just throw this on down there. Yeah, and he doesn't have, no, no, when he turns, record his towards the front. Oh, okay, okay. And he doesn't have great abs. And his side chest, his legs look thin on surprisingly. And you might be eating all those words when we see what is then, the unveiling of the new, flex, loose physical. What's undeniable from, IMean, those are his weakest shots. IMean, side tricep, abs and thighs. What does abs look like? You tell me you can't tell me because they're not strong shots. It's not a side of strong shot from. A shot's a very, very strong firm. You know, keep in mind, right? He went up against Hardy. They both were the same weight. They both were on. Mm-hmm. So I think the comparison would be, you know, you have to get by Hardy before you get to someone else. It's the same thing, Hardy can make it to the show. I think he's chosen to be a hit. Hardy's not the show. IMight have been wrong until. Now, here's the go. I'm the percent right last year. So, yeah. Let me ask you this question because, you know, I kind of pot through this out there when I did my RX muscle update report when Phil announced. I said, you know, kind green is it. And I know we keep throwinGHigh green out there, but we have to talk about him because he's an interesting character. His motivations are very driven almost like, like, in books and movies, right? He needs some kind of motivation to do what he does. Phil coming back to the Olympia would certainly be motivation for kind of come back because, look, if Kai came back to Olympia and beat Curry, for instance, and no one else was in the line up. People would say, great, yeah, Kai's a Mr. Olympia, AA, AA, but hoody beat, right? But if Kai comes back and beats Phil, his archnemesis, now that's a start, right? That's a German, that's a, that's the end of Kai Green's movie right there. The life of Kai Green, that's a great end, right? Yeah, that would be the, um, you can't write something better than that. No, no. The only, the only crappy part of that is, is it would be in front of like 11 people if they don't have an audience with you. Well, I don't think there's a person in the bodybuilding fan on the planet that probably wouldn't by the paper view for Kyvers Phil, right? I know, but nothing's better than being there. True. But, you know, look, it is what it is. We got a, you know, we bring up Kai's name a lot of you do. Yeah. A lot of it, I think, is just to make front of a minute in a fun way. I'm not making fun. I'm not making fun. I'm saying this is a great traumatic reason to put on his posting suit again. I'm going to send a group of you. You know, with Dan and Jake Wood, they're going to roll out the red carpet if Kai wants to come back and they're going to put out whatever money these to be put out there on the table for him. So it's not going to be a money thing. If not going to, he's not going to feel disrespected. He's got motivation now to go after Phil Heath, stopping from winning eight Olympias into when his first Olympia and establishes, you know, basically, say, he has my legacy. I'm leaving behind. It's got every making of a, of a rocky movie. Yeah. It's, it's the, it's the real movie to the crappy generation Iron movie. I just figured the real ending, right? Yeah. You know, if you could film a day. Yeah. Right. If you could film, I got through anything. This is the real, this is the real thing. Not just the made up story that they try to, the manufacturer. Yeah. Yeah, it would be phenomenal. It would be absolutely phenomenal story. Even if he did win of course, just the whole idea. And I don't think wins. And I rock you didn't rock the first rock you movie, but everyone's still love rocky, right? IMean, he didn't have to win. He just to show up and make it make, make this Olympia that we thought was going to be probably not even half in because of the whole COVID thing where the whole half the season got canceled. It could, it could change the scope of, you know, 2020, you know, going in the map is one of the greatest Olympia of all time. Yeah. It would be phenomenal. It's like bringing back Ali Frazier, you know, or some wife, or Tyson Holyfield, which we might see also. Yes, right. Obviously, see that. That fight. It's Tyson Roy Jones. I think come up. All right. Is it for a majority? I think I'm not. Yeah, I think you're right. I think you're for a Joseph. But still, who's not going to want to watch that? Yeah. I think that kind of an impurity of their sonal Samuel Link to the, Yeah. She was, I want to take a break. But IMean, it's, it's like, you know, Tyson is like, is like, IMean, Kai is like Tyson's like, you know, Tyson's. Yeah. Tyson. I just put the gloves on again. If you can see Kai put the posing suit on one more time, come on. Tyson in a, have a matchup versus like Tyson Fury. Yeah. Just, after the paper view would be crazy. Even if Tyson lost it wouldn't matter. Yeah. Well, the thing people would believe, from being into it, right? The Tyson is still going to continue to do it. Yeah. I've seen videos of him. We can do it. Well, IMean, you're, IMean, like, this is not a good analogy because George Forman wasn't 50, whatever, five years old. But when Forman came back and made that kind of like people thought it was the biggest joke of all time. Yeah. He was like 300 something pounds. Well, but it being was fat too. Yeah. And Forman just, he wouldn't sit down between rounds. Yeah. He was fighting the biggest lose. I remember watching Mike, my dad loved boxing. We would watch these fights and like my father loved the call people fat. If they were out of shape, which is funny because my father wasn't in the Great of shape either. But even I look at this fat. So what does he do when I said that? I don't know. He sees, and he's winning fight after fighting. And he was fighting like once a month, if you remember. Yeah. Yeah. Because he had to go to the top of the shape. And then he got, I think he got to shot it someone. No, no, I think he fought Tyson. Then he or something like that. And he was like, he probably killed him. A holy, holy, holy, holy, holy, holy. He went to the defense. I think, right? But he didn't. Yeah. And then he gets to fight with more. And it was like, that was like another rock. And like, and everyone said it, and even Teddy Atlas is in the corner with his fight or more, more. And he's like, stay away from this guy. Just trust me. You got to fight one already. Stay away from him. I've seen him fight. He's got to knock out punch. It doesn't matter. He's 45 or 46 years old. And he's a little, he's a little overweight. If he catches you with a, would a punch, he could not knock out. That's right. He got caught. And he got caught. And he, anyone. IMean, that was the greatest thing of all time. And Tyson, like, says, man, and form was a hated champion. And Muhammad Ali Biedam, you know, he was also a misunderstood angry guy, you know, and When it came back, he was a beloved. Oh, yeah, because he had the forming grill. And it was like, he was like, you know, everyone's a grandfather, you know, that kind of thing. So I'd love to see Tyson come. And that actually, I'd love to see Kai come back because, and the funny thing about bodybuilds coming back is that there's no physical contact on on stage. You know, so it's not like they got to worry about gettinGHurt or something like that. Yeah, we don't know. Yeah, that's true. They could, they could, absolutely. Which would make it even more exciting if they had actually probably. Yeah. So IMean, we're probably going to have to settle for a curry. Dexter. So, you know, that's going to be our top three probably. Unless we can, unless somehow, if I were bone-acquired, I would fucking move over here. Wouldn't you? I'd move to drostanolone. I'd get on a boat now. Yeah. I think that's a big boat or something like a cargo boat. Yeah. You know, and I think the bone-acquired matches of goat-a-teeth. Bone-acquired. I don't even curry. Well, they have different things. They have different things. Yeah, different things. And, you know, you got to see these guys in the lineup. Just, but the fact is, Phil, and he's got to be considered the face of the favorite actually. The overwhelming favorite because he's won so many Olympians. Yeah. IMean, you can't say, Brian, you curry, the current Mr. Olympia is the favorite over the, how many times feel 17? Seven. Seven times Mr. Olympia. Do you think Phil comes back smaller than he was? Bigger than he was? How's the abdominal area look in your estimation? If you had a girl? Do you have abdominal area cannot get better? Yeah, I look excited. At all. So does he come in smaller than trying to make it better, which is usually a mistake. And then he usually looks worse when they do that, but yeah. Well, the flip, you know, you stuck between a rock and a hard place. If you try to come in smaller, it might look worse if you try to, in rounder, it may look worse. You don't know. Yeah. They got a tough job him in honey because they got to try to figure out a way to figure out a formula that's going to win the show. Not that's going to be the best film, but that's going to win the show. I think that's what they have to go out there. And that's going to depend on who's in that line up. Hundred percent. Hundred percent. Who you stand and that shows always, you know, at this point, you know, it's going to be how people show up at the show and how Phil shows up at the show. Right. They still judge it. You know, they've, I'll never forget. It was like 40 years ago. We did the preview show there. To, um, do you live here in 2018? We had, um, sit two days before the show and abouT3 days before the show in my room. And, um, I had already seen Shawn and thought, you know, okay, it's going to let me show her. IMean, in my mind, this is, you know, the open. But I said, you know what? Everyone said, Phil, Phil, Phil, you go to the press card. And you go to the press conference, even the other competitors with the Except Sean Phil, Phil, Phil and I told Sid, you know what? Sid. The good thing about the judges though, is they judge it. Yeah, they'll judge it. And that's what they're going to do with Phil, um, Curry, Daxter, whoever's in the show. We don't know who's in the show. I've bone-act shows up, Randy shows up, or probably shows up. Who knows if they're in the show? Where does he get how much of you? Where does he get the judge? They're going to judge it. Where does Randy qualify for the show? What show is it? Can he possibly do this? Um, is there a European show we can do? I think what's going to happen is that going to have to take, who's, who's one shows this year, which is what two people, one person, two people. Yeah. We have, what we have to choose from is the Arnold. And you take what? The winner only, right? Yeah, well, they have the point assistants, as they got to top five point getters to, that'll go. IMean, there's not a big crowd in the Olympic this year. So I think they're going to have to go back to. Curry's, um, qualifier already bone-act qualified, hot-ish-up in his qualifier, Daxter, newly, Heath, obviously, Sedrick, Nathan D. Asha, one crowd. He's got to lose. 10. Do you want to have a little bit of just 10? Why not? They're going to get a couple more, right? They're getting to your pros going to be in Tampa. Yeah, you got to get your pros. We got Hunter this 12. Right. We got the, the Cal Contest 13. Anyone else? Any other? This is Chicago Prashow taking place. You know, okay, yeah, so yeah, that's an off 15 people's enough to have the show. Yeah, IMean, there might be a couple more than that thinking about, but. I think five of it. IMean, I can ram you qualify. Where's he going to qualify? Chicago or, or I'm going to get to Chicago. He gets on the boat with bone-act. I'm going to go. There's a travel ban against European's, but is there a travel ban against people coming from Kuwait? I don't think so. I don't know. Maybe a data conflime in on his private jet or something. Yeah. IMean, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's not like BD Dwee Cooper, whatever the guy's going to. I can parachute him. Yeah. Yeah. And you're like fourth parachutes with random. Because you'll have black and white people. Black and slimming on the New York sand. You'll have like the way you've been to them. Yeah, right here drop them over here. I'll. We'll do an interview with them before the power. And my house. We got a great big shower. With Cam. I don't know. I didn't. I forgot about that. I think I think you can come from Kuwait. Think, but not you. He's the only one who doesn't seem like he's qualified. So. Right. Am IMissing anyone? Is Dex from that line? Yeah. Yeah. He can do it. Yeah. I think Ram is the only real top name that has in qualify. Yeah. The Olympia. IMean, if Kai wanted to do it, they would give him a special invite. So that's. I thought there were a he exhausted his special advice. I don't know. You think if he calls them Dan, it's a Dan. I'm. I'm taking a second. One more. We'll give you one more chance. It's like, it's like when you can't do. You know, you don't really want to punish your kicks. You're you guys are going on a trip or something like that. And you keep threatening. He knows that he knows that he can get away with it because he knows you're going on this trip. So. Yeah. Wait, you're threatened with something like outrageous. Yeah. There's a monster out there. If you don't behave, I'm going to send you out. The yard. Yeah. Well, and it's my new thing is I tell him I'm going to send him to the. I feel bad because I really like the name is him. You're going to go to Carroll and Cindy's house. You're going to spend the whole day with them. And they're going to make you they're going to put you to work. You're going to have to dig in the garden. You're going to have to clen with them. And they got a big scary dog in the basement. He doesn't like. He's like that's cool. Look, look, I'll bring my blast. That's his he's obsessed with the guns my son now. And we don't want to be guns. We don't want to play with guns. So I don't know what I'm this. It's a second amendment. First of all, second. Yeah, give him a moment. Tell him that he's going to get out of like legos. And he's got this blast. So now it's like we have to take it away from him. He's he's that of his mind. He puts my head he assassinates me. But the thing. My sister told me when I have kids, I'm never going to let them have toy guns. He thinks he teaches him a wrong thing. They had guns like rifle. Yeah. He watches all the videos. You know, the Nerf guns. That's the new big thing. And he wants a Nerf gun. And we won't get it from him. Because I know that he'll take my eye out. He'll take my other eye out. You know, that I only have one get up. I'll be the one who gets shot. Of course. With the Nerf. You have to be on, you know, when you're tows when you're out of one they have guns. No. He'd ask me to pull with it with the squirt of guns. Oh, yeah. He loves that. Yeah. He likes to do the sneak attack too. Sometimes he'll jump on me. I think I got a big neck. My father's always like, you got an important Navistron neck. He's right. I didn't know what our rabbit was. He didn't have his big neck as chromatamin. Oh, chromatamin. He had a 12 inch neck. Twenty inches. It was. I was born with a 14 inch neck. Yeah. I still have a big neck. When you have a biGHead, you have to have a big neck to hold you. You have to hold it up. Hold it up. Give a big brain. So you have to write. That's right. I got to pull that thing up. Did you see that video I sent you on yourself? Which one? The pointy. Yeah. Did you know about that? Of course. Someone posted a recently and sent it to me. Yeah. That's a good video. I'm going to pull that pull up. All right. I got to talk. I'll give you the cue. This is this is Bob Gruskin. Like crash prep. Oh, yeah. I was thinking of it today. Oh, it's really going to find this thing. It was put up recently. Yeah. Yeah. Very recent. No. Set up the show. I'm looking for it. Okay. I think I was doing like a photo shoot for Black men. I think it's really good 92. And I went down to Bob and said, Oh, you look really good. And they said, yeah, Bob. And so they had like the Nabi USA and whoever won the class or something. Like a sick or something. Couldn't do it. So Bob says, I'm the president. Come on. You come with me to England in three weeks. I'm like, Bob, I can't do it. Count us in three weeks. You know, we can have to help me like every day. And so maybe it was like five weeks or something. And so I let him, you know, Jeff Bob just do your thing. And that was it. I went down to the Saturday weeks. Did you die for? Well, I was already in pretty decent shape. But I died. It may be like six weeks. Right. And I was in decent shape. I was in good shape because I was shooting something for Black men. Oh, did you win this show? No. Where had you placed? I got like six. Oh, really? You look actually pretty good here. Yeah, pretty good. And how old are you? I look like Barry to me. Yeah. I'm good. I'm good. Good routine. I can't like how we go right there. How old are you? Perfect here at 24. That's probably Dave. So that more arms can know and laugh. I guarantee that is no more than 250 tests in 200, pretty much a week. Garanty. Yeah. Garanty. Because I was, yeah. Were you in college ahead? You got an out at this point. I was out of college. I was hoping you made some of those in Maine. Are you adding on the California? Or are you? No. I just like moved back to Maine after. Oh, college. Sorry. Little bit. Where was this general board city this season? No. You don't remember where the 92 Navi universe was? Oh, England. I'm wearing England. I thought you said that you felt it. Yeah. Mohammed Mustafa won the class. I really, wow. Yeah. That's fine. Yeah. I went back stage. Mohammed Mustafa was like this. Bob said, ah. This is Bob. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Oh. I'd say. You make a yours. Good job. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. This is Adam kid looks great. Dave, I'm not kidding. I'm not kidding. Next thing I see. Mohammed Mustafa. Yeah. Why the percent of all he's pumping up. No. That's that they used to do that backstage, yeah. Lift up. He was pumping up. Mohammed Mustafa. Bob's like you want to light. You got to light. Bob was smoking. No, I know Bob smokes. Better say you're not backstage. He's backstage. Yeah. That's why I had the pen and my mouth and meditated Bob. Like the European era. God, I look small. He's like, my. The funny thing is when I went to the one show I told you in Spain. The one thing about European shows, I don't know if it's still that way. There was no way our conditioning. People were smoking cigarettes like it was at a going outside and everyone was walking around completely naked men and women. No one had any clothes on. Oh, it's pain. Yeah. What should you go about? The women's show. So there was no man but there was. The world would collect it. The world and the. Yeah. I see you're not walking around naked. I said you go to the stall. Yeah. We're Americans. We're fucking we're we're up tired about you. You're not up tired. You're not up tired. I'm up tired. Yeah. But there was girls walking around naked smoke cigarettes. Everyone smoking and no way our conditioning. Swell, certainly. Middle the summer. Yeah. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's kind of. And that was He's got guy. So so. So that's the. And of the time, sort of. So what are you. Seeig. I'm a m and I'm a guy here. And I'm telling you сов top platform. And so everything's good for me. Yeah. I'm a. He says, he said, getting right to you. I whiffed all the work flowing. And the cigarette smoke on top of that. I wanted to I said I really don't want to stay back Yeah, I said even though I there's a lot of pretty women back Yeah, I said I feel like they get the hell out of here. Just to be honest Which was also not air condition as well And the pre-judging was was like 10 hours long For the one class look why so long because what they didn't Europe they used to have it when Rafi always at least writing it There was 11 judges right so each judge gets to submit their own top five pick So they do 11 top fivEQuality so she was Yeah, that's right. I was like why do we see everything one of them? Every Just to do that Okay, yeah, that's as she won the show everyone else was dying up there. She was like smiling and she loved She's gonna win. I said no one can stay up there as long as she can pose all day long. I said like that Yeah, it's interesting. I forgot how they do that in those shows where they they IMean they can they can so some people get compared to like this guy should be in the top 11 Right, and he's being You pan out they said he looks good and puts on the car. Yeah, it's crazy Most of the most of the courts were pretty consistent, but yeah, you're right. Everyone's so well You get like like with this person come from all the as friend is judging So you put it to the first call when you should be in the last call. Yeah Anyway What's your take on the whole Luke For a radio identity. He showed he said then he had Luke's what trening partner on there best friend best friend He said he suicide You know he's cease to buy it suicide is the end did you know that I said suicide SirIMight I found so to give me the definition of suicide Well, I'm so surprised if you didn't try to blow up and kill you I think that You know, I would I would I would agree with Ben Is best friend. Yeah, I would to well, you know it I guess you could say The official cause of death. I had a guy who's like a works for the police over there in England contact me Does and he said that he he said the way they do things there is a little weird So it could take three four weeks to get back An autopsy result and If they deemed the cause of death a cardiac arrest it doesn't matter what caused it so if he if he caused his own cardiac arrest The cause of death would be cardiac arrest you understand So if IMean If he did have you know problems and he did commit suicide, which it seems as though he did from whatever when the saying You know Whatever he did to himself caused a cardiac arrest which was the cause of death that I think so both Schools of thought were correct, but you know I think it's it's not helping People by making it pretend like it wasn't a suicide if it was because obviously he had some you know Mental health issues that you know and some problems. You know, and I think that it was it was great I think that it came to light The wake of his death that if people do have problem, they should contact people and talk to friends and loved ones and some of that in seek help because There are people that are depressed. I think people people see depression and And mental health issues as a weakness and that's why they don't like to talk about it especially especially Man especially Oh, man sure know whether they be in the business world of bodybuilding professionals You know that's that's just a fact from and society looks on it as a You know just put you man just just get it together play yourself up by a bold spoon straps and you know Throw on a Anthony Robbins tape and take on the day and it doesn't work that way at all Yeah, sure I had a guy contact me Esca me about stress and anxiety and he ParalyzinGHim he can't function he can't eat his food the way he should he can go to the gym sometimes and you know IMight my take on this and then look I don't have I don't have depression You know aside from you know what you get Once a while you get to press I'm talking about don't have like crying depression But I do know this and I and I and I took this to heart when I read this and heard Wayne dire talk about this You know the late Wayne dire who's you know someone who's very influential in my life Just from all the reading and and stuff I watched on him and he said There's no such thing Okay, well, he didn't say he said have you ever seen a bucket an anxiety or Bucket of stress can you put it in a bucket? No, why because it doesn't exist it's something we create in our mind so a lot of the thoughts we have a lot of the the things that we allow to paralyze us and that allows us to do the things that we love is because of something that doesn't even exist We've created on our own and it's an erroneous way of thinking you're basically and so If you change the way you think the things you think about change and that's that's what you have to try to and and obviously sometimes It's hard you get into this rut where you can't get yourself out of it But you need to have people you can talk to who can walk you through that because it really is IMean it's like it's like drug addiction drug addiction is the stupidest thing of all time IMean you take something that's making you you think is making you feel better But it's actually making you feel worse and making your situation worse, but yeah, you keep taking That's that's insanity. That's that's a definition of insanity You're gonna take more of it. It's gonna feel better You're gonna feel and you're gonna keep feeling worse so same thing with that. IMean and the same white if you can't walk talk yourself through it You need other people to help you and that's why they have you know Help care professionals that do psychology counseling psychiatric counts What if you want to call it? It's important that you can talk to someone who can talk you off the horse so to speak and try to show you that hey You know what you're not thinking rationally here This is not a real thing you're creating in your mind now. Why are you creating your mind? You have a chemical balance or do you have something that happens you experienceually? That's affecting you and you need to get that out and that's that's those are the only two options right? Some stuff yeah, but some of those things that have affected you and form who you are And negatively of informed who you are over time Those great in turn to chemical imbalance and once you have a chemical imbalance You have a chemical imbalance it's hard to like right think you way out of a horse talk to somebody right you know IMean and alleviate what's a chemical imbalance It's like when they treat with both you know Anti depressions and therapy. I think you have to do both really initially yeah, yeah, IMean there's it's just Mental and this is one of the hardest things for people to overcome it's it's what leads to what mean you talked about drug addiction Yeah, you know people self-medicate with with all kinds of things to alleviate either the pain or to temporary suspend the feeling of being in balance It's you know it's it's a deep topic and the idea that you know a lot of people can You know Get out of it. IMean people do get out of it, but it's it's you know that a lot of people with clinical depression as you know Sure, you know lots of people leave We laps into that state as well. Yeah. Well, I have a guy contact me say hey Dave can I use Adorable every day on my diet. I get great workouts I don't feel as hungry I said he's like you know what do you think? I said well wanting to snort a couple lines of cocaine He got it he was laughing. I said just because it's a prescription drug You know you're getting your right prescription doesn't mean it's something you want to take you know I said you're getting yourself into into a hole that you might not be able to climb out of I said You better off doing it. You know sort of a line of coke, you know once in a while You know not that I'm a condo in it. I'm just saying it's the same thing you're doing you know You're yourself medicating yourself because With the drive that you don't really need there are people who need it You don't need it. I said you want it because you feel good on it, but eventually you don't feel good on it You don't feel good on it. You don't feel good on it. You don't feel good on it. You don't feel good on it. So he got the message. Look what he's like. I'm doing it This is body building you know because we use drugs you know several times of it that It's not that hard to use other drugs you know it makes a lot easier the decision because it's you could inject steroids You know three times a week What's popping in a couple pills here in there or you know snort a line of coke or People just don't they don't think twice about it's not a big deal. You know whereas the normal person in every day Society would just do that, you know Yeah, no you're right it should so it's easy It's easy say why I feel bad for the Luke's family and everything like that is friends at Wastem and and you know you IMean you had a good relationship with him. I'm saying you will work from with them It's sad we lost a good guy but hopefully you know Some people you know could learn from that and if it could have prevented one other death and great I think that would see Would it be just turned 32 last week? I think 32 yeah, that's yeah. It was 30 second birthday So what do you think about the New York probate? Let's go on to something a little bit more moving to Tampa IMean you were campaigning when they moved to Jersey gave Well, you know, you know what the problem is all the gyms are closing New York I feel bad for Steve Weinberg. He's got to be going crazy. You can't have Jim has him been open in months He can't hold any shows up there Yeah, you know it's he's got to do you know he doesn't want to hold the show I know a lot of people are probably you know want to do it. They need to limp your qualifier So I guess Tim Gardner show went off well right this week So they must have contacted the hotel where he's held it and I guess they they said we can make it happen So they're gonna be doing New York pro in Tampa Which is kind of weird because you know the New York pro has always been known for the New York audience right that's a bad show for night a champions and then what I got converted even to New York pro The audience is what made that show special you know if you can make it here you can make it anywhere the old New York saying Does it go does it still hold your hands? Yeah, IMean it's it's just that the end of the day it's it's really important that they had the show Simply because IMean they have to you have to have these shows if you're gonna salvage the year Yeah You know I'm not a driver if you're doing the show because because you know what there's no way they make a money on the show Zero way Zero it's He's not Yeah, yeah I don't know amateur show so such Just to just open up the door Cosmaut you know fortune just to open up the door. Hi. We have to venue. Hi the hotel. We're here Hi with flying in judges And love love lots fortune small fortune so it really is so You know you're gonna have a limited audience again Right, IMean you have to yeah, I think you do the live show again probably yeah I don't know how they have if if Tim did well in that or not But There was a valuable obviously for people to do it But it's great that they haven't it it's funny that they haven't Yeah, but Better than anything Who you think really is gonna be in the show? I don't know Said like I can't have to guys from Tampa And you know what mean you've probably guaranteed those you know that and you know who else You don't know because you don't know you did you know I know people who And it it's not the people I help everyone's in the same boat Everyone's practiced for every show has been hindered to a mild degree and to a major degree Yeah, you know and and so many people have had shows post-poned it that they've throw some people I know a throne in the tall and safe shed it down this year Some people so well keep on going some people go off the diet on the diet on the diet off the diet you know So I don't know who they're gonna get in line up. IMean don't get people in line up for sure, you know And I see they've added no women's body but linked to the lineup that's cool because wings of strength stepped up So Jake would once again sponsoring Putting up some money for this show that that's great Make it in happen Man in five you know I've said it before five was a woman body builder IMean if I was a woman's physique and that I'd be doing all these women's body Nope, nope, they won't listen I told Shai know Shelby starts. He's got a bunch of women's physique and that is the help I said you should put him put him in the body building What do you crazy and how much? Who knows how much? I guarantee they give you more money away from Miss Olympia They're gonna give them from the physical women's physique with the a champ okay I already said I want I want to see Iris Kyle and Shini grant us why don't you take a take a gas stay What do you think again? I give away for Miss Olympia. I'll take a gas. I'll write it down There you go 100,000 yeah, hey, want me show you I wrote it on a hundred what is that You see that I wrote down club was not 100 yeah, I start called it The great thing to that would be would still be winners on the match game yeah Match game yeah, we got a fly yeah I think that these women physique women I'm missing the boat I said they can I should have said it should combine the I already told you this I think they should combine the divisions but if they don't do that Women's physique girls dummies do the women's body building shows that are coming up qualified for the Olympia when A lot of money I'll tell you what sit in place 100 for first maybe Jake will even go higher than that Second place is not gonna be 16 it's not gonna like drop off a cliff. Yeah, something big Or he might do for first he might well he does he what he do 50,000 plus the car left so there's a hundred right there you can do 75 plus the car Garity is gonna be a nice price package That's his thinGHe loves the women body balls, but you know what these women's physique girls are Just as big You know I people think Iris Kyle is this crazy huge body builder No, she's like a hundred sixty pounds on stage these women girls are a big of them that Yeah I'm telling you I would tell I would if I was the time Look no one's gonna be chanique grant we know that unless she decides to do somethinGHappens to her if I was the second third fourth Race girl from last year and the women I would do body building I would do body building Forget I got a good beat and Iris and they really would be in chanique grant Let's for sure and if I was she week I would do women's body building if they would give them away that much money I'd be like you know what screw this I'm doing women's body She should do the she should do the near pro and women's body But she's from Jersey Do the near pro when that and body building and then do the Olympia and body building I was kind of a verse Shini Grant is almost as exciting as is kind of I'm gonna say I got a new spoon that's almost excited I know you got a new spoon. That's like I know you're gonna say that Who's that that's the better one? I'm right my ears at the end of a career. Shini said the beginning of a career who wins chanique for his iris? Well, chanique could easily gain four pounds of muscle. That's She's definitely gonna be bigger than she was last year She's not gonna be as big as iris obviously But she's probably gonna her waist is probably half the size of iris's yeah Who wins? I don't know. I don't know. I love the same iris of the six hours cardio a day though She needs to get down and she needs to. She needs to. She needs to. She needs to. She's always in the Greg's shift the last couple years. I'm sure it would be a great battle and you know what the two of them would love it too Because it would bring so much attention to women's body building again People would be talking about it Say it's time to jump in Dashi Lexi jump in She's not gonna pull down or go to the To the commentary yeah, and then before I'm here. I'm gonna do it. I'd love to see that too That's that's like landed jumping in is like hiding in the show Shini going up against iris is like flex Lewis you know going up to a gen's I'm curious All right, okay, I get I get spell you know, yes Well, it does does yeah Smack talk between flex Lewis and Phil wins you Well, you're gonna get it between Phil and Brandon yeah, you won't get it flex will be like That's ain't gonna play nothing like politically say I respect all these champions Yeah, branding Great champion great champion day Julie So you're gonna You are gonna get it from Brandon and you're gonna get it from Phil You're gonna get it big time once branding is he's very quiet too You you will get it it's gonna be a love fast-up there, but we know Running into the show Listen the only person you're gonna get any smack talk out of as if they show up would be dexter And roadie if they think we can get them in the line, you know Yeah, I'm wrote them to have a lot of things to say at the press conference before He'd make the if he got in the show he'd make the whole he probably would be almost better than Kai there IMean Kai obviously fan favorite, but roadie would be great because it's like This guy keeps getting stuff taken away from them, you know just just before he's about to accomplish something great, you know He's Mr Olympian and he can't even defend the title so And me no one's gone through more bull over the last couple years than him so He would certainly have a lot to say the press conference. Yeah, maybe you can get Alan as a lawyer. Yeah He's got a guy trial already right IMean the thing is taking forever. IMean what I don't know what the hell is going on here This trial I got I wish we knew I said at last week I said if Find out from the lawyer You know a lot of lawyers yeah What is the average time it takes To go to court the problem is with this whole COVID thing It's probably taking before that even that's March Or would you went to trial before fucking roadie went to trial? I don't know I know what that'll take it so well like that one's a murder Well, this is rapies facing jail time. IMean unless his unless his side of his lawyers You don't have to prepare some kind of special trial for I don't know maybe maybe Maybe Let's see maybe he won't get a fair trial and He's but he's got to get tried so IMean unless the just seeing the charges. IMean I don't see you know that happeninGHe's gonna have to go to trial and then when this thing you know Look if if it's a weak case and he's got a good lawyer They can win because remember the only only need one juror to say He's guilty. He's not guilty. You know They gotta get a unanimous guilty verdict for him to go to jail That's not gonna happen if if the trial if the case is flimsy I don't care is discrimination or not Okay, there's gonna be one person on the as you go through the right thing that's that's the way it is However if it's not a weak trial, and not a weak case, and then they have a strong case against them then these and trouble You know, so Don't don't you think if they hadn't ironclad case they would have had it already Now because his side could be delaying at two for you know, no no no no no Orations don't you think if they have an ironclad case? His side doesn't decide when to go into trial The judge does the state does the state the state don't you think if they had an ironclad case? This is two years in the making come out of on isn't the constitutions that you have a right to a speedy trial How speedy is this? I say it again if they had an ironclad case just Go on a limb if we had an ironclad case Don't you think of the other going to try by now? I don't know I don't know who's the one delaying. I don't know if it's the state or his side Well the states the one who picks the date right but can't I know I know like you can't fire motions to dismiss certain evidence and stuff like that That could be going What's only on the dirt like delay in this long who knows? I don't know I don't know what's going on how can we kid this is how come the stuff is that public knows you know in Florida everything's public record I don't know we don't have some listener open I got it your grandma on this case to start covering it right? Yeah, he's married to a while. I don't know that's right. I'll ask him tomorrow. Or you can get uh that's come on after I was you can get the guy with the arms Down to you Don't you know who he'll fill no You know what's his legal expertise He'll just wing it. Yeah, yeah, it was a new march to Clark. I was very good friends If if if you had for any case Valentino on a jury hit poison the whole entire Right, he never looked at lookinGHey with dismiss him in three seconds if you have a kid you know when they You're a question you know because you know if you're not a big dismiss No, no, it'd be smart enough to like Caunt not calm but slide his way into any jury and then right he would poison that help me that in a good way He would just not stop you take the opposed if you want it be asking questions you're exiled You're a guy's version, right? Yeah Excuse me yeah, it'd be perfect to have on if you if you were right Invent Invent in pick the case Well, he he everythinGHe's become very conservative all these I think he would send a lot of people to jail No, I don't think he's as liberal as you think anymore He's always what he's busy you become a conservative it's inevitable Yeah All right, well good news fill he threw in the mr. Olympia that's a good the New York Crow will take place in Tampa So Stuff to smile about guys at they come on wake up, you know feel good about yourself this is a good news for the body to leave World so far the Olympia still on that's a good another good sign a Tim guarded prove that you can hold the brochure and Make it work that was good So things are improving I guess you know I feel bad for the people in the York and New Jersey there are in such a lot Yeah, and those but I got to send that my my prayers to these guys at a tilless gym Yes, and Oh my this guy they went to war with this governor He wants to find them like five branded gay or something like that like some crazy amount of money He's he wants he's shut them down every way possible they've opened up every way possible It's disgusting to be honest with you and you know the funny thing is They make a good point some of the some of the places that are open That are deemed necessary are so ridiculous That that that they could be open and his gym can't be open is ludicrous, you know Dude, did this people you know You don't strip up there are our essential services. Did you know that? I didn't know that it's not surprising Look at stores are essential service. Yes, yeah Listen you see the Congress got to get there fucking bottle of booze That's why I see people in the jump food section in my WalmarT3 and half inches away from each other Scramble and for junk food I'm good serious. I'm dead serious. I believe I went the other day with my son and we walked by the you know the like the smack section the chips And he said can we get some chips? Yeah, I love chips. So yeah, it's for we couldn't get down the aisle. I was not ready to get down Yeah, because people They have the one way and people can't follow the one way they have to come both right they Crash into each other And then they're afraid oh Don't breathe on me. Yeah, well Honestly there foot in half away, but the gym is gonna be closed right Yeah, exactly. IMean, it's it's I understand these guys point listen Restaurants they're doing everything by the book too They're doing it every help precaution possible leave them a fucking low and they want to just fucking make a living for themselves I don't understand what's going on here Well, like I say if you if they just shove it down shut them down and write them a check for the blast money Yeah, instead they're finding them because they they want to open the gym All right guys you guys out there. I we were pushing for you over there in that till us gym don't give up a good fight I know you might become the the martyrs and the victims, but you know what and I know it's cost you a fortune But you know what you guys are gonna help change things because if everyone just gives in Then nothing changes so I We respect you you know as people who love to tren That you are not getting in and you're giving your members in the ability to work out during a situation that's Just not good, you know, and that's the way it is All right guys, you know what to do like we say every week remember With heavy muscle radio the truth hearts good night everyone. We'll see you next week You

=== FILE: HEATHER GRACE 7 WEEKS OUT & RISING BIKINI STAR & MELISSA VALLIERE IN ACTION! [l-bDu8o2dPU].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Monday, August 31st, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Even though this year Chicago Pro will be held in Atlanta, which technically makes it a Atlanta Pro, on papers still looks like one of the premier events of the season, just like it's been for the last few years. So far the women's physique line up looks like it'll be one of the better groups that we've seen all year long, and I'm chalking some of that up to the fact that Heather Grace is makinGHer season debut. Heather's one of the only athletes in the history of women's physique to have multiple top three Olympia finishes on her resume, and I'm sure she wouldn't mind using this show in Chicago or Atlanta to springboard her way back up there again, so if she looks like she's ready to rock, this show can end up beinGHers to lose. I'm a process goal oriented person. That means that I draw a lot of satisfaction from the pursuit of my goals and reaching whatever it is that I'm shooting for, it's just a means for me to throw myself into a pursuit. And for someone like Lexus Redmond, who's had so much success so early in her career, it's pretty clear that she's someone who enjoys the process up to this point. The season Lexus has probably been the most impactful rookie in the bikini division, and I know there are some who think she might be ready to challenge for a top 10 Olympia spot. Every year it seems like there's one athlete in the division who turns into a breakout star almost overnight. And if she keeps doubling down on her process, this year might be the one. As I get older, I've started to gain an appreciation for the stability and simplicity that habits and routines bring to my life. The whole thing about people being creatures of habit is absolutely true, and my guess is that Melissa Valier is probably finding some of that out, first hand right now. A few days ago, the former figure Olympian resurfaced on social media for the first time in a while with some new trening footage where we saw her starting to knock some of the rust off of the powerful set of ax plots. At this point, I don't even know when or if, now even plans to compete again, but I do know that the power of habit and routine are two major forces that help to keep us grounded. So if she ever does get bitten by the bug again, it'll be those two things that will serve as our foundation. I've talked before about flow states and how athletes and artists who understand how to tap into their flow have an ability to become trenscendent. What your flow state is and how you get there is all specific to the individual, but as far as I can tell, Alexis Sullivan seems like she's knee deep in hers right now. The trensformation that she's made over the last few months has been amazing. And if you can make a pretty strong argument for her being in the best shape of her career right now. People forget that it was only two years ago that we were talking about Harris, one of the most impactful rookies in women's physique. So if 2020 Alexis is an upgraded version of what we saw then, she might be on her way back to the Olympia stage. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day, Palombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO INTERVIEW WITH GUY GRUNDY PART 1 OF 3 [qgR7r3kZ0nw].txt ===

In the muscle radio. Welcome back to Heavy Muscle Radio. I am now here on the phone with our first and only guest of the day. He's always wanted to talk to him, bring on the radio. He actually contacted me, so the fates in the universe were in our favor. He was a bodybuilder, an australia, very popular at that. He wrote for Muscle Mag International a number of years. He's now in the Hollywood scene and he's trening some special forces in MMA. I like the welcome guy Grundy to show. You'd a mighty Hawaii. Good day mate. I could finally say that to someone who actually needed. It's very cool. I'm proud to be the third one. Yeah, we have a friend from South Africa, a friend of mine on Drea. For some reason, I have a nutty friend who confuses South Africa with Australia and he thinks that they say good day mate, and South Africa. We always say good day mate to this guy and it's not really appropriate because it's not from Australia, but you actually are so good day mate. He thinks it's all pretty easy if he unit a little thing. Now how long did you live in Australia for? My dad was born in the I'm not in 70. I lived there till March of 2008. I could find out, 20, I came, lived there till I was 28 and did everything I could do in bodybuilding and a strier at that point. And they matched it on the idea I was came out of the heat of America and the skin that got off the plane, I was basically the gold. You can do it for a clock waiting for it to open at 5. I could find a clock. You lived, yeah, you went, you seeked out the dream, so to speak. When you came to Los Angeles, was that an Venice was actually the dream was at Venice Golds, and you really lived it and you wrote about it, a lot of muscle neck. Mate, it's amazinGHow you need to be on the arm of the lower of attraction and energy whatever it is. But it's just amazing because I used to sit on the bike, ride on my cardio, you know, little gymnast, drove a muscle bag with a colon by a speed niece. No, come to America, a meat speed niece is the first person to do a thorough meat. If you pass as a weigh and I literally get a quiet, you start riding a colon that, which I always felt was, you know, something I was taking after him, so it was both funny, but yeah, living the dream, I just seen all the guys who expect to really yourself, all the trening of gold, the DVD, the magazine, the thing that I was like, you know, what, that's where I got to date. I got to stop you, Steve Nees for those of you who don't know who he was. Was this big monstrous looking guy, you had to be a six-five or something like that, a six-four, and he was a big, you know, strong guy, and he just basically hung out at Golds Jim Venice all day long, and he would keep discovered most of the new town deck, because he was there all the time. He's the first guy to feature me in a column, believe it or not, too. He also is the only guy to ever get me at my biggest, the 319 pounds he put some pictures in his column of me. I look like, I look like I was going to explode. I was so big, and he did discover a lot of guys, unfortunately he did pass away, and it's ironic that you took over pretty much the place of his column. He had a column called Muscle Beach, and he would go. It's been a muscle gussle for something. It's been a muscle beach, muscle beach. Muscle Beach, I think it was called, right? Yeah, yeah, my older amazing, that was a huge, cool, me to meet him, and yeah, coming from Australia and then, you know, like, I said, you know, it'd be a link on, like, but we're not just wearing your shirt, but I swear sometimes, this is like a PG. Now, you can say whatever you want, you can tell me to go fuck myself with your hourcare. I'll tell you that on the radio, I won't tell you that in person. Yeah, that's good, fine. Yeah, mate, so it's just a dream there with Steve Neese, and coming to the gym, and like I said, you're doing something like fuck, look at the labeling, you're breaking, you're getting down, those veins are beating the masterful legs. Now, you did something interesting, because you want a lot of championships back in Australia, you want them to throw Australia, you went to the World Championships in NAMRI, you want your weight class there, or you actually say your high class, because NAB had did it by high classes. You've accomplished a lot in bodybuilding, but when you came to the United States and started living the Venice Gold gym dream, you did something interesting in the magazine, you started writing a column, but you gave it a perspective that was a lot different than other people, because number one, you were a competitive bodybuilder, which a lot of people who write these kind of columns aren't, number two, you're an excellent writer, I just don't really say that to many people, but you are an excellent writer. And number three, you told a very honest perspective what was going on, almost to the fault of making fun of yourself. Will was this something that was always inside of you that you always have the ability to kind of laugh for yourself? Yeah mate, I think like, yeah, take what we're going to stray a week call or take in the piece out of yourself, IMean, you know, you just don't talk yourself up, you're like, you know, I'm an idiot or something, you know, you just make fun of yourself, you're going to more in Australia, you're also have another thing called the puppy syndrome, people love you when you're down and battling, but then when you get to the top people start and I'm going to put you to make you fall over 50, that's just human nature. So I think I just develop a technique of seeing people that were successful, they're all going to take in the tip out of yourself, you like, how can you stop life besides like, you know, like, Mike Ryan, for instance, who's been a poor guy that's been looking like, but he's also calling you like, fuck, right? How perfect is he even? I think he's got to himself. And you know, I'd rather have fun in life and, you know, like, that people take the tip out of you, so why not do it first? Because he can get the way and get your own laugh. Well, I always say the absurdity is life for it, we're really making it enjoyable. Were you at the Gold Gym when what's his name? Matt Seeny. Yeah, mate, when John Seeny was there, John Seeny was there. Not for my videos, bro. I knew you were a fair and too, buddy. I've been so fortunate to go. Like I said, I was there for 98. John Seeny, he was working behind the counter probably earning $8 an hour. And but you always look, you know, just like, yeah, that keeps the start. He's going to do something. He's going to go somewhere. And he always had that comfort for the housing. But yeah, I seen him there evolve. Also, Chris Masters, who I think I was fully first person to write on him for the magazine, they must play. So he might call him and then he went on to be too well in the WWE. Well, I've seen it. I was coming down and it's, you know, then you realize, like, damn, I'm pretty old. You've got a few different trens of bodyboard. It's go like the era that I came up. So ahead of me, John, the guys that I was competing with, a lot of them have gone. So I've seen, being a sport change and then progress and it's I think the say with the bodyboarding now, I've got to, it's the way it's judging and everything else. Things like we still heap as the number one guy. If he's got something to everyone there, he's a good looking guy. He's well, and got a phenomenal physique. He keeps improving. He's got masks. You know, he's a J.K. Califlect Wheel of Connecombination. They do it up. Did you do you, did you get along well with Lee Priest? You're a, come on in your country, man there? I guess we get on a K. I wouldn't say with the, the fuck, it's a careful, I'm going to be doing any of you over there. Pretty sure, apparently, but I wouldn't say, you know, I'll be honest, now I wouldn't say we got on. But could have been my photo, because he was ahead of me and strier the legend. And I came over here and I was a little unsure of myself. And I had an unfortunate circumstance that like of meeting, clicked little with a total of, I told him, I was good mind him. He was Lee, and I was a little, I'll talk about that. And then I was a little reserved. And I never, I never walked up to Lee, that, hey, Lee, you're a hero to me. I've got much respect for you. Like, think perhaps that may have put our relationship on a funny thing. And then he's, and Lee, I'm not being rude, but the guy needs a milk crate to talk to you, but he's so sure, man. He's got attitude. You know, fuck for a moment of straight. He gave me attitude. I'm going to put you on a milk crate. And he, yeah. See, you didn't get a lower flex wheeler. Is that, does it matter? No, he was the biggest arphole in the entire world. I thought, I used to wear flex, but my older, the white, black, fluid home, where I would be wearing the long, tight, fit the black and orange strier. I found it just getting my gay slider to get into the blackwear mirror in America. But I admired him. And all he did is, and this is the first time IMet him. But you know, apparently changed my blessing, but I'm talking about the flex wheel, but IMet him. Yeah, he admitted that he was an asshole back in the day, but tell us how much of an asshole he actually was. Hey, I'll totally jump on that one. I'll totally jump on that tren. I'll get two tickets. So I come and he marches 98. Flex wheel is my hero. I got nothing to respect for him. I'm at the firehouse. There's most important place in my life in anybody border. He's, you know, a male flex wheeler. Where the firehouse, my girlfriend who came with me, who was sitting in the city in front of me, of course. And he was sitting behind me, looking at his martial arts, looking straight at my woman. Just looking at her like arrogant and she says, he's just looking at me and I'm like, I'm taking a big breath, because I'm not being arrogant, but I used to, I grew up on the street. I've fought on my, I would be a really trening tactic to the special forces. The long story shorty, Tim and I would have beat the living shit out. And we weren't going to go and have a little karate point fighting. Can hold of guests head by the demon ground to be fed into the ground. So you already were thinking about how you were to take them down if there's a game to go. Well, I was thinking I was shaping, I was so angry, because I loved this guy, but all that love and admiration definitely to hate. And all I can remember fitting it was, and at the first time I guess I was professional, I said, you can't walk up to flex wheeler, taking outside beats of living shit out of him. You try would do. On your first day here, it is the best fighting border in the world. It's gonna make you look like a total asshole. Right, come in here. So I let it go. I never did anything about it, but I've never ever forgotten. It was just amazing to see that man had so much power and admiration. And I know he had met study with an asshole, but you can say, hey, I'm sorry, but people like me had to deal with that. I was in shock, because I thought the guy was a god. And then friends would do that to me. It was amazing. And you know, then you get sick. And I've never had one, but you'll do it. Well, no, you know, they give you one of the coolest guys in the sport. Everyone's got something good to say about you. Thanks. Those are good things, but something good to say about flex. Yeah, it wasn't anybody. I've never heard anyone say one good thing about flex. And what amazed me about flex is the potty that he came up with. And so I like I know everything about him, retail, the Clinton, Chris, call me out. We're going to clen these nice, most loyal, these are man and mine. There's a new guy, very nice. The legend, Chris, I've got nothing but love and respect for him. Chris is cool where you'll be burned by a hot woman. And Chris will walk up there when I was going to go, are you still in branding the cheese, say yes, he would walk away. Yeah, that's not a problem. That's what I'm not sure. But it's like here, um, mate, it just says if you're there, he listens to him. He'll just, at the fans, at someone that came over from another country, and you were the greatest thing in my world, you were the greatest disappointment in mine. Hi, I love it. Did you ever have a fight with anyone over there at Gold's Venice, where you got to the point you're like, I'm taking this guy out and you just anyway. You got it. I'm trying to be a sense in people, names and nothing, like, you know, like, I want to get a loan, I'll tell you all of them because I think you did have fights. You did have fights? I'll drop, slap the few people, like, go. Who'd you slap? Come on, tell me what you're seeing. Oh, I can't kill a brother. What's the difference? We're going to get arrested? Come on. I don't know. Oh, I, oh, I, all right, all right, ready? Yeah. The worst, the biggest one, and now you all face that a fight human, I've tell everyone a gold gym, Mr. Canada, Eric, Delaro. You, you would slap the shot of Eric Delaro? Me and Eric Delaro, you got a problem with this. Grundy will slap him again. We had a problem. I want to eat. If he wants to talk about what he did, if you have a getting one here in asking what he did to deserve a slap for me, I'd like to know. No, I, I, I, I, I, bring it up, could have been embarrassing for me, but if he wants to do it to show the kind of man, he, he could do it long story short. I talking about the back of gold gym in Venice. Yeah. And make sure the cameras were on me. I, but I actually, the class started at a talk, we had a problem in the gym, and I said, let's go out and talk about it. I don't want to fly. You want to talk about it. So we go out. So I long story short. I've been in front of Julie, had the fitness model, Julie and Greer, up and everyone at Gold gym will back this story up. Yeah. I've been slapping Bradley this man. 280 pounds. I'm looking at him thinking about the, this, we're going to be one hell of a fight. I'm getting excited, bro. The man, ride, he's very worth it. Right? Right. And then do you know who my father is? And Ren R.C. he's hat and left. Oh my god. How embarrassing for him. Make, you know, and that's the next thing. And we were best friends, but I used to ride about him in muscle mag and puttinGHim in my colon. So yeah, that happened. And definitely, and then I don't think that a problem with 30 tail-off, I wrote some stuff about him in a magazine. He told me the big triceps from England. Yeah, exactly. And once again, same thing with her, and I actually made a challenge here. My dad brought fight. You anywhere you want to fight. Thanks to it. Good long story short. I'm a little nervous, you might tren or IMight not. I think I'm through England. What I'm away on too are. And I hear again, this is off Julian Greer, the fitness model Julie goes, hey man, and he tail is looking for you. And I'm like, there, I need you. He goes, yeah, he's going to beat the shit out of your ass. Yeah. Okay. I said, first off, why are he telling you? He's not telling me, because I don't know, but he wanted me to tell you, and IMight go, I'm not hard to find. And secondly, basically, the man had a problem with something I wrote in the magazine. He goes to go, do you little me? Well, I'm like there, that you might tren at. Well, and they gently go into the UK, walking into his home, found him and going, where's Ernie? Where's Ernie? I'm going to beat him. And then on top of that, I'm like, I'm not saying I'm the toughest guy in the world, but I will back up what I say. Especially back in the day off, I'm more refined. Now I'm 41, I'm acting, but he's settled these stuff. He's a bad guy in the world. There are any, and I put an official challenge to intrude, not to make it, and everything, and you're at the end. Wow. He thinks me, like, if you're a man, like, if you're a man, and you're going to talk and do something, do it. But I'm not going to tell you, I'm going to beat you.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO INTERVIEW WITH GUY GRUNDY PART 2 OF 3 [1hoA1ZwO5YM].txt ===

What's your right about him? He got self-saf. The thing was, and it was once again taken to Tissati itself, I said, Ernie is one of either great bodybuilders. I've got nothing but respect for Ernie, but he's destroyinGHis disease by using Stinson and fighting decking. And I know because I suffered the consequences of using it. It's always like an education. Trice of way does his trice of service, he does biceps for way to get overblown. And then again, he ran around sayinGHe was going to beat me up in the idea. That's all back in the past like he did. Why is it that people don't like hearing the truth about themselves? Because you know, sometimes too, I sometimes give, you know, obviously reports and, and wrap up videos at these different shows. And some of the bodybuilders get mad at me and then they won't interview with me. They won't talk to me. They go around bad mading me. And it's not that I'm saying that they're a bad person. I'm just giving critique of their physique, you know, most of the time. The bodybuilders made as I've been a sport, I've done rugby, I've been a national and faith athlete in seven sports. I've hung out with someone. Bodybuilders are the most insecure people in the world. And it's, you know, I say it, you know, my inner views. I look the way I look and I can fight and do all the things that I can do because of my insecurities. I wasn't happy with who I was and what I wanted. So my insecurities made me who I am. And you know, they just take everything to heart for the thing is, if you just say something nice about everyone, you're not, you're not enough in a last longing and industry. You've got the ball to be honest because these people who can be insecure and they're like 300 pounds as they want to get in your face. It's like, I'm doing my job and I'm beinGHonest. The, I've got respect for people to speak their mind. And then there's lead tree from the other end of these, these mind they will say all these stuff about the world. And you know, it's just, they're not back it up and be a little bit hard for I probably lost the energy on the mono station now. People on the record, they were a mono I like because he speaks his mind and is full but yeah, y'all think that Lee, and the thing that really upset me about Lee was once we didn't appear together, I had all my shoulder had three shoulder reconstructing in two years. My whole life was being a big bodybuilder and all the time. I was about number 266 pounds normal looking man. He was being a parent with Lee and all he could just get bringing up with how small I look more and I was like, you know, once the twice was running and then people would come up to get my lot of graphic as what you're getting the autograph off the bike rider over there. How was the tracking with you another one? Yeah, and then the others, I guess in this spring, because you know, Lee and I've never had a road relationship and the other thing I admit, hey, Guy Grundy used new bay and I did stories about it all. You wrote about it, you did? Yeah, I was a new bay and I'm an addict for a while too, so I could relate to your stories you wrote about it. And I used things though, I wrote articles about it and admitted about it. Lee fed stuff about me in some seminars to other people whatever about me using it. I couldn't give a shit. I did use it like saying, Dave Columbus got best clarity. It's true. It's not an insult and I guess IMust around settling asking them to put him on the spot about me, you know, you're commenting about me in the same cell and you're asking me to have a girlfriend where I need to go, no, I didn't. And then bring Kathy over, but the fact is the matter is he did. And I just don't like it. If you want to say one thing in one area, don't say it's to me and then do the same man to my face. It's one thing about bodybuilding. I've noticed we could do the steroids and everything involved and the ego. Bodybuilders seem to think that they're amazing fighters or families and let me tell you bodybuilders are amazing fighters that first up you need to know how to fight. A bodybuilder will rip you muscle in two seconds to try to throw a punch. You know, there's your body's not accustomed to it. But you said they're very big and aggressive men that give us some some of the bit of a stereotype. And you were always tricky because you were both. You were one of the bigger guys. But you were also with the opposite where you were when you were never arrogant. You were never rude. I never was in defining either. I just, I was about peace. I was who I was about. It's never really interested me. But when did you learn the fight? IMean, you're a real deal. IMean, you're a teaching special forces had a fight. Where would you learn how to do something like that? I've been living on the streets since I was 16. I couldn't even tell you how to fight. I used to fight. You can breath out of the dumpster. I used to fight with people for a place that's bleep. You know, I would fight on my life. And then from 2008 to 2011, it came in, I guess I went to the dark side. I became an in-thought though. I became a collector. I was a professional street fighter. Really? I got a year. I got arrested. But what what I'd run at me, I was an even eight months ago. My bail. You're ready for my bail. Everyone was, did you ever get your bail as a bad off-mire bail with one million? What are you doing? What are you doing? Your mail is a million bucks. You must have done some pretty bad. I went to the name of your days. I wasn't the name of your. What happened? You didn't. You didn't. You didn't. Obviously didn't go to jail, right? No, mate. As I said, I was a collector. That collector you're the street fighting scene and it was considered they thought of I was had mafia ties and everything. I used people in new people but once the investigation went ahead and everything that said, hey, you know what? You're innocent. And that pretty much black half cool. I was in a jail fell and I'm like, I don't mind being in jail. Be put if I get jail and I'm being there once before. But maybe you're going to do it five. I can fight. I don't mind that lifestyle. But I don't know me. I'm like, you still can trick your father. You've got a daughter. Oh, you didn't know you had a daughter? You're most important thing I was to protect my daughter in here and think it on the tough guy. And I'm leading my daughter unattended. So, you know, I got out of that. I always went broke there for a little while. They took out what I was making. Good money, doing whatever I was doing. Every day, okay, by the police, so I've got a totally fine of that. Good relationship with them. And that's the stuff doing this. Focus on the acting and everything. So, did that things in the scene will also be a bit too high. So, you gave up to the, you gave up the collecting. Because I was going to hire you to get some, some advertisers over your couple of bucks. I was going to send you out and over to them and see if you can collect from me. I know, you know, people. He gave that up. How does yard? How did you get into Hollywood? I see you're acting in movies and then you've taken that personality that you got that everyone really loved when you're rolling the magazines and just that I know in general. I've talked to you before. IMean, you have a great person. How did you direct that and channel your new energies now into an acting career? I've known the Blossom a little bit from my understand. Yeah, it is. I'm a very physical person. I like to thEQuality. So, I do a lot of actions. So, that meeting outside, but I also have an intellectual father. I didn't even know I had like school. I couldn't write a lot with the dinner. I lived on the street. So, I had a challenging upbringing, but the acting and understanding it, it came to me naturally. So, I, you know, I can fit here and convert with you on all the great teaching and I've got a lot of different things such as tennis, lofty, I've had trening, say, yes. On the dividend intellectual, I didn't get into that because I, that treats me. I want people to just talk about it a hundred percent. But the important reason I've had six sets is one of them is I can act. I've got a certain look where I've got my, you know, my hand, my hand. We got my pants. I'm 225 pounds, six foot, include condition, the way IMove. So, I'm a bit of an anomaly. I'm different to where everyone else is. And I realize what I've got. Everyone, all my age, and men just go and stay fit and get them the brony. They go and treat me down at the time mainstream. And I'm like, wrong with you. You want me to trim down at the time mainstream. Like everybody else. So, I've got a rely on my acting. Or I can be a big, free people can act here, or I'll lie. That can act and have my own little Nicky. I see you more as a character, rather than, you're not going to be the leading man. You're going to be the bad guy, or the guy that, you know, is a complete maniac in the movie. Well, mate, at the moment, I agree that's totally what I am. I'm, I'm, I'm the lucky. I guess the thing I guess I just shot was, I've been very naming it as a kind of, it's called Isabella. I was John Globett, you know, the legend, the medium. He's a bit of a... He can, from Boreth and so, because, you know, I can't think of his name and other really big guys. And I had a lead rolling, so I was doing things, people, all these guys, and the beautiful thing was, that was a bad guy I got to do, a choreograph. Fight scene by Boreth and to be, you were military to work on spec with this, and the state, all the fighting I got to do, car chasing scenes, and thankfully, one thing about me and you brought it up is, people seem to like me because I'm easy going and I'm honest, but I'm also not a trick or a bit on set on the most professional guy you can work with. I don't talk in a much-spot to talk. I'll give an idea when it's time, so I will, it's my mark. I'll ask the cameraman, hey, when am I in and out of, I ask all thEQuestions that I don't need to be told and people tell, how do you know what they're already on life because I watch? You're a student, you're a student of acting too. Yeah, I enjoy it, I watch, and I get along well with everyone I said, I talk, you're on set sometimes for a month at a time. Sometimes, I'm just as a great, but I generally get on better with the crew, because they're more man, and I buy back the little beats that they're taught. And I'll hang out with them, it's pretty good, hey, I'm hanging out with her, and she just makes it annoying women world, but she's pretty, you've got to be there listening, huh? I don't know, I don't know. Another way, by talking to the crew, and I would like to direct the interview in the future, but by talking to the crew, I find out what this cameraman does, I understand, he's job, we're ready in my mind of a place where there's a lot of wasting this movie industry, you don't need this. So, I do, I live in either pen and I enjoy it, and the other thing, when you walk on set, that's the so arrogant and rude, which is amazing, people, do you want to walk on set in front of 30 to see people holding up cameras and lights and microphone for you? And they're actually hating you when I hope you do bad because you're an asshole. That amazing, I've seen on set in the movie, what was it? Not relentless, but I had another one or a company and there's a real human, I can't even, I didn't even know it, that's how she was in me. And she was, I guess a crew was on the little bit of a day client, because she's a bullshit and want to do. So we were all keen there in the house. No, that's an oldie, low hand, huh? So, right? I said, what the, what is it? What is it, Lindsey, low hand, was it? No, I wasn't leaving the house in, I'm hoping to hear it. I heard career on the down, down the spin, I thought it was her. I heard he's got a new role coming up with a, you know what, the desk get off, windy, low hand and get back to God. And you've got to, would you have sex with Lindsey, low hand if she came onto you on a set? I would do a desk, or I could come and tell you the story. Oh, that's, sorry, I'm glad that you're at least thinking, entertainment value, thank you. Oh, you always think of the story, like something bad happened to my life, and they're right now, these sucks, but tomorrow, this is going to be a funny story. Thank you, what happened? That's right, that's right, that's right. Well, what was I talking about or was it about? There was a woman on the set who was a prima Donna and she was acting like everyone. Hi, everyone couldn't stand. So I'm in the room in two things happened with standing there and I'm, I'm a very nice person, I call, I'm a blamboyant, I'm loud, so I'm getting a lot of attention in this woman, hate that she just tried to, to help the individual become a patient because she came and then I just got to, excuse me, the attention from Grundy right now, we'll get that to you. And everyone on set laughed and they will come out and let's go through it so happy that we will hate her.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO INTERVIEW WITH GUY GRUNDY PART 3 OF 3 [t4M-MyeJG3U].txt ===

Do you ever you ever on a movie because you're a funny guy on a movie said Do you ever like you get happen to like maybe like one of the stars says like who is this guy? Where do we find this guy like is you know most of the people who are like extras or who are at minor parts are usually very quiet And they don't say anything you obviously have a personality you like to entertain everyone So did did does it ever come up like like where do we find this guy? You know Made it come up all the time I've been so fortunate from the lucky every movie I've done They've been picked by a part and I've been in the next sequel So for instance when I was on Is it Bell? John Love it's turned up on everyone's excited about it But I want to think I've learned about celebrities one Is don't go up and add a north man put him on a pedal full because there's a yes Is that and they look at you with a fan? I want you to look at me as another man If you respect the man to man, you know you still back to you Wow, I'm giving you your respect, but I'm not rain. Oh my god Oh, I'll give you a quick story that I'll explain this. I was no rowdy-rottie PIPe at the Shubby lady rest well Odle legend this is my five manager Rick baston if you're out there Rick much love He even saw Randy's Randy's mate. What I'm talking about ready party PIPe as many guys and Routy's got everyone around it everyone and Rick's like this don't meet him. I said bro I don't want to go and buGHim. I said no no he wants to meet you on us for the AK tools We walk up and I should keep saying I said Routy I am a huge fan of yours. Are you got nothing but my respect miss and I don't want to be one of those Our whole best stand here and just take up all your time I just want to let you know I respect you. So I walk away two minutes later He walks up to me goes no one has ever done that to me Yeah And then I'm like no I broke course of course They'll be like talking and then other people will then people will walk up to and start talking to it And then I said listen rowding you don't know them you don't want to talk to them just keep looking at me But he always has his pen. I actually walk up and I just say hey listen rowding But I don't even know what I said I don't even be rude But rowdy's got any important in it if you do and I couldn't believe we're hitting and have someone Well, I had no handler and no handler there Yeah, but he was mate. He was like so professional talking to everything so So when I see John lovers on the set you know the way I look on the name looking at my Yeah, I think they're name looking guy right outside on the cell phone For some of my John lovers is walking up and I'm on the stuff You're my home you're going John lovers can walk out of me trail up but I'm like I've got a cool up got a cool I'm I just look at him and he looks at me and he seems to be looking at me We're in the I went in the back space in here. It's a were a last and he just goes He goes hey you do and I just give him a nod and then we've been in there Oh my thing we're about to walk in on tape I walk in my feet black out over the toes everything you look at me go oh fuckinGHell I bet you I thought you were and the kill me He was he got nervous he thought you were like I think I was money to someone and you thought you were gonna And then so I thought you were God, and that's what he goes where did they find you? He said that he was ready they find you I thought he was someone bodyguard or something And we got on really well that we're just hanging out and he was a funny guy And they're actually seeing the movie before I kill someone where John finish you'd be talking because he's Jewish and they've got this thing where they go oh yeah Oh, yeah Yes, and he goes he just says this because John's really into comedy and I love him pro Yeah, so he just goes my name was great. I think it was movie and he gets looked at me He goes oh He goes I do and I go oh oh Oh, and he goes and they printed it and they go that's in the movie That's great. Now when's this his a bell of movie coming out when can we see this thing? Mate, I'm waiting on the information. They're actually thinking of retyling the movie So I stood as like an animation you know what I'd love to come back on your show You've been up there don't win anything's going you find it's grundy Zing wordy for the world of Dave Philamball would like to actually be we we I got a lot more stories Because they know you got a lot more stuff to tell us about Venice gold and a lot more stuff going I know you've been doing a lot of commercials to him people don't understand they think you know They think commercials is like the lowest part of their acting you can possibly do but the commercials pay You know they you can make money with commercials. There's a lot of residual income there How many you got running right now? I've got a total of seven national selling mate and like he said National commercial be your bread and butter yeah, I'm all make For instance probably on average 20 grand. I'll make on a national right Tell people you can make good money at those things. Yeah, I've known people that made up 150 all it just really depends on how much you get run Right and the coolest ones I've got going on the foster big guys like I knew the couple we got to get together for these stories while I'll give it a run down I'm the foster's big I've goT4 with them and Then I was also with Tica do keep a mate on my name on a professional spider I break he's a rib during the filming of this one and he gave me a casino with a box He won't be featured out of each other at Warner Brothers I got it with fun bro. That was the land dream I've got another 18th peak commercial is the bodybuilder When I had the lonGHair people put it was going to come I like that to me goddamn it That's great. I didn't know that was you that that was your neck and russia Yeah, everyone thought it was going to I talk with the councilman I said damn IMust have been and the coolest one I got going I guess the funniest one is and I think it's still running right now Is we've run and carry from funds with any keys or route either be the bad I love I love on that. I get one of my favorite shows We did a national Elmo commercial together That must have been fun See yeah Two bad asses working with a little Elmo gole was pretty special. Is that running currently? Believe it is made. I believe it is if you wanted to link to anything I can you know if you wanted to put them up on your web spider or anything I've got semi to links up put them on the radio show thread so people can see these commercials You're in guy you're a you're a terrific personality in our industry You're good for the sport you speak your that's the kind of guy I like the hang out with them We're gonna have you back here again and you'll keep us updated we'll get more stories about people you've beaten up and guys You want to beat up and people you might be up in the future But for now or do we're out of time here? What's your website so people can check it out? My thanks for that. Yeah, that would be just a guy grundy dot com and if you guys just Getting in contact with me there. I'm on big on the faithful thing We can get a scoogle guy grundy or um and also I'll really I'm really interested in what Eric Barrett's got to say about this like if you want to even question if I know he's lovely bodyboarding But he's definitely here about this so all I've got to say do I hear it? Okay, Eric. I'm I can do the friend of the entire world or the worst enemy and you're fighting out So sometimes you fuck the derong person homeboy and on the one is it I'm gonna I'm gonna get the Aaron jubac aromasinger to get on this story because this I want to find out all the details behind the Eric the Laurel quality of gold. You might even know about this and no matter what he says Julien's doing their rights and watch the whole thing and this is Julien who's a good fighter by the way It happened double in green. I walked up to him. I go Julian. I'm sorry that I did that in front of you and in Julian's work We're pretty looking for the only guy like that. I cut believe you didn't do anything The one and only guy grundy doesn't get better than that guy. Thanks for callinGHim Right, thank you everyone. Thank you. That was the one and only guy grundy What a personality this guy is I I could have talked to him all that I had actually to tell you the truth He has got such good stories and he doesn't pull any punches and he can bet your bottom doll that every word out of the guy's mouth is true He's just one of these guys. It has this you know that's treat respect thinGHe doesn't need to lie. You know, he's lived a hard life and I'm glad to see he's doing so well And I we got to get him to write a calm for our ex muscle because this guy is An arm of the story and I'd love to hear what Eric the Laura has to say about what happened. Oh my god It's pretty crazy, but this this coming weekend We have the Arnold fitness weekend coming up and we have so much to do so much going on Don't forget we have a the Rx muscle meet up six p.m. at the higher regency and downtown Columbus Make sure you guys show up and we'll have a few drinks and a few laughs and take some pictures and Hopefully put them up on the board and all those good things and then obviously stay tuned all weekend long for the Rx muscle coverage Christy technician aceto will be there. I will be there Aaron jubaccaromasinger Minimal be there as well as the Rx muscle crew Reporting live from the event all the great stuff that's going on this entire weekend Which I will not rehash one more time But for now we are at a time and I'd like to thank Guy Grundie for stopping by until next week Remember with heavy muscle radio the truth Muscle radio is a presentatianavar Exmuscle.com the truth in bodybuilding to the next week at the same time Burn of the round with Dave full of bow only on heavy muscle

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO INTERVIEW WITH IFBB PRO MILOS SARSEV Part 1 of 5 [PalayjkC4F8].txt ===

Heavy muscle, real. Our next guest is an accomplished IFBB Pro Bodybuilder, best known as the Mind. He has trened many top IFBB bodybuilders, as well as himself to victories in the Pro ranks. We have not heard very much from him the last couple years, but we got him back here, only on our X muscle. Welcome Milo Sarchev. Hi there, thank you for having me. We tracked you down at the Tuckawal, but we found you in the Dominican Republic of all places. How the heck did you get there? Well, actually, I got you. I was in a few months, I went for a bodybuilder, a type of traffic booth, and a pleatum. IMeT3 guys from the American Republic, and we were just trening with a super intensity. And as I decided, I wanted to go back in trening and made it compete in 2000s. I asked for me to build extra reconsidered heavy mid-year, so I can maybe work for the gym and do my best. I'm sharing with them. So that you can make me tren with my friends at the Clon Call of Scemo, who I'm called as Rayas and I'm a Guillermo. They're my favorite partners in the Mexican Academy, in the five weeks. Actually, six weeks, not that I tren, I'm pretty much back to my normal offseason kind of condition. So, 52 in the United States, so I believe I'm going to compete next to this year actually 2000s. Like a movie, we start at the end, and then we go backwards. So right now you're at 252, things are going well, you putps your size back on, you're thinking about getting back on stage again. And the truth of the matter is that it took you, you've been through a lot of drama the last several years. And I wanted to just take people back, because a lot of people think, thought maybe you went crazy, some people were saying you died, some people were saying that all kinds of crazy stuff I heard. I heard rumors up there. You made my rumor, middle-sale, like I don't have anything wrong with me. So, what number one, let's go back to when you had you gym. The Coliseum gym was one of the most hardcore gyms in the country probably. Everyone who went there loved the gym. I saw you at an Olympia, I think you were at a booth promoting the gym. What happened to the gym exactly? Because I've heard stories of you breaking into your own gym, stealing your own money, what happened? Give us the whole time frame and when this all went down. That crew, which just said, IMean, probably only in America, this can happen to keep him getting to be owned face to a business. Actually, it's not called a film gym, it's real shot from called film gym. July to 2010, I was arrested for pursuing my own money from my own life at my own personal business. How does that happen to me? So exactly you tell me, I came to the gym to pick up the father's. I picked up the deposit, I was going to weigh out. My daughter was going to cry waiting for me to get to two minutes of the father's doing. We can drive home. I was attacked by my wife at the time of the business partner. The one who had a little more starts, the same. Correct, because she had a problem that I took the baguette of the deposit. This is something that you did all the time, right? You did every day, did the same routine. For 11 years. Okay. Of course, you have a security camera as a manager. I don't know if you've been there, I don't even remember the very people who were. He thinks about five steps from the best where I had the father's to the baguette or my daughter. So IMade those five steps when I came out and I was attacked from behind. Actually, I was punched in the head from behind to the point that I dropped the bag. Who punched you? My last step. The last step. Your sister from London should be milling Mars. Sister. Sister. Exactly. And again, if somebody really knows about pressure points and martial arts, it's actually a special pressure points that call Vimpool behind the right ear. And if you know, I have a huge library of the energy that's started through theology and that's of me, the psychology and martial arts. So actually, I had that book through the pressure points. So you try to really want to check. It's called Vimpool right behind your right ear. If you want to kill somebody that's too soon when you hit them. Right? Do you think that she was trying to kill you? No, I'm not going to say it like this. Is it not a little clen to do this or are you out of all places to defunct exactly there? It's kind of, you know, a multi-level thing, right? That was she a strong lady. IMean, I'm trying to imagine gettinGHit by a woman. Actually, yeah, it's not some lady and that's why I was actually quite shocking that I was from the time show a little girl on the 20 times. Maybe actually drop the bag of her folding. So anyway, that was the case. She was still swinging around and I checked the punch me, I basically flat her. And I'm seeing this, hopefully, you know, and I also am flat in every country I saw, means warning my punishment. There you have this, there's static. Right. My daughter was missing all that stuff and basically, in police reports, actually, she's just exactly that. I can close, I've seen my father coming in with a bag. My aunt and my mother attackinGHim from behind. My aunt and my she and my head. My mother is taking the bag right back inside and my father is flat my aunt. She came to the car and he drove home. And that's pretty much exactly what happened. Now, if you can tell me, you know, didn't you know, didn't you? Why would anybody, your own wife, attack you in the driving bag? She's trying to rob the money from you. Is that what you were trying to do? Actually, what this happened is for 10 years, that I'm running the business. There was 16 photo of businesses run from my gym. There were all these names and that's not registered. I don't sell any, it's close office. It's anybody who wants to check if they can go to our own county clerk and record it about this. So, let me ask you a question. Were you making good money at the gym at the time that this all went down? Yes, I was making these in my place for 10 years. Again, everybody is in gym business. They know it's probably not the best gross thing business. But you know, you can lose comes to the lick. And I was to have a gym for a lot of years. So, there was a decent business, but I had a three additional business next to that. However, gym business alone, as a close fitness, I took a photo of gym with making a certain profit. At the same time, my wife has registered 16 different businesses as a nurse, a shatial co-steam gym. With a carry, wheelchair co-steam fitness center, wheelchair co-steam with a fee. Then, of course, you'll gear co-steam there. And all this can be proved there in the town in the orange county clerk's court is up. It's an open parameter to check. There was 16 different businesses with my wife's family was running inside my gym. And the reason why they attacked me was because in that deposit that day, they were sexually deported for the physical business, not just for mine. Wow. So, the reason why they attacked you like the light of the pan on it is because they would be a proof of everything they were doing behind my back. Oh, so, they were, this money that you were taking was from all these side businesses that they were running? Yeah, that's true. They're doing a special day to come home because they were very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very much to the, what's been to the airport. And it was quite late, so they probably didn't count on the new county with that day. And so, they were not careful and, you know, they had that all this different business in that bag. So, when they do the bag, you know, it's coming out, of course, they attack me. How much money was in that bag, Milas? I didn't have a chance to open it. I'm going to check it because there's this bag that I took the money to the bag, I was going to make car. My daughter was waiting for me, obviously, had something PM. So, it was going to be late. And, you know, when they attacked me, this was going to be my, a lot of the door. So, my daughter was visiting. Inside, for different cameras, we were pointing at the place, you know, to prove what they have to do inside. But, to make some very short, certain minutes later, police officers came to my home in China. I didn't really do my rights to be in the American, it just directed me. It's just been to the airport and TV and in the station, he told me my charges and charges were. Rather, he ran past the domestic violence, charges and charges and agents. And I was just in shock. So, I told him, it's really what did I steal? So, he said, yeah, I stole from my own wife. I think it's really, how's him personally, in the United States, is the institutional of the marriage, the community property, you know, from the south. Every side said, I didn't take anything because I didn't end up with a bag. But, you know, I use the course. I say, excuse me, there's a poor camera in the inside, and there's a may witness from the outside, you know, telling me in the exact same way what happened because she did tell police officers you know, straight in that day, what happened, however, I was over the left. Now, obviously, my daughter, I can put the gun statute of blind justice, held his new identity. And it's so close. I was in the United States, right? I can't share with the free. I'm a criminal guilty of that. It's a little bit more problem of a criminal case. But, obviously, you see what I end up. I was in the 24 days in the National Security jail, waiting for a free Trial. They keep bus-growing and bus-growing and post-blowning. And finally, on the free Trial date, my only witness, my daughter, was actually taken by my wife in Canada, so she couldn't attend the free Trial. And my wife, doing so that's, you know, for questioning. So, my family, hearing, excuse me, don't hear me hearing. You know, with that, and I would tell that I need to be a treatment rating for my children. I would teach child and parents, and then I got no problem for a child. Now, when you have a maximum security jail, to the 24 hour lockdown, and you spend it in the days, obviously you're spent considering your options. I was never going to be the guilty. I was always speaking to my parents, and, you know, I've had it like this, and I hide a lawyer from the other girls. Robert Burston, or I said, that's the good guy's defense of the family. You have a bunch of kids there, and that's nothing, because they were just like postponing it, because they're alive day, and then I chose to play guilty, you know, get 10 or 10 48 days' firm and probation. So, this is what happened in the meantime. Let me ask you, let me stop here for some time. Because I know what people are wondering right now. We got to try to get into the mindset of your ex-wife, why would Mil and Mar want to do this to you? Why would she want to attack you, take money, which obviously she felt was hers, and then charge you and get you thrown in jail. What was the purpose? You guys were supposedly married. What was going on in the marriage at this point? I was in a high-fin Rocky marriage as an infant, but if you didn't listen from being, my wife opened a 15 different businesses behind my back. It was 15 total 15 behind my back. What kind of business do we talk about here, Milas? It's online supplements, online clothing. There was just some food in the kitchen. If you can, it's a kitchen gym. Sometimes you're going to get a recipe that goes to a kitchen, sometimes in the kitchen, gym, sometimes with a... Oh, Milas, that's a powerhouse gym, Milas, that's a road gym. You know, so all these businesses, they would basically grow different copies. So she was following money out of your main business. Is that what she was doing? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. For years, you have to learn the why would somebody do that, right? That's what I'm doing. That's what you answer. And you know, two focus, I was going to learn later. I know that many people, of course, especially my savings, get big enough money to become a public delusional and a gigantic, thin, god knows what else. You know, auto-mame-mime, but you tell me, if I can Milas actually be accused in charge for studying, he's only running from Milas at your post-unsyms.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO INTERVIEW WITH IFBB PRO MILOS SARSEV Part 2 of 5 [G7G7div1x0c].txt ===

IMean, can you be accused of stealing money from Alex Massell if you are the only owner, for example? IMentioned that I can enjoy the accused of being a leader enterprise in South America. IMean, shouldn't mind bothering to me and I always wondered that the people even think for a second before they said something to them out and saying whatever. I was charged for robbery and grand-tathed space. Some of the intimate international news is going to be a key. What did I feel? My own money? What went on when you were in jailed, Milis? Who was watching over the gym and running the gym? Was your wife still doing that? Well, yeah, she was the only trusted family and female. And then of course when I came out, she was a basic enclosed, and she was a victim by the new owners of the building. In the meantime, I'm okay with the most important thing for Gadgeta. I got a three year old restaurant owner that I came up to the gym to the house, or how I did it, the way from my daughter, my wife, and my sister-in-law. So you can't go to your own gym? You can't go to your own gym. You can't go to your own gym for your own house, right? It's the two years of seniority. Wow. Now, what you saw on her of the gym, which her name on the gym leases well. No, IMean, everything, if you, I, I was just a village and a lot of international management management, I was not your new. So IMean, I think that I had instantly a couple of given career. Oh, you know, so of course she was 50% older as they gave her that, of course. So, you know, I'm actually, imagine becoming out from the jail, finding out the total credit card for cancelled, the bank accounts were closed, and then you cannot go to the media or your houses that had a two houses, one in the next year or one in China. Neil, it's after you listen to what you just told me, people are going to be thinking one of two things. It is only one of two possibilities. Either you're a homicide lunatic or your wife is completely nuts, because what are you guys' lines? Or the truth is somewhere in between. IMean, I still don't get the whole concept. It sounds like she's very angry at you and she was trying to get almost like a revenge type of thing against you. Did you guys ever talk after this whole thing went down and try to work through what might have been the reason why she did all this to you? I know, of course, she was always denying everything. You know, calling me every man in the book, because it was an old foreign country, which IMake you name it. The truth is always, the good enough amount I had all the two. Everything that I had actually, was in my car that I came to court and my April 8th, when I finally had my lawyer Robert Prince, who was the first person to go to the attorney that day, because before that I had to public defend her. So as I hired him, he told me he cannot accept any of this proof before he's a fishery my lawyer. So as the plan, I showed up at the April 8th, when I'm on the court date for a hearing for him to ask for a suspicion and after the hearing, I was going to give him all the, the proof. The proof was on a computer and the print is like about 5,000 pages of everything that I had for many years, you know, to prove with them things. About 38 different credit cards in the money that I didn't know about. Numbers alone, bank loans, that on my name, that my knowledge throughout the years, to life insurance policies for many of our each with me there, it needs to be even insured in my life thing, as the only one in the fishery. My little, that I never basically signed, but obviously was signed and I interesting to get you on the given, it's easy to know but he accepts my life for the show, the only thing in the fishery as well. So all these things flew right there. And basically when I was there in April 8th, my dad was excited as my wife flew to the hospital after all, because I had to stay on the 50,000 bail, and that's how I was actually out and I was traveling. And that's hearing I asked her a judge and the topic defender permission to go back to the river far air to visit my mother. But they gave me that right, that the thing that exactly where I was that I was neither far there telling, but when I came back, parents the bail bondsman was afraid that I tried to flee the country and they sent her a bail stating that my wife flew the house of the collateral. So there was an examiner that was directed at the same moment. I gave the key because I was directed in the court. I gave the key to my lawyer, I told him exactly everything is there. You know, make sure that you take his and as we as a key. What they found out was that he's doing pay the key or the citizens the same day, the same day when they gave the attorney to the criminal accounts and the attorney's attorney's file was not there. That file was already towed to my house and the claim to them that there was nothing inside. So there was no evidence. So all your evidence that you collected was got rid of by someone. All the evidence that you had accumulated was disappeared. Yeah, it disappeared. The file was passed in front of my house. I read through my life, that's the car. And I got to my computer and got for the evidence. And obviously she denied this. No, I'm out of my mind that was going to take in the car. Now, were you supposed to leave the country? Is that why they re-arrested you when you came back in? No, IMean, in the center, I allowed by the judge and metodling defender to go one month to the business, my mother. And so far, in the previous hearing summary and the February, when I asked for permission to travel in my mother's 70 years old and not be read itself. Obviously, very much affected by my situation and editing. It's happening to me. You know, when there's the reason to be the permission of the judge, but apparently I did not report to my daughter, but I'm sure that they're both independent and traveling. And the examiner is my bail. Wow. So you get back in jail. What was it? IMean, you were in a maximum security prison you told me. Yeah, the maximum security jail, much security prison. Oh. So it's an honest county, a maximum security jail. You know, a lot of lawyers say, I don't want to act as any, you know, I don't want to simply show anyone and know that stuff. I think anything in life happens for reason. I think I'm guilty of alloweding all this to happen. And I learned the lesson and I actually appreciate what they're learning, how to actually describe the profession, every little thing and be grateful for. You know, because one thing is jail and realize, you know, the other side and the other life and how, you know, people are when you don't have anything and you don't have your freedom and you have told them to get out and went to go to the bathroom and separate that. You know, you said to appreciate it what you have. I think as many of people you guys says don't realize you know, that and feel, you know, the kid who's taken away. I have a 40 hour lockdown in the history of the San Diego in a six man cell. And you have a one hour day to maybe a walk, take a shower and then see TV and they did make a phone call. Wow. So, so, how long were you in jail for total? 24 days. Wow. That was, was anyone messing with you? Did they all like asking questions about working out and stuff like that? IMean, you know, I don't know what school. IMean, that's what you get to do. So, I think you have real quick about trening and about designing and efficient implementation. Pharmacology, if you know what IMean? Sure. You're lucky. You got all that knowledge. Those guys love that stuff. Yes. And speaking about it is not giving you. So, of course, I told him how to use the sickly supplements if you will.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO INTERVIEW WITH IFBB PRO MILOS SARSEV Part 3 of 5 [E-1-hSc-UOo].txt ===

Did they have steroids in jail or is that not? No, I haven't seen it enough. No, because I know some jails they do, probably not the lockdown you were in, I'm sure. No, no, I haven't seen nothing there. IMean, I haven't seen a vitamin C. What are you eating? What are you eating on a daily basis of the baloney sandwiches? Yeah, because when I was in San Francisco, and then I was first in a red set of white sets, the yellow sets, IMean, basically, that there are two, usually, you wouldn't even serve to the dogs. You know, you know, a horrible, horrible, IMean, a non-etitial value, you know, this packet calories, you know, all that stuff. So actually, you know, that and lots of times of muscle, and I was very, very much, which was expectable, you know. The dog, you know, that experience, one thing that they learned over day to the body of the food, because when you don't have a food and when you're starving, then you realize, you know, what light is I, over a little bit, you know, triple-plescent light, you know, when I was out, you know, I was taking a picture of the food and editing out, you know, differently. It's, IMean, I know first hand, I wasn't in as difficult as situations you were. I wasn't in lockdown 25, three hours a day, but I know what it's like to lose my freedom, and you really have to surrender when you were in there. Did it change you when you were in prison when you got out? Do I, you like a different person, how do you think? I know I was. I did, but as a believe it, I was there for a reason and I know, it's something that's found that don't regret being there because I really, I valued my life in my dictionary now, and I'm enjoying it, you know, moment of it. Now, when you got out of prison, at some point, I don't know, what year was this, what was the date you got out of prison, you remember? Uh, yes, July 7th. Of what year? It depends on the 11th. Okay, this year. Now, right, right, right, let's just be less sure. So in July, you get out of prison. At what point did you realize the gym was in jeopardy, and they were going to probably, you know, close you down? Uh, the gym was always close from December, you know, from the family who's closed as decadently shared with you, and it's just re-altern on the different main and supposed with different owner, you know, in a United States, you know, when you have a lot of business advisors, legal advisors, and that's when bankers, and business associates, you can very easily pretend that somebody else owns the building and somebody else has the ownership of the gym, and on the basically everything is clear. My life is in a business, is my ex business partner, and your wife still owns the gym. Is that what you're saying? Is your wife still owns the gym? Uh, not some of the bankers. Uh, oh boy. But she's in the gym. She works at the gym, and she's there. Uh, well, I'm not theorized, it's safe to confirm that, and other people who can check in, and if they're not for themselves. IMean, somebody's a gentleman, you know, she's the interviewer, and somebody should be here for a couple of days. I would love to be on the same show with her, you know, because maybe I'll get her. I'll call her up. I got to call her up, but you got to get her on the phone and see what she says. Maybe you can go right now. Yeah, I don't want to get her while you're on the phone. That won't go well. We know how that went last time. You got, you went and get in the hit behind the ear and I was killed. What? What happened now? The timeframe in my mind is a little screwed up. What happened when you, I remember reading in the newspaper that you also got arrested for breaking into your own gym? Was that when was that the whole episode with your wife calling the cops? Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was the main thing. That was the thing. That's the official initial charge. You know, it's just a different portion of the, I was, I didn't break into the gym. I came to the gym, pick up deposits and I was meeting all the bathrooms and I was a chargemaker as it said. The robbery was going to pass the salt. The medical items and all that stuff. Wasn't the gym though closed? At that point, Milas, I thought they shut you down. At some point, is it a failure to pay something? So originally, I was arrested July 6, 2010. Right. Okay, and the regime was working. A gym was closed in December of 2010. Right. And I was arrested again in April of 2011. As it had, when they came back for hearing, having my lawyer from Beverly Hills, that was doing like a strengthening. And, uh, January 3, 2013, which was July 7, 2011. As I retired to three of you here to get out of that place. Because really, as you can imagine, you can really play to your mind and learn and learn and learn. You know, you know, so IMade my choice. No. So they closed? Why was the official closing of the gym when you weren't supposed to be there anymore? What day was what day was that? I was in December of 2011. I was staying over 2000 and 11. No, I carried 2000 and 10. Okay, so you were continuing to operate out of the gym, even though they supposedly closed you down. Is that what was happening? No, no, no, no, the gym was closed. So why are you going there to pick up the posits then? Uh, IMean, you have a vaccine at the gate. So the light 10, the light 8 of a 2000-10 gym was here. Okay. I was operating the business and this is when I was arrested. Oh, you said that you said the 2011 before. I think you might have messed up the day. The July 2010. Okay. The Chandler's salary is changing and flowing. Got you. Six months later. You never went back to the gym after that while it was closed? No, no, I had no right. Okay, I didn't think so because I was the story that was going on. I wanted to clarify that so you were got attacked by your wife and you were arrested. In June, July of 2010, while the gym was still open, obviously when you were in jail, continue to operate and then at some point in December, they closed you down permanently. Is that right? Got you. Exactly. All right. Now, what happened following when you got out of prison the second time, I heard rumors that you were sick. You had cancer. Will any of these true? IMean, I probably died five times according to the rumors and I have had a disease on her. You know, you know, I had to Sunday leave the rumors. I just didn't want to be involved in any of those working boys because if you know, you say you're a lot and then they caught your mother, you know, because you don't suppose to say hello. You know, try the years you have been involved in a, you know, getting that jam and my, that's like yours and being on. I tried to strengthen all that you're checking for people, you know, I tried to give advice directly for free. We'll be speaking about our, you know, our ex-myself, I was getting an ad, the description recommendations, but because I know that the victim here, compared to the using right. As you know, I'm a lot of experience which is in fact the subject, I'm not perspective director, people are talking is actually constructed as drug medicaments, but promote projecting metabolism. The only thing is abuse. So I was trying to discourage those, those, those are on these boards to believe that the professional body is a thank you enormous amount because they don't, you know, they use much less of people to believe. So when I post the actual cycle, you know, they, they, they, they, they, they, they, they're talking about the big of a flight on the race and the, and over the main of the books. But you know, there's a lot of haters. IMean, what can you do? You guys just to be helpful and there. Yeah, I'm up there to say so. I love where I see and I check the situation before. Yeah, we have to stay on our boards, our boards are a little bit less negative than some of these other boards. Yeah, I love that. I'll have to restore you, me, less because we, we need you. More people like you were telling a, giving good advice. Are you concerned with the state of of professional body building? Because there's been a couple people. I know a good friend of yours look would just recently pass away from kidney failure. What, what, what's your take on that whole situation? Well, we are, we look at the very, very kind of minds that such and so, you know, and he was actually trying to communicate with me. I didn't know that he had a, a kidney trensplant. And I actually had a radio show for Australian radio companies that day before he died. And I actually made even, you know, kind of joke about him or, hey, you know, somebody tell me, can you check the unique thing for what people are doing and following. And the next day he died, you know, the, just run for a heart. And you think a lot of the message guys, I'm sure that you know, would be mad him, you know, the factory's individuals. You know, he was just physically probably not trying to be extreme in another strength of that word because it's extreme sport. He'd be extreme things. So, kind of the sum of the things affected his renal system and kidneys. And he hasn't had that trensplant. As you know, he's going to be only probably the kind of trensplant. But he's got to be objective. So, that's the tragic thing. And the, and the guy goes to his family. You know, I actually had that to play. He's thought that he was not there. And then, he's definitely moved to me. And a lot of us can have to say really crushing you from me. Now, you know, you and I both know that kidney failure usually has a lot to do with high blood pressure. I think this probably a lot of pro bodybuilders out there. Even other regular bodybuilders that probably have a lot of undiagnosed high blood pressure, which is why they call it the silent killer. Do you try to encourage your athletes to get more health checkups and blood work on a regular basis? Because I think a lot of bodybuilders just ignore it. Here's how the unit in this section is, back in 1998, the Central Pistol Pro-Indefacial. I had a bit of a contact from Baffle Labs, a camin to the police meeting and offering. To all the athletes, you know, or blood checkups, you know, random unit in the program. And I think the 28th pro bodybuilder is with us. Of course, there is some fatty and zel, like some bacteria in the inhibitor at the time. But they offer a free Test. And one of the athletes due to get test actually was worn. You know, this is what pressure his kidneys were in a dangerous way. And this opposition man, then he actually had a problem. I had to learn how to respect the naming and the nets. I was always in an exaggeration from anybody that works with the community that got test. You know, to check the formal levels and all the comprehensive bodybuilders out. Is this really the health? Do you think that, if the person be healthy? No, it's, do you think that they should have, I'm against drug. I'm against steroid testing, I think it's ridiculous because we know all bodybuilders take them. Do you think they should have what we call health testing where before a competition, if your blood pressure is not good, if like gross abnormalities, where your health is acutely in jeopardy, do you think that they should disqualify you or not allow you to compete because of this? Well, I did another give a call of that. I understood the presumed as my answer. However, I can tell you something the other bodybuilders should take. Actually, push into the dangerous levels of the dehydration due to the standard. And when we talk about the blood pressure, right, but you are taking the aeretics and the height of the yourself. And it's possible to wait to achieve that condition. You needed the dehydration. You can be serious. It's a health issue and we need to bet. So I think that just judging criteria and the time to do is fortunately for five from time. Yes, it's accepted for the different states. It's extremely hydration to have the full dry look. Basically, you know, health hazard is the biggest risk there is. You know, I think that the men of the aerodynamic families, they're not seem to call them as close as they actually abuse their aeretics. You know, because as you know, many of the bodybuilders believe it should take one. It's been a given result, but if you take 10 is going to be 10 times better. So my results will take 100. Yeah. Well, 200. And this is times wins.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO INTERVIEW WITH IFBB PRO MILOS SARSEV Part 4 of 5 [W5eLKz0XTHI].txt ===

What do you think about what's the crazy amount of drugs you've ever heard of a bodybuilder taking? Well, I'm going to tell you like this. I should not say the name, but let's say you're up in bodybuilder, then it's kind of this close. I'm the living proof that no amount of service can kill you. IMean, really, I was being probably regretting the Chinese Senate's sentiment with statements about 80 cc of virus injectables a day. What? It'll happen. I think, third day. Oh my god. 80 cc, you know, you may not have said that. You know, if you would call it a cocktail. You know, it was shocking. Actually, most of my athletes from the head of working with them, you know, the dramaticity of these, they're very good. You know, were they surprised? Were they surprised? Were the athletes surprised when you said you got to stop taking so much? Yes. Many of them, because they actually believed the series, you know, some, you know, there's a lot of people like to, you know, believe that they're doing this like that because they're doing this more than anybody else. Right. Well, IMean, actually, when I get one of those messages that I have seen, you know, in 15 years, I was competing at the Ivy League broke. And again, they're going to say how many believe they got in, I say, well, you can never really believe to nobody if they've been somebody's consistent and for 10 years, you may hear the same thing. And you can believe. Now, I was there, I was entitled for the Patriotic Competitors. And many times, those shots were the amount of the, I recommend, which are, you know, much more of the documentation. And this is going to point out, you know, it's much better to pay just more and more just like a certain point that the benefits stop the entire fight to overcome the benefits. You're absolutely right. You know, the truth is also, IMean, you could validate this, when you and I were speaking back in the 90s, back when I was over 300 pounds and you were up real heavy and you're best. IMean, IMean, you have to have the other two. The dosage is where much lower. I tell people at the time, knowing used more than a thousand milligrams of test back then. And people don't believe me. I hadn't said this and get big in the summer, said it this your mother is the horse. Yeah. You're right. But I'm glad you're here to validate this. People didn't use as much drugs in the 90s, even though they look like they did, because I think that people trened harder back then. Yes. And they've been realized so much on the, you know, from the physical. If you're big ass this and I know, I'll get big. I posted, I know, he's one of the 10, 100, 50 milligrams of test a week. You know, for me, that was the, Microsoft, those that found this necessary. I'm sure that you can tell us about two geniuses. Whether it's a study, it's a anybody can do the little. With a can of the people that was under normal level of the pattern of the nuts. Meating of the, the low levels of the pattern, but normal level of the pattern, the tests on taking a 600 milligrams a week, a 10 week straight and they had a zero negative side of the types of and many benefits from it. Yeah. I've run this, that yes. Yeah. That study, that's very, very good many times when it comes to a lot of the. The reason to people that that actually just went from home on for a hundred types of happy. It's not a necessary to say more and it's not dangerous to think that much. Right. But again, it's probably for you again. IMight regret it later. You know, it's going to be like promoting something that I don't suppose. Well, you know what, but people people don't realize that when you overwhelm your body with toxicity, because of so the over use of what you're taking, your body can't process protein and build muscle anymore because it's so toxic. So actually taking too much can actually inhibit muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in essence. Yes. Yes. It is all kinds of type of cast-k, the V events that can trigger all kinds of systems to fail. You know that the real failure is a bit of a pit-bottomsail or a cardiovascular, all that stuff. You know, once you, you are affected by the negative, you know, everything goes down. So, you know, I'm about to say that you know, it can all go down the body and be simultaneously even hit the body. And as I said, it promotes constricted metabolism. So it's not just dangerous, drug-etpecially medicaments made for medical purposes, even for treatings. So when you are going to be victim like that was in 2004. First thing that I got in the burn unit was the frontal lome. You know, Dr. Tantumi and Tomi Lichoke, as sure, we're going to, you know, implement on the burning theories in you. And so I want you to be aware of, but there's this case, though, what were my goals, which, you know, because the more the using it, I was given like 20 million people who stand along to treat day-to-day running into the medical purposes of the spring center. And so anyway, the family actually healthy medicaments, they can enhance health of many individuals. They use right. You know, I remember this many times. I remember when you, when you were burned, because I remember you me and Rick Collins had lunch, some sushi in San Diego there where I was, had my trial going on. And you had just gotten, I guess it was a week after you had gotten burned doing some, what were you doing? Like a stunt for some movie or some... Yeah, yeah, I was being made stunts in, you know, I guess the cut and fire and I had a 43 burn in my face and the arms and back. And I actually told you, I actually said to you, I said, mellas, you look like you just got a facial peel. You're skin looked great, actually. You said it was from the starry, you told me it was from the ball the starry tailing it. Yeah, yeah, the parents didn't make me look so young. Well, let me tell you, I don't have anything like it, so I set for life, of course, skin, skin, and that age you pretty much turned on yourself. Yeah, tell me about it. I see. Actually, maybe you just cut them fire again or get the face. Yeah. We could talk about steroids probably for a whole shust. Let me, let's take a step back again. You got out of prison. How did you win? Where did you go right after prison? What did you just start doing for money? Did you immediately leave the country or go to Finland or was there, someplace in between before that? And where actually, in a fluency, as I said, I was a human, a restrening order, initially from a judge, it was led a lower to peaceful contact. I think they actually contacted my daughter, you know, under supervision in my wife's life being there. So, as soon as the gem out of the jail, I'll go again, pet him by my wife, which is very colorful these again. You know, I could say in a house and it's time to go to Finland. Now, I'm actually going to Finland September 8th for the Nordic Pro show there. What was your connection to Finland? Who wanted you out there? What made you decide to pick that country? Actually, I was a patient that was there. That interested in me, not with girlfriend. No female. Okay. This is a reason for a program to leave, right? How do you meet women in Finland? Do you face Bucke or what did that he did that? Well, I was here to say that. Actually, if you ought to just better change, you can accept the change. No, I was just guessing. I know you're a big face Bucke, that's why I asked. No, that's the reason why I should accept and I did it one day and I'm going to be too far and I'm going to go. Are you still with this girl? You're broken up. I'm not sure if you're a professionalist. I'm not going to be here. I'm here and I'm going to make your father. I didn't say, how do you get from Finland to Dominican Republic? Well, as I was in Finland, I was invited to Charlotte and my childhood should be. Charlotte's polyclin. You went to with Charles Polyclin in seminar. Correct. And then, as I was there, teaching, I actually met the types from the American Republic. My friends in Chinese partners in a great guy. I went to see more and IMet him in one of our careers. And I basically assumed he was interested that I had and drive and desire to tren. So I came to him and met up into the trening mode. You know, when you have an experience of a lot of trening. You know, it's kind of, you look very excuse in the book to meet the workout. I could never really get back into trening. Well, I was in Finland with some reason. But then, when they came here, the rate was there. I said trening and the trening is a good thing days a week. You know, two power, high intensity. Now, I know that Charles Polyclin has a house in the Dominican Republic. Is that how you wound up there? Because Charles pointed you in that direction. He had shot his morning. Like he was the coach on the mind. He was the only one who did this right. This back to the value of great deal. His acting is many fields. Not just in trening. But I love you. The fourth thing is the one also that the community is a family. IMean, the food here is somebody who's in a climate, you know, there's no pollution there is that it benefits the day here. You know, but again, there's others, hot shit. It's a good way out. What are you doing there? Are you trening people? Yes. I just don't actually online and it's kind of consulting. I do this here in the National Institute of Medicine. I do a separation for our content for many athletes, from Asia, from Europe, from Latin America. And I do this exercise. You know, one of the exercises we know for people is just some fresh and expensive. So you do video, cut this video, Skype consultation. What is it cost to do a video, Skype consultation with Milo Sartre? Yeah, I trust $250,000. $350,000. $350,000. Now, will people stay on the line with you for more than an hour? Is that usually enough? Yeah, usually, you know, in the 20 hours. I'm not really sure if you're looking at the clock, if you're carrying it. Right. In one hour, you can be much in a taste. Just about a bit of a bit of a taste. I think you're under charging. I would do $350,000, $350,000. If I were you, you're Milo Sartre. Hello, I'm pleased to be my aide. I think you're two cheap Milos. How do people hook up? How do they contact you if they want to do these Skype things with you? All right. Yes. I just said my advice, I've never done it in a sense. I've done something that can be established, you know, with the downper for your wife. Wasn't on there? No, you can't do that because I won't be surprised if she captured this again. Yeah. And the taste looks, you know, you know, I'm fortunate there's about 10 year old Shatches on Facebook. I know, it's still. I actually even communicated one day. I had a great fun, you know, pretending in somebody else. There must be a few opinions of me. But what can I do? IMean, people do that. Yeah. So, um, you know, if you're from a plug-in, some of the tags, then that would be great. So you should be made. Yeah. I think you're definitely under charging Milos. What does it cost to do, uh, contest prep with Milos for 16 weeks? Uh, 2000 online. Okay. That's a reason. That's a good amount. That's a fair price. Now, what made you decide to want to go back to competition? What, what sparked you? IMean, how old are you? You got to be my aide, right? You got to be at least 43. Yeah. Thank you. I'm 47. Are you 47? Wow. Yeah. So, uh, yeah. I wish I knew. I'm, uh, I've seen, uh, being fairly at stage of 51 in the best shape of his life. Right. Uh, chances of the product age of 49 is the same show that was, uh, started at Grand Prix at 16, 2006, uh, in the best shape of his life. So, I was going to get a shadow that's in your minute. I was going to, uh, operate at 50. They actually can still achieve the, uh, the greatest of their experience. But there's really no excuse. In 1991, when I, as did not go to the view in South of Zay, I competed with the legend of the breakfast. But, uh, following the weekend, they made a whole pair of additional, if you won. And he was 61 years, uh, praise it at the time. Praise him. Uh, I didn't know the positive through his name back then. And then, because the manual trade is really only lambda.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO INTERVIEW WITH IFBB PRO MILOS SARSEV Part 5 of 5 [ZZCvdx3esds].txt ===

I have seen some unmatched by the business in Spain, for example, at age of 76, which you would not believe, the condition that is really. Yes, so it's a few of the jobs, you know, I just found that the hazard of bodies is at least six months, we're being completely at a sort of one in different, you know, so it's very cycles, you know, as a turnover, you know, when we talk more into an over, it's a different over. I have a big fan of the great questions online, you can notice some of my mathematics algebra, your question is on, and I thought it was a good one, but those great courses went out on the few of the past 80, 90 and 100 years old, and I think it's been basically in fact waiting to die, so they put them on the trening program, trening resistance, based in trening, and they're high-fledged by the pressure and the results are astonishing, so that was a proof that even 100 years old can highly benefit from trening. You have a legit year old guy's and I get an up-on on a pro-body-bullies staging, competing against the best guys in the world, how do you think it would you be as good as you were? The last time you compete? I don't believe that yet, I could be because if I don't believe it, I wouldn't be when we were a bother. You've said why can't we compete again, once we'recompeting with all this competitors, and once we're going to build our ability to build our own free body-filled, we can pay for breaks, and we're going to be really given there, but deep down in the heart, you know, the pitch for yourself. For four years, actually, the most visible thing for me was, you know, to deny that, and then dieting and being a body-builder. IMean, that must have been, yeah, that must have been your worst punishment I would think. Yes, yes, and I compete at 100-centimes, whether it's too bad, it's a professional, you know, so every time you give people to you, you know, you're overdoing it, you don't do it, and I get into that mode of approaching literally brothers and family, you know, to time for me to start and retire. So I feel that urge to do the fish-based self-agentic elements. And there is no better motivated than a deadline, right, when you have a contest, and you know, you're going to set on that stage. There is no excuse, you know, and you cannot miss a meal or a workout. Well, I'm looking forward to seeing you up on stage again. Let me ask you this question, your wife kind of drove you out of the country, so to speak. Is it tough not seeing you daughter? I gotta imagine that that's got to be really hard on you. Yeah, this is the hardest part for me, and my daughter is basically very easy for me. I'm a difficult taxi report, I had no choice because there is no time to have a trening order, then there's a special context, and I'm talking to her directly, she understands. She understands? Yes, she understands. Is she a daughter? How old is your daughter now? She's 13. Does she understand what's going on? Oh, yes, she understand exactly. You know, and she wants to mother, you know, and I want to listen to love her, and I don't want her to be bad to happen to her mother. But all these, I know a lot of people in my position that would think of some revenge or something, that's karma, whatever. No, I don't about myself to any cause like that. I wish her all the best, and I just hope she would be with mother to make child and to love her. I'm maybe to see her or in her position, maybe to have a good name, and it's a different point of the life. I think I'm going to come, Lary. I heard it's beautiful out there. Yes, please do. IMean, I think I can organize our X-Must-Bet. That's right. You can do the RX-Must-Bet, Dominican Republic division now, though. IMean, it's not like you can imagine that most of the planet is this. Yeah, that's what's good. It's always good to get a guy who's down on his lock, is there open to anything like you just said? That's right. Well, you know what? People, you know, everyone checks the knowledge that you have me listening. That's probably no matter how you do on a bodybuilding stage, you always have that respect of the bodybuilding community. And that's what I always pride in myself on. I didn't care how I competed, how I did. I did that because I liked it. IMean, people respect your mind and your brain and what you got going on in there. And hopefully we can start keep it directed in a positive direction, and you can start adding back to the sport that you love. Because that's really your greatest contribution, as far as I'm concerned. We are thinking of in the Repost-Metica as we said that all the perspectives we acknowledge. Unfortunately, I had another thing that you know, in fact, it's been from bad meaning behind it. But unfortunately, a lot of what it is, you know, followed the blind process, please, might be due. And often the nutritionists are really not nutritionists. They don't know what they're talking about, if it's either cookie-tatter programs to everybody. I know the key role original and you were older in the room to table and making changes in physics on a positive way. I was always paying to all my athletes. I run a bunch of them and I run my health. And if you want to my athletes, you want to have trening with you that they werecompeting constantly. I don't believe in that so-called offseason, you know, excuse me, to put people to get fat. I remember seeing you all that's in shape and you're the time example of what the difference being 24 and 7, 365 days in a year. Often, we see again, for just half-closed, you know, showing up on the stage in the American shape. And it's really for me to write things for that. So, obviously, you know, I never really used that off of the words because what does it mean? And you're no longer about it, you can eat whatever, you're going to be confused to get big. Not going to want to get bigger, they want to have a more muscle. You know, you can do the reason a lot of calories not to be overloading yourself, putting your 50 pounds in and pressing your heart to protect the head of the high blood pressure and all other kinds of negative health effects. So, I didn't even say in shape year round, you know, when you're trying to come to the content, you just think to me to minor attacks. We got to get some, you got to post some progress pictures up over the next couple of months, you know, so that on the RX muscles of people can see how you look. I'm looking forward to seeing you get to go, you're going to do come to 2000. This one, like you said, I don't know how long it's going to take me for me to be satisfied with my condition. I'm not going to try any contracts yet. Okay. And I expect this, this is six to eight months that would be ready to compete with something you're going to fall. All right, Milo Sarsha is back in action. We will see him on stage in 2012 and he's available for consultations via Skype or the internet. You could check him out at his website, MiloSarsha.com. Milo, thanks. I want to do some more of these because I got some, a lot of questions to ask you and I need a lot of knowledge to give to the RX muscle community. So, this is going to be hopefully one of many interviews we'll do. I think the three of these, I actually apologize for listening to the video. I just talked about my personal issues, but that was just answering your question. Now we have to get that out. Yeah, I would love to ask you to give my point of view and trening in nutrition because I do believe it's quite different. With people used to, it's not conventional, so maybe next time we can do that. Yes, we definitely will and we'll be in touch. The great Milo Sarsha. Thank you.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO INTERVIEW WITH THE CO HOST OF PHYSIQUE STAR RADIO VINCE ANRICH PART 1 OF 2 [v_yJyV-UFbI].txt ===

Every muscle real. Okay, our next guest, good friend of mine, been in the industry even long than I have, he's the new co-host of physique star radio. He's also an instrumental part of the new Myotropics company that Dr. Scott County has started up. It's my distinct honor to welcome Vince Andrews to show. How are you doing, Dave? Quite a beer. Vince, you've reinvented yourself way more than I have in this industry. Oh, I guess, you have to, right? Yeah, you're definitely like Madonna. You're like the Madonna of the supplement industry. Oh, man, never heard that one. What talk to us a little bit? For people who don't know who you are, tell us how you got started in the industry. Can you work for pretty much everyone? Yeah, I got started in this, I was a biographer. And I was selling products, based on that bottom from the distributor, and I was selling out of my condo. And so this is like in the 80s, and then started a company that was a distributor of nutrition, you know, forced nutrition, back when there was really only, I think, really three of us that focused on that. It was boss, public hearing. Public hearing. Yeah, and the Stella brothers. Right, they're out of business, right? Yeah, well, because Stella turned, of course, into optimal, and that's what they did. Oh, they did. Yeah, like, glamour, yeah. And then the other distributors were selling, you know, vitamins or all that stuff. So this whole idea of, you know, sports nutrition, only distributor kind of came around in the, like, mid 80s, 85, 86, maybe, and so from 88 to 92, right now, biophyphometrics started, I was a distributor. A big brand was twin lab, and weater, and, you know, that turned into my relationship with weater. And so then I went to work, I worked for weater nutrition for a couple of years, the devices and reports nutrition, and then actually the trade share of my wife met up to call, it's something like, and your other one of, move to California. And that's California. Yeah, that's California. So I went to work for Scott and metrics, and that's, what are we really met? Yeah. You know, metric that, right? And it was there for a couple of years, as you know, the company got sold, tried to stay there for a bit, but, you know, when a place gets sold, it's just never the same. No. And so probably other, most, you know, don't worry, but the one right from there to EAS, and EAS had sold two thirds, you know, Phillips had sold two thirds to an investment group, and they wanted to make sure that they're tough and fitness right at the business, didn't stall a part right away. And so I was a great opportunity. I got to go there and write just a couple of them that reviewed the fourth edition. Did they ever, did they even listen to you? Any of your recommendations? Well, you know, you need to do a little bit of a situation, because I do what they were up to. I knew what they wanted to do. They wanted to blow the revenue line up, and basically sell it again. And, you know, we've got a lot of things done in the health, on the health and fitness side, but when we didn't get any resources and compared it to what they were spending on everything else, a management there had big dreams of math, market, like all these companies did, and so they spend 90% on a budget on that, and we have performed them in our area, not really because we're mad at all, but because of what EAS had created, you know, what, what children have created over there was such a, you know, a brand. I guess loyalty, if it took a long time for that thing to die, but, you know, the power of the B certainly fit all they could to wreck the brand. And they could just, I call it, it's chip and chat or a few of the clen cheese brand, you know, they could fly it all down. During this period of time, had you been installing contact with Doug? Yeah, I wasn't contact with Scott, and that's when I left EAS. I took a position at full lab, and I started talking with Scott about doing something, and then Scott got sick. And so we had planned on doing some things at, probably in 2000, she was something like that, and it just didn't, you know, Scott went on and do up until research on different proteins, and I was consulting with another good, in the migraine humbuckal, you know, Ryan's attack. Of course. And so we were working with a, like, the mid-sized friends to help them in new tracks, and the biochast and FAA, and things like that. So, and other those are, kind of, and also something. And at what point, because I know I've been breaking Scott's balls for years, to start his own brand up again, and then he kind of got involved with that other company, and then kind of got screwed over. Well, what, how did you finally convince him to do his own thing? Because he always told me, oh, I don't want to get involved with this again. I hate to hate the business aspect of it. I like to research. How did you actually convince him to, to start over again, so to speak with my autropics? Uh, well, you know, and you're right, you know, Scott, the first month Scott has a lot of projects going to work, and his main interest is the science. And a lot of times, you know, the market or the marketing is he gets it, but it's, he doesn't notice it right away. And so, we have been talking about doing different projects, somewhere in the medical area, somewhere just research, and then we had thought about doing something with the creative brand called Myotropics, but no products were in it. And so then it was last Olympia, last September, I think I already told you this, I was walking around the show and I was like, okay, it's here. It's here, it's here. That's a market that we understand, meaning that's what I've done, and Scott's the perfect guy to deliver products for these guys because they want to be in lead. And they, and so it's a quick look Scott that this is a place to do it, and these athletes are sharing this enough to make the product. And I think that's operational enough to motivate other people to go, hey man, this is pretty cool. And Scott's always looking at like grow the market for weight trening and people who are going to watch the nutrition. And I think this looked like a great opening for M2, not only self-taught people that are serious, but maybe get away from the cheaper hardcore bodybuilding, but you know, can start looking a little funny. And everything is, I think Scott gets it. He also knows if you market to the people who want to get lean and put muscle on. The bodybuilders will invariably use your products anyway. So you kind of get both, you get two birds and one stone, so to speak. Yeah, that's actually the bottom line is, and going back to all the different companies and the consulting with big grand small brands. The big lesson is that you can only be as good as you're going to be good at what you're focused on. And so the market for the supplements are really actually trened. There's this, in my view, there's no such thing as like math markets and come on. Those people don't work out hard enough to even care in and out maybe at best. And so you really have to focus on the people who are going to do the work. And from there, you can get out of the people. You know, you're not up to tren what's the size and want to be bigger and bodybuilding. To the to the end to the great and to get other people going, you know, I never thought of a way trening and maybe taking a nutritional product like a meal replacement or something. But wow, I like the look what that. And so it's really kind of the perfect thing. I agree with you 100% I think that, you know, probably more people out there would rather look like a men's physique competitor than a bodybuilder. A lot of people don't have the genetic potential to look like a necessarily like a professional bodybuild. So the men's physique is a more attainable look. And I think that it's a good division that they brought into the sport because I think it's going to attract a lot more people that otherwise might have not gotten involved with the whole bodybuilding industry. So and really the market is on tap. No one has really been the champion. So to speak in quotes, of course, the champion of the men's physique world. I think the fact that Scott Connelly yourself and my tropics is going to get involved. And you know, you guys going to be giving me some contracts as the year goes on and giving a lot of opportunities. But to showcase these guys, it's a phenomenal thing. And you know, I think to the brain storm that you and I did as far as launching this radio show, physique star radio, is also going to be another way on a weekly basis to not only cover the sport of men's physique, but to showcase not just the men's physique competitors. But all people out there, whether they be celebrities or regular Joe Blow, who want to go to the gym to put muscle on and lose body fat. Yeah, I do know that's a hundred percent. IMean, one of the things that I know that Christian asked me about, like what's the difference between the bodybuilding thing and the physique. In some of the people who like all of the physique might be like a water down there's a bodybuilding. They really have like, okay, well, so you've never tried to get an inch on your arms and you've never really really done a diet. You don't get it. Okay, these are the deep guys are going to buck their ass. Okay, there's no question about it. It's not like the softer side of the shirt. It's damn hard. And so, you know, if you go back to the day when guys that maybe couldn't be the big guy, thought they think of Pete like the rain versus Arnold, I think you're going to bring that back. They're not going to have the same face. So these are deep versus, you know, a guy who completes the bodybuilding. But now it's, you know, a guy who thinks he can look like a zane could actually have a face to compete. And that's awesome. And nutrition becomes a much more important component of what these people are doing because the drugs become pretty much not an eye-to-not issue, because it's the aesthetic look that they're looking for. So your nutrition is going to be super important. And I love the fact that Connelly's new products towards that goal, what's this physique to point out product all about? I talked about it with Scott on the Heavy Musculerated Show last week, but I want to get your take on it as far as it relates to just everyday man and the people that arecompeting. Well, the, the genesis of the product really comes from, you know, single or individual components. And we've got, has the purchasing substrate technology. And basically that's what it has. There's components, the protein component, there's a carbohydrate component, and a go to the main two. Scott's been playing around with different protein and stuff like that, and, and some other things in the carbohydrate domain. And, and those make up this composite product. It's a meal replacement, basically, but it's really much more than that because it's really geared for someone who wants to. And so, it's not like this, I'm going to bulk up, die it down, it's not, it's, it's something that you can take a couple times a day. And, like you said, you know, you're going to have to rely on nutrition more than, you know, maybe so and some kind of chemical with the reout of your hat. And so you've got to be consistent and the, you know, the protein component and the carbohydrate component are specifically. And, uh, men should allow you to basically repartition your body, which is the bottom line for a physical guy, you know, you want more muscle, less body fat. That's the end of the day. And, yeah, I think that this is also a product that can be taken 365 days a year for these guys. It's now like something like you said there would be like bulk up offseason, product, and then a diet down product. You can use it probably while you're dieting, animal, bulking, just changing some of the other components of your diet, which is going to be. Uh, very, uh, I guess novel product because you know what it's seen like everyone strayed away from the mirror placement shakes the repartitioning technologies that kind of had, uh, basically, I guess invented in the early 90s. And now, kind of is bringing it back only even better than before. So I'm excited to try it. I'm waiting for my, my prototypes in the mail. Scott promises me you guys are going to send me sounds like a period out. Uh,

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO INTERVIEW WITH THE CO HOST OF PHYSIQUE STAR RADIO VINCE ANRICH PART 2 OF 2 [eNnqh9BTPjI].txt ===

You're definitely going to get some products. We had a couple of breaks on manufacturing and stuff. We're actually a little bit ahead of schedule, compared to what we thought would be. Back to your point about using this product, IMean, one of the things that's always struck me about how you're building in general, which I come from Las Vegas and I would go back to town and I'd shoot you guys and I know you don't get. They're always going to die for their next show. You usually never happen and no offense to any of them, but it becomes difficult. My view is they never get a grip on the nutrition part. They're always going, no, okay, I don't have to be tied on my diet right now. I can be tied on it at another time. It's really consistency and that's why I like this thing because you need to look good, you know, 350 out of 365 days out of the year. You can't just fly, okay, I'm going to look good twice this year or once this year. And you really have to watch what you're doing when it comes to nutrition. You won't get any work then. A lot of these guys are models and they do commercial stuff and advertising and ads and fitness modeling and yeah, you're right. You got to stay lean. Good try. Talk to me a little bit about physique star radio. We got this starting up this week. Actually, probably a little later in the week, we'll have the first launch of the first show, which will include yourself as the co-hosts with our men's physique, editor-in-chief, iron, lower and Scott Colleen, I will be doing a muscle university fitness or nutrition or whatever we want to talk about for the week segment. What is your segment for your portion of the show going to be about? There's a segment that I'm going to do with the iron that's going to be about trening, nutrition, but on a practical level, not the super science level, it's the lifestyle. And then we're going to bring in celebrities and or physique stars or up-and-comers. It can tell the audience how they're doing it. At the end of the day, for me, the life around you're trening in nutrition, they get to the wet. How do you manage that? People need to know how to do it. The other thing is when they learn from people who overcame, maybe thinking they're genetics, where they're that great, or somebody said, why you're doing this, that's motivational for a lot of people. A lot of what we're going to be talking about is real life situations, real life people, how they're doing it. We may have them off the wall trening methods or other things, but at the end of the day, it's going to be for the physique and through the issues. So if you really want to come further for the week, this is a place where you know, you can get involved because of any taken listener questions. And we're going to have a lot of, you've mentioned earlier, my autrophics itself, we're going to be looking for a whole crew of athletes because we want to get behind this whole movement. And the business has been good to Scott and I. And so we want to make this thing bigger and bigger and bigger. And you'll be a tremendous resource for men's physique. A lot of people, though, there is no place to find out information. IMean, aside from our men's physique.com, which is part of our our ex muscle.com website, on a daily weekly basis, it's nice to be able to have a radio show that you can listen to and find out what the newest trens are as the sporty vows because it is evolving. And it's evolving in a very rapid rate because it just started out and that always happens in the beginning. You know, I know they changed already. They changed from board shorts to tighter shorts, only black colors this year. Who knows the next year, there might be some poses involved. We don't know. There might be other divisions. I know they're launching a master's division this year. So men's physique is growing by leaps and bounds and people will be able to tune in, whether it be Wednesday, 9th or Thursday night, we haven't decided yet for all the updates on men's physique on the men's physique world, not only relating to competition, but also as far as nutrition. And as you said, lifestyle, which is probably, I think the most appealing part of the men's physique movement, it's the lifestyle, it's the lifestyle of these guys live. Right. And then the other thing too, like you mentioned, is, you know, these eyes, they have, you know, let's say a day job. And they want to break into, you know, doing commercials, doing print modeling, doing other stuff. And so there's going to be a lot of talk about that. I'm going to have guys who have been successful doing it. And you know, how to kind of do that. And even if you're not super successful, your whole, your self-esteem and everything all goes up. IMean, that's the other thing about this, the big thing and I used to argue, you talk with a lot of people, it's like, oh, why wouldn't you want to take care of your body? Well, what would be wrong with that? Okay? IMean, it can only make your life better. Unless you just make it, you know, be only thing you do. You can only make your life better. People ask me, they're like, oh, you said such good shape all the time. Why? I said, you don't keep it anymore. So, well, because I want to feel good. I want to be in a good health. I want to look good, because how can I give advice about, look good? It's kind of hypocritical, don't you think? Oh, yeah. You know, shit. It's a thing I just say, if you were a bodybuilder and you don't bodybuild now, you never were. That's right. I'm 100%. You're just right. IMean, you were just maybe it was a fleeting thing. You maybe you got involved in chicken pizza. It's more of a drug person's learninGHow to tren correctly and learn how to eat, right? Yeah. It might have been legal trips, too. Right. So, I do want to mention that we have, and we'll talk about it. I think, Ian and I were going to talk about the Psevecastle Guide, which is a kind of an e-book. I put together, which was one of the reasons why one of the things I brought this column, I said, you know, it's kind of good to make the move here. And so I think there'll be free downloads for anybody to get that. Fantastic. I read it. I love it. Great. Thank you. Thank you. These men's busy guys, you know, love it. You given it away for free? We're given away for free. Wow. Okay. How did people get it? I'm telling you. We're listening. You got to love this thing. How did people download this thing? It just goes through, we'll have a link on your side. Okay. The Vick-askleek.com. Okay. Great. I don't think so. I think that's the people going to really like it, the manual, because it really is a how-to book on how to be a men's busy competitor or live that lifestyle. At least. I think that's what a lot of guys are after. And I think that I am lower, your co-host, and you should have some kind of a men's busy uposed down at some point during the, maybe the Olympia or something like that. And we can see who lives the lifestyle, the best, you know, over the next eight months, nine months. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Did you say they have a master's, what's the age? That's right. Well, I guess they're probably an age category. It's probably by next year they'll have 40, you know, over 50, and over 60, and over who knows. Yeah. How old are you these days? How do you have you 50? I'm 50. Oh, you did. Yeah. I did. Congratulations. Oh. No, I'm lucky. So, yeah, again, you know, getting involved in this as a really young guy and you did the same. Wow, what a stupid look. I couldn't really imagine finding this stuff in my 40s or something. Really a lot, much of a call. Definitely. Definitely. That's the other thing about this. You're going to get a lot of young guys that are going to go out of that, something I want to get. You're right. The body building in is she looks like it's gotten older and men's physique seems to be bringing in the younger guys. And I think that is a good thing. Very good point, you make. Yeah, IMean, that might just my daughters, you know, she's a nice girl. And, you know, these guys, you know, that's what they want to look like. You better watch your daughter. These guys are going to all be after your daughter. Yeah. She can handle it, so I'll be. Yeah, that's me. Yeah. So this is going to be a lot of fun. And we, you know, from Scott and I, we really want to thank you, Jay, for supporting this. And I know when I first talked to you, you were already on the same page. You already had the men's physique.com. And we're kind of this quick. And, you know, this is it here. But to sit, you know, we already know it here. It's, you call up, fight for this. This is going to be great for bodybuilding. It's going to be great because a lot of nutrition companies, not just my trophics. Because I think a lot of the companies get, you know, they get computers with who they're marketed. They want us, they want us, they want us, they want us, they all, the cycle of problems. You know, more people use supplements when they're care about their physique than anything. You know what IMean? That's all the big brands have been built on that. Because, let's face it, it's hard work. And if you're workinGHard, you're willing to pay for products that will help you get the better or easier. Yeah, you're right, 100%. And the radio show is called physique star radio. Look for later this week, because hosted by Vince Andrewt and I am lower. And it also featured muscle universities segment with a doctor Scott Colleen myself. Vince, I know you got a lot of work to do with this new website. And then with the new company, best to lock in, I'm really excited to be working with you now officially in some capacity. Now, me too, thank you, appreciate it. Alright, Vince Andrewt, the company's Myotropics Catch em later in the week is Zeke Star Red. The first single radio is a presentation of RXMuscle.com, The Truth in Bodybuilding. To the next week, get the same time. For another round with Dave Full of Bo only on heavy muscle, really.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH CHARLES POLIQUIN PART 1 OF 4 [7tOSiqlQ0fM].txt ===

Heavy muscle, radio. All right, our next guest is the strength and conditioning coach to many world class athletes out there. He's probably best known to the bodybuilding community when he wrote a column in muscle media 2000, Bill Phillips book back in the 90s. I tell him I was introduced to him and it's my pleasure actually to have him here today to talk a little bit more about what he's got going on lately. Welcome Charles Balkwin. Thanks, it was great getting you on the show. You know, I think a lot of people have been following your career for the last, I guess since 1993 when you first started writing and actually I think that first interview was launched in muscle media 2000. Correct. IMean, I've been doing this trening for coaching since 1979, but I guess I'm an exposure to the bodybuilding world came from 2003. Now you're Canadian originally. Any more actually, I'm in the American position. Oh, you completely gave up the candidate. Yes. Yeah. For various reasons, but I'll be here in American in March to life. They won't be well that meeting candidate, so I can really think of it. What, how did you get introduced to the whole sports and conditioning? You know, I had Joe Franco on the show. Joe the Franco on the show a couple weeks ago and he was telling me that when he was five years old, he wanted to be a strengthening conditioning coach. How is your introduction to the whole genre? Actually, from skipping church, I was going to go to French trening and he got to go to church and then I went to first lead, fond of it. So when I was 14, I started to skip church and I went to the University Library, which was next door. I started to read stuff on the street. I started to read stuff on the street. I actually had a speaking list and raised first knee and second knee and second knee, and second knee and second knee. I realized all the stuff which an English, it prompted me to learn English really fast. And then I realized the best stuff was in German, and then I learned German. And we're not like that then. Do you taught yourself two languages? Do you taught yourself two languages? Do you taught yourself two languages? Yeah, I learned Japanese, or we just... You're a good, I have to press any university. Really? I can. You know, I gotta just ask you some, I know it's a topic. For some reason, I have a mental block against the languages. And then there's other people out there like yourself, you can pick up a new language in two weeks. How do you do it? Well, my father spoke my language, he was my better speech and I thought he could be a genetic factor. But also, I think it's just interest. And the thing is that for myself, it's helped me learn more stuff, and it's also got me a lot of contracts because it could actually speak the language. So, and let's see what I want to do. I want to do it because in 1998, it was in Japan, and then we were told ahead of time that Japanese volunteers would speak very well in English. So, I thought myself to Japanese, I just bought computer software and stuff myself. And in Norway, every spoken English, but there's just to be polite to them. It's a big up stuff, you know? But it's... I think it actually wasn't just wrong. I was sad it. When I was a kid, I think that's the easiest way to learn language really. So, it's like five years of Spanish, I still can't speak the word of it. And I did well in the class. That's the amazing thing. I just have no conversational skills. Say something in Japanese, because I don't believe you. What does you are? I don't believe you. You've got no strenge thoughts. That's unbelievable. Unbelievable. So, you were reading all these books in different languages and continue. And after that, I would take, you know, like, very good review. As all these books on the anatomy and strenge trening. So, I would take a look at those books and learn how to instruct people out in the exercise. Because IMean, most language courses, I would like to go through customs or to order me. I don't want to be out of full squad, or bring the elbows down when you've been in bed. So, you know, that's a specific language. You're pretty good. I give you books for that, you know. And then, you're missing all these emerging. You know, I would go up a well with Norway. For example, we have to go over here to the bottom of the circuit. So, I got plenty of French to practice. But you can't, you're going to make a mistake. And people will look at our community. And that's how you prove. But if you're shy, you'll never learn from a foreign language, just for sure. Now, you know, the interesting thing is that I find that, you know, most people get into the strengths, words, because they want to look better themselves. You seem, at least you seem to reveal to me that they, you always had the desire to teach it to other people. Yeah, IMean, I did this already to produce. IMean, I did it myself. But, you know, in the 1978, before on the strength course association in the US, I was on the early adapters. So, can I join them up and then did their certification. But the thing is that when you have success with athletes, you don't want to know if you do it. And then, by 2005, I started my own certification program, because you don't want to know, I did it. IMean, people used to come from all over the world. We get my facility and see me coach. And then I'll take up things to me, maybe teach it more. So, then IMade certification manuals. And now we have students in 16 countries. Wow, really. It's that big. Yeah, actually, we teach typically in about eight countries a year. And then the average number of students in different countries is 14, 13 per class. So, I'm sure you have a lot of sweet teaching Austria that people from easy to even think of for Hong Kong. You know, all the South Africa and New Zealand, they'll come around. So, they all know you. Was that amazing? Yeah, but the thing is that I feel my repeat can be 40 years at that. You did. Yeah, so, you know, I was not on the 40, probably because it's too much on media. And then, well, I want to bring that up because, you know, back in the early 1990s, there was no internet like you said, or I was fledging, no one was really on it. And I used to sit by my mailbox once a month and wait for that muscle media 2000 magazine to show up because that was Bill Phillips magazine. And back then he was, you know, very cutting edge. He talked about topics and subjects that no one else addressed. He got, he, I remember his first interview with you because you had been trening a lot of world class sprinters and athletes. Everyone was fascinated and then he gave you a column. How did you meet Bill Phillips? Actually, somebody there profiled on me and then, I'm feeling a lot of people are rolling in and say, you know, you think it's because I got a column. So then he, he called me up and offered me a column, posted it to you article. And he asked me to write a book, which I did. The Paul Conprence Balls and then he sold it and we saw 50,000 copies in the record time. Wow. And he actually sold an Italian edition of it. And you know, so it grew really fast. I was amazed. Off our reaching it was because it was like I said pre-interend. I think that he did a great job at attracting the really doctors for early adopters. And then that prompted, you know, I'd be surprised that it would be in the airport. And it would be a little bit of a record as you were, or walk it up the street. It's a little pixel out of you. It's the right thing. I've been like, wow, you know, it's, you were just a pioneer in terms of format. And then, unfortunately, you just said to go rain stream. And the losses, the people we, you know, took them to the promise we would say. Hey, Kelly, kill the magazines. Correct. IMean, I think if you had kept hardcore, you would have reached more hardcore people. You know, but trying to do percate man's health or men's fitness. So it's like if you're in a poor market and decide to go to the GM market, well, GM is with their head and you, you know, to go to West. So if you're in a poor market, stay in a poor market. Just try to get more people to buy a board since they've announced. And that was a great experience for himself, yeah. So I'm in, but it was kind of what brought me more to general public. And then I was always in my youth. A few of my family came fair. She wrote the flower work race. What's the only thing to start you that started to read me when it's working your soul. So, yeah. That's like, it gives up my age. I was a little older. I was, IMet him in 22 when I started reading. Yeah. Now, what was interesting is that you actually introduced, or at least I was introduced to the world of ART active release techniques through that magazine. And you must have been one of the very first few people who were certified in that. Correct. I was the first non-tarpreter doctor to be certified. And then I used to teach it. IMean, for me, you know, it don't really treat people, basically. I used ART as a weight optimist performance. So either things strengthen their length and tissues. And now, a day is a lot of the students that come from Europe. Or actually, my certified coaches, because the police gave them one ART. They said they could certified. Did you, well, you were little intimidated when you took it because you probably, because you weren't. You were the only guy who wasn't a guy up right there or a doctor. I don't know. And my ad could trening in university and then that means so. It wasn't really, I show you. You know, being a strength, which you actually know, muscles work in. Correct. With the action, so I actually added an advantage over the car practice, because a lot of car practice may know their structural enemy, but functionally, they're not that great, you know. So, so I actually, I probably was pretty good. When Dr. Lehi first introduced you to it and you started to you took the course and learned how to do it. Was it exciting in the sense that you felt that you had a modality, maybe that not many people out there were was doing at the time? Oh, yeah. IMean, to me, it was a great advantage in that profession. Because, like, I could come to the gym and let's say you can do a jump. And you were saying six inches to put this child over a bar, and that would release the decisions between the care major and the lab. And I got six inches more range after two minutes of working on the teaching. I was not, but the method is genius, mummy. Right, but what I'm saying is, you know, when you, when an athlete is frustrated and can't do something and then someone can almost wave a magic wand and make them do it, it is magic to them. Yeah, it is big thing that found with the RT is that it cuts down time to rehab, but about 2.5 times. At least, I think. So, for example, if a rehab is going to actually take 10 weeks with a skill hierarchy guy, it will reduce it a month. So, you know, the significant. Do you still practice that on your people you work with? Oh, yeah, very much. Probably on a daily basis. And then, unfortunately, I work with Mark for four years. So, it's probably too, a lot of the moves that he did in the showing classes, because, if like Mark's show, I was, you know, he has to be sick most, but usually the master knows more moves that. Because of time, the situation does not show, so, for example, I got to win 16 moves for the elbows that probably don't know, so, or very few people know. So, that was good.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH CHARLES POLIQUIN PART 2 OF 4 [KvqV6uEy3CQ].txt ===

How did your lady come up with all this stuff to eat just invented on his own? Well what happened is that the invented was on knowing that he invented this. So basically your strength is something you work but is biggest addition to the concept is that if the word active so you made the tissue while applying attention while before people over stationary. But the only discovery that he stumbled upon something when people would go on this team for a couple of tunnel syndrome and everybody in color springs 100% resolution. Meanwhile the surgery was causing more problems than the actual problem. And then what happens is that orthopedic surgery instead of say well maybe he started teaching specific. So you want to send you go met with a very famous orthopedic surgeon and then they develop the protocols and actually did studies. And it's sure that it worked for a couple of tunnel and it applied it to lower back pain to elbow pain to shoulder pain. You get that type of guy that keeps perfecting it. You probably already invented it at the move since we started to interview you. You just have to get it to always try for a costume improvement. You probably want to be good. Geniuses out there and healing art. Wow and that's coming from you that's a huge statement. And the fact that he doesn't rest on his laurels he's still changing it and evolving the technique is probably a good thing as well. Yeah he costs the trust him. He's improving. You know which gives him a big advantage. And then you keep coming out with your courses or your ways to teach it at the end of the day. Of all the self-tissued techniques, which is the crap magas of self-tissued work. In other words, if compared to martial arts it's going to give me the most results of the least amount of effort. I love it. I like the drum Castro who was in shock to him. He does it on me all the time. Probably more so when I was competing actively. Every time I have a pain I'm like why don't I just go to the Castro and have work on me. And invariably I'm so happy because I forget sometimes. You forget it's such a magical technique really. Talk to me a little bit about some of the athletes you've worked with because you have some world-class ones that you've worked with. Who is your favorites and who are the ones that achieved the greatest results from you? Probably Adam Nelson needs the most mad old shot putter in the history of the world. So he's been a world champion and an Olympic medalist of all times. One of the strongest guys ever coached and also yes he was a world champion but it's also very short for a shot putter. And there is such a thing as barmichenic load barrage. IMean in most world champions or at least six seconds. And Adam's only six one. So to be a man taller means a lot. IMean because he was on the most powerful guys. Dwight Phillips who is an Olympic champion in World Champion in long jumps and there are very interesting guys. As far as teams, I really like to work your own national skating. IMean those guys are very easy to get very strong. You work with the Olympic speed team? Yeah and can, yes and then the boss was my medal winners we went to sports. And then in 98, IMoved to the US and I started to work with the pros and then working with hockey a lot. And that's that. You know, pro athletes standing around. So then just try to be baseball players and football players and basketball players all the pros. And a good one of the pieces like that. And then there's always a worse amount because back then again, you know, the anti net loose. And the anti-existent and the athletes were not nerdy and that was the one here. And the news generation, the L.U.S. are iPhone. Like there is, but I'm talking about the guys that I coach in 98, the anti net. Not to get any mailers kind of odds. They're on from an athlete they want their kind of, IMean, I'm very most of the pro athletes that I work with are late nineties. They're why do you have to operate with the email but not the same. So now the business change a lot. But those are the guys that enjoy working the most. You work with Donolvan Valley, too, right? I work with his carer practice and then, but I can't, I can't. I work more with the girls, they would, two the girls would want in Sydney. And then I worked with my guy that wanted to go in the relay Sydney. I worked with a lot of speedkills, I probably just bought where I've had the most success. Success. Success is speed skating. Interesting, and is that because these guys really, you know, need, no coaching really helps them to achieve greater levels of success? Yeah, IMean, strengthening was, for example, at the World Championships in the night before the graduating 70 medals just for Canada won't. So, you know, that's a lot of medals for the World Championships. And I worked with the American, they worked with, I went back and forth to Canada, US for years. But every time I went, I went, I was really good at the country, I went back to Australia. After a while, my market value was very well established at speed skating. And now, a formal Boston speed skating is contractive with the Russians. So, we're here for the Russians now. The United States has been gettinGHold of you before we lose it to another country. Yeah, IMean, for the Russians, it's a Russian system. It's a real, actually, you'll give up the US citizenship. What's the most gratifying for you? What do you like to work with more kind of athletes? I think probably the guys who set low records is most gratifying because if you're at a pro athlete, okay, they do better. You can increase your salary, you can increase your work of value, that's nice. But when somebody sets a low record and that person that they, that's something that no other human's ever done. And that produced low record holders in ten different sports. Do you feel like a father watching it like a TV or in person, whatever, do you feel like that? Holy shit, I feel like I'm up there with these guys. Yeah, I'm very proud of when they do well. But my brain is wired to that prejudice that the record to. Okay, I'll can improve, you know. Sit on my rules too long, because it's, you only get a hugy of this result. Right. So, if you don't produce constantly, then you're snapping, actually. I think in my field, I need to some guys that pretty simply, I can't even afford to still live on that. But obviously, don't, uh, I have the clients. Now, you know, you're only as good as your last client. Right. You're terrific. You're having not burnt out on it yet, is what you said? No, no, no. But you know what's a nice thing, now is a nice student. In my search here, she's a program. We only get level five if they produce a little bit better. So now, I'm happy you're a tissue, but she didn't produce a little bit more. So you actually have this, try strength and conditioning course that you teach. You have five levels to it? Yeah, and level one is basically, you record to the regional level. Level three is national level four is international, but not top notch yet to. Killing certification is just a matching in the world that ask you to produce results by level three. So in other words, if you don't put people on national team, you don't get through it for your levels. So you can't come and take the next level until you get a certain athlete to achieve a certain level of success. Correct. So level five, you need to have an Olympic medalist. But what I find is that the guys who reach level five don't back down in an Olympic tent to produce more and more. So, um, we should have all got a guy named level five. Which you should do enough. Uh, we're now producing in baseball and tracking field and also to the sports. So, and then, uh, only have some like 18 level five now, but if you look at the math, you know, that's up with 18 other medals produced by my trening philosophy. So that's good. And then it keeps everybody because, you know, if you're not accountable, IMean, to get a certification and possibly I'm so very strict at any time to kind of get 92%. Wow, that's hard. Yeah. That's just a pass. That's the passing mark. So we're very strict and then the practice will be very strict. And they keep the keys it's like, um, if I refuse somebody who's level five then, I'm not sure you can help you out. Sure. You don't want to just pass people because then it shows that your certification might not bEQuite as good as you're leading people to believe it is. Correct. And then, for example, you know, uh, a kid is level four now and we should re-chublify some Germany. But, you know, I've got to produce a world champion medals at the University Games in the beginning with a country of Hungary, which is not a great country for speed getting you know, and they actually beat Canada, which is a strong, uh, skating country. So the Canadian is actually also the much of, it's everyone's stealing everyone. Yeah, so, you know, it's bad, I would like to see you or, for example, any, uh, UFC recently, as two students who each had their own guy, keeping any anti-service. So, you know, for the world title, so that's nice to see. Yeah, that's very nice. That, is there any students you've had that you're like, my God, this guy is so good. He, he might be better than me even, you know. Well, in, in Japan, the philosophy is, you're not a good teacher unless you have somebody better than you if a student. I got you. So I'm trying to, the bill, the guy that's going to beat me and there's, this is the besT4-five guys lined up, uh, first title. How's that, Betha? Not yet, it's, I think, it, it means, in, to be fair to them, I started sorely, you know, that had a big event, and then 50 and those guys under, like 20, 70, so they got a bit, way to go home. But, I, during each of us, I had a them, but you got to realize that the strength was, uh, in Minnesota, they were, in World Cup. So, they were the biggest protestants in the world coming up. So six-pen, you know, bronze team, last but second, that's how you do it. and houses. So actually the NCAA pays more than the pros. Really? Yeah. The only place where I know where someone makes more is in your pin soccer where there's two guys who make $2 million euros each a year. 20 years ago that was unfounded, but we don't know when it made that much money. But it goes to show that teams are recognizing well, you just a number of mandates. IMean, a good strength coach can reduce numbers of man days lost by 40 percent. So if you get a $1 million per roll and just be a simple math, you'll see $1 a year on man days and you reduce a 40 percent of that, then you save the team to $2.4 million. So the bank is trying to get this and go to his cheap actually to hire him. Even if you plan half a million. So in soccer to pay $2 million is worth it because the salary is just so much higher that you know, and all percentages it pays well. Sure. No, it makes sense. Now you have two clinics you run right? One in Colorado springs and one in Rhode Island. Actually, the one in Rhode Island is our beach center. We have plans to wear one in Chicago. And then we roping up one in Dublin next few months. So well. And then the next one at the edge is Florida.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH CHARLES POLIQUIN PART 3 OF 4 [GYJvOZWoLuI].txt ===

So you're all over the place now? What I'm saying at growing the model is there and we have good sponsors, like illegal and the plant is in Washington. So that else is not a lot. But the... it's going very fast. IMean, number of full-time instructors we have is increasing dramatically. And then... The people that you certify these instructors? Pardon me? You've certified all these instructors who run the programs? Well, all of them at least level four on their own. I got my top two instructors. One of them is Olympic record holder. And the one was National Team record holder in Hammerstone. So we have any multiple national team. So those guys, you know, a lot of respect when they teach classes because they've also produced on their own. Olympic medalists. When do you operate out of mostly, though? Person. That wrote down. Okay, so you're your mostly in Rotound. And do you live there predominantly? Uh, have you not been to Colorado and Rhode Island? No, are you in Colorado because of the... No, because it's my daughter's missing. She's put on a set. It sounded like you might have been a good story with now. Yeah, it's actually the Olympic trening center. IMean, IMean, sponsors of the World Different National Team today. But they don't have not directly associated with them. Um, it's the... Justice only. You know, I got to be hours in a day at the right time. No, I didn't. How'd you wind up in Rhode Island in World Places? Uh, the thing is it's the... My business partner is from there. And then we needed a place on a beach post. So that, um, because of time's on. If you were in the terrors on the California Road Miss out a lot, on a European business, you know, for fault. So, uh, because 70% of our clientele is actually European. Wow, that's huge. Yeah. And of course, I'm sure that's a different... So if you used to first be, if we, when we were in Arizona, we missed out a lot of opportunities. You know, people like the email, some people are still with preferred Dr. E. Menvois. So we need to feel down that Easter. As ten or ten is all of that. We could have been in Florida, but, uh, the thing that's nice with Rhode Island is that we're in between New York and Boston. So, uh, it doesn't prevent people from flying in and we just had an I-per-speed boot camp in where people from Italy Australia and all of her place. So it's, uh, it's good. Do you have a gym down into Dominican Republic? No, that's the place where I would love to open very soon. No. We have a lot of students there that serve very successful, but it's a place where I wouldn't mind opening up. I thought I heard a roomy you're going to open one up, because Milo Sarsha is down there now and he's trening people down there. Yeah, it's a place that I've been very interested in looking at. Because it's a, uh, but it would be a different, uh, a different concept that where we do our, uh, medical doctors and do a lot of anti-aging and the hospital medicine stuff at the same time. Right. Basically they're expanding, uh, the functional medicine. So I just once opened up in 2013, you facility. I said, when I have a camp on the pharmacy inside the building, where did then the, uh, or two, and then because our students would like to, uh, I don't want to touch up so you think, um, for a class, they can get all of the blood we're done and get out of there. And then, uh, if need be, get something, come on, so they're brain or they're thyroid or whatever case. That's all, and also my, uh, obviously the Olympic athletes can use this, but this would be for like anti-aging purposes. Right. Correct. But even with, you know, for brain stuff, that mean as long as it's compatible with why that, uh, we're formalized that the pharmacist can make it. We're, we'recompounding some, you see, you know, it's not always drugs. So he could take nutrients, but sometimes you need to, you know, be something that's not safe to guy, uh, tend to break down a still calling, uh, to rapidly, um, then we could give him a vaccine, which is a natural substance. So Chinese mice, which is a, that's still calling their stories inhibitor. Uh, but, you know, people don't want to take these different pills, but I can get a compounding pharmacy to make a powder that is quite palatable. And, you know, a teaspoon we can take, you know, for anti-different brain hatred. Yeah, I think the, uh, the, uh, the overall emphasis has been, uh, on the muscle structure. Um, but you need to bring through the big, uh, muscle spires. Well, you have the nerve, people don't realize the nervous system is what tells the muscles what to do and when the muscles fatigue is really the nervous system that's fatigue, and what you're saying. Correct, but also if you look at things like, uh, the disorders and, for example, we have a product coming out, which is a compounded product, which is, a typical GA bus, it does get, uh, absorbed through this skin, because GA by an stomach, you know, neutralized, and we can bind it with clening, and we apply it on the earth, and turn it to the earth, or the earthy, and it will fall asleep in a minute. Real, it's almost like value, it does. Yeah, exactly. And it's, but without, you know, uh, the size of that, it's an eight dependent. So, and then we have compounded, curcumin creams and, um, B12 and B3 and, and a lot of the guys that I used to coach, our fathers or mothers now, and their kids of ADD, or whatever. So, we can, we can, with the doctor and the compounded customers can get nutrients, because kids don't like to soil tablets. No, we can make topicals out of the way to very, uh, effectively. What do you think about our autism? Do you have any ideas about that? The problem is, autism is, uh, caused by many things, for example, the mothers, cell phone use, the more the mothers use cell phone, that worse it is. Do you? When I was a kid, there was no autistic children, it was very rare. I'm seeing people have blamed it on, um, vaccination. Vaccination. But a lot of kids who get vaccinated with the same things and nothinGHappens. Yeah, we have vaccinated as kids, we didn't get autism. Yeah, and then the thing is, would they be, they've identified so far, 76 risk factors, link autism? One of them, for example, is a Wi-Fi. So, if you sleep at the house of the Wi-Fi is on, that's a social relief and that's an eight factor. It's not, so it's not because you're never Wi-Fi in your arms, that's right. It will be autistic, but you multiply that by cell phone use, put it in in tolerance, period tolerance, soil intolerance, above a little bit of a way to predict what the risk chart, but the top five are cell phone Wi-Fi, dairy, gluten, and soil intolerance. One of them, so it's a thing where two times two equals 16, you know, so they count on each other because autism was rarely rare. When I was a kid, sitting with EDD, you know, you wanna have, and, you know, they feel so free To hold even a design that TV shows like SpongeBob watching one episode of SpongeBob reduces attention span and is one episode. It reduces in me, I can't even put the thing on. It's in ten more than you know, right? Yeah, but the point is that, you know, this, one of the biggest mistakes with me is the society is to, what I call a socialist street syndrome. If people have said, kids are short of attention span, therefore we should teach them more to shorter attention span, so it's a mystery, whatever short clips. But kids have a shorter attention span, but you know, the adult is trened in the increased attention span, not for a nerd, nursery, so, so you know, we're free with EDD, with the television programming. Correct, but they may be increasing the increase of EDD in American society with the introduction of social histories. Wow, and the MTV generation, I blame it on the TV show, watch a scene count the fortest scene that's changed and go to camera. Correct. So even, so even all TV shows show from a different angle of over four seconds. So what happens with that is that you, you get the trening yourself to get bored with things that don't change. You're right. But if you go to medical school, be better incarcerated for a long time. One hundred percent, you're yes, you're hundred percent right. I never even thought of that, so you're saying that we're being brainwashed into EDD almost. Correct, correct. And then you know, but I think you're Brady, and is under, like, fortunately currently in Lake Finland and can, or frankly, actually can, is very strong warning stuff, of self-belnut youths. Really? No, why, how did mother being exposed to the radiation, and have something to do with the kid developing autism in your mind? Well, they really can just damage this nervous system. IMean, for example, Finland, like goal of landline to a few years ago, and now Finland has a world record for brain tumors. Wow, really, didn't you? Yeah, Finland, they, they know one of the reasons why we think it's due to self-belnut is that all the brain tumors occur on the dominant side of the person. So all the left brain tumors are in less than that, people with all the right that people have brain tumors on the right side, so we're the oldest cell phone. And Nokia is the fall of the highest amount of radiation in the world. Did not that? So, you know, so the gene government, for example, every six months, really is a report on radiation count of cells. And, for example, a knife-phone, as low radiation, put them all at abs. You load into the greater radiation. Really? And those people have thousands of abs on their iPhone, so they'recompletely useless, they never use, but they just like collect them. Like, don't tell you the harvest of mushrooms and angola, we give a shit, you know? So, the habit on her iPhone, then, you know, the only one that's cow is going to melt next. And then, they got all these things on the iPhone, while the iPhone now becomes quite higher in radiation, what you said. I've got great radiation, you can quit more, I'm full. I got a delete to them on my abs, that's what I'm doing, this is, I got off the phone, yeah. Yeah, yeah, so the ones you don't you, you know, don't put delete in them out to this, I can, you know, you show, we've reached every example, you know, they're very good research out of Canada, she showed that X is finding it doing cardio on electronic equipment, like, in a little bit like trying to bite some treadmill. Yeah, precipitates insulin resistance by 46% What, really? Yeah, so my website, a cool girl, they were the research on it, but so basically, shot people go to school, gym, they hop on the treadmill, and it's already electronic bite. And then the year later, it's battery, well obviously, it's a bite, maybe it's a battery. Oh my god, IMean, yeah, so, you know, that's a type of stuff we provide our students, I'm, as years have evolved, and more and more conscious, you know, of these things and try to get us into the example, video games, you know, just play videos with their play station and their crotch, well that's, you know, as well, put your testicles in the microwave. So, those are the radiation, and it's also linked. The more I kids on the internet, it's the game, the lower is testosterone. Really, yeah, so. Yeah, so, you can find that stuff easily on the format, so radiation is, IMean, the average testosterone count as the increased one percentage point, three years in spiking 50. Wow, it's a little bit of, the horizontal squat to p, IMean, it's, you know, it's a rendition, and for example, in England, the average CHE sulfate is, uh, their range is 1.4 to 1.6, right, right, but Dr. Rendes because in Canada, normal range is 3 to 10, and 3 considered test-rated. But in K, IMean, the 3 is like, need therapy, and then, you know, 10 is healthy, so

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH CHARLES POLIQUIN PART 4 OF 4 [Zk-kWYnrlDE].txt ===

Norms are always still this much. Norms basically reflect on resistance. But if you don't mean anything, for example, one in glucose is, because they're not with and range is 70 to 99. Well, the research is very clear for every point you are at books 70. Your risk of cardiovascular disease goes up to five percent. So you can be 99, which is within range, which you're under the 45 percent period of risk of cardiovascular incidence. Yeah, you're calculating a lot of this glucose, yeah. You're calculating with proteins. Very interesting. So what would you do in like a certain, IMean, obviously we're in a day and age, we Wi-Fi is not going away. We're exposed, so we have cell phones, we have computer laptops and iPads and all this stuff. What do you do? Well, first of all, it's turning your Wi-Fi when you're not sleeping. When you're sleeping, sorry, you're sleeping. When you're using an orcum house, and you don't get it, turn off the reduced to different. A lot of people use their cell phones as an alarm clock. No, don't do that. You say battery operated keeps alarm clocking by at a well on our phone, five bucks. Yeah. And then, and put, take your cell phone, the battery out of it, and when you sleep, so you get a little bit of radiation, because you're using a lot of times down by all of this, you're very good research paper that showed that if you wear your cell phone on your hip, it decreases your energy, so it's about 31 percent. I don't think I'm wearing my pocket. It's right by my, you know what? A bit like a nothing less than that. Yeah, so, you know, I feel all of these when you search, you know, then you look at shampoo, you send carabines, and whatever. So basically, I'm a bit of a big key, a day that it's to be educated. And then, that's how my website is. Every week, for example, we classically do the thing on olive oil. Look at these analysis of all the olive oils, the industry, sold in US, right? And all the stuff, which you, you basically pond on to, you're leaving it to good product. And we actually give out all the brands and what it helps. So you tested them all? Right. You tested it? Not me, but it's been a lot, but it got access to the report. And we published a two-part article. You know, a lot of people can't read research, but we basically made a video. What did you have to say for them, what did you actually meant? What was the best brand out there, do you remember? Can't remember. You weren't to look at my website, but the theme there was shown also is that depending on where you buy this initiative, it comes in the same spot, you could have the same name on the label. But, you know, the brand and active in California could be working in a ballpark, in different Boston. So it did identify which ones were best. I saw Macadamina, I've given up on olive oil. I'm interested in one. Yep. What if I went to your, let's say I went to your clinic this compound and clinic you're going to make up. And I had a kid who was ADD or I had a kid who was autistic. Would there be suggestions that you can make like chemical-wise, IMean, or supplement wise? Yeah. What would you recommend for like a person with ADD? Well, so ADD, usually the only 3THA is more helpful for that. Also, it's a very good, in a physical that very cheap colineocytal, which has been shown to upregulate or downregulate obesity. It's an adaptogen for all of your trensmitters. So for example, if you don't believe it's a little bit too difficult, it brings one up and brings you to one down. Interesting. And that's a kind of good article on my website. And pretty much anocytal has been shown clinically in the scientific literature to affect 16 different types of brain disorders. Things like ink, or back home, are not precious. Speed of nerve conduction. So that helps. I said, there are currently no good ones. Gosh, you've finally done D3. I also had ADD. That's really, and a lot of people are so, we're all deficient than the people don't realize that. Correct. Correct. IMean, it depends which non-use, but what's considered within range in the US, even the iron industry, is that the basis? What do you think the right range should be? ADD to 120. You know, I'm taking five. I was taking 3,000 units a day, vitamin D. And my values came back at 35. And I read in life extension, it should be 50. So I uped it to 5,000 units a day. I'm up to 50. And you're telling me I'm still low. Oh, yeah. We talked to your Mark Houston, this play one best in the fairness, the specialized in cardiovascular disease. And you'll find that ADD, is that ADD blood markers for cardiovascular disease are improved dramatically. And there are points without David, is that if you look in the literature in countries where people can eat us up D3 above ADD, right? There's not aromasingle case, not aromasingle case of autoimmune disorders reported. Wow. See you think, okay. Well, if you go to the Demician Republic, and you ask people, IMean, Lucas cases of you see, you're running around the side of the door, that's probably the cases you've seen. They say I went to them school, but never seen us. So they know they exist, but they don't see in their client basis, not because they're extremely wealthy. And they, you know, 50, so much D3 in their blood. IMean, I tested my students and they DR just for interest and the average worth 123. And they're making their very strong individuals, you know, when you look at them in the gym, but he'll look at research out in the gym university. In women, I'm trened women, if you measure who D3, they're actually correlated to how much defense versus strength they got. Wow, really. See you think that the strength of some of these athletes are being suffering because of the D3 deficiency. Again, guarantee you that I went to optimize some guys D3, the strength levels go up. This glucose management goes up. And you guys will realize David, that every single detoxification gene has the three receptor side-press. So the toxication of foreign environment is D3 dependent. So the research is very clear now. Every single cause of mortality, known to manage affected by D3. How much do you take it back? I take it back. What I do with the research says, I take 50,000 twice a week. Wow, so you don't take it every day. Well, the research is tends to show that the body does better when you take large amounts twice a week than the same amount by 7. Did none of that? No one is, no one's for sure why. But I learned this from a doctor that does a lot of research with brain injuries. It took one of my classes, but he shared that with a class of them. We did, there was abouT3 years ago. So then I got all my students to espoused that principle. And we took the same dose. So let's say if I got was taking 70,000 a week, we did 35,000 twice a week. But if you look at the velocity curve, I'll replenish them in the vitamin D3. It's way faster with the bowl of system. Wow, so you can store the stuff a little bit. So you don't have to take it every day. Correct, correct. But I think what it does is, it's kind of need a bowl of dose to saturate the tissues. Gotcha, so. It's like saying, should I do a set of this quarter of a day or twice a week to 10 to 15 times? I'll take you to a more strength. twice a week you've pushed your bowl to hours. Then you know, right? So you think that most people should start off for the high dose of 50,000 maybe units and twice a week? Well first, they should get a test. But you know, the beginning state of Arizona, which is quite sunny, percent on 99 was only 27. No, it goes outside, that's why. I do not. But the point being you said, for example, the average I-Riff is values for you, but if you work in double-inch, the LIC7 team between 19 and 1932 in the morning you miss summer. So, their exposure to sunlight is beautiful at best. So they get really bad, but what you find, no, it's a... For example, my average students most they're in time, you're finding them in D3. They're bearing improved. And finding D3 is also linked to depression. I've read that, you're right. I will see that we, we must publish on my website, probably one thing, a week on D3, because the, the thing is that it's, the research on it is kind of new. Only in 2007, I would say, that this thanks to community, starts to develop interest in it. You're right. What's the website, by the way, just so that people know. It's ratio of Charles Pollock on dot com. And what do you think about vitamin K? Because I know vitamin K's another one coming out, the least is K2 and K3 versions are, the people saying that that's important to replenish now. It's not just for clotting anymore. It also has innumerable other, you know, contributions to the body. For example, it's been shown through your research your skin resources. So we actually have a visual that contains both the NK and it for that purpose. What's it called? Omega 3D, plus K. Oh, so it's a bit of a waste of time. A lot of that. IMean, I always like to keep feeling capable. You know, how did you get into the whole supplement? You're a strength and conditioning coach. That's probably what, you know, pretty much people wouldn't believe that you were so knowledgeable and supplemented. Had you get involved with that? Well, because we, you know, actually it banked on to an incident in the 88. Yeah, they really got a strong end to dumping control. Darryel, we in Sweden followed. So then we have to find ways to increase biological recovery without even any bank successes. There was more of it than an effort. So I started looking to it. IMean, I've always been into supplements. You know, as a kid, but then talking to guys like morality, press quality and stuff like that. Really kind of in line me. And then when I worked in Monaco, IMet a functional medicine practitioner who was the first time IMet one. And he just found a mentor to setting the right track to learning about, but I think that it's, IMean, you grow a status as you recover. So she recover fast, you get a grow faster. And it's one hundred percent sure that it's, well, it is, it's a whole, you have to address all things. You can't just look at one thing like it's in a tone, the microcosm, right? It's like an accident. It's like a 40 years old. And it's just a song. Here's what we're going to traffic school girl. Then I have to guess it. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please. But if you can do a strategy, the problem with that is that means to manage conversion of service, testosterone to the pedestrian fraction. Why do you think? The good thing is that an after-all you could take the end of the two of the same job without putting footers stress on the labor. So I think there are eight right keys about it, the bulk tool, but we still have some things that we can't, for example, we can't tell some balance and we want to need it. So all that stuff is important. And we want to be a finished station AC if you post it a world-trust draw. And then, example, there's a study of there that says, hey, if you take Melatonin before you tren, you produce more growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone for a moment. Yes, but you follow us. We just see that. That's it, sir. Look, there's a shift. You know, so the B, B, and I don't know, if the body don't need some more power set paper and go to go by Melatonin. If I was to come to the department, he'd be a team themselves. So this is the one thing is that when people, you know, Melatonin shows it, well, what about this research? And I read 16 hours a week, a research shows the thread of, I don't know, like what's about it, and I've got a real full-time research thing, but what I find interesting is people will quote one piece of literature. They'll probably have like green tea after studies will show you the Russian induces cancer. But he'll get the studies that his chosen induces cancer, so he'll be planning it, that promise that he'd back himself, not to take Melatonin. Right, it's not to take Melatonin. He needed tea back that best. So, you know, I have to. And then I think the way to be ahead is not to be afraid to invest a money, to find so many more in YouTube. So, for example, with estrogen detuscation that I heard this woman in the North West, and we'll find you to detoxify a compound, there's another woman from Kegarver that I use. And if I want to know about the binding mean, it's a guy in Boston. So, you know, people are too cheap to pay for information to fall by the way, so it's a good investment. I don't know if 50 grand a year, just as getting people to dice it. Well, you have a tremendous array of supplements on CharlesPoliquin.com, and you can check that out. Obviously, you can check it out.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH IFBB DESERT MUSCLE CLASSIC PROMOTOR STRYKER SOLOMON [OCeRMlJRn34].txt ===

To be muscle, re-o. Our next guest is the promoter of the IFBB Desert muscle classes coming up February 25th one week after the Flex Pro show. It's my pleasure to have back to the show, Strike or Solomon. Thanks, Dave. Appreciate the time you're giving me here right now. We got an important show coming up. You have the very, very first historical show. The first women's physique pro show in the history of the sport will be occurring in Mesa Arizona here in less than two weeks. I'm excited about it. I hear you got a pretty nice lineup too. I look at the lineup for physique. I was very impressed. I love the physique division. They look beautiful and that's the way I think they should look. We'll welcome them here and wouldn't have for anything better than what we already have. I'm excited though because whenever I, you know, this is the first of first. Historically, this will be added to see when it's from historical facts and women's division. I don't really know what to expect. When you don't know what to expect sometimes, it's an element of surprise there. I've seen all these women turn pro. Every women's physique pro pro qual for our last year. I'm excited to see how it's going to turn out. See how they judge this. Who will be the head judge at the show? It's the most like if either John two men or Lee Thompson, one of them, I don't really know yet. I know they're coming both and the both head judges. Either I will do a great job. Yeah, I'm excited like I said in the, the girl who wins will qualify for potentially. We don't know if they're going to have a women's physique Olympia at the end of the year, but I would hope maybe after seeing some of thEQuality of these girls that they will decide to add that. That would be a nice little set. I would hope so too. And I think I'm kind of expecting it to be a link here. They only make sense to have it there. But we'll see what happens. Yeah, I haven't really made it in an ounce of it yet. But the show is the Desert Muscle Classic. It's going to be taking place at the Mesa Arts Center. And where can people buy tickets for that? We can grow a website, and there's a muscleclacics.com. Click on the info on info. And then they'll take them straight to that page where they can buy single tickets or a group ticket. Because it's a little break for them if they buy like pre-stating a night ticket. That's right. Very smart. So when you go to DesertMuscleclassic.com, don't make the mistake IMade. Don't spell Desert, with two essays. It's only that one. Siding this one they're going to do. That's right. I don't want to make it mistake there. So DesertMuscleclassic.com. Now you have the women's beckoning. No, if you have the women's beckoning. You have a women's beckoning. I see a hearing. Women's beckoning. And I was looking at the lineup two weeks ago. And I wasn't really happy. I was really happy. I was really down a lot for beckoning. I would expect maybe five times six times that number that I saw. Maybe it's grown now. But to be king girls, this time where you give me back a little bone and you'll line up in the roster. Mr. Arizona to compete. We'll go a hard job. Put in the shoes together and finding the funding. And athletes, we ask for them to fulfill. You know, whatever you want them to fulfill. To compete for a say. And make it a better show. So IMean, we'll put a piece of shoe on for the athletes. We want to see a lineup. I don't want to see it can. 11 girls or even a nine or we want a good lineup of athletes. So we can keep going. Right. Well, you know, it is the first show of the year. And I think people get gunshive in the first show of the year. Because what they do is they say to themselves. I don't know. I want to see who's going to be there. Which is stupid. Because then when happens, you give up a good qualifying spot for the Olympia possibly. So if you're in the Arnold class, or even if you're not, you're dieting for maybe a show the week after or two weeks after. This is a show you should definitely show up at strike is telling you right now. You have an opportunity. The lineup is not that strong right now to come in here and snag in the Olympia qualification. Get a win. Make a little money. Put your pocket. Some spending cashier. So it's not too late to sign up. And I guess what they have to contact the NPCFB office. Is that what it is? Yeah, they do. And then the problem is, would be late for your something. They can send me an email. I'll talk to Jim Manning about it. It's not even a email. Let me know who's coming. Who wants to come. And I'll probably make an exception for some reason. You know that we just don't have him here and help him out. So you'd like to have this. Probably the money that they could capture. And IMean it's a qualification. And you've seen him pass a game. And the Phoenix pro. Nobody knows who's going to win. No. I'm going to tell you guys what's going to happen is it's going to be a girl sitting in home. It's not going to come. Actually, it's going to be watching the old coverage on our ex muscle. She's going to look at the pictures and she's going to say, I should have done this show. I could havEQuite a little Olympia. Yeah, Phoenix has an unknown chance. And the unknown territory is for everybody. IMean, they come here. They're going to do a good. They want to do a good. They're going to do a good. That's the bottom line. And you know what? They're ready to do a good. The good thing also is that, you know, we're going to be there covering the show. And it's a great way to showcase yourself and get a lot of notoriety because you give us full access to the show. We have video. We have interviews. We have play by the picture. So you're going to be all over the place. Even if you don't win, you come in top five. You're going to get a lot of publicity from this, which is going to be a launching pad for the rest of the year because people forget what you did last year. They only remember what you've done lately. So I say, start early, get known, get seen. And then that's going to help you with the rest of your year's competitions. Right. And the other thing is that our hotel here is really cheap. IMean, it's the Marriott. And I think it ruined like a hundred and thirty book. Yeah, you got a good night. You got great. You got great. Yeah, great. And it's like, you even noticed the venue and the hotel, like right next to each other. There, point to three minutes away. I love it. That's why I'm coming. That's one of my, one of the reasons why I pick certain shows over this because it's Convenience to get there. Even though it's a long flight for me, I don't care because I get off the flight. I'm at the hotel in ten minutes. One after I get off the airplane. I'm in the hotel. If I got to go to the actual Mesa Arts Center. It's right there. And the convenience is amazing. It's good for the athletes. You have access to supermarkets around there. And you make things very easy. If people need help, rides, and stuff like that. So you're a very good promoter in that sense. Let's talk about the men's two twelve class. Once again, another, another first really. Well, not really a first. We've had some two twelve class. But this is the first one of the year. And I think that once again, I don't know what your, your turn before. But if there's any two twelve guys out there who are thinking about it or are close to two twelve, I would advise you to show up at this show because this is a phenomenal way to get your first Olympia qualification of the year. Yeah, I know. IMean, why is it there in not participate? IMean, everybody ready to need to show up. I think a lot of people waiting for the flex to pass over and before they come to Phoenix, I regard to it two twelve division. Some people looking to drop a weight to make two twelve. They need to get on the roster and come here to compete. You know, if there's no other opportunity to go to the Lumpia and kick on some money. Well, I see on the flex pro list, you know, that they had Mark Dougdale is doing it. And Eduardo Carrera is doing it. Now, these are guys that were two or two guys at one point. I would, it would be niff me, or but who of me, I should say. But then I'm not to drop down or try to suck down on the following week and then make the, the desert muscle classic, because that could be an easy win for you. The one of those guys. Doug else coming, he will be here. Now, Carrera, having a crisis, he already talked to me about him. I think he's coming also. Yeah, he is. Yeah, he is. From where I've talked to, when I talked to Chris. Yeah, that's not enough. Yeah, I would like to have a very good line of of two twelve, you know, and I hope the, you know, you make me proud because, which, what we're trying to do in Phoenix is create an opportunity for both of the me and the men's to twelve and men's open. The Phoenix show have the men's open. There's, there's a muscle classic, we have the men's to twelve. Gotcha. So they both have an opportunity to come here and compete and qualify and take on a nice decent check. And once again, my, the most, I got to be honest, the most exciting division for me, women's physique. The first, the young women's physique pro show will be taking place. I see you got Gillian Revelle on the poster. Yeah, beautiful. Yeah, and we did a little iron asylum, because she's very excited as well as a number of other girls who are going to be answering the show. The show is the IFB Desert Muscle Classic taking place on Saturday, February 25th at the Mesa Arts Center. You can purchase tickets at desertmuscleclasic.com. Stryker, I'm looking forward to seeing you in two weeks. Me too, brother. Can't wait. All right. Stryker Solomon, the promoter of the Desert Muscle Classic. Thank you, brother. All right. Two great interviews today. Stryker Solomon, the promoter of the Desert Muscle Classic. Just got off the phone with him, and he's excited about his show coming up in two weeks. And of course, we got the Flex Pro show. This weekend coming up, Chris, the C. Don't I there. We'll be there covering the event for your, all your listening and viewing pleasures. And it's always, always a pleasure to talk to the big robber Robert Bernaca, who is, I like to say, the freak of freaks. You know, there are freaks out there, but he is the freak of freaks, at least out there in the sport. Now he will be fighting in the ring and the octagon and MMA in Poland. I don't know what, they must be giving this guy an awful lot of money because I know Robert the probably not thrilled about doing this, but look, he's a movie star over there. He's got a movie star popularity and he's making cash and I take my hat off to him. Best of luck to you, Robert. And the ring, I have a feeling that he's going to destroy this guy. When this guy sees, it takes one look at the robber, he's going to probably want to go home, but you know, best of luck to him. For now, though, we are at a time, I'd like to thank Robert Bernaca and Striker Solm and if it's stopping by. Until next week, remember, with heavy muscle radio that truth hurts. Heavy muscle radio is a presentation of RX muscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. To the next week at the same time, for another round with Dave Pullumbo, only on heavy muscle. Rehearsal, rehearsal, rehearsal.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH IFBB PRO JEROME FERGUSON PART 1 OF 2 [NdJUlWMZYOk].txt ===

To be Muscle Rigo! For Karen next guest is an IFBB pro. He's been in the industry a long time. You might know him as the guy who likes to take out the dog. He's one and only Jerome Ferguson. Yeah. Drick. How did you know? What's his name? Lonnie T. Forgive you the nickname. Hollywood Ferguson. With that company. You know what? You know what? You know what? IMean, you know, you know, he's going to take it off and keep it real. John, who is he gave me that message? Oh, Lonnie T. He takes credit for that name. You can take credit for it? You know? But IMean, I'm going to the middle. But John, you know, IMean, one, IMean, it's like, shoot 2000 water, whatever. You know, he's what do you think? We think you are your Hollywood? Because that's the answer that first did to the other dollars, they did 2000, 2001. And he's like, we think you are Hollywood? You know, so that's how it's, you know, how it basically came out in the beginning. It's stuck. Now, for people who might not know what we're talking about, when you would do your posing routines at the national level, whether it be the USA and the nationals, you used to do this crazy routine to who let the dogs out and you would take your hair out because you got alonGHere. And you just let it go crazy. And you just do this real funky, you know, type of music dance and type stuff on stage. What inspired you just to do that the first time I loved it because it most people are so boring on stage. And it's a belly of it. You know, you know, Dave, I always been in a team to do that been part of my personality. And I'm really not a company, I'm a donor man. We've been around watching one hundred one-down nations, you know, and then like, you said, I like that song, who did the dog go? You know, I was like, I like that song. You should pull to it. I'm like, okay. And then I created cool dance, you know, like, go around and circle like a dog. You see, I'm going back and forth, Dave. And then it goes man, who let the dogs know? People don't realize that because I have, I don't have kids, but I have little dogs. And what I do with the dog is when, and I do with people around. I don't even realize it anymore. IMake these funny dog voices like I have the, each doGHas their own voice. And I just, it's like a really high-pitched voice that I do, which you'd never expect to hear me do it. And I go around and I chase them around like a retard, you know, to any person outside with that guy was crazy. So you probably do the same thing with your kids. And sure, and then you just trenslated that onto the stage, right? Exactly. If I just do my daughter, we can play around house fun. And that is, you know what? And later, happy, she loves to hear me all stage. And I just created all creative things from up for her. Who let the dog know, is dinner by the song, like it is. And I was like, okay, dinner by the song, I really had to do it. And I, you know, and that's how I do it. And then who let the dog know, so every, every one of them came out, did you? If I started off with a, you know, caught kind of serious song in my routine. And then close to the end, I put out, who's that said, dogs, dogs, whoo! I love it. I love it. Because you know, and you and I have talked about this before, that especially the bigger guys, most of their routines are so boring. Oh my God, you want to like, you want to like, you want to like, you want to like, you want to like, you want to put a bowl in your head. I don't know why people can't be creative. I know man, it was like, I'm not ball ready. Don't go, don't go, don't go. IMean, it was like, IMean, you know, IMean, I've like, so many shows over the years. And about time they get up to the big guys, I was going to go home. IMean, I'm passionate about it. And people in the same thing, you know, I'm like, this thing will be a fun entertainment. And I'm an entertainment. I love how fun. And do, I'm like, let's wait for you on up. Let's get this party started, right? Now baby. You're right for the super happy. And then everyone is like, why do we have to wait and then they leave with a smile on their face? I used to do the same thing. I wasn't the best pose, but I always tried to do something creative, so that when people left, they were smiling, you know. You know, they, they, they both are typical of show. You know, they come and see a show. Right. You know what IMean? IMean, you know, like, IMean, I'm like, I'm going to show anybody. I'm going to show. I'm going to show. You know, if people want to show. And I'm like, right. That's what it's all about, man. Give me a show. I agree. We have to have like American Idol for like, bodybuilders or something like that. You see the level of routine go up really fast. If we did that. Really fast, man. I was just talking about this with Melvin Anthony, who has been missing a team at the L.A. FedEx bow. And he's going to start helping other guys, you know, but some more creative routines together. Which I think is a brilliant idea. You know, I would hire someone like Melvin if I live near him. I don't hire you too, because you guys got creativity. You know what? And that'll bring you back to bodybuilding. You know what IMean? Because people want to see bodybuilding. But they really don't want to see a big body on stage. You're not opposed with, you know, the name boring music. You know, man, or, you know, they want to see a show. You know, man, IMean, I got these circles of the lane. But you know, you know, they really want to be a show. And that, you know, I think, you know, as it goes on. And because IMean, what I first did it, believe not. The judges and people really, IMean, the judges kind of like, the judges kind of like, has their name. Hey, what are you doing? You know, because I kind of changed the whole, you know, being with my little creative team a little bit. And you know, John, like, that's why he taught me Hollywood. He went like, you know, give me a compliment. The moment he was like, what do you think you are? Hollywood? He's got a love bit. He went along with it. You guys, I thought you could say, I'm crazy. I want to learn that bit. There you go. You've done more tickets. So that's why we're all with it, baby. You know, you've been doing this for quite a while now. Starting in 2004 is really when you kind of broken to that top five at the national level. You were forth to the, and the national, I believe. I think in the North American, you were second in the United States. And then, you know, every year after that, you kind of was in that top five group. Uh, however, it took you another five years or six years. I should say before you finally got the pro card at the mass as national when you won the super heavy there in the overall there. What, what do you think was it was hard? Tell me how hard number one it is to get into that top five. And then why is it even harder to get to that number one spot? Which I never did get to, by the way, everyone knows. You know, you know, Dave, you know what? It was hard. It took me years to even because I got 2000 and I didn't break into it until 2004. And you know what I, what I did, I stuck out to the North America. And I think I got seconded in North America. Right. And I should, and I was kept going to USA. And you know, IMean, I remember I think I remember a 12th place, but I think they played some play. You know, but, you know, it was hard, but what would really hard is trying to do this. Trying to do this hard. What was your problem? I remember seeing you do USA when you're at the way. And I was predicting you were going to win the whole show. And then the next, you know, you showed up the next day and you looked a little different. Were you having trouble getting the peak down? You know what? That's the biggest problem. I don't care what no one thinks. IMean, I get caught the dexter and you're caught. But the hardest thing was to get that peak right. You know, and what I kind of learned at the very end, you know, how to change your things. You know? The less you change the better, I always say the same thing. The less you change your better. You know, and all that law control, you know, because everything else is there. And then you try something different. And then there they go. That's what I kept doing. What was the craziest thing you did like, someone else's advice that you realize it in high end retrospect that you really screwed up big time doing that? You know what? That one is by when you take money. Eat money. Oh my god. How many of us is cheap? I think IMade it. Like, six months. But those are the very beginning. Yeah. And I don't tell you a name because the name is, he's going to be doing really good now. He's doing something sabotage. Do you know, it was where a priest got his profile. Right. That was about, was like, 2000. Five or something like that. That's right. That's like 2000. Three. Three. Don't read something like that. I think it was four. Maybe I got it. So what happened? So he. So before he died in. Got him up and up. And I never ate money. You know, I was caught up. You know, but the jam was on the table. All right. And you just got the mess, man. And what happened? You just moved out completely. I was like, over, overshutter. Why do we crazy? It was almost like I was like on a set of things. I'm glad you're admitting this because you know, we would feel so horrible about what happened. They wouldn't even say it. But you do it, men, because you know it. There. No one just shows up one day and then looks completely different. The next day is always something that goes on and, and I, And, you know, we, we eat to reiterate this because you tren a lot of people on a regular basis. And I'm sure you've learned from this you've got wisdom from doing this, the less you do the better. I say it all the time to these guys. And I see this crazy nutty stuff that they do. Honey, or or or like you said, Like you said, muffins or they start eating, you know, french fries or pizza. And then all of a sudden they go from looking amazing. Maybe a little flat to being completely loaded at a control the next day. Yeah, I agree. So, no more muffin loading for you. No more muffin loaded. You know what I think of, you're talking to me, you're talking to me, you're talking to my corporate. And what you bring to the state, you get it ready before you need the show at, they are going to be ready when you show it. Right? 100 out. The best advice, that anyone could listen to, all the listens that they listen to this advice. He's learned, Jerome Ferguson has learned the hard way and he's giving you wisdom. Don't ignore it. And this little given that he's the one in show, he's ready for the show, you get the little show, the simple stage, the show, what you got. You said it. Yeah, you're all the crazy stuff you're done. You said it. That might work out of your stage. If you have to do this crazy stuff because you don't look that good the week of the show that you're probably not in shape anyway. How did you get into trening people, Gold Gym Venice? Did you grab over around there? You know what I don't believe, I'm not good. I don't know, can I see you? You are from Tate, how did you get out to California? When did you get out to California? You came out in 1940, wanted to be like Arnold. You wanted to be a body of the man, wanted to give him TV. You know, you did, you did give him TV. Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm going. What's the latest commercially, the last commercial I think I saw you did, did that plan of fitness commercial? Have that come about. Yeah, you know what I do, it was, it was crazy man. You know, I went on doing it and I talked to Lou. You're an actor, go act, go get paid. Look for a million, you mean, talk to us. We know, yeah. Really? Yeah, so I get there. No, no, stop your first acting. You didn't want to do it because you thought it was making fun of body building. You thought maybe you get some fly, because that was the problem. Yes, you know what, I think that, you know, it wasn't about getting a fly and give you know, fly to people because you know, man, you know, love you, you know, you know, you know, I'm all about love, but those are fact deaths. I don't like the way they, you know, they action body building, body building. You know, man, the way they, they doing it, you know, so I don't, I'm going to agree with that. But it's a TV gig, it's a, the one point that it's a message, but at the second point, you're trying to get into Hollywood literally. And this is a way in there because a lot of people saw that commercial. Is that over million five? Well, so. Did you make some money from it? Two. IMade some good money. You didn't realize that I did a national commercial. They keep paying you every time they they freaking, you know. You know, just, just, just, wait, I just, I just got a phone call. What? 30. From my agency. And they wanted to show one of the commercial I did, because I did a key of car commercial. It was on a sublow lecture. Wow, that's a one of the short, you know, they want to show it in Russia. What, what do you get paid for that? How much extra? I like a lot. Like what? How much? A lot. Tangerine. More. Close. Yeah, no, people don't realize these commercials they pay you, you do two seconds on TV. I did a satellite radio commercial, an XM satellite radio commercial would have it's certain the future. It was as girlfriend at the time. And I got paid for like, like, two years on that thing. They kept sending me checks. I was like, it was like a kid and Christmas every time I came on. Yeah. So that got 30 checks. No, one time. Tell me about it. So we're having a talk. You're not to do it. Don't let shove it up their ass. Is that the right man? And I believe not. And I poured the, a couple months ago. I got too much checks from the final fifth commercial. I really want to show it again all this year in New York and in LA. Wow, that's awesome. Jerome, that also people don't realize now. They pay also. They do it on YouTube. I hear you get a YouTube check too. You do a YouTube check. You just do it. I'm telling you it's unbelievable. And that's really the next reason. This year, a vision. And I've made money in acting. I've been doing it for a long time. You know.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH IFBB PRO JEROME FERGUSON PART 2 OF 2 [ZEgaSQBly4g].txt ===

But this year I can officially say I'm an actor. Stag paid my insurance. Oh, you got the benefits. Wow. You know, that's a benefits man. You know, IMade some experience. Oh, can I tell you what I'm doing? Yeah. That's really well. Yeah. People don't realize if you work a certain amount of hours to per year, they give you benefits. And the segment of fits are also because they cover a lot of cosmetic procedures, too. They say I do it. I'm a team. I am two. I'm an actor. You are now. We're going to call you. You're on the actor Ferguson now. Forget the Hollywood. Well, Jerome, the actor, you know, because I do this. IMean, I just, I'm just, you know, it's almost like a win of all. You know what IMean? But you kind of work for. IMean, it's like, you know, like, three money. IMean, just, just, because you do it for free. That's what you like acting, anyway. I love acting, man. And it just, you know, IMade a bunch of money. You know, like, you know, you go where, when I went, when I went, when I went, IMeant to be a show. Hey, like I took a couple of commercial. You want to let me a show. Talk to me about some of these, uh, possible future roles. Why? IMean, what are you looking to do? You said you, you, you, you, the originally thought about possibly, you know, dropping the weight and then going for the more mainstream look, but now you're saying, no, you're not doing that. Yeah, you know what? I don't have to. You know, as it kind of worked out in my favor. You know, because I believe not, I just shot a pilot with Jamie Kennedy. Wow. And then, yes, uh, for TVX. And, uh, I got a call from TVX for personal Jamie Kennedy production. I said, and TVX, they love my work. And, uh, you know, uh, you know, they need a somewhat accessible one with it. And, uh, you know, if you're looking a bright future, what do you do with that? What's your part next? Officer Jamie Kennedy, though. You know, I do it. I play, believe not, he played a, um, he played a Russian, a Russian master guy. Mm-hmm. And I was just heavy on this bodyguard. Okay. And, uh, you know, uh, and we knew, you know, how he, uh, blind, good old, blind, please, German or whatever she was, a Russian girl. Mm-hmm. Um, and, um, it was a lot of fun. It was, uh, they, they based on a movie, had a pair of twapps. Yeah, yeah, sure. Yeah, it's based on that, man. It's time now. It's really, really good. Now, you get a busy, will you be a recurring, uh, part in that series or is it just the pilot, you know, one time deal? No, no, it's not what time deals. Whatever, whatever they come up with, some different things, they put me in there. That's awesome. Funnall. Congratulations. That's a, that's a bigger news than you, you, you possibly get on stage later this year. Exactly. Because you, uh, you turned pro in 2010. We hadn't seen you for, uh, you haven't competed yet. You haven't made your pro debut. Thinking about doing it this year. You know what, yes, I am probably around the summer. Uh, what I needed to, you know, what, I want to bring my first ball, doing that to the time off. You know, I was so tired of trying to get that pro card. You know, IMean, you know, I do know that, um, those are journey. And a few times, I didn't think I was going to complete that journey. You know, IMean, I, I leave that stage to, you know, what, me, but I think it's, you know, time. Because, you know, I was saying, this is my destiny right here, you know, yeah, no. And, uh, and then something to kick back in, you know, and, uh, and, uh, when it's again. And, uh, when I finally got it, I thought, wherever, uh, James said, hey, Trump, you know, you're not, you still come on, you know? I was just, I was just wrong. As I was being excited, oh, five, oh six, oh seven. You know, not. Right now, I'm just, I was leaving. Yeah, you look, you looked almost quiet after you won. It was like a very peaceful time for you. Yeah, it's like, you know, I did it. And then, uh, after that, you know, I was like, you know what? If I did my pro-card, I didn't do anything I want. And then that's when I said, okay, I'm focused on my energy and the TV. Yeah, three commercial, they're tech-spel commercial, they're button-up comp, IMean, uh, sorry, tech commercial, then I did the, uh, plan and speed of commercial. And then I did a queue-to-car commercial. Right. Right here. And, you know, and Louis Fregno gives you some advice, is that, is that true? Yeah, Louis, I was, um, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I really, you know, you know, I was fully, you know, plan and speed of commercial, you know, you got me booked on it, but I'm like, you know, you know, I don't, I'm kind of, I'm kind of torn, you know, it's wrong with you. You're extra, co-capate, go go act, that's what you do. Very good advice from you, you know. That's what you do, you know. And let me, let me back up so when I get there for the plan of speed of commercial, they want me to be Batman, you know, and not things on the table, you know. So, so I'm like, I did it and they made, and then they was like, you know, you know, and how do you feel about that? I said, well, you know what, I don't feel that. I just, I'm just not doing that. And what would you do? I'm not a pal. You know, I'm a chef, you know. And you're like, yeah, how? That name was Chef Jopney. Okay, hold on, hold on. And we went from there and it's how to get. So you made up the you basically wrote the commercial, too. I wrote, go there, pal, bank commercial. I wrote it. They loved it out the way they were clapping and hand everybody's just like, you know, we did it. They should have paid you for the action money for, for writing the commercial. Sure, wrote that commercial. That was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, you know, you know, you gave me a pin and I pop. You know, me, IMean, your face, you know? I would have a good time. No, I know. I think you should start writing some commercials, maybe, for these products. You got good ideas, obviously. Yeah, you know, it's like, let's how to, let's see. I'm gonna do a big board of meals. No, no, no, no, no. You know, let's say, full of flavor, too, you know. I love it. I love that. Okay, if anyone out there gets a chance going YouTube and YouTube that commercial, it's really entertaining, I'll put it on the throttle, I'll put it on the radio, the red, so the people can check it out. You know you've been Not only you enacting you've been trening people for many years at Gold's gym over 15 from my recollection now I always liked the fact that you're real you keep it real you clients you make it fun for them I see in the gym when you're trening people when I go down that and that's why we build Comstack and I decided to start this little trening series with you called Ferguson's in Ferno I was like god days in Ferno Because you put these guys through hell literally You like that you love that neighbor You can't fern with Ferno man like yeah baby, let's just do it started man Yeah, you know what happened was you know, I you know, I you know, I'm a you know I'm a great bodybuilder doing the body trener you know what IMean it's like okay actually You can what you want I got so much love of people and And the body just the way that I change mine And I like to give back and so I like you show it by the wall and I feel to you so when me and for these came in I was like You feel sure now we'll shoot a guy in heaven He's a monster. You're right and build up with everyone tell with you everyone tell with you I'm like okay, okay, but he wanted to tren Bad with you and I was like okay, so you know, I'm like in my brain like I'm not really bored But like It's something that was easy that I want to do something else because I had been doing piles You know, I've trened with trening my other clients going plow between because I you know I like to do cardio And so I'm so my other client, you know, they would give stuff when you lose the way so I have the house making them do piles And stuff between each rep You know, he said you know you do like that sure they do plow So that I create so I would like to build you know I'll actually tren You know, I could build and do me everything love the bad work out Everyone do you talk about my remember Yeah, he loves the bad work out so much. He wanted to tren me again You know, if you want to tren me We have he had a little bit of a little bit of issue That's okay. I could build can can I do this my way you know IMean I get this new idea. I want to try it. I want to do it You know, I feel like okay go ahead and And you don't love it haven't hated and loved it in And that went for no IMean you feel further than far away Never seen far from I never seen anyone tren like that you just tren someone in the inferno James Newman I saw him at the LA FedEx by the cake of belly walk It's the most incredible routine if anyone wants to see that the video is up on the side right now It's it's probably put up in the last couple days James Newman in Ferguson's in front of is quite the video this kid you really touched out of him You know what I really didn't know and it was him It was like okay, you know I love this guy because he got his He got a little edge swimming. He got his ego in his edge He's doinGHis thing man And his brain he just wanted to be close. Yeah, he's a military guy. That's why Military guy's like just beat me up You know I'm like because I tell him IMight do you know I'm gonna do some chess to some it's like Well my short of a lady here's like okay, let's do legs. I'm like you sure you want to live You and I just Blaves the man and you did I created because I created crazy work out and what I do I know people and when I'm playing them I get into them. You know me I get to admit to with them So I know what they can do I feel but how far to push them and win when they push with it right up When they're not He went far He went far He went far man you already done the death He went to God the death of you would have pushed them there I was like no no He wasn't on quit man No, he was done he was got a long time ago It's like I should have been right down that boy to cut him off He was good but he can't want to do it And I look at Bill I did like a bill I'm not a good one at his Well, if I didn't want to Distantly did this once ago in a Ferguson's in front of you can contact me at huge 285 a day Well that caught my email and submit your name if you're gonna be on California We might we'll see if we can If Jerome will take you on and and talk to you through a workout But people want to get in touch you to tren with you on a regular basis Jerome What's the best way to do that your website? Yeah, I go to my website It's they hit me Jerome hot with Ferguson and y'all who calm They can be Facebook drunk Ferguson and I am pretty pro you know and it's Them messages and come on down, but you know and don't be afraid because it's not like I I'm trying to kill you hurt you almost I'm gonna take you to your limit and All you limit just put it this to make you better person when you're done hanging out with me That's right. That's right. And you can check them out at your room for gerson.com Hopefully we'll see you on stage a little later this summer Jerome and it's always a pleasure to talk to you And you got to keep us updated to what's going on in the acting field because I have a feeling when you make it like Arnold I want to make sure I get tickets to all your uh, all your three meters, okay? Hey, I don't take care of you. I got something really big cooking so let me some good energy out there much love to all you beautiful people all you Fam with your call friends. Thank you guys for all the your support believing in me and most of all day Thank you for having me on and believe me as well day Much love Jerome will talk to you later. Okay. My love a talk you later. All right that was Jerome Hollywood Ferguson and Couldn't mean a nice of guy. This is uh, this is a guy who really has a love for what he does trening people for the sport itself For life and you know I like to talk to people like that but it's been a good mood I was in Sedona like I said earlier at the Chris the whole weekend or for the whole early part of the week and I'm in a good mood and I'm about positive energy and I'm glad that Chris Was able to you know hold down the floor while I was going so to speak and now that I'm back and All is good in the world Back to the sport of bodybuilding and then we got a lot of coverage coming up in the next couple weeks The flex pro shows coming up Following that we have the desert muscle classic strike or solemn and show followed by the Arnold classic a week off we got to cover the the Australian Grand Prix I heard jubaccaromasingin' them and we'll be out there for that. I will be at the same Louis bro Which will be followed on the Sunday after that show with a bro's verse pros So we got a lot of good stuff coming up in the month of February and March That's all she wrote. So I'd like to thank your own Ferguson for stopping by till next week remember with heavy muscle radio the truth heavy muscle radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com the truth in bodybuilding to the next week at this same time We're another round with Dave Pullabbo only on heavy muscle really

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH IFBB PRO ROBERT BURNEIKA PART 1 OF 2 [bJo39ncLAbw].txt ===

3, muscle, 3, go! All right, our next guest is an IFBB Pro, one of the freakyest guys on the pro circuit. He's due to have an MMA fight, which is kind of a little unusual for a bodybuilder, but that's why we got him here tonight, welcome back to the show, Robert Bernica. Hey guys, what's up? Go on, go on. Every time I talk to you, you got some new go-in on. Oh, yeah, it's always something going on. You know, it's funny because a lot of bodybuilders just sit back on their butt and they tren and they eat and they compete. You have a lot of action going on. I know you're really big in Europe, Paul and they love you over there. We got a lot to talk about because you got a lot of stuff coming up, but the thing that really struck, I guess my surprise, because I didn't even know you were into this, is that you have an pro MMA fight coming up. Yeah, yeah, I get out because I'm going to take place in Poland, April 27th. And basically, you know, with one fight for now, and they'll see, I'm not quitting bodybuilder and don't know. No, they had this come about because, you know, I didn't even realize you were even into fighting, much less than to do an actual professional fight on TV. You know, basically, how used to fight when I was, like, a lot of young, you know, like 10, 12 years ago a little bit. So I feel no, with some stuff. So you know how to handle yourself in the ring, as well, I'm saying. Oh, yeah, exactly. So, you know, it's not a lot of folks going over there, you know, like in Europe, oh, bodybuilder, Kent Moore, you know, are different. There's, you know, the enough strong, you know, how it is. So I want to prove bodybuilding can do a lot of stuff, not only getting pumped, you know. I know you can shoot guns, because I've seen you shoot lots of guns, but to me, you always seem like a very nice guy. I have that killer instinct, you know, that if you're in the ring with another guy, you can beat him to death, so to speak. Oh, you know, I can beat him to death. No, you got your fight. Who's this guy you're fighting, is he a name fighter in Poland? No, he had a couple of fights, but he'd like you to be, you know, good, like, professional boxer, basically. Gotcha. Yeah. So they call you from Poland and they say, hey, Robert, we want you to fight this guy and some big event were holding called MMA Attack 2. And I'm assuming they probably offered you a lot of money to do this. You know, that makes some money somewhere, because you know, as bodybuilding is competing as a contest, you can make you a name, you can be in your build, you know, the name. What kind of cash you got to put in on the line for this thing? Oh, I can tell that because they don't make this to you. They announce when when boxes, you know, making $5 million or, you know, whatever, is it more than any pro-shut? Oh, yeah. A lot more than what we're talking about six figures, at least. Yeah, I don't know, just something. Wow, no, all right, so that's a nice payday for you. Yeah, so I think the most bodybuilders, even if they can't fight, would probably go into the ring for that much money. Yeah, exactly. No, let me ask you a question. Is it the, I don't really know that much about MMA fighting, but I have to imagine that it could be dangerous in there. IMean, you know, there's another guy who's trying to kill you, you know, and make a lot of money from it. You don't have any fear over this? Oh, you know, you're getting to the butt. I got to the end of my way, basically. They got to 100, 20 pounds, I think. Wow, what are you going to weigh in the ring? Well, to 80, to 25. Oh, wow, so you're not getting, you're not dieting down for this. You're going to go in as is. No. Yeah, I'm making all of you know, I'm just trying to stay baby, but still in decent good shape, you know? Right. Are you still liftinGHeavy? Oh, yeah. No. No. You lift heavy, but how do you keep your cardiovascular endurance up? Because you're going to need some, you know, if you don't make it, if you get this guy makes it past two minutes, you better have some endurance there, you're going to, you're going to pay. Yeah, I know, basically, you know, I want to take the guy and destroy him. And he's going to start his 30 seconds. But that's all good and then, but what if the guy makes it past 30 seconds, were you? Are you going to make sure that he's not going to die? No, what's your strategy? Just you're going to charge him and just start, you know, weighing on him? I don't know. I'm not going to take you out of the way, basically. So, I don't know how much I can do. So, what's the most dangerous spot to be kicked in where it's disabled? Like, what's the vulnerable areas? Like, the legs? I don't know, legs, you don't know. Oh, you can kick up that high, huh? I'm not fired in that, Sus. Really? Well, every guy got back up to see this on video. I'm impressed because a lot of guys that are as big as you, darn that flexible. Yeah, exactly. So, I still can just put it in today. You could do a split? Yeah. Wow, that's very impressive. Who's trening you when you're fighting? Who's trening me? Nobody. You're trening yourself. Yeah. Now, do you go to a separate gym for that? No, I don't really tren too much. It seems like you're taking this fight very lightly, Robert. You know, I don't want to sacrifice my guns for this fight. No. I still want to be big. Right now, you worried that you might get hurt or injured in the fight, you know? No, so you're not worried about this guy. No. Now, in pain, in pain. In Paulin, that they making a big deal about the fight, I saw a poster for it. It looks pretty impressive. Yeah, yeah. It does big deal. It's talking about the win, all right? That was going to be on TV there, too? Oh, yeah, of course. What? Now, we talked about this before in a had gym. The show, you're like a celebrity. You go there and you're like a movie star there, right? Yeah, basically. I have my own show, what they're on TV, you want to be. What's yours? Like, 13, what are the ended? And basically in a couple weeks, you guys coming again. So, you know, second studio, again, so back to the old, so we'll be coming in and back as actually we're going to start filming in our movie. So, I'll be there. Wow, so it's like a reality show for you then, huh? Yeah, I like a reality show. I know more to buy the building stuff, what you know, what I do every day and basically like this. To bed, they can't have a reality show like that in the United States. Oh, my God. She's basically you're like snuck you over there and only in Poland. Yeah, basically. That's all. You know, because by the building, there's like a little set of building all you can to go to find it. My girl. I'm beyond the end of the building. Right. I know, I know you love living in Vegas and everything. But do you ever get tempted to like want to go to living Poland? IMean, you such a star there. No, it's, you know, it's good, but you know, I say like the letter of Poland and back to see everything. Because, you know, I think if I was that popular Poland, you'd probably be like, they treat you like a king there. You probably wouldn't pay for anything. They'd probably be caught by that. Yeah, I saw a lot of things. And I was like, you know, I was over there four times. And I think I've scheduled this year a couple of months ago. I think a couple of times. So, well, you know, congratulations on the notoriety over there. And I hope you beat the Kell out of the sky. Now we get it. We're here in the United States. How can we see this fight? Do you think it'll be like on YouTube or something like that? Oh, definitely. I'll be in YouTube. Probably right after I fights over. It'll probably be on the other hand. Yeah, yeah, exactly. That's going to be crazy. I can't believe you're actually going to get into the ring. And punten you. You wear gloves. What do you, how is the, what's the garb over there when you do them? Yeah, it's basically on my gloves. Like, my boxing button, like you'll see right in gloves. I remember watching Bob Sappfight when you got into that MMA. And I was like, oh my god, I would not want to get hit by these guys. But some of the, the really good MMA guys are, you know, they can handle like a big guy like you. But I guess this guy is like, he's not a champion or anything like that, is he? No, no, no, no. He's a journey man. See, you should hope you able to kick his ass. Now, yeah, with all this notoriety and everything you've been getting and money, you've been making, you actually started your own supplement line, which I want to congratulate you on. It's called Bernaca Sport. Yeah, it's important. And basically, I got already, like, three products out to the 420, still in progress, like three workout jinx, many clubs. So, you know, I'm basically the most, the stuff that's in Europe. But here is available as well in United States and the NACA Sport.com. It's Sport or sports. It's important. Okay, BernacaSports.com and what kind of, what kind of products are you sellinGHere in the US? Well, now I got a God-burner, a life-on-house, then a hyper wall, which is like three workout and a jito. Mm-hmm. You've got a pretty workout chain coming out or a deal, like two weeks, basically. Like a, like, actual drink drink. Yeah, yeah, yeah, like, pretty workout really good. Well, I got all the innolvative formula making just for me. Did you help formulate these products yourself? Yeah, I tried everything, you know, it was me a while. By the time, to get everything right, but they got somebody who formally, for me. Gotcha. Yeah. I'm assuming you're very popular probably in Poland, I would think. Oh, yeah. Exactly. Is it true? You told me you're selling the pro-harmonies in Europe because they're legal there, right? Yeah, yeah. I got for a home on fiat, uh, you can take you up for X for only because you're not. I'm telling that. Right, right. Well, that, that, that, that, congratulations. I'm glad that you, you got a business going for yourself. Oh, thanks. I've been doing all these days to get the imponsor for why do you go business so hard? I always say, do it yourself, invest in yourself and that's what you're doing. I guess this fight you're having will help really finance that supplement company. You can buy a lot of inventory with that money. Oh, yeah, exactly. That's what it's about. People don't realize that you're, you're a, you're a, some very smart business man. And, uh, I know you're selling. You're still into the whole bodybuilding thing very strongly, but, uh, what, I, we're going to see you compete this year. Are you going to take a year off? Oh, basically, my plan is compete next year because, you know, I've been dieting for last 40 years, basically. I don't appreciate what they're, uh, related. Right. And, uh, I think that in, I can't improve over dieting that stuff every year. So, just taking this year off to improve myself, basically what I need to get my leg bigger. Then I'll just stuff and come back next year. I'll let me guess. Well, how have you changed your dear, your trening strategy to help, you know, achieve these goals that you're looking to do? Oh, basically, I just feel heavy, but, uh, more basically, like, uh, just a little break. I had a small drop set that had a bit different different stuff where I used to do. What, what are you doing for your legs? That's a body part that you really want to get bigger. Well, that's, you know, basics style squat, uh, Morris Smith machine squat, I'm losing now. I say, no, just like you've got to, uh, Can I slide a little bit of that? Just, yeah, I felt it's a little bit more. Are you trening with Dennis Wolf still? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was trening. And by the day, but we get in a couple days a week. I'm four times a week. Yeah, that's good. That's excellent. I know, that, that news they can tell you that next time you come to that, That's the gold from Flaminggun, Tom Hill, who be closed. Yeah, what happened with that? Yeah, I heard that rumors. That's true, huh? Yeah, I did true. Why would they close the biggest goals, Jim, they haven't made this? The kid, I think they didn't have, you know, to the nuts people because all of his nuts people were dead, and, you know, they didn't, but thank you, money. Wow, I can't believe it. It does another business neighborhood that I don't, then, you know, but I love you. I don't know. I love you. I don't know. It does, Jim, and I guess. Wow, maybe it's too big. The mind of the rent might have been too high. I don't know. You know, it's all about, you know, now, those GMs open, you do one, and people, you know, people, you know, people, and I've got a lot of good anymore, you know, that. Where are they? They just teach them. Where are they trening now, in the, I guess. I'm not a smart, Jim, I guess. I think I could have it a lot more gold, Jim, but, if you're messing with the, now, it's like this one, you know what IMean? No, I know that, but I'm saying, where are people getting got? The GM is there yet. Another GM that's taking its place, so to speak? Yeah, if someone, they can be below, under someone, and under them, they're just, another gold. Yeah. It's still decent, but it just atmosphere. It's not, not too good, you know, then. Soft and soft, yeah. Yeah. So you and Dennis Wolf are going to have to find another place to tren, that's a shame. That's a shame. That's a shame. The, what are they going to turn into another GM, and they're just closing it? No, the closing. I can't believe it, man. The next thing, the next thing that's going to happen is gold, Jim, and Venice is going to close when Google takes over the lease. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There'll be no hardcore GM's left in the whole country, but, yeah. I'm not just a Steve Weinberg's place in New York. Yeah. Yeah. What, how is Dennis Wolf looking for the Arnold Classic, are you impressed? Oh, I think I can tell you, you look the best I ever seen. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What is it going to weigh you? It's dry. You're now around 3. Oh, my God. Yeah, but really dry. Just for the, you know, but usually I see them before every contest. Yeah. He looked kind of what Tidico would be for kind of police. And this time, usually we get in dry, so I think I think he can fertility number one.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH IFBB PRO ROBERT BURNEIKA PART 2 OF 2 [cfOqtYLM6kI].txt ===

What do you attribute these the fantastic changes in the physique to do you think it's the the fact that you guys started trening together over a year ago You know It's good when someone's pushing you a little bit the gym Does you lift heavy so I'm sure you're makinGHim lift heavy. I know that Yeah I'm telling you that was the best thing that ever happened to start trening with you IMean it's good for you too, but I'm just saying I think it was excellent for him because he knew he had no one in Germany That was who was pushinGHim the way you are You Maybe Dennis Welfel start fighting people in MMA in Germany He's making good money though. So he doesn't need a lot of it to do that Yeah, I could sit on his ass and lift him right in the tren protein shakes I love it. I love that you're getting in the ring I'm really excited about I can't wait to see the fight which I go that that's great now What kind of arena are they holding it in is it gonna be like a huge place? Oh shit Very big that you do a whole like You know how the fight is walking to the ring to music and stuff like that What do you what are you gonna use what kind of music? My own song with that I was I was in I was at that and basically when it wasn't fallen yeah You got a music video I got to watch this I got to pull this up give me a couple lines of the rap sing a little bit to me I Dude in polish yeah I love it. I love it. Yeah, it's funny because as polishes people aren't real as polishes not your first language and you're freaking rapping in polish now That's incredible What do you feel the most comfortable speaking? I don't know it's like you know of course my own language in the opinion, but right now I'm so used to English or polish a little bit in the middle of them. You know if you come to Poland all is better than English Yeah, that's fine. I said yeah Paul is and now I do so much It's a bit close people like everyday you know, I'm putting into that and then I You know Mike for me every day or I didn't That's incredible. Did you work with people like I do diets and stuff like that for people overseas to? No, no, I don't do that now. I just I just have no time for that I hear you there go So what's the typical day like feel like when you get up in the morning? What do you do? Give me like The computer so like tell a car from wake seven or eight to black in the morning. Give that many emails Yeah, I'm not going you know like into the world. We got to take care of business a lot of stuff, you know planning my Those to Paul and then because I do it myself. You do no manager Yeah, I believe you I know Go to the gym come back again Need to get in all this It's something They've gone Do you notice that when you're on the computer you forget to eat sometimes because I always do that for some reason Get sucked into it Yeah, actually the smell I got and go I just want to do my Because we got the own ways you're show as well You're what what do you do a polish radio show? Yeah, I'm also doing I got it. It's a radio hoax Hmm So we feel my little thing is What is it to get idea live with your life like it's over class When the morning only one one week, you know, yeah, and what do you talk about on the show? How they should care about everything for diet, you know, they have to think somEQuestions Or even could eat some advice like Really, you have a co-host who does it with you? Like you know We do two of us One other Paul is right? So you actually film it in your studio, huh? That's incredible Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's I call my studio What's the name of the show again? It is And we can get that on the Robert Bernacca YouTube page Yeah, yeah, I'm not used to page Robert sounds like you got a really full plate I'm excited you can have to keep us updated and you'll have to send me the link when as soon as that fight goes up on YouTube Because I want to watch it and then you can text me when you have to defy it's oversight I know that you're one and you're still intact Oh yeah Good Robert Bernacca will be fighting at the MMA attack to April 27th He's fighting Marceean and Najam And you can check out his new supplement line at BernaccaSports.com Robert, thanks for calling in there Okay, thank you so much This is heavy muscle radio Only on rxmuscle.com

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH IFBB PRO TONEY FREEMAN PART 1 OF 4 [046J9yKs8SU].txt ===

To be Muscle Ringo! Our next guest is Back by Popular Demand. Good friend of ours, good friend of mine. He is the X-Man, Tony Freeman. Or something? Got you back here. We were trying to record before. We had a little technical difficulty. We're doing this again, and it's going to be better than ever. Tony, I saw you at the LA Fit X-Bow last weekend. And you looked great. You had the X-Pane booth you were at. You had your little corner section off there. The fans were mobbing you. And all seems good in your world. It was a good man, you know. I just went taking a slow, these last, almost, again, like six-day and weeks, and stuff. Master show. I just went taking a easy, letting my body heal. Top and off, all my essentials. Get ready for the season. Well, doing good. You know, we have the, we have the Bro's verse pros, strength challenge. Number 10 coming up. And I said to myself, who would I want to get for Bro's verse pros 10? Or Bro's verse pros X as we're calling it? I said, the dream pick would be Tony Freeman the X-Man, because that would be, you know, almost be like heaven said. And I said to myself, Tony's always traveling. He's busy. He's competing. He's dieting. And you know what? For some reason, the universe must have opened up its armstuff. And said, we are going to give you the X-Man, because you're not dieting. You're not competing. You're not traveling that weekend. And we got you. You agreed to it. Yep. I'm maybe doing it. You know, I haven't, you know, before I tore my pick, I was, you know, I wasn't like a super strong word. I could do a lot of reps with 225 and 15. I was doing 405 with that to 205. But, you know, we'll see, I'm not going to challenge heaven. I haven't, I haven't done a, any kind of competition like that. Because I really try not to football. You guys can deny this. Right. So we're calling this brazverse pros 10. The X-Man takes on the world. Because you are opening up, we are opening up this competition to anyone who wants to come down and see if they could outbench you for 225 pounds for reps. It will be taking place on Sunday, March 18th at the West County Health and Fitness Center. St. Louis, Missouri. It's the one. It's the same weekend as the St. Louis Pro show. Jack, Tony's, hydrolyzed, ultra will be the main sponsor of that event. And really, people can come down. You're going to go last whoever gets to, who puts up the most amount of reps is going to walk on $2,000 to richer. So there is some cash on the line here. There's a little bit of a, I think we'll see if people will lie in the room. Oh, yeah, you know where body goes. It'll do for money. Wow. So, you know, you're going to have some, some heavy head is coming down there. I'm going to, I want bragging rights to say that they beat the X-Man. And I know you, you're a fierce competitor. You're, you know, an athlete growing up and, you know, like the lose. I just met at all. Not at all. So I would definitely be trening for this, specifically. I won't make a fool out of myself. You're also one of these guys that I, you're like a clutch player. You're, you're, you're the kind of guy that's like, cool on the pressure. You're always, you're able to perform. You know, when the chips down and when old it, well, you know, everyone's expecting you to just, you know, drop out of existence. You come back, you win a pro show. You know, I was watching the Super Bowl and, you know, ElIManning is, as a guy like that too. He seems to perform better on the pressure. Do you like it when you have to, when you, when you, when you're forced, almost put out your best effort. I think it's new like that all through my life. You know, high school. I don't call it even great school. You know, just doing stuff under pressure. You know, you need to perform. I've always been a performer if it's our little kid. So I, you know, you know, that, that, that, that was chance to, you know, shine or step up at the back. You know, I want to play it back. I want to play it back. I want to play everything through it. We'll get shot at the buzzer or something like that in the win the game. But, yeah, I enjoy it. How do you, uh, quite your mind to the play where you can just focus on everything, nothing that's around you, but just on what you're doing. Because a lot of people get distracted. They allow the pressure to, to beat them. Uh, I see so many bodyables choking and screwing up at the last minute. How do you keep your head straight like that? Well, in the past, I haven't been one of those guys in the choke to the last minute. You know, now I kind of just, you know, I treat it as another day to office. And, you know, like, like, I always tell people, I don't celebrate when I win. I don't cry when I lose. Like, you know, it's my job. It's something that I have to perform at my best. No matter what the outcome, I'm just treated like that. And, you know, when you're, you know, the bodybuilding is not something that's cut and dry. I think it's easier for me to use to be harder because I should put a lot of emotions into it. But now it's business. So I understand the game, I understand how it works. You know, can it be better? Of course it could have. So, you know, but, you know, I play the game and, you know, and I try to get the best I would. And try to enjoy myself more and anything. And what? You have a son who's an ex on athlete. Would you work kind of advice to you give him so that he can, you know, not that same cool demeanor when he's playinGHis sports. Um, he's so gifted. You know, he runs track. So gifted and so talented. I'm actually encouraged him to seek out strong competition because I've watched him in the track. He never loses. Really? And my opinion, I think he needs to raise some people that are, you know, you know, but already, faster than him, you know, by the clocking away. Right. And see if they can't pull that extra gear out of him and see if he can see how fast he really is. So I just tell him the all and I look like that one I'll always play with the bigger kids. You know, when I was a kid, I played with girl men. When I was a little kid, I played with big kids. I always play with people that were better than me, a bigger than me. That was a close to be better than me. So that way, when you do, you know, get a shot on them or make a tackle on them or whatever you're doing, you know, if you know that you're really good, it's not this low because you're playing against competition that, you know, challenging you to do better and be your best. What is your best? What events does he do in the track and field? He runs 100 meters and he runs the 4 by 1, 400, the 200. He's just at academic all-American and athletic all-American for, you know, you know, and track him and with a grade in with his spiel on track. So that's not that pretty cool. Were you a good student in school? Did you not like the study and stuff in there? I did really well. I always tell my senior year. I've seen a year only had to go to school till 10 p.m. I had like two classes and so you know what I'm saying? I did really well like one through 10 months or 11. That's all the matters, of course. Yeah, IMean, I pretty much graduated early, but we moved and I just said, I'll get out through half a day and go to work. I started working. 11 grade. I didn't know. I did. Yep. When did you actually have your first child? 23. There you go. You got married at 21 and then I have my first child 23. That's good. He just turned 22. That's what I was going to say. Your kid is like, you can be a kid. Yeah. You can have it any more. Yeah. You can be a grand. My brother is my younger brother at the Grandfather already. I'm just a little bit not so, yeah. You know, very high in the hospital. I think that he's so focused on what he's doing. That he's not. I really don't fear it. IMean, you can have him that happens. But I really don't fear it because, you know, he's starting to realize what he has in front of him. So I'm hoping that I'm pretty sure he is going to just, you know, end up playing football in the last few years and probably 100 ago in between. I'll end up here or not in 2016. What kind of time does he run for the 100? Right at 10 second tip. Wow. Really? Yeah. That's, that's well class. I know. Right here at the 44 and a half inch vertically. Oh, my God. What's his name? Uh, mecoframin. To mecoframin. Wow. We got to kill the tiger. I have a common state. And you know, really, probably towards the end of the year, I'm going to put him in mince with each. He literally went into the seat, like right now. You know, he's on the bottom of the foot of my face. Just right now today. I'm wearing a present for 100 minute time. That's incredible. Yeah. He's like, you know, I was pretty fast. But I'm never really, you know, I didn't, I ran tracks like an easy grade. Yeah. I didn't really pursue it. And man, he's a beast. He's really, really is. See, I have a scholarship for that. Yeah. Yeah. We'll try it. You're lucky. Thank you. What's your ability? And it doesn't his speed. He has speed over a longer time. I think he can really be good at the 200 if he practices. Because he can maintain the top speed for a long time. And he just barely quickly could do. What is he long jump? You just started long jump. I'm not sure, but I know his standing bar jump is like, in eight. Yeah. Yeah. He's a freebie. It's like, he's leaking abilities. If I could ride steel in the 12 feet, I'm he can put his palm with his hand on the steel and hold my hand. Yeah, totally. Time of 11. Wow. What a jump. I wish he was a little bit taller than that. But, you know, he's a perfect height for a cornerbacker. You know, and then when he's 25, 26, 27, we can put him in a bodybuilder. He's a good guy. He's a good guy. He's like, it can make some money for this. I have to, like I told him, I said, you know, boy, who's drinking some more when you retire, you still have time to be a good guy. Yeah, when he's 40, look at you. He could get him to go into bodybuilding in 40 and be fine. Yeah. 35. But let's talk about you though, because for a guy who could possibly be a grandfather, you're pretty, and I see it the booth. And, you know, many people might not watch. I was watching you at the L.A. FedExpo, and I got a Dionistro, and I've told you this before, but when I was at a booth, okay, at 300 something pounds, and I was always in good shape, I would get tons of people coming over for autographs and pictures, and 90% of them, probably 95% of them were guys. They wanted to know advice on how to tren, how to take supplements, and what I did, and diet, and stuff. And maybe one or two girls would come over the whole time. You got, like, at least 50% women at the booth, at your booth, all-oogling, googly-eyed, over you. I can't believe it. It's unbelievable. It's pretty crazy, bro. This weekend, it was a lot of fans there, period, but it was like, you know what I should say, 50% women. Like, normally most of the actual stuff is, a lot of guys, but it was a lot of women there. I actually got the Dionistro, Malano, come on, what's the level? No, I'm talking about it. Well, listen, Malano? You just, no, the niche. You just want the X-caliper, X-caliper. I don't know. You gotta look for a bro. Okay. He's like, hey, you get you there. You know, as I couldn't, there was one girl hotter than the next coming to your booth. I was like, in shock. Yeah, it was a bunch of day off. They all, you know what I'm saying? IMean, that's, you know what I'm saying? What are they all talking about? How can they like you so much, and they don't like these other guys? Well, I'm a real man, I'm a real dude. I'm not saying to these guys, aren't they? But what I'm saying is, I'm like, there, I'm the image. I'm there, a vision of what it should be. You know what I'm saying? So it's more like, shit in the moa. I learned of the young age, how to, you know? I don't, I don't, I'm a check woman, and that's the one of the main reasons why I picked that bodybuild because I knew I know a woman like I watched my listen to. IMean, I was the dude who didn't get to girl, but the girl would tell me all her problems about, you know, just do the math dude. And I learned a lot from that. I did that for like my whole high school career, and I just know. It started. It's studied. Not studied. What does it tell us what a girl wants? Please, we're all trying to feel this out, Tony. They want your listen to them. They can't exactly what they want. Each one of them is different. And if they open up themselves, do you know what they want? And they'll say it in a joking way, you know, or like, you know, like a signing free-spite thing, but it's you know, if you're a guy who can, or by that, you really want to girl them, then IMean, you know, not like they keep it a secret. But I'm so worried like to play games, of course. Because they don't want to be the first ones to get hurt. But when the time we got to be like, you're going to do this really just listen to them. See, you mean we actually have to listen to what they're saying is that they're trying my problem. Or you have to listen to what they're trying to say, not exactly the word. Not on the words. You don't say, you kind of got to read between the line. So they want people to get something like that. It's a fantasy romantic, very tale, that was a typical relationship. And you, and you feel like they're like the bad boys, just like choke them on. That's right. You feel like you feel the limits fantasies. Is that what you're telling me? I'm talking. Yeah. I'm talking. You're mentally not the male. Sometimes I'm not so okay. Yes, you're right. You're right. You're 100%.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH IFBB PRO TONEY FREEMAN PART 2 OF 3 [IbAGl5ASPHc].txt ===

Right now you you're always dressed well to where do you get your clothes because I don't have a big guy like you could actually fit in such you always have design a clothes on you always look like you pick your outfits out to match. It's just you know I take my time because it's number one it's impossible or you should be impossible for me to go to the mall and you anything you know I would always have to go get the relax field of bag you fit and you know like you know three sides of two big and then go get this way taken in and all that stuff of recently I found this place called K&G then big and tall and I'm actually Sean John has some wide laid slacks that they made the 100% really nice slacks they do book you got them off the rack I got every color yeah actually they you know I can kind of get them all to the perfect perfect but the fact that I can put them all the legs and I'm not gonna actually wear my belt without you know bunch of them all up looking at all crazy you know same fit the all of the should be like custom you know just be you know maybe a half inch in the length of maybe inch in the waist but normally I'd get like six seven inches in the waist you should have a pocket are and touch each other by the time they take your waist and I had this one lady who can make it look right but IMean yes but there's one for her then the pocket would be touching well I don't even know what I would do I would just wear you know there's almost really big my the bill is just wear baggy clothes and click so yeah you know you make a concerted effort though to address yourself and I think that's why people command a little more respect for me maybe well IMean you got it like okay the thing about us you know like in football they wear the uniform and the helmet stuff so we don't really get to see that face in our sport we're down to our skisys yeah so pretty much you know saying you can see the person and if they inshaped the out of shape so when we're not on stage you kind of got to give them something else and that's why I kind of like this you know put on the nice clothes and that way you're you'recomplete you're not just you know you know but I'm needed you're kind of more balanced and people are attracted to that do people come up to you in the in stores and stuff like that and try to like you know if there have been like go off for movie parts or anything like that or commercial work or because IMean you do stand out when people see they think that you're someone important I can see that I had a lot of movie industry people come up to me as a booth and and that latest past we've been so I'm making some connections that way but I'm right now I'm actually reading for part in this movie called Justice Knights I just got my the second act where there's for my my character is and I've been you know the one who we have been in the summer called Park so I'm starting to hate that direction I really enjoy acting you know IMade the guy who's writing justice might he IMade him in the spy and he said you know IMight as a movie and I got his character you'd be perfect for him so he wrote me into the movie and they actually got me written into part two as well so I'm well looking forward to that okay does that the idea of getting my head a camera like that make you nervous it all since it's something like you haven't really done too much well you know I took I'm all too high school IMean I think I had acting experience but I've had experience being in plays in reverse and lines and stuff like that being in front of you know live people and then you know being on stage is a bodybuilder you have to perform IMean I guess you don't have to but if you want to be successful you can want to have fans you have to learn out of the form and you have to know how to control your emotions you know I've turned it on and turned it off so you know I got I'm not saying I'm a great actor anything but I know that there's a lot of guys out there doing it and if they can do what I can do that's pretty much right I'm sure that's the right out of two to have you know people I've been on movie sets obviously people don't realize a lot of times also when movies are filming sequence and not film like the whole thing in one shot so it does they do to begin the end first and then go do yeah you don't have to remember the whole script although I'm terrible memory I sometimes see some of these scenes with these guys speaking like you know 25 30 lines at a time I don't know how these guys actually can possibly remember all the lines but I guess it's crazy when I did that movie park you know he said me I had a pretty good significant park and so he said me the script and he said well the first day we shoot we're gonna do these pages right here so he gave me like I don't know four five pages and I had you know like 10 lines to do so I'm reading and studying and reading and reading and I go to the set and then he's like oh well I'm sorry we're not doing that we're doing this you're missing and I'm just like Ryan I don't even know I don't even know what the best thing is I was making ready to go home while I don't know what to do if I'm not going to be fine this read over you know I'll go on so I read over it and it was a it was a scene where I'm gonna go off and I'm coming to the club to collect money from the couple of old hours old me money and I'm like well IMean I think I'm been in that situation the time of two before so say I can do it so I've needed my mail there's an airbody and it's tripping it's like wow I do that was really good so from that moment I was just like really good I was like I think I'm on my new passion my new you know things you did in the thing that drive me to you know you better and better it's off you see you like the acting and that's good that's I love it it was really really cool now what minute you grew up in a tough neighborhood you said you had some experience with that um well just do life period life experience you know something you know I worked in the clubs you know they've been around the bottle for you dancing the club still you yeah IMade you know I was a bodyguard you know back in the late 90s IMean late 80s early 90s Atlanta was like you know one of the drunk capital of the nation and it was a tons of Kingpins and maybe in there good news in Atlanta and it's coming to the club that I worked in all the times I should be security for those guys so I'm seeing a you know what IMean I know a lot of those time being there run through them so that's that's interesting I got you know that about you yeah it's kind of crazy but it's not like from 80s to 87 to 92 crazy club 112 people listen and they probably been there they know what's up it's good off the chain off the Rickness 20 out of the time stage you know IMean you know they've changed the whole area bucket they've revitalized the whole thing it's all up as buildings you know it's like an interestinGHistory older like a never and I get never existed talk to me a little bit about though we got some you're gonna be competing a little later in the area and usually you compete all throughout the year you kind of this year kind of limited to the second half of the year I think what are you gonna do the first show is gonna be in June yeah I wanted to just focus on my business and focus on you know I didn't know I chose and that takes a total of your body so I just want to make sure that you know I get top of all my you know I'm a little bit of a tablet and runs past like that you end up burning through a lot of vitamins and minerals and enzymes and satiacis I just want to take time to let my body rebuild that all that stuff back up before I started dieting again so June Toronto Pro show looks good and then Chicago and July and then I'll see after that you know I'm like to do a few shows so but I'm gonna see just how those first to go and take it from there. Do you like the new rules where you have to win a show to qualify for the Olympia? IMean because you've obviously every year you pretty much want to show so for you it's probably not that bad but you like the idea that they're making it more selective. Well I definitely feel like you'd leave just only be on the stage and not taking nothing to give anybody else but I'm saying after around 10 to 12 are being announced as far as the interest so you know maybe cut it off at 15 but you know they're 16 pro shows so if you take away the the guys who qualify at the old and the guys who qualify at the Arnold. So you have to win so that leaves you know maybe 14 more guys besides the guys that qualify and then someone old guy that's gonna do someone old show that's gonna take it down another few places so we're gonna get to have that number of the top 10 to 15 you do you guys on stage and then I feel like everyone should be able to you know we should be able to compare everyone and then really put everybody you know then it'll be a better show for everybody I think and they're hopefully yeah well I think you're right I think that the you know really at the Olympia level no one really cares about the guys who actually had any show no one cares about the guys who play eighth place and down usually it to it's like alright get them off the stage we want to see these top seven or eight guys compare to see who looks the best and you know really at the Olympia it's the elite of the elites you really shouldn't you should really only have or 10 or 12 guys to begin with and so this is probably a good thing is gonna be less expensive for them to fly all these people in you get a more time to compare the people and I hear they're gonna be you said they're getting to begin with more prize money I think too right well if you freeze up more prize money what they do with it you know we'll see but the robin said that well that was the number one objective if we say if you you know say like 90 grand if there's like 10 less people in the show or something like that then you said they would put that towards a prize money first so I'm like well IMean that can only be good yeah I don't they don't give it all to the first place dude they're exactly exactly what I would do so to do that now you and I also talked off camera a little bit and I like to say you had this this idea to possibly you know make bodybuilding almost like you know the order racing industry you know like I like a point system tell me about that a little bit golf NASCAR all the sports like ours which you know basically are individuals and you might have a team we might we have gurus and sponsors and stuff so but the point system you get excellent a point for victory first second third for us this maybe and then you know it colders up over the year and that's how you're rank and then when you get to the limpio according to your rank that's how the call out should be and IMean IMean then it's been a surreal battle with the real five people who have earned their positions and nothing got around you know I'm saying people have put him to work they done the shows you know to got their points and no one can take him away from it then it's more I think it gives people more incentive to do better do more shows get to point IMean you know okay if they throw some of this extra pride in money on if you're re-prepared to my points I don't know it's all kind of ways to make it interesting but the thing about you know golf very few people follow golf back in the day not a guy's stadiums right IMean I got 20,000 30,000 people at a govt and you know coming for real so IMean that's because they've made it really legitimized they made it interesting so you're saying this if you get a point system it would encourage more body bills to do more shows because you wouldn't necessarily have to win but the most more point you accumulate that the better you're ranking will be toward the as the year comes to an end when you come to the Olympia and so what would you say like a certain amount like maybe top 12 point getters would qualify for the Olympia? Well IMean they could steal you know let's just say the whole you got to win a show thing works but there's only like eight guys that one shows and then you can then you know four more guys from the old in the Arnold lineup so that's 12 guys like that so they could say happy with 12 been cool but you should open it up toward the guys who didn't win a show but they have X amount of points or over X amount of points maybe you can add them to the show you know I'm saying because some people one way or another somebody to get in that down yeah you either if even they're not gonna win a show they're gonna get seconds like two or three times and you know I'm saying they would be deserving to go and won't be going or maybe the year you give away the top point earner you know gets a special you know championship prize like you know super series prize or something like that for you know being a little consistent because when the Olympia doesn't mean you'd have the most points because you might have someone else who outpoint you because they won the Arnold they won when you're pro or you know something like that. Well yeah and then I'm sure that some company would love to be the sponsor of that right IMean that would be a very prestigious award right so you know IMean that would be incredible.

=== FILE: HEAVY MUSCLE RADIO WITH IFBB PRO TONEY FREEMAN PART 3 OF 3 [QoaOgBEBa1Y].txt ===

I think it's a great idea, Tony. I think that's a great idea. It's all kind of the way to make it interesting. You know what I'm saying? Like I tell everyone all the time, we are one of the few organizations organized. So we take color to sport because sport have set rules and regulations that everyone in the building can follow. So we have to say we either, like a paddock, which that sounds too weak. IMean, you know, there's a few things that we could do to put a standard in our sport. In our event or whatever. That way, we can physically call this sport. We have a point system now. If you learn play while you place. And then a way for you to determine how you place. You don't say, like we have pre-judging, we have Microsoft for the B-350. Right? IMean, but how is it really? Is it 50, 50, really? IMean, you know what I'm saying? How do we know other than that's what the judges are telling? So in other words, in other words, you know, the judges might, you have to come up with some kind of way where just like yesterday, we watched in the Super Bowl. You know, somebody goes out of bounds, or somebody, you know, all sides of France started, whatever. The rest calls it, but we can see it as well. Cause we know the game. And that's what's missing from our sport. People that's been following this sport for 10, 15 years can walk out of a bodybuild and so they know what the hell just happened. Right? So that's where I think we can improve and make it better for everyone, fans, athletes, promoters, you know. IMean, you know, with the whole world of technology, now you can even throw in, you know, letting audience, and after the judges picked the top six, the audience picked the winner, cause you know, everybody can text it in. So IMean, we got to take now to take it to that level. Think how much interest, how much more interesting it would be if you got 10, 20,000 people voting on the internet and then plus the 34,000 people voting in the arena. That would be intense. I agree with 10, just ideas, you know. That would be good ideas. Sorry, getting the pride of money up to, you know, 34, 5, and we started voting, started getting some serious response. People are going to start wanting to see this stuff that we can just time it up. IMean, we got awesome bodies. So that's what making people want to come. But you still got people leaving the arena. IMean, I go travel all over the world and people are like, we don't understand how this person, what do IMake? Well, I'm on the stage. I don't know either. IMean, you know what I'm saying? So some kind of way it needs to be a better connection between what's going on. So everybody can, you know, so it can be a real fan of the sport, not just a fan of the athlete. Right. You're right. You're 100% right. And I hope that the, hope that the power is to be or someone's listening to this and maybe you could make a proposal and that's how the sport evolves and changes for the better, because you know what really is happened. The sport really has changed. But it's the most of the changes occurred in the women's divisions. They've added a three or four new women's divisions over the last couple of years and the sport. And the numbers have ballooned. And I think that while they added a men's physique division, I really think they've done very little to help the bodybuilding evolve. And I think that, yeah, I think we need some more creativity in there and I think to make it more interesting, I'm not saying to make it like WWE wrestling, but once you get a point system or, you know, I think they were doing it. They had the right idea when they tried to bring that challenge round in back in the day, but it just wasn't executed right, so it did kind of screwed everything. It's all going to draw an out. Actually everyone shouldn't have been able to, they just, they just didn't, it just lasted too long. It should have been more like, you know, some kind of way to cut a short and then synchronize it a little bit and then it didn't, it probably was because that, the premise for that is that's a great idea. You know what I'm saying? But I think I think the basic stuff needs to be like, everyone needs to hit the pose, the mandatory pose is the same way. You can have your own versions when you do your pose in routine and on that. But I'm saying when you're being judged, we need to be hit at the same time, because you know everybody be on. Yeah, waiting for that, you know. Yep. You understand, make it more official. That's all, you know, even powerless and they have to pick it up and they have to hold it for a certain amount of seconds. IMean, hey, if we have nothing, nothing, official. Nothing, Vora. So this gives us a couple of things that are official that everyone in the building could see. And then, you just have to do that to make it a deal. IMean, I just got to make it more exciting. Maybe, I don't know, maybe not. But when the audience can know what's going on, not be guessing, like right now, the only time you know, or you think you know, it's not how they put somebody in the middle. So if we put somebody in the middle, then you think, oh, that person must be first place. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, that's all we got. That's all we got. You're a, you're a, you're a, you're a, you're a, that's all we got. Well, I am, I think every, the fans are going to be looking forward to seeing you in some other venue other than the way they usually see you, which is either guest posing or up on a body, but I say, you're going to be functionally lifting at Bros. vs. Bros. 10. The X-Man takes on the world at Sunday, March 18th, at the West County Health and Fitness Center. That's going to be in St. Louis, Missouri. Tony Freeman will challenge the world. 225 pounds on the bench press for reps for $2000. I'm excited to see you. Tony, will you be at the Arnold Classic? We have a booth. I will be there. It's a pretty much what I would be there. I'm looking forward to being at the Arnold being an audience. Being, you know, not all died at that. I'm a people who, you know, see me at, you know, 300, 300, 300 plus. Hopefully we'll get to see that. I've been late and so so long. So yeah, don't be that. We're going to have a great time. IMean, that's like the, the guys are lifting. That's like the thing for the year. That's what you've got. You know, if you're in this game, you need to be, I know you're going to miss being at stage, but at the same time, I'm sure you're not going to miss the fact that you're not going to be dying. You can actually enjoy the Arnold for once in your life. And I'm sure. I'm going to take note of this show. I'm going to really, you know, be able to fit down a deserved of a fix and take notes, because you know, these are all the young guys. I've got to be dealing with my plan on sticking around. So yeah. And they're looking so impressive. So, you know, this is going to be like my, you know, I've been sitting there and analyze the situation. And you know, get my game plan together, because you know, some really good talent out there. This certainly is. And once again, you can see the X-Man at the X-Pane booth at the Arnold Classic or two weeks later. On Sunday, March 18th, it froze, verse, pros, 10, Tony, always a pleasure to talk to you. Thanks. Thanks, Dave. That was the X-Man, Tony Freeman. And he'll be in St. Louis, Missouri, Sunday, March 18th. For Bro's verse, pros, 10, always a classic. I love to talk to this guy. He's one of my favorite guys in the industry. And I've said it before. I'll say it again. I had to pick a physique that I wanted to have, or I would want to possess it would be the X-Man's physique, because he is the X-Man. He's got the small ways. He looks athletic. You got to watch people in person looking at this guy. When he walks through the crowd, people just look at him. And you know what people like? They can respect his physique. It's not big and freakish, but it's impressive enough that people say, that's what I want to look like. And that what body-blings all about, it's about creating a physique that other people would like to have themselves. It's the superhero, ultimately. And Tony Freeman and my eyes is a superhero in this industry. And one of the good guys who gives back, and I'm looking forward to seeing them both at the Arnold, and then two weeks later at Bros. vs. Bros. 10. For now though, we're at a time. Until next week, remember. With heavy muscle radio, the truth hurts. We muscle radio is a presentation of RXMuscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. To the next week at the same time. For another round with Dave Pulmamo, only on heavy muscle, going to film the air.

=== FILE: HENRY JACKSON： SUPER HEAVYWEIGHT SUPERFREAK! Live With [J-2A-9C45X0].txt ===

Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and today's guest is no strenge to this show. He just turned pro at the NPC USA Championships winning the super heavyweight class. My pleasure to welcome back Henry Jackson III. How you doing, Dave? Hey, last time we talked to you, just won the Junior USA overall in 2016. No one knew who you were. You were new face in the block and then we said, I said to you, I said, you'll be a pro one day and you finally are congratulations. Yeah, thank you. It has been a long journey. I remember stepping into the NPC scene back in 2015. You know, giving myself three years of getting my pro car and hey, in three years it happened. So, hey, what can you say, man? That's a success story. Most people doesn't happen for that quickly. Yeah. I know, but I'm lucky. I look at God. Yeah. Well, you got some terrific talent as well. You went through a very stressful prep because you were moved. You moved recently to California. You were looking for job. You didn't need to go. Then you were working three jobs. Tell us what your schedule was like leading up to the show. Oh, man. Yeah. So moved out here in October. I immediately landed a job at a GNC store. Maybe a month after that. I landed a job with 24 hours fitness, personal trening. And on top of that, I started driving Uber. So my day was usually started like five, 30 in the morning with my five, 30 client. And then I would go, I would check out it 24 hour fitness around nine o'clock work at GNC from like 10 to four. Drive lift from like 4 to 9. And then I would tren from 9 to midnight at 9. Yeah. And I was freaking scheduled at this. Yeah. Yeah. It was insane. I would do that. Maybe three to four times a week. And on the other days, I'll try to catch up on risk. And it was insane. So that was particularly my daily schedule. I love guys who would have strong work ethic. I think that's great. And I think you're going to be a true success down the road. You're not afraid to work part. But what was the reason for working three for three jobs? It just needed the money? Yeah. Yeah. The money. So a spot of those expensive, right? Yes. Very expensive. Anybody who's competed in bodybuilding knows how expensive it could be. That's what I had to do. And on top of that, IMaybe had maybe three clients I trened online. And that was another source of income I had. Yeah. That's great. I always say diversify. I have multiple streams of income. And that's the greatest way to earn a living because of one's drives up. You got the other one the full back on. And obviously you're not afraid to work hard. And that's cool. Another thing you actually endured during this prep is it's been very hot out there in California. What was the record attempt so far that they had the highest was 117? Wow. Now that wouldn't sound so bad until you hear the fact that Henry has no air conditioning in his house. Yes. Yes. So air conditioning broke. So you have been dealing with that throughout the whole heat wave. And what can I say is we found ways to make it work at MIT. You wet your t-shirt. You get up under a fan. And it cools you off pretty good man. But during the day IMake sure of out the house around the AC. Because during the days just too high. At MIT in California it cools down in the valley pretty good. So it cools down for 97. Yeah. Yeah, 97. You know, high 80s. It's pretty bearable. But man during the day is no way. No wonder how you got so in it. You never stopped sweating for 24 hours a day. But actually stress my body out man. I just my body was responding the way it usually has and we kicked my car deal but from like one hour and it was two hours and it was three hours for a few days Wow, who you know is looking to do three hours a car, you're right? So but that's what we had to do for like maybe the lasT3 or four days of the trip and it was brutal and so but we pretty much had to shop shop the fat off my body for it all so I bet you like doing the three hours a car because at least you got to sit in the gym and the air conditioning, right? Exactly Hey, Henry Henry's like should I do three hours of cardio at the cool gym or do I have to go home to my girlfriend and sit 97 degree heaps you know with a fan blowing on me with a wet t-shirt To me does it sounds like the cardio sounds way more appealing to me Yeah, cardio for the wind man. I was gladly doing cardio That you Yeah, you had a real tough battle in that super heavyweight class, huh? Yeah, I did I remember coming back from the pre-judging and it was six of us and Ron he was in the center square, but you know I didn't really like that to turn me because it was six of us I kind of figured you know maybe they just wanted us up that way So it was six guys and there's really no center. You know, so you know I didn't leave pre-judging discursor anything I knew it was close By the lead pre-judging defeated or thinking I had lost you know the supers or whatever so me and Phil We just kept going in to come in even tighter Saturday for the night showing us what we did and it paid off, you know, so yeah I think it was I think I believe it was a three-point decision because I just interviewed Ryan yesterday and You know, he was thrilled to be second but Was close and could have gone on either way and so getting past him was probably the toughest valley had all night Now when you got to the overall did you think you had a good shot at winning that? Oh, yeah, I did I felt pretty confident going to the overall because even though I felt like I saw the light-heavy backstage but I know going into the show Lucas favorite it and he was center stage the whole time during the You know the overall so I figured you know Would loop in my teammate I'll just you know better a lot with him Post with him and overall and maybe I could enter him out, but um yeah when they called When they called for winners they're like heavy one But yeah, I did feel pretty confident going into the overall you know whenever you make it to the overall it's always Exciting especially with me already knew I got the pro cards right it's good to some of bonus Yeah, I Yeah, I don't think anyone really knew who's gonna go because Luke who won the heavyweight class obviously A lot of people were you know kind of favoring then Shane in the light heavyweight who won the overall was probably the most condition of everyone up there And it looks like they judged his weight with conditioning. IMean he was just a grainy grainy heart so That's what happens with these lighter weight guys they got to make weight so they're like you know There's peel to the bone like trying to you know get into that weight class and sometimes that condition I always say conditioning when shows man You're big guy that you're six foot two two 63 on stage. IMean that that's a lot of mass on your body on a really big frame You have and you probably can you probably can grow what would you like to see yourself go up to eventually what what weight You think would look good on you? I think for me like Too 85 will be a great stageway for me. I think about 15 more pounds if you can't Because like you said I'm a taller guy still have some gaps of feel With my physique so I think for me to match like that fuller look that some shorter guys have I will have to add about 15 to any more pounds of stage Wait yeah Right now this what we're gearing up to do with me and feel goal is to do the California probe Makes you're made that's the goal. You know that was you guys a planet Yes, so let's see Yeah, that's that's why for a lot of I could I could be competitive on the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone stage around here Yeah, I think so I told Phil this you know, but by the way is your coach you know I told my signal congratulations because he got you and he had Luke so that was you know two winners there The USA that was great for him but you know Sometimes it's it's you gotta have someone who keeps you you're focused and obviously You know, you I don't think you had a coach did you for the juniors? I did not I don't have a let's entail The amateur Olympia That's an interesting I'm glad you brought that up last year I thought I was gonna see what nationals, but you actually decided to do the the The amateur Olympia at the mr. Olympia week and last year And you won the supers there but you didn't get the overall and so you didn't get the pro card, but What was the reasoning behind picking that show? Yes, um decided to do amitro it was mainly Phil brought it up. I didn't really know anything about the amitro Olympia Because they just decided to hold it in Vegas that year right I Didn't know anything about it. I knew a few guys that were doing it self-shall who I competed against at junior a say He was supposed to do the show, but he ended up doing North Americans Went into overall there. Yeah gettinGHis pro card But yeah, it was mainly Phil's suggestion and you know I thought it was a good idea You know, you know, it was first amateur Olympia over the year in the states Yeah, and I thought it would bring some good exposure. So I knew it was gonna be a tough show being the fact that the pro card was going to be given to the overall winner But you know, I took up the challenge and you know, it did things in pan out, but You know, it was still still a good showing. Yeah, I don't get it No, you look good. IMean you want the class obviously, but how can you mean go on and do the national's after that? It was Financial okay, you're moved that's when you moved to right yeah Exactly and also yeah, I had decided to move so it was a whole combination of things You know moving Financial wanted to focus on getting out here which I got set was very stressful Where did you move from? IMoved from Georgia Columbus Georgia which is maybe Our South Atlanta. Yeah, now what major decided to move out there at California? IMoved out here because IMet my girlfriend in Georgia she works in news My name is Lita Uko, but she ended up landing a reporter job out here in LA which is where she's from So I decided to come with you know, it's California's LA did exposure for bodybuilders So IMoved out here with her a week after Well, it's one of two weeks after the emptier of Limpia Wow, so yeah, it's kind of like a split decision IMade because at first I was going to stay in Georgia for a little while then come out here But you know, I was like wow wait, you know, so I studied California's expensive too, isn't it? It is it is so way more than Georgia Yeah, yes, it's like the rent is like almost triple the price in Georgia That's crazy, yeah, but I guess you got a good job so you can't turn that down You know, yeah, IMean we're luckily enough with our setup since Lita's from LA We moved in with her parents, so we're saving money. Oh, all right. That's always because that's smart Very smart. Exactly. So yeah, what's your tren at out there? The gym I tren at us is I go to those gym vines a lot Goal gym in North Hollywood and the old powerhouse gym that's out here in the valley, but it's called a crunch fitness now Right, but you powerhouse, but they still have all the old powerhouse security That people don't realize they think oh you're in LA you can go to Venice gold anytime you want Yeah, as long as you could line it up with one of the traffic is not it is almost impossible, right? Exactly the four or five is terrible. So you can't go during rush hour turn out now And everybody knows rush hour traffic in LA last we're like maybe five or six hours so that's one of these That was another reason why I went to those late because I can get there in 30 minutes. Of course If you went during prime time though you would you would take your four hours to get there You know yeah exactly. He's you take like two hours to get there. So I will always wait till maybe like 7.38 o'clock There are pretty minutes trening come right back and I was good to go There is one have you been have you trened yourself at gold? Did IMean you worked out when I ate the guys there or any of the treners there Not at all I've been trening by myself as guys like I'll see Sergio Flitz Son rodent was those guys seeing me late In there at night trening solo and the it was funny because when I got the award for super heavies Son rodent presented me the award. I've seen him several times in there late at night doing two of it Sort of Arnold and the Olympia he was like hey man. I told you to pay off all the late nights You know you workinGHard time So those really cool for him to present me the award and just him seeing like what I've done What all the late sessions to get there. It's it was very Yeah, words can't I can't describe it. It was very cool very cool well Henry Congratulations on the huge when it could have happened to nice a guy I've seen you kind of evolved in this industry and now you're a pro and Looking forward to seeing what kind of damage you could do in that pro level. I think your potential as I said last time two years ago Still unlimited yeah, thank you. Thank you Dave. I'm very I'm looking forward to just Making my mark and supporting now progressing and just making improvements where I need to make them and you know Just doing damage so we'll see we'll see next year. You're well. I think you're gonna be a very dangerous guy on the I could be pro level in the future how old you now by the way? I'm 27. Oh, you're still a young man. All right cool You got your whole career head. You still Yeah, it's funny because like I was telling you earlier When I first started competing NPC at the age of 24 I wrote down in this composition book that I've written all my goals and everything down and that it I'll give myself three years to get the pro card like I was 24 to Tom on 27 now So it just goes and show man, you know with just hard work and just staying consistent You can they can be done, you know, so what does it say you're a little golf-book about winning the Olympia How many years you give yourself about oh I said give myself to the age of 30 three more years All righT3 more years another three year plan. That's right. Yes, sir. Let's see if Henry's three year plan pans out For now though on day polymer will add a time this until next week until next time Check it out see you later

=== FILE: HOW BODYBUILDING SAVED MY LIFE! Todd Payette Interview ｜ RX Spotlight [w7NATYz3bzo].txt ===

My name is Tau Amini and I am the CEO and founder of Ulysses. The protein, bakery with low sugar, ketogenic and high protein in each and every item. I specialize in making brownies, cookies and cupcakes. As of 2021, we will have the variety of traditional, gluten-free and protein to choose from of every product. Check us out at www.Ulyssesbapyru.com. And then also check us out on our donation by the word. All proceedings will go to the wheelchair bodybuilding community with your order. Thank you for checking us out. Take care. Welcome back to another RX muscle spotlight. Today's guest, man I've known for quite a number of years. You follow Facebook and bodybuilding. You've probably seen them on the air. You've just wrote a book too. We're going to talk about that. Tau to pay it. Welcome to the show. Thanks Dave. It's a real pleasure to be here. And Tyler, my producer loves your black, your blue sky. You have behind you. It says it's beautiful. That's nice. Thanks. You want to make sure that your body pops. I said, you got to make sure the lighting is perfect. That's exactly right. Tau, how lonGHave you been trening for now? It's been about 40 years now. That's getting close to it about 33 years. And you know what? The thing that really amazes me is that you still have that drive and passion to get to the gym and try to be better than you were before and compete. A lot of guys just can't sustain that. Or their bodies at least can't sustain it that long. What do you think is your secret to your success? I think part of it was in my 30s, I'd noticed a lot of the fellows that were a few years older than me had really started kind of dropping like flies due to injuries. Yeah. And I realized that you had to start listening to your body, which meant maybe it meant going lighter once and a while. Maybe you're not squatting or deadlifting anymore. Like if you look at Dexter Jackson as his career progressed, he definitely changed the way he trened over time. And then there's a genetic component as well, I think. Sure. Now how old are you right now? I think I'm the same vintage as you. I'm 52. I'm 53. You're a little older than you. But we're in the same age category as you like that. I like to say now, you have obviously been competing a lot. You have a very good story. Good enough story. You actually wrote a book about it. I remember you wrote a screenplay a number of years ago. You had sent it to me. Give me the premise of the story and why you felt you needed to put it on paper. Well, I started writing it really just as something that was cathartic. I wrote it for myself. I really didn't expect it to do anything. And then I'd mentioned to a couple of friends. I'm writing this book. They wanted to take a look at it and the feedback was tremendous. This is a great story. This could help people. I thought at first that they were being polite. Just like you would take your kids drawing and putting on the fridge and say, wow, that's fantastic. I just thought they were being nice, but the more people I spoke to, the more they said that my story really spoke to them because a lot of people have challenges in life. So I just kept going and then started shopping it with different publishers. And it took abouT4 and a half years, but got it published. You're, I'll give you this. You're very persistent. So IMean, I think that's part of your success. It's just stubbornness. And you're, look, you're not going to fail. You're going to keep going and going to succeed. And that's been a story of life. Give us, give us your stories. What's the premise of the book? Tell us what you've overcome because I think people can get sucked into that story. They're going to want to read the book once you kind of tell them what it's about. Sure. Well, it really started off when I was quite young. I was five years old and my father had a pretty substantial drinking problem. And she decided at one point that in a bit of a drunken stupor that he should take his own life. And unfortunately, that next morning I discovered his body. And when you're five years old and you find your father after he commits suicide, it's going to affect you. And it's going to affect the way you're wired. And everything changed from that point on for me. And I never felt normal or like the other kids. And I had, this was in the 70s, like 1974. People didn't talk about anything. They just brushed you under the rug and. No way you go. I was in school the next day. So by the time I was in my teens, I was pretty messed up. And my mother didn't know what to do with me anymore. She did her best. But she basically said, kids, time for you to go. And so I found myself homeless. And I was 16. Wow. And you must have been pretty good. So if you're about to kick the house in 16. Well, I just wasn't listening and she didn't know what to do with me anymore. Were you getting in trouble to the point where you were getting arrested in stuff like that? Nothing like that. But I wasn't going to school. I wasn't listening. And she really didn't know what to do. What were you doing during the day? If you weren't going to school, we were hanging out with friends and doing drugs. And what were you doing? Yeah, no drugs. But definitely hanging out and trying to get in as much trouble as I could. I didn't have a lot of respect for anybody or anything at that time. So what was the, what changed you? What was the, well, I had done. I discovered bodybuilding after reading Arnold's book education of a bodybuilder when I was about 18. And that really helped me have some purpose. But unfortunately as I got older, and I think this happens to a lot of us in bodybuilding that we become so focused on just the bodybuilding. I had thought at that point that it would be kind of the end all cure all to all my problems all my demons. Right. If I could only win this show and do that. And so I just, I just spiral down to a point of not tearing. And you know, if you hang out with the wrong people long enough and start doing the wrong things, you find yourself in a bad way. And I, I spiraled all the way down to all, found myself incarcerated. So what, what did you do that you got like that for? Well, I was trening a bunch of fellows that were pretty connected individuals. They started at giving me little jobs to do and they asked me to deliver a package. And I delivered this package. I didn't ask what was in it. I didn't care. To be honest, I really didn't care, but it turned out to be about $50,000 worth of mess. Oh my God. Oh, I was always sure. And I got busted with that because one of the fellows turned out to be an informant. Oh, so I got, yeah, I got pulled over about a walk away from my house. And it was very quickly escorted. Oh my God. How long is that point? I was in my early 40s at that point. Oh, so this is, oh, this is much later than you were already. Yeah, yeah, much later. Wow. And yeah, it was, but that was the turning point because, you know, like, so you really wasn't. And so you were really pretty messed up for most of your life. IMean, you know, is what you're saying. And this is all you trace it all back to the death of your dad. When you were five, when you were five years old and you found him, you know, it's funny. It's not funny. It's actually very sad, but a very close friend of mine, Cole Hansik. I was very good friends with his father died of somethinGHeart related at about 33 years of age. And this kid called his son was embedded with him and found them dead in the morning. IMean, he didn't commit suicide, but he was dead. And it messed up his life. Became drug addict. Always, you know, heroin on and off. And just recently, he passed on fortunately. And a lot of people in the body building, community knew him because he got into body building everything. But he couldn't, he couldn't pull himself out of it. You know, and a lot of stories we hear like that were got people could just not get past that trauma that they, you know, suffered earlier in life. And it took you a long time. So what did 40 years old would that go in a jail? Was that the bottom line for you? That was it. That was it. IMean, I was doing well in competition, but my, you know, my vision had become so skewed as to what really was important in life. So I had a decision to make at that point. It was either roll over and die or fight, you know, and I decided to fight. And, you know, body building, where it almost kind of destroyed me now saved me because it was my, it was my sanity to go into tren in this world so much. Doesn't make sense. But you walk into a gym. There's 200 pounds. You can either lift it or you can't. You know, it's black, it's very black and white. So I just slowly slowly started to rebuild everything. But the thing that was the most important was that I learned that I had to be accountable. Okay. What happened as a child? That was horrible. Being kicked out. That was horrible. But every decision passed that IMade that decision. You have, you have to own it. And once you own that number one, people can't weaponize it against you. And number two, it's freeing because you have to say, yeah, I did that. Now I need to be better. And that's the toughest thing because in our society, we tend to be nowadays. You see a lot of people, very sort of victim mentality, nothing's their fault. But really bad things happen, everyone. Yeah. How you deal with them? How you deal with them is up to you. Yeah. No, IMean, I can relate to that, you know, I, what the jail obviously for, you know, selling drugs and, you know, and I had to deal with it and accept it. And when I got out, I decided that wasn't going to be something I was going to do anymore. And IMoved on and I, you know, IMade myself a more productive person. But I can relate to that 100% and ask you, when you're in jail, how much time do you went up doing? Did you actually have to serve time? I did have to serve a little bit of time. But I was very fortunate. I had a very good lawyer. And I was there for only a couple of months. But it was a couple of months in the maximum security. Oh, you don't want to do that. That's not what I'm. No way. No. No. Because of who I was associated with, they, they took no chances. So I was in lockdown 23 hours a day. It was, uh, that's crazy. It's an interesting, interesting experience that gives you a lot of time to think. Sure. Now, we're doing like 6,000 pushups a day. How are you dealing with that? Pushups like they didn't let us use the weights very often. So it was pushups. I was trying to do chins off the end of my bed. Body weight squat, crunches. What have, yeah. Yeah. But it's hard to treat. It's hard to tren on baloney sandwiches. Absolutely, balay, man. Yeah. That's the thing. You know, it's funny. When I was in there, I was in a federal prison. It was, it was like summer camp compared to what you were in. But you're, like when you're only in for a couple of months. Now, when you got out, IMean, now what do you do? Because you're, I, when you, you actually, are you a convicted felonel? Is that something that you have on your record? Yeah, I was, I was convicted. It took years actually. It went through the courts for about five years. Right. And I was very fortunate because in that five years, I took a, you know, a lot of positive steps. So by the time we had the trial, even though I was convicted, the judge felt I was better off in society. So I had two years of house arrest and then I did a lot of speaking, speaking to youth groups and that sort of thing. So it actually worked out. I was very lucky, very blessed indeed. Explain what the term shoulder down means. Because that's the name of your book. And I know that was very important to you. And, or, you know, I think it was a sports coach here as I told you that. That's right. In, I had a coach in junior high name, Sid Prisansky, who was just an absolute jewel of a person. And one day I was playing basketball, basketball practice. And we were doing one on one drills and this kid, he was a little older and bigger than me. And he kept pushing me away from the hoop. And I'm throwing up these horrible shots. And, you know, the coach looks at me because Todd, what are you doing? And I go, wow, coach, you want to let me get anywhere close to the hoop. And he said, let me show you. You got to put your shoulder down and you got to take the space. You got to own it. So you throw a fake. He goes through the fake. He's put your shoulder down and you go through him. You don't give him a choice. You put that shoulder down and you go. And I tried it and it worked. And that just resonated with me in life for many years. And I remember sitting in that jail cell. And here in Coach K's voice, say to me, okay, now you need to put your shoulder down. You have to move forward. You get through the obstacle. You don't stop. It was a great lesson. He was a fantastic man. I still talk to him today. Wow, that's cool. That's cool that you still talk to him. Yeah, and I think he's talking to that coach. Not many people's coaches are still alive. But you're not such an array. You know, yeah, no kidding. So now you decided to get back to competition, obviously, which is probably was pretty hard initially. You placed fourth at the Navi universe last year. Are you still going? Are you still trying to win that master's universe? Is that still the goal? You know, I'd like to. And the reason is when I was a kid and I read that book that Arnold wrote, he really spoke a lot about the universe and what it meant to win it. And the universe title to the average person is a title that is recognized. Even though the limpias, the highest you can go, the average person has heard of them history universe. And I just, I love the history of it. And so I've been invited to England this year to compete in a universe. IMade do some IFB shows before that as the season is coming up as long as the they actually have the shows. So I still enjoy competing. But the reasons are a lot different now. Now it's more about the challenge and keeping myself motivated and showing people that, you know, 45, 50 years old is not necessarily a death sentence to your trening and you can still keep going. Yeah, I think I tell people, I said, look, I don't have no desire to compete because I'm not improving anymore. But I still tren. You know, my wife's like, how do you do it? Because we're so busy with work and we have three kids. And by the time the 11 o'clock at night rolls around, you know, she's exhausted. She's sleeping a bit. I'm in the, I'm in my game room with, I don't have a lot of weights, but I have enough to do my thing. And I work out, you know, four or five days a week because I feel good doing that. And that's part of the whole mindset. You know, if you love what you do, you're always doing it. And I think a lot of people don't love it that much and they do it because they wanted validation or it made them feel good about themselves. But they didn't really love it. And if you, if you love it, you'll never stop. That's what I tell people exactly exactly how. And I still get as excited about a good workout now. As I did when I was 18 years old, you know, look at the pump. Look at the arms. Look at the arms. So, you still get, look, you know, I'm very impressed. You still have an awesome physique, you know, you really don't show your age at all. And, you know, Wednesday universe, what's the day? November 14th. All right, well, best to lock at that universe. You'll keep us updated. Where can people pick up the book shoulder down? It's available through Amazon in the United States, Canada. Okay. United Kingdom and Australia right now. And I'm sure the story is way more detailed than you get into all the great details in that book. So I haven't read the whole thing yet. But I want to implore people if you want to be motivated and you want to, you know, if you haven't a rough time in your life, this might be the book for you to pick up and my change your life. I appreciate that day very much. No, it's been a pleasure knowing you all these years. I'm going to talk about the time that you've been going to have a good time. Thank you. Thank you so much. All right, guys. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of our Ex-Muscle Spotlight. I'm Dave Palombo. For Todd Payette. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: HOW GOLD'S GYM BODYBUILDERS MADE MONEY! [3kCMXi1ok5M].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo. There's 30-year-to-year-to-row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car pop tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. On day polunk though, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest body-building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavor systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Iron Rage. I'm the polunko joined as always by Lee Priest. How is it going over there in Australia during these... We are talking. You're lucky I checked my phone in the morning day. I said to myself, Lee, you deserve a sleep in today. You know, Dave hasn't sent a message for the show. The alarm went off the fire. I said, you know what? I better check the phone. And you're in a shallow 30 minutes. You know what? Actually reminded me to actually text you. Tony Dario texted me. I'm supposed to get him on tomorrow for a little interview. And then I said, oh no, Lee, you guys got to text Lee, holy shoot. I'm easy to forget, you know. Tell me. Tell me if you've heard this before. Did you ever see the Tasmanian devil? I don't know. Just wonder if you ever heard that before. I thought it was the Tasmanian devil. I did. I did want to say this. I did want to say this. This. Good. Have you ever seen the Tasmanian devil, by the way? I was actually in Tasmania. But this. Yes, I've seen many of them. You never seen one? No, I never seen one in person. I heard they're nasty little buggers. They are. I think they wanted a thing out of all the animals. I think they got one of the strongest bites on them, like pound for square inches. They can just bite through bone. I'll send you some photos. I've got some photos on my phone. I've been Tasmanian devil. When they didn't look like that, doesn't quite look like the cards. No, it doesn't look like a snake. They're nasty. They're nasty. I went to a little, they look like a little pug. They look like a little pug dog with a pointing nose and think, fuck and teeth. Do they run around the wild? Can you actually see them? Yeah, wander around the wild. I think that Tasmania would, a lot of the zoos he have them and stuff. You'll see them at the zoos. And there's actually a place not far from me, probably an hour and a half drive. It's called Ozzy Ark. And then they sort of helped the koalas and stuff. They would breathe them up there. And they've actually got the Tasmanian devil up there. They would have got a big place. It actually got up there and spend an eye. And you know, see what a breeding program of the Tasmanian devil? Sounds like a horror movie doesn't it? People were looking at the picture right now. That's scary as hell, what to me up. You go camping for the night, the Tasmanian devil's snake and strap. It looks like a little pug dog that's turned into a Hulk dog. It looks like a big rat is what it looks like to me. I don't know. You know, I was in Tasmania for one day when I did my tour of Australia in 2012. I went down there with Xavier Wills. We stated his house for the day and I was actually at a seminar at a hardcore gym down there. But I was only there for less than 24 hours. So I didn't really get a chance to go to school. What gym did you get? Was that slow to house gym? Yes. Slow to house gym. Absolutely. Yeah. It was slow to house gym. I was slow to house gym. Yeah. I was slow to house gym. Yeah. Why ain't any brother around that gym? Actually, sadly, he's back in jail. Oh, is he really? He decided to lose his plot and he got mad and went back to a pug down there and shot left with a gun. Oh, really? Yeah, that moment laps in that. That was a high score gym. That was a seriously high score. Like scary high score gym, right? Yeah, the great guys, I was too proud. So they run the powerlifting in order to use the put on shows. But Tasmania actually is a great place. They got the port off. That's where a lot of convicts stayed down there. And if you go around, it's really very historic. My grandmother came with me once when I went to Tasmania and you go to these places where the BD's old brick homes at the convicts built and when they built them, they put their fingerprints in the bricks. Oh, really? Let's just say, cominGHome from Tasmania, my grandmother's suitcase weighed about $0.60 kilos because she won the bring some bricks home and really is too strong some bricks. They're on the leaning. Yeah. Like, I had relatives that lived down there. But Tasmania's sort of like, down in the south is like, they see, they're really pretty. Tasmania's kind of like. So the gallages of the league, those those people who live there. There's actually a good movie. If you want to see a good sort of horror movie, like, you know, wrong turn and all those sort of movies, there's one called the dying breed. It's about Tasmania and this in-bred family that kills people and that's pretty interesting. Just that I want to watch lead at Nathan Freigotta sleep now. The Tyler Antony is a watch list, yeah. The dying breed is nothing like watching a girl get raped over a table by a guy like this. I got a shit. Yeah, I have to think who's the sick mind was to thought the movie up. But it probably is based on a true story. I just look at the thing and I just watched the movie thinking she looks like she's enjoying it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Only you would think that. Just go with it. If you try and find them, that's what they're at this one. You don't find it. You just go with it. That's right. There's someone that's been raped many times. Is that your stupid Steve? Steve wouldn't let me out. Is that the loot? Yeah. What I saw on those screams that came out of the state that you had to come help me fuck now. I was just going to ask you about people who have what different bodybuilders jobs were coming up obviously and we know what your job was. So I don't want to say anything, Dave, but they used to be a famous saying to get a head you got to give it. Yeah, I don't know what that is. You lived in Venice, California. You trened in a heyday there where all the bodybuilders were there. Now Grant, a lot of those top pros had contracts and so that was how they supported themselves. But for the bodybuilders, and there were a lot of upcoming guys that were trening there who wanted to make it. So to speak, what were guys doing for a living back then? Because when I even got a California in the 90s, I said, you know what, I can't live here. No one works. I said, how am I going to live here? I'm going to be poor. I said, there's no work ethic. What do people do for money there? A side for that. A side for the possible. The gay from paint that was going on. Did people really have jobs? I know Quarmea was a balancer at a club. I'm not sure because these are what I used to wonder because I lucky enough what I first got there and IMet Ed, Ed Centford, Ooster, Weider. I was lucky enough to get a contract which got me by. How much did he ask you to question? How much was a contract for Lee Priest when he first arrived? IMean, you didn't do anything. My very first one was like two and a half thousand a month. That was pretty good for a guy who never did anything. IMean, in terms of the AFVV. Why? That wasn't bad because rent was still cheap back then. It was 250 bucks. Yeah, so wasn't bad. It got me by. But I was always one because I see these, you know, and as you get more money eventually, like I was never into the, you know, I tried to say, grow four months twice. I didn't waste money on a lot of money on drugs. I just kept it for mainly bills and shit. There's sometimes you've got to get ready for a show. I would be more could you buying more food and stuff like that. But then I'd see these images come to town and they'll be like, I'm taking all these growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I'm doing this. I'm doing that. The driving a nice car. I'm thinking, hmm. Something's going on here. I thought some people should be that way out the back. This was, I think this was even before the black man days of the magazines. I used, I knew Steve wasn't finding this. Yeah, I put down on. But yeah, but the people who I say, I did gave a pay, but this is, I can honestly, look, if I did, I tell you, I don't give a shit. Yeah, sadly I did it. Yeah. But this is what, this is what would upset me because I used to think to myself, what's wrong with me. I was like, why did I win it? And I beautiful. And I beautiful enough. And I hate it. Oh, no, never asked you to do gay for pay there. No. Really? I'm very upset by this. I'm on my way. I wonder why the year you seem to be like thEQuintessential gay from pay, you know, a guy that they would hire. I, I thought so too, but you know, maybe a one white hair, you're, you know, get the big arm. Remember, remember, take Dixon that used to be in God. Oh, Dixon, we always did you go after me, you know? Yeah, it was, you know, Ted was there and he's the date that big personal trener, Ray. Right. Really big, like, yeah, really biGHuge guy. Yeah. But Ted would always go, blunt to Ted, I say to me, yeah, sure, and I sky and that, but, you know, you know, you know, it more like a Sunday, I wouldn't fuck you or anything. Ah. Yeah. I like to think what it's guys, though, right? Yeah. And I'm like, what IMake sense, I used to say that makes sense because my father's gay, so you're pretty much out like my father's. Ah, you know. But now, never, the only time is the only time I ever got money from a gay guy. You start used to email me and, you know, back in the email days before, I think, I'm not even my space was out yet. If you're like, Lee, can you come and flex your arms for me? If I bring some dumbbells, can you pump them up and pose them? No. Yes, but I like this, he has a like to see your arms. I said, we're going to fucking gym, I tren at the gym. You can see, like lots of arms. Oh, now I want to see your aspects. That is this one, I'm very upset. Look, I don't do that type of stuff. Well, blah, blah, blah, I said, go to any gym. So one day I was at religion, which you know when you go to a religion, there's just the regulars, Eddie, Julie, and Xavier, Joe Gold, aren't you? And one day I was his guy, I never recognized before, and as I'm trened the way, when I'm a friend, Mark, I'm looking at this guy and he's sometimes been looking at me. No, no, no, no, no. But just trened the way in at the end, I'm just about to leave and go to the unsteasy. So you start coming down stairs, you're as highly as I say, oh, hi, you guys. I'm such and such, you know the one I said, oh, okay. Yeah, he goes, oh, yeah, he goes, oh, yeah, he was wonderful. He goes, he goes, I got something for you. I'm like, oh, he's got something for me. And he pulls you out of $1,000. And he goes, he's a thousand, he goes, he's a thousand dollars. He's a thousand dollars for letting me watch your tren. I said, I didn't let you watch your tren. I said, it's a public gym, I said, you know, you can do whatever you go. So I know he take it, take it, I really enjoyed that. So I said, oh, well, if you want to say I'm doing legs tomorrow. I can't. I can't. I can't. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But then he goes, then he goes, where you go? Now I said, I'm just going to fire house, then he goes, can I come? I said, well, if you want, I said, it's a public restaurant, so he came along. We just sat there, we just sat there talking. I found that he's like a businessman, married, has free kids. I think it, oh, I should have done something. I could have blackmailed this month. Yeah, yeah, exactly. See, at least buy him one. So then he brought me as breakfast. He brought me breakfast. And he goes, here's another $350 street with me. Wow. But you know, that's probably something. That's probably something that's definitely something. Because they give you money for doing nothing. And then before you know it, they're asking you to drop your due drawers. Yeah, what it was, fooding, there's the only fooding, $150. Like, got one morning for dinner. But then he did try and write that flag running. Go, it's all. I really like to watch you tren again. Could you do it for a smaller fee? Oh, that's half a thousand. You're set the bar. You set the bar. You're set the bar. Yeah. Can't go back there. But I always thought, you know, what I should have done something. And then got photos of it and saying, you know, hey mate. Because I think it, what, it didn't even tell me the company he was with was like, some big law firm. You know, it was married with kids, but he's one of these little closet ones that likes to steal a man. We know of that. Those. Come, come to think of it. It didn't remind me of Steve. I don't think it was. I wasn't Steve because he did have on bacon and eggs. And he doesn't eat bacon or anything. So do you think a lot of guys would do in that back then? Do you think the work with guys that would legitimately work in? No, I think a lot would do in some stuff because they couldn't have been working because I used to tren a fee. I'd go and tren, I'd hang out. I'd just go past the gym to check the someone and these people would be more to me. So they didn't have a f**k. Now let's say I work in a night doing something, but that would be more to me than you seem down to fire house. You just see him wandering around body alive and all those stores and that's my hanging out in the back of the house. That's my hanging out in the back of the house. That's my sort of old days, something about it. Definitely, but I think a lot of them too, so I'll get it. That was like a big thing. But the gear sales mainly from the German tourists would come over from some way. Some reason the Germans had all the drugs and they would come over. Yeah. Then you'd see make friends of all the pro body builders. They come over in their little rentALCAR two months later. Two months later they're driving the nice fucking Mercedes. They've got a place down on the beach. I had a good German connection back in the day. He used to fly over there with two cases for a start. I don't know how they got away with it. To be honest with you. No, the one because you see me at the car park sometimes at the gollet. They're just open up their trunk and they go to all these drugs in there. It's almost like a fucking garage. Say a lot of these body builders are back in the trunk. It's like, oh, one door's happening over there. They're all lookinGHow to change a speed tie or I don't know the f**k's going on. You know what I thought when I went to the gollet in like the early 90s. I was like a free To even talk about drugs there because it seemed like it was like that was like, you know, the obvious place that had to be under cover, aging's in there. Wouldn't you say? Yeah, probably, but that's the thing because people are like, that's why I get annoyed when I'm on live on Instagram and people say, what drugs you take and what do you think of this cycle? You know, hand on hard. I can only say, when they're let me with me for eight months, whenever once they discuss drugs, by the occasionally see what you're taking because you put on the coffee table, but I never asked him how much you're taking or how often or people and I'll go to the fire house with other pros. We just never discussed it. It was just like, okay, we're not you're taking it, but I don't care what you're taking or how much, but today everyone's so into this, how much you're taking and what do you take and then it's like, right, why is this such a big thing on fucking drugs that's this or end all to be all? It's like, I used to have guys, Lee, I would have guys literally, you know, beg me to go out to dinner lunch. I'll treat you this now because they wanted to do was just pick my brain. You know, secret, I've wanted what the secret cycles were. No, it was serious. They thought there was some kind of magic formula because back in the 90s there was no internet. So you really couldn't research this stuff. So, you know, you could read a book. You could read the bill, Phillips, a wrap out of all the reference guide. No one knew how to play. IMean, IMean, IMean, I never even read any of those books. So I remember you used to get that antibiotic guide that would come out every year. These young kids were not at back the front in the back at head. I think that's tell me all that once fake. You look at the picture or you take one. This is like even when you say, you know, like people, you know, the door is combinations. I said, okay, I tell you what I take. You've done it said what he took and Paul said, what he took. I said, how does that help you? Everyone's different. I could respond great to test and decker. You might not. You might respond to the fucking proof and journal, whatever else. So the only way to really find out what works is the use small amounts in your own body. To see how you feel, how you react. If your strength goes up, if your whole water, I said, just go on a line going, oh, fuck, look at this cycle here. I'm going to try that one. I found Dorian's cycle is for making it like Dorian. You know, just a whole fucking mentality. I just don't get why this helps us test on drugs, but you can't. You can't get that ahead, then you want, I'm going to do my first cycle. I'm going to run some orals with such a such. What orals do you think I should take? I'm like, oh, I'm going to do this. The thing that drives you crazy, the new term I hate this term. I don't know why I just hate it. I'm cruising. I'm cruising on 150 million grams a week. I hate it. I hate that you too. Are you blasting right now or cruising away? I like the blast you in the head with a fucking nine mil. That's the thing that they don't come off. And they're too, when you come off, how long are you off for? Like at leasT4 months. Because the longest they ever took it would be if I died of first show. The show was 12 to 16 weeks. That's when I was on. But then if I didn't ever show for another eight months, I'd come off for four or five six months and just steep like a fucking. But these guys for hours. Well, off for them was like 500 milligrams a week. And I don't get that. It's like, how can you say you're off when you're cruising? Yeah. That's not off. You're cruising for a bruising is what you're going to do. Well, I get asked a lot to about, oh, Lee, what about Clome at this net? And today's stay once I come off a cycle. I've never done any type of Clome or HCG or anything like that. When I'm off, I'm off. No, me towards if I'm dying 16 weeks or in that 14 week mark, I'm starting to come off and now you're on like I'm sick of taking it. I don't want to have a shot, you know, a week out from a show. I've done that before we have a shot in the shoulder. You're doing a shot. Fuck my shoulder. You can't tren properly or you've got this fucking lump. You can look like an ED on stage. So I tried to, you know, slowly get off here and give him before the show was there. So I just didn't have those sort of problems where I think it was once. Which female bodybuilder wasn't when she was on stage. Had that big fucking lump. I was like oozing. It was like oozing. I think too. Didn't I risk having a problem on a good once? Have I been Irish one year? Yeah. Yeah. They kind of marked it down for it. I think right on a gluterist of my face? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Because when you're that lean, if you're having a shot somewhere, you say, She lost. I think the Arnold Plastic because of that. Yeah. I don't get why guys. It's like, you know, the shows, like they think, oh, I've got to be on my cycle. Like how the shows Saturday, I've got to have my shot Thursday. And that's like, you're not going to lose any size from fucking Thursday to Saturday. What? Why you going crazy? It's more psychological probably. It's like you some or else or something, you're going to get that crazy about it. But you have a back there to money thing. Now, I think there's a lot of weed stuff going on in Venice because I didn't see anyone collecting aluminium cans on the street. Otherwise you'd have to fight the homeless for that shit out there. I saw this device be a guy called Skates, a black guy, real funny guy, homeless. But oh, yeah, the funny story is he's the wash your car when you're in the gym for five or ten dollars. He was funny. So, the guy in the parking lot across the diagonal across the street, did he run the, was that the car? But that's what's before the proper car wash come along. I'm so curious to be a guy that had a hose on the bucket and I had a little easier in the back and come right here. People though, realize there was a, like a car detailing, sir. I was in the parking lot of golf. Yeah, the guy that does that now is gym. He's the same as gym. He's the tren at world gym and stuff like that. He used to do the car washers there a lot. But before gym, it used to be Skates, just his homeless guy. I think I'll go even credit as always out there, trying to get stuff. But the thing was, Skates was funny because even if you get washing my car or giving five dollars, you know, had a lot of me, then he got the appointment day. I only had was, you know, like a couple of dollars. I think I had like two dollars on my get to me, like, what, two dollars? What are they going to do with two dollars? You know, they give me five. I got fuckinGHell. But then word used to get that because otherwise, walk to the gym sometimes when I lived on Venice Boulevard. I talked at a homeless, I'd come walking with me to like, oh, you're so cool. You talk to us and half the time, you know, people like our homeless people at this. But, you know, about five that I spoke to were just normal people. They had jobs, had marriages, lost their job, which caused problems in the house that I lost the house. Fight with the wife, got divorced in there on the street. So I always figured, can happen to anybody. So I always treat him with respect. Sometimes you get a few crazy ones that are out there, but hey, I got a fine with them too, Dave. That's true, you know. I spoke, I spoke there, language. But the time, the funny time was when we, when powerhouse gym was opening up the delicious, right now, powerhouse gym on Main Street. Yeah. And I was talking to his homeless guy. So I was having this big finger. I was saying, let me talk to the delicious, because having this big buffet or this food, I said, let me talk to the people that are having the gym when the openings over, there could be a lot of food left over. I'll see if you can have it. So I asked, because that's how I saw so I was starting to get in the gym on the street. And I said, hey, tonight, when it's over, get your friends and come up. So about 10 pm at night when the green opening was almost finishing. I look outside fucking the window of powerhouse there. And there's probably like 20 homeless all along. I was like, oh, really? You've sat in there, right? Like, like a soup kitchen. And all the sudden they come in and they got their clothes and they're getting sandwiches and put sandwiches in there, pockets and they've got them and they've got them broken. And this old lady was, this old lady was over there. And this guy was puttinGHis finger in the dip bowl. He's like, he said to the, he said to the server, hold with the old lady, guys, what's this? He's like, I don't know. I didn't cater this fucking thing. But it was great. You know, it's over to funny people. Then one time this old lady still gets to get her some money. She should always hang out at the front, you decide to order a firehouse there. And one time I came out, I just never knew money. And I had like, I think at half a hand burger left over because I ordered too much food. Yeah. I think it, oh, well, I don't have any. You give us, so I gave it a bag with the food in. Yeah. I've goT3 feet away. I'm only three feet away all the sudden. Fucking contain it hits me in the back. Oh, she's three. Yeah. I want money, not fucking food. I just want to bite me one by one. That's why, yeah. Well, I wasn't upset that, you know, I'm upset that I would have eaten that. Yeah. Yeah. That way, you threw it at me. I'm pretty good. Fuck. But then your word got out because I used to give money to the homeless. People like I'll leave. Don't give it to the homeless. You're going to spend it on drugs. So alcohol. I'm like, hey, if alcohol is what makes them happy and makes them feel good, who am I to fucking judge him, you know, if you live in on the streets. So I got to the point where because I drive that biGHammer everywhere, you know, skate, see that with two people. Well, he's got the hammer. I got the point where, you know, where he's cafe is and that way the stop sign is the place. I could just pull up that. Where it should as I stop. Hey, hey. Are you to leave? Yeah. My mate skate says you give out money. The word. Not me driving around Venice. The little pocketside pocket door on the hammer. I had lots of hives and ones in there. I was like, fuck and just going around here and then I had. I need to get homeless people. That's very funny. What we had to homeless. I now had to homeless got paid day. Yeah, well, you were the, you were the better factor of the evidently. Yeah. Now, a lot of guys tren people at gold. There was a lot of treners there that were presented at Bibles. Other guys who are treners who competed, who would you say were the most popular guys there? Hmm. No, I don't know if Charles Bus was competing back in the early nine as I think it retired. Yeah. Charles would probably be the most popular. I know I'm, I need list was still competing. I think it is trening people. And Carl the brother was trening, right? Yeah, it had to be clientele. Was there a lot of trening people? Yeah, because they were married. Yeah, they were together. I think those two were doing it. And then there was, I think that's a guy called Zachary Love. If I think he used to tren people. Phil Gaulfield Gaulfield tren people too. Yeah. Yeah. He's that place on Abbott County. Didn't he? Yeah. Picking this place. I think Will Big Will. Will Harris was, right. Phil trening people back down. We've built a Smith down when you were there. Yeah. Yeah. Billy Smith. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That whole place there in gold. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But he was based out of gold. Billy, but he had a lot of clientele. I'm just trying to think of who it. There were, as I said, these supplement dealers from Germany would come over. Before long, they were trening people too. I'm sure. He's sure they were. They did the permanent trener and supplements. Right. Right. But then you just had a few different people like David Luna. He would tren people there and it will. You knew it was like an old gymnast type. And now is that guy. Remember that guy who used to tren people. He looked like richy canninGHim. Oh, you was a f***ing boy. He was that guy. He was always there. Always. He was like, almost looked there. Then he could have richy canning. I thought it was. Yeah. I thought it was right. Yeah. Yeah. He looked like a truck between the both of them. Yeah. Well, that's his name. YouPhone. You can tell him they went there later on. Have you flown in the TuMax UN? Yeah. They'd be cool. They would have made one thing. Adam. Mick and her. He was not afterwards. Oh. Joseph. I'd tell him whether they were notkers. Oh. Mr Jordan. He'd keep a separate group. Steve. Are you guys aware of English? Yes. Yes. Alright. Who clear is that? Thinking well. Cool. people there, he's got the glasses. He's always, he's got his own little rack now. It's like they got their own little space, don't come in to my space. This is my power rack. But he's still there. I saw him there. It's funny when I went back like last year. And there was his old lady there. She's from Germany, she remember. Oh my god, Lee, she's like probably in the 80s and she's still there. Oh, she's still there. But there's so many like, it was weird because I'll just walk around the gym. He was like, oh, Lee ever seen for 20 years. And this is so much the bomb. It's the same thing. It's the same thing. There's almost like going on one of the most TV shows. This is your lot. Remember this voice? You've been going to bed. You've got a bad, you've got a bad Francis gym in New York. And I'm telling you, it's the same group of people for the last 30 years. They just got a little older. That's it. Same crew at night. The daytime crew. I'm telling you, it's almost the same exact people. It's crazy. Well, I love that because it's like going back in, there's like, what a memories come flooding back. It's like, bro, the tear to my eye. And then I got there in the early in the morning because Eddie Jolie and he was there and seen Eddie again. Eddie started crying when he saw me. He was really nice. So, you know, because Eddie, I always got on great. And sadly, it was. How was Eddie? Well, he had to be late 70s with Neil. I don't know. And I don't know. I don't think he's there anymore because he's five past away a few years ago. So he moved out to be with his daughter out in the rancher, Kuka Manga. Oh, okay. I still keep in contact with him. But yeah, but just even going in there, seeing everybody, like I said, it's like going back in time, even though everyone's older, I just felt like, you know, if you go on home again and then just sit up on the bike. And it's almost like, you know, when you go somewhere, you haven't been here forever. But when you get back there, it's like you never left everything down. Everything down. Yeah. Everything's to be at older and stuff. But everything sitting up on the bike is almost like I say, like the first time I walked in in 92 and Ken Ken was on the counter and stuff. But it's based on like Ken because maybe Ken, teen in the day, everyone had a number. But he knew everyone's number. Yeah. You see, you're coming. Five, seven, four, two. Yeah. Six, eight, seven, nine. You're in. I think I'm a f**kers, you remember everybody's fucking number. It's just like, does it every day? That's right. It's like, yeah, how many people come in there? Like, hundreds of people, he's just like, nine, nine, seven, one. Yeah. You're eating. That's like, that can do. But then you must have still been on point. And and done the Ripper roster though, is there too? Yeah. You're not always getting tired. I just want to talk and if you get too close, you'll spit out. Yeah. You're always a bit sweet. Yeah. Yeah. You're so excited. You're so excited. It's one of the funniest ones. Because I always talk to the mic, men's a son. IMean, people would see mic towards the lady, easy to always be at the front. We've just been a belly on him and smoking away. I remember coming to the gym, they stand at the front. No, go. Hey, Mike. Lee, come here. I said, yeah. I thought you were going to tell me some words of wisdom. He's like, I've worked it out, Lee. I said, what if you worked there? And he goes, you know, that song, how great thou art? I said, yeah, a third of you goes, that's about half the Jones. How great thou art, half the Jones, half the Jones is God. I'm like, okay, good morning. Isn't it weird how he lost his mind like that? You know, and it's I blame Arnold. Arnold is the one who did it to him. He never seems to 80 Olympics. 80 Olympics. Louis Mike Arnold, completely outside them there and made him lose. You know, he's got a lot of, you know, he's got a lot of funny characters. They're one of the great ones I love talking to with James Coundy active because he love Aussie rules football. So another time I was at that stop sign, the Rose Cafe James Cound sticks. He's heading to window. Hey, you're going lead a Sydney Swanson. I don't follow, but I just pretend I did it. Yeah, that's good. Next thing is car behind me. James Coundy, in the back of the car and goes, what are you fucking going around? He comes and tough guy back in the day, you know. That's the guy goes around. He's like, I just got cold off my James. I love the bad Venice. There was always like real actors there, you know. They did the right. Great. Great. He's like, buddy, building. I always talk to him. He actually come watch the shows because he was dating. I think I got married to him. The greener. Did he get in the greener? I did he really? I think so. And then, what's your, Dennis Hopper was the funniest thing. The gym, it always be up to some sort of crazy stuff. He was a crazy guy anyway. I still don't cause him. He just, sometimes get the pop or artsy that would try to get photos on going in there. Jim, so, I'll hit his, I turn to get a split. He goes, you think they'll notice me today. So he's Dennis Hopper in just black paints, black shoes. He's got the black baseball cap on. Please, big black glasses. That's what you're doing. It's where to be in cognito. And black T shirt on. But he white riding it said, act up. He's an interesting character, Dennis Hopper. I love it. He's a great actor. He was fine. You know, he used to be really cool to talk to was Rucker Howa. He was a, he was a really good. I was. I was. I didn't know he trened there. Yeah, then he went over to Belgium. When I went to Belgium, there was always over there. After that. But then what's his name? I remember when Johnny the Monique was being made with Keanu Reeves. Yeah. Keanu Reeves was coming to the gym and run on the treadmill with that. You know, in the movie, Ed that little briefcase hanged up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So you'd come and run on the treadmill with the briefcase on his wrist. Like, yes, he was just getting in the roll. That's funny. That's funny. Yeah. Bruce, yeah, was that was there, too? Was it any back of the day? Yeah. When he was Bruce. Yes. He was a boy. Yeah, when he was a boy. Now when he was a girl. And even a lot of the LA makers would come in back then. Magic, right? Yeah. Magic was there. And then remember to use to always be, I think, is might have talked about it once before on that telephone with people would ring up. The telephone would ring it always be someone going muscles. Oh, he got muscles. The payphone and gold, you know, is ring now on answer. But if I was waiting, I'd tell my friend to it. I'm going to answer it. Hello. You got muscles. You're being musul man. This is every day it would ring a couple of times. And if you answered, it was just some freak on the other hand. Coward. Leave most of the kids watching. So like, what's a payphone? We don't even know where to payphone is. It's a thing you'd go up to the wall in the old days. You had to do this. Jenna dialed actually. Yeah. Then it got really high taken. It's like, oh, look at this. And then everyone said, don't talk on the payphone. And they're tapped. Do you remember these to tell you that? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. He's a clicking noise. But this, I don't know who it was. We never knew who it was. But this guy got always ring up. Have you got big muslians? Have big. I think I think secretly it was Luzouk because he used to always ring up people. You ask anybody, anybody who flew Zouk when I was in Australia in 1819. I'd get a call at freeing them all. What are you doing? Fucking sleep. I don't even get a shri I am. Hey, you're looking. Okay. Have big irums. Can you measure? Have big irums. Okay. Who do you like? Eddie Robinson. I like Eddie Robinson. Yeah. You think you can beat Eddie Robinson. But everyone I spoke to that spoke to Luzouk. You said the same shit to him. He called a lot of people there. And he asked, are you asking anybody? It call him off. Just ask these weed questions. I was like, how are you looking? Have big and a mussels? I'm thinking about the fuck's going on here. And the fuck that thing with it. All you guys put up with him because he actually had connections in the American muscle magazine. He actually promoted shows and he was a weirdo. But he was actually connected. So like, yeah, you had to actually deal with him, right? Yeah. Well, he's the one that originally meant to bring me to America. But then he coped out on the air fair and my friend paid for my ticket to get there. And stuff. So his full of shit. So we had a big argument. You know, he was going on well, you're fat. I said, if you see now fat, you are zir with your so-so. Fuck and water. And then I told him, you know, told him out of all the millions of Jews that got killed. I said, I can't believe he wasn't fucking one of them. Oh, my God. You're nasty. Holy, macro. From that point on, he didn't talk to me. And he was like, I wonder why. Well, I think the consensus after IMade my question initially was, what did people do there and the answer is not much, not much. They didn't do it. The same shit they do now. Thank you for taking us back to the good old days. And the female body builders say used to just wrestle. Go to hotel room and wrestle. They did. You asked when the body builders were you going. Oh, God, go somewhere. You finally won, we tell you, there's a guy flying in from New York. I've got to go down to the room and they like being, you know, wrestled and they're some mission and shit like that, you know, get their big fires and squashing them between the people. But I don't think people do that anymore these days. Do they? That's not a my business. The underground network is just not there. Now the 10 Dixons, that would have been more, you know? Well, maybe it has started off because women's body buildings not as big now. So, you know, as women's body buildings not as big the clitorious as I'm as big the fad start off. It's not like the old days day when those women would stand over and get that speedball above you. All right, it's getting a little out of hell. All right, I've not known. And that's feedball that we're going to wrap things up on day full on board. Leave praise for another installment of Iron Raage. We'll see you next week. I want to tell you how many times I went down on the girl and I got my eye pooped out. That's not an eye business.

=== FILE: HOW I MADE OVER A BILLION IN A YEAR! Jack Owoc (Bang CEO) Interview [u-atb-N6z9M].txt ===

Welcome back to Live With. I'm Dave Palumbo and today I'm super excited because I have the owner and the guy who made it all happen at Bang Energy, Jack O'Wock, a good friend of mine from the past. He's here, he's going to tell us about his tremendous success story in the industry and where he came from, how he got there and where he's going, Jack welcome back to the show. Thank you very much. One of the things I want to do, I'm going to start out with telling people how we met, right? I saw you with the Arnold class of Mark and round and you had a long pants on. What was about bodybuilding pants called the day? And I'm going, I'm looking at you on my booth and I go, who is this free? I can see this rope thing through his long pants. I'm like holy shit and then I found that you were, you had a background of biology and everything like that and then I asked you to write for us, you wrote a few articles in Hall of Magazine, everything but you were a true freak of nature about that. Now you look pretty normal. I forgot that magazine you had that I wrote for you and that was pretty cool. You were cutting edge back and you were always cutting edge now. Definitely. You were, you were cutting edge with the bodybuilders and everything you were doing. And I was always attracted to that scientific part of it because there are so many treners out there that you're not getting good results and they just double up. Yeah. Double up the nose. Wait, you were in the first interchanged and just double up. And so I admired you because you were probably the first one early on at the I call protocol gurus that took a scientific approach to building muscle. And so that's I think that's how we connected initially. Yeah, you know, I'll tell you where I got from it. I think you were too. Were you a disciple of like a Bill Phillips, you know Scott Connelly Disciple too? Yeah, I followed them with a great deal of interest but people said it Bill Phillips has a seminar you're going to come. I said if he's talking about science, nobody's talking about marketing. I'll pay $5,000 for a front row scene. One of the things that was really cool where we printed the magazine and a ballad where we just talking about and human muscle and performance. It was in this place in Hollywood Florida, little place and they also printed muscle media. So, when I went in there, they printed red book everything because they were the cheapest printer known to man. So, I would go in there and I would get a copy accidentally on purpose of muscle media two months before it was launched because that's you had to print it early to find out where was going on. And Bill was definitely always on the cutting edge. Again, he was, you know, you can follow Joe Weedher this guy or that guy, but I'm like, this guy actually squats. Let's listen to kind of what he said. Bill Phillips was the first guy to really challenge I think Weedher and the whole establishment and say, you know what, I'm not going to like keep this hush hush. We're going to talk about drugs. We're going to talk about what really goes on in bodybuilding and quantify and try to at least put some kind of a scientific approach on it. And I think that guys like me and I'm assuming you as well, we would kind of attract it to that because it was the first time we actually were able to get knowledge because it was no internet back then about these subjects and you know, you got to read the Andeshane and Bill and all the people he would bring in his experts were actually I was able to learn stuff and you couldn't find this information anywhere else. And so to me, he was a guy at least that I wanted to emulate in some sense in the future. I didn't know when I liked the idea he had his own supplement company. I liked the idea that he had a magazine where he kind of educated people on what was the good stuff and what was the crap and you know he would test products and he would put the test results there, who's products were good, who's, you know, he must have destroyed that company and him has strength systems USA. Oh yeah, yeah, they had the worst crap of all time and he exposed them completely, you know. I would remember too in the magazine he would act and at which simply means you just put a black iron over it like a legal documents. But when you held it up to the light, you could actually yeah, yeah, right. Accidentally on purpose because yeah, yeah. But now that was very cutting edge back then. IMet Ray on from there, Stony Grimes called me once and we were selling the plus and the base out of this little story. Right. And we took an early position early on with anything that was cutting edge. And the story that I slept on a mattress in, it's kind of like my life story of going from 350 square feet about as big as your office now. Yeah, right now we operate in 3.2 million square feet. That's a thumb belief. But back then, out of that little story here selling so much metrics that they were bringing the pilots in in the beginning of the day and we'd have to sell them before they ended the day because we couldn't even fit it in the store. I didn't really solve that much metrics really. Wow. Yeah. And so that Stony Grimes, this is how IMeet Stony because they go Stony Grimes is on the phone. I go for muscle meat. Yeah. He goes look Jack. All the gyms arecomplaining. You're selling two cheap. He goes but you've been selling it two years before they end. He goes but I got to call you and you got to tell everybody yeah I called you and told you to sell it last year. You keep doing what you're doing. You must have been making them a fortune Jack. Yeah, it was fun though because everybody would come to me early on just like they would come to you. They wanted real information. Right. I'm going to sell them some scams supplement and about then you know about mixture of proteins I still believe in that today the fast and the us way and the slower case in and the intermediate egg protein. IMean it's a great concept. Yeah, I was a good concept. When you saw the I guess the grip that metrics had on our industry where people were paying full retail, no one can plain full retail for metrics. IMean forever for years that's how they made all their money. Is that how you got the idea to say hey you know what I got to start my own supplement line? No it was actually before that for a pivotal story believe it or not I father was over he's 87 years old so I was teaching school when I opened this little store. This little supplement store where I slept in the back on an air mattress. You actually with that was your apartment this store. Yeah it was gone five hours. Vitamins in the front house. And total was seven hundred square feet but I remember one day we were only up at two weeks and I was teaching school and I was making $1900 a month. What's this public school system? This is not probably. In my second week we made $700 now no one's going to be impressed with that nowadays but when you're making $1900 a month and you do $700 one day and you're second week I said there's two of this. Pivot of moment was this guy came in and this is a metric story who's going to buy either the 20 count or the 60 count box remember? Yeah I remember the big I like that big case they had. He's to get I used to get tons of those. Yeah so if he bought the 60 count we we've seen in the huge discount of $144 he could make his car pin. This guy was literally in the store you know pacing back and forth it's only 350 square feet. DecidinGHis aim if I buy the 20 count I could make my car payment if I buy the 60 I can't make it. My dad was in the store my dad's old school. Yeah so the guy finally gets up there he's got a sleeveless tank on his proud of his build he's sporting about 20% body fat. And he makes the decision after two hours to buy the 60 count he's not going to make his car payment which means it's going to get repossessed. That's something very pivotal though and it's stuck with me and it's so funny that we brought this conversation up yesterday. He said remember son after the guy made a purchase and this world you're measured from the shoulders up meaning that all that bullshit below your your your head your brain doesn't mean not that yeah I think it took you an eye 30 years to learn that. Yeah now you're right you're right very very high but a very pivotal metric story of me realizing like a lot I'm like wait a minute this guy's not going to make his car payment I did 711 day and we had 17 years of uninterrupted growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Wow but you know that's part of another story so yes. But you know what it tells you that where people's priorities are you know people saw metrics as like it was like you're doing a steroid cycle because there was such a superior supplement to everyone in the marking behind it with bill Philips using Connelly and IMean they had that thing IMean there were like I remember the rumors that there was club uteroll in there people were making up all kinds of crazy stuff because people couldn't believe that you know people were making such games on the stuff and it was just that people were finally eating enough protein and we're eating a protein source that was actually absorbable and able to be assimilated it really was revolutionary in a sense that it created a much higher quality and science based supplement uh business that never really existed before that and then everything kind of took off from there at that point and it was interesting. So everybody's talking about a colleagues, colleagues, surf-up, plus, a colleague deficit. What it did do is you ripped open the package so it was full proof you couldn't fail. Yeah and as long as you're eatinGHigh protein look on any diet you know Dr. Antonio did a study where the test subjects consumed 800 calories additional from protein every day about their base and they still build muscle at large spotty fat. So people think like this fan safe and dieting where there's almost no ceiling but if you do that with carbs or carbs and fat you're gonna get body yeah absolutely. Now when when did you decide hey I'm gonna start dpx and and do my own supplements. 1993 we made something called ATP recent the sizeur um it not only had creatinine but it had the different amino acids where your body synthesized creatinine itself and we you know we sold a ton of it. Where did you get that idea for that product yet? What's that? Where did you get the idea for that product? I was kind of looking at a phosphogen and I said well you know it has sugar and even though they were touting that is a delivery system to increase insulin and shuttle you know the creatinine to the muscle and all that there was just too many people like myself that that I believed and I got a lot of it's from you believe in a complicated lot of products. Is that a non-insulin mediated way to build muscle so meaning no sugar no harm. Yeah and once when I came out with shotgun and there's you know we have muscle gene protein studies where it increases myogenic regulatory factors up to 550% uh new to genomics proven in a Baylor university study in the Florida state study that's all in my book that's coming out okay that Natalia if you can in what year was that jack that was before you were ahead of your time I think at that point I was a legend in my own month. No what year did you come out that that no one was talking about that stuff when you came no even knew you were talking about when you came out with that stuff. Yeah and one of the things when you say that and I'll answer your question the second is that that's why I came out with the magazines I said look you know I was a teacher a science teacher a bunch of different disciplines there's a look if you come out with something new you got to take on the responsibility of educating you just like you did a body building a trening protocol and everything like that IMean you can't come out with something new then you got to actually sell the truth during the consumer he's gonna use products now when the when the pro hormone market kind of got really ripe for the ticking and you know I think Patrick Arnold was the first person to really introduce the interesting guy on and then everyone kind of jumped on the bear like you actually had a great spin on it because you had that you had your pro hormones and you were selling with the little syringe you know attached to the bottle which was great for it was only like a baby syringe like that you would drop like a kid's medicine with where to get that idea that was brilliant jack so one of the things I had a little boy at the time and I noticed like in public it's like a croaker people on familiar publics and different parts of the country but they are right just like you said they would feed babies with these little things that look like a syringe but they had no needle right and back so was a company that had maygos and packed with them and the patent was very simple you couldn't screw a needle on because in the hospital setting if somebody saw this thing and screwed an needle on and injected food into someone obviously you're gonna have a pretty right drop and so I got the idea that when you study bodybuildinGHeroin addicts anybody that's into this type of stuff even supplements there is much addicted to the ritual as they are the drug and sick you're right you're right so we had this bottle and you would stick thing in this syringe and pull ups I down but that was that was kind of a marketing thing but it was a great tool to measure how much you use because if you're using something like a product we had called monster tests 10 milligrams in a and a liposomal delivery system and a limited it was super punk so you had to measure it IMean the difference between 10 milligrams and 15 can right send somebody over the edge so these like that not for one death so but what we learned first which was really cool as I said and you know the name of the the parent name of the company still vital pharmaceuticals yeah I said look this supplements like bill tested we tested everything fake nothing meets label claim I don't want that snake oil image I want to operate like a pharmaceutical company so all the original druGHormones if you remember they weren't poorly acted they would break down with first task liver degradation just like you know real steroids so I said look I want to make something that's just like an injection that five passes first bypass liver degradation was directly into the bloodstream was pretty easy in science is when you code something with a lipid the lipid will trensverse the intestinal through the micro directly into the bloodstream because it's light and philic and we got stuff like four understand a dial in the early 12 hormones to work magnificent people were gaining seven to 10 pounds I had a doctor dime and up in your neck of the woods in New York testing these on all this clients and given the blood results and it was phenomenal yeah well the games we can get the thing and then nobody can compete with us right because if no one had that no one had that delivery yeah just didn't work interesting so you make and then obviously they make the stuff illegal at some point you can't sell anymore was that yeah you recreate yourself so many times that I'm that's really what impresses me what do you do you make in a lot of money selling these pro hormones obviously in addition to the other stuff you're making with the company but that's you I'm sure you make a ton of money from that how do you say these up oh my god I can't sell this stuff anymore I got it now recreate my brand to to to to a champion something else what did you do at that point how did you respond to that new law that they said for it well it's interesting that you say that because everybody said oh VPX is gonna go out of business and to a little bit of everything like that but one of the things I was always doing that you've got to look you have to embrace change you have to be different and you have to just like we did now we took everybody off guard we came out with a carbonated drink I've let it say no one would drink it we did all these things seven years ago the people were just copying us now so you're too late and again you look at every supplement company now they have a excuse me it's been out carbonated drink this is the new key lime pie that we just launched amazing I have to say that bang or red line which what brand is that well that's it's it's bang okay but that's the thing just like with the pro hormones is I knew we had to pivot right I knew we had to pivot when a Fedor was going to be made illegal we would we would be experimenting every day all day all night with different stimulants and it was another pivotal point when when a Fedor was pulled everybody just took it out of the product well none of the products worked yeah you can be and these other methylated P.E.A. compounds and everything that was legal at the time and we were ready when we answered and it was really cool because GNC we had a love eight relationship but we red line came into prominence they would buy our red line gel caps they would purchase when a Fedor was made illegal $1.7 million per juicer in the beginning of month and like a 700,000 but that didn't for a little company man I was blown away but we had the only answer and then we trensitioned that into the red line drink and it became the number one selling beverage and all categories of all time and both GNC and Biden and shop where the love of this world helps world's largest health feed retail let me ask you that because that you know that was definitely a monumental very unique thing that you did you came out with it it was an energy shot drink red line no one had that people don't realize you would first to market with that where did you get the idea from to do that jacket and what gave you the you know drinks are heavy to ship they obviously increased the cost you have to have distribution like when you got this idea to do this IMean did you know how you were going to get there or kind of did you feel your way thank god I was stupid you know I was in the beginning new anything but when you you have this gut feeling something's going to work you don't worry you're not sophisticated like we are now we're thinking about shaking away we're like we're all in for it okay yeah so yeah yeah I'm not delus yeah were you making the original ones yourself a did in house or were you farming it out initially no so what what we did was we took this position and I believe we still have this position to that well explain it is to become the kings of liquid delivery because everyone is doing everyone else wasn't doing it everyone was afraid of it I embraced the science early on and so we were learning again now and funny you just bring up that little applicator it's like a bottom of the screen but it's five MLs right so you have 334 milligrams of a federal herb in there you had your hand the you had 250 milligrams of caffeine all in five cc we had to learn out of flavor that so yeah right so when you learn out of flavor that it comes to okay now we have eight ounces it's so much easier we were experts your experts in liquid delivery and what we did too and we still do this there we have this high speed shear and it's this blade system that you got to see it's just phenomenal and it takes particle weight down to three microns or less and so you're you're sharing these compounds where you're getting a much greater effect out of the sememannocompat it's just like there's bad to a two if you look at the vaccines that are made now these people go well how could they effy what well they're they're the aluminum that's in there why would you put aluminum is micronized to such a degree and so is the mercury that across is the blood brain barrier so we took that negative though and made it into a positive or you micronized these particles and they're much more effective so red mind everybody's like how is this drink clear and it takes taste so good and works so well but again we are like obsessed with all these liquid delivery systems to make the problem on work right this understood how did you did you have like like scientists working for you to do this to figure this stuff out or how did you um how did you come yeah because no one did it before and you were the first ones to really you know revolutionize that how does that come about how do you we didn't even start with something like that so I you know I taught six different disciplines of science took chemistry and did all this thing and had enough knowledge where I could figure most of this stuff out to a certain degree and then handed off to one of the guys we had was from a major pharmaceutical company and his title was head of liquid liquids and semi solids and so we worked with him to do these different delivery systems and I can articulate what I wanted and him and I work and together we would be able to we would be able to make these different delivery systems to get the things work so I was always considered myself the world expert on these unique ingredients and then take them and take maybe an ingredient that was you know orally maybe mediocre I turned it into the super ingredient who are great delivery system the reason I really admire what you did jack is because you didn't just like you're not just a marketing like genius guy who said hey I got an idea I'm going to make an energy drink and and and compete against some of the you know red bull and all these other guys you act you actually had science behind your product and I don't even know people who use your product know that aspect of what you do that that there's actually a science behind you're everything you make over there because that to me that only validates what you're doing more because most of these you know carbonated drinks out there just caffeine and carbonation and flavor IMean you you you have a layer of something more they are with is actually science behind what you're doing yes so one of the things I did too is um everybody was telling us when we had red line drink you'd have a top executive from Pepsi from Dr. Pepper as they would get fired they would they would always gravitate toward us and they would geT3 and they would say look over and over you got to come out with a carbonated 16 hours got to come out over and over but they also would tell me but make sure you put sugar oh no way because their thing was hey the ones that are top sellers I'm sugar in it right so what I learned early on was and we could get back to this I don't know how long you want to do this interview but to deny the data to be super successful you have to deny the data because that means your isolize protein if you look at the data great in orange or number one you'd have a great in orange but you see all these revolutionary flavors because you denied the data and like we have rainbow unicorn uh that radical skidado all these crazy flavors that are top sellers because we denied the data and made and did things differently so here's a shameless plug for my book but I'm gonna put it up close because one of the key things like you said is it has over a thousand scientific references that's crazy seven patents and 30 university studies that we did so in there I was always interested in the science so we would fund studies a bailiff or to state UCLA Memphis all these great studies that's part of the book that makes it different right I told my wife I've been writing this book for 13 years so I said I could throw this book in the garbage right now and I felt like it many times this is just a part of the time yeah we did we did one point two a billion in sales last year but that's from this massive learning it's hard hard yeah say that number again what you didn't sell I'm gonna quote iRI dad because a lot of people will never believe it so you could look it up it's public information we did uh we're just bang we did one point two a billion in sales in 2000. Billion with a B. Yes wow that is impressive Jack that's going to appreciate that congratulations man thank you very much thank you and so but but writing that book that 13 years of discipline and effort to write the book is what set us on that track because what happens is is then it allows us to set the tren us to know where it's going right to know what the next innolvation is going to be and everything based on the science right go ahead now what I wanted to ask you was I I know this I I have never discussed it with you but I know that with the answers going to be ready when you start to do in these kind of sales I have to imagine that Pepsi and Coke read all these companies that are the big names they gotta be shaking in their boots they gotta be like really angry to that this guy who's who's sleeping in his in his store 10 years ago is it is now cut into their business when you get in like IMean the people give you death threats or do we there people like you know trying to like muscle you out of the business try to put the kabach on you well give me one second here you could go to someone I'll do I'll let my scientists leave now because he's he has a other side waiting for us to the truck because research and development we never stop at no matter what yeah I'll just I'll just check you later thank you kindly we we got to tell the samples that he brings over every day and twice a day and then I get stemmed out of my business and you must be jacked out of your mind over time a little bit the samples here yeah I'm trying to sip this while we talk yeah so yeah that's why I asked you if you're sure you want to go down that rabbit hole there's some negativity there on glad the shock about it yeah I like to know because people think that it was it was an easy rise for you but I have you know these companies they don't go they don't go softly into that good night they they're not going to just like bow down to you so I have to imagine it was it was a very tough road for you yeah okay so and and you're correct so I always equated especially being down here in Miami you know the scarf a few days and everything else the drug dealing trade um when Castro let all the criminals out of jail that really did happen Scarface down here and then Florida when Castro let all the the Cuban prisoners got right but you know a drug deal and someone takes your turf right and you what do you do you kill in the corporate world you sue them and you try to put them out of business well in 2008 roughly uh I don't know roughly about 10 years ago both Red Bull and Monster suit us over Redline knowing that this product was far superior than anything they had right they were in panic muck um and they both suit us they were both frivolous lawsuits both of them had to walk away with nothing um but it was interesting so you beat you beat them you beat Redline and Red Bull IMean you beat Red Bull in Monster right and so what happened in the Red Bull case is we both had spent 700 grand on attorney speech uh he decryptation out of Austria sounds just like Arnold when you talked in the attorneys over there and everythinGHe said look we got to sell this lost not the york but his main attorney folk or Vic power never ever get his name any goes he goes we spent 700 grand almost to do spend we're now like frenemies right yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I go we spent 700 too we spent the same amount he goes we he goes I'm gonna tell you the truth he goes we made people go wait for 15 grand and he goes apparently you ain't going to wet they don't know they didn't know you very well jacked that's right oh what happened with Redline is we made it first in an aluminum cannon we did make it in house to answer your question because we don't want to pick up what the formula my first one was 80,000 bombers second run just six weeks later it was 800,000 bombers how did you have enough and the production and what you were running blind 24 hours a day well we bought this killer fog filler it's from it's it's a rotary filler that does a few hundred bottles a minute yeah that was fast for us back then funeral bottles a minute and we purchased it and we were just you know we were running it nonstop and you know you know we're all jacked up on clip, but Redline said there was times we'd work on the magazine for 48 hours straight and think nothing of it you know you're having fun and yeah and so we had the I said okay the attorneys I realized that it was the law firm that was the problem hot red right because then they said an underground and I told him in 21 emails do not only one person's allowed to bill and I said we're gonna win this in the media and I'm gonna teach you guys how to fight this the right way against rambles so in any event we didn't look to the attorneys talk and Volker and I settled the case within 10 minutes really he wanted to save face and so Redline had originally had a gray cat right and we were changing to white cat because it was one penny cheaper and it looked a lot clener right and a pack when you're starting to make millions of bottles which we phased into after the second run this a lot of you know adds up to a lot of money yeah so so he went back and he was able to tell his folks well we got him they were saying that little cat like this cat right here yeah we copied without a silver plastic lid IMean come on they were going to die are you serious well they knew they lost so in when we went before the judge and and mediation I said a bunch of things the judge was making fun of me for like six hours straight real why don't you think of fun of you because that's what you know judges do I was saying all kinds of things that he just didn't agree with you are trying to do a settlement so I said judge Rolex so now I'm getting to be a little smart ass too I go judge because we're like you know we're taking shots at each other yeah we're bored IMean they're we're in the redbol they're double billing on their blackberries yeah sure I said Rolex watch I'm which is a fake one costs because I don't know if you're in a box I go what's the real one costs and to the judge could relate to a Rolex right he's at ten thousand dollars right I said well I don't know if you know there's the redbol's claiming that we're the knock off and do you know that we cost a dollar more than it and he goes he goes oh look it's the first intelligent thing you said all day but he agreed with me and redbol attorneys literally scrambled out in the hallway to settle out for that because they knew they were sunk in other words you cannot claim that red line is a knock off when it would have cost 30% more than you'd be right right right right right right right and I I'd say furthermore judge because the laws it's called confusion and don't want consumer confusion right because this is the only case that's so agreed just that you go blindfold consumers and put all the energy drinks out there and go field on one that's different and then would pick red line because it's the only one that's not the matter can't right and they knew that we're sunk and so we went out into the hallway didn't let the attorneys talk and we settled literally within 15 minutes but I could have went against some of God attorneys fees and everything like that but you know back then you know when you already spent seven hundred grand and you're spending so much money and it's meant that people don't understand this lawsuits you're meant to take you off your game sure so when when you when you you get taken out of the equation because you got into deposition's not this it hurts the business a lot and I just wanted to get back to business so I'm glad monster also suit us same year because they were again in panic mode because in LA we were just crushing at which is the most progressive and sought after energy drink market in the world right so in the monster case a similar thinGHappened I had to go out there for mediation I told the judge I go on the phone run a conference call rotten Rodney Sax I call my game the hashtag rock rock and all their people and I just posted several about this yesterday I'm linked in that you can read about rotten Rodney but the judge said I said judge I don't want to go out there Rodney all excuse me Mark all Rodney Sax they're arrogant I'll never settle I said I want to just go straight to court I didn't want to fly out there in any of the Asia because I knew they would never come to a settlement and I said you know you're on or they never beat people they just sued them and they run them out of money and they ruin them financially and emotionally and so he said we'll keep talking Mr. Aug so I said look you could look it up they're one of the most nutritious companies in America right now I believe they're the most litigious consumer product good company in America with over 250 federal lawsuits wow and the new growing people's lives many people have come to me so I said I go the bully needs to get struck back right and he goes what about your shareholders said the company's privately owned he was what about your legal fees I said we have the amounts of attorneys for this exact same thing I want to fight these guys he goes Mr. Aug remember this is like 10 or 11 years ago he goes I agree with you the bully needs to get struck back words are very powerful and you're the one to do it wow these words are come true today where we're in the lawsuit with them where we're like six different lawsuits with them and we're not we're doing it on behalf of ourselves of course good for everybody else based on principle if they ruined their lives sexual harassment suits everything they they got caught rig in the arbitration I posted something yesterday where they where they lied about to their shareholders where they just followed a suit yesterday and asked and so those judges words are coming true is the bully needs to get struck back and where they want to do it here it is 11 years later we're doing it we have six cases and I told my attorneys I go I don't know can't have hot to spend a hundred million we're going to take these guys out I said this under oath several times I go no holds bar and so we're in this fight right now but when you take a billion dollars away from somebody in sales just like a drug dealer they're not going to sit down and fight for their turf and that's thEQuestion you ask it's a long extended answer but you're not just going to sit back they're in panic mode because they know bags of better products a clener product the young people are embracing and we have this extreme positivity they have this extreme negativity and they just can't compete and that's a good job but Jack how do you balance how do you stay balanced yourself because that lawsuit is stressful no one wants to be sued no one wants to deal with this just crap you want to you're a science guy you want to just do your science and and and make your products I know I know the kind of person you know what how does that affect you mentally or have you learned to kind of like separate yourself from it? No I learned how to bifurcate the two different things I think it's to me it's difficult I don't force my religion on anybody but it's real simple in the Bible there's a historical count of this too even if you're not religious well the David Goliath fight it's a real fight it's historical it's religious implication also but in life you're going to face a lot of giants I know you I don't know your story exactly but you're not going to get to where you're going without resistance it just doesn't happen right God puts these at giants in your way God put Goliath and David's path for David to come into prominence and us to be talking about him right now today he had to slay the giant you don't ram the giant can't circumvent him you can't go over him you got to slam in order to come to your desk and I've had a strong belief on that so God put this giant in our way and the bigger the giant Dave the greater the reward is on the other side so I know when we slay this giant to me it's like a demonic thing on the other side is this massive victory right the bigger the giant the bigger the victory you got to slam so you're a warrior you've competed you you know all these fans in order to win you got to do what you got to do you can't counter and fear like a lot of people are doing during COVID I used this being principle last week we're out Texas for four week 221 people hey COVID's here we did it safely we're launching work once strong I'm teaching people look if you you can't counter and fear in your battle you got to go out slayer giant what it did was it made everybody happy positive they got out did something and and stopped you know hiding in their apartment. Sure well you know what you did is what you're doing I is is unbelievable you know that just recently you guys signed that biGHuge deal with Pepsi how does that come how does Pepsi come to you say you we want to be your official distributor that that's enormous enormous and big deal that you signed with them and and yet you still have complete ownership of your company it's amazing yeah so we in as we bush did well for us and we still use probably about 80% of our former and as we're bush to strip distribution with our ally brands we have something called new fusion really cool because it's got 10,000 50 milligrams of active it's got seven grams of essential amino acids really cutting that stuff it's hard to synthesize 10 grams in a 16 ounce beverage carbonated no one else can do it to date we we we read red line which has been huge I saw that I like those new red lines they try to they're really good too. Thank you flavors of delicious. IMean a lot coming from you so so what these products though they're we call an ally brands we're still distributing them with our own distribution and with a lot of anti-subush houses and even certain independent Pepsi's Pepsi has an exclusive distribution deal for a bat right yeah you know it takes a lot of getting used to because we're super fast we launch a new fan flavor every 90 days wow they're a very slow shift to turn there's a great dynamic tension there both companies are learning from each other but like in food service they're massive like on 60% of all college campuses it's just mine wow yeah what they what they have to offer you they have 350,000 pounds but again they you know they we we make unilateral decisions and and quick decisions and what them it's slow it's just there's a lot of dynamic tension where we're learning from them and they're learning from them it's definitely not easy that's true though let me ask you this is thEQuestion I want to ask you because you're a humble guy I know you're from many years IMean you lived in your store very modest you now you have probably more money than you can ever spend in your entire life and I know you not a big extravagant guy you know you're not a show off you know you like your little toys but you know what when you have that much money when you make this much money you're this successful what do you do with the money what point does it become like you know I don't even care about the money anymore because you work just as hard today probably maybe harder than you did when you were living in your store it's amazing to me it was never about the money it was about winning a game and helping people and even in my first year in business I told the people that were starting to work for me I go look just help people just help people the bank account take care of itself I said they looked at me like a deer in the head I said go imagine if you helped 100 people today how much sales we would do and it ran clear to that was like look if I talked to somebody on the phone explain the supplements and help them and get that them get what they want hey the bank account will take care and we still have that same mentality now you might think I'm odd for God or people that don't understand religion I don't force it again on anybody I'm just who I am but I look at my blessings as a way to bless others and to advance the kingdom of God here on earth you know very simple it is you look right now and it's 21% more people are seeking God because of a craziness going on the world it's unfortunate most people put God on the shelf that went there abandoned well they go God we need to pull you down we need to talk I'm scared but a lot of people are missing God in their life and it's the spiritual dynamic even time magazine it's very secular said that we scientifically were wired for a relationship with our creator and I think too many people are trying to fill that God void that they have with sex drugs everything else and you can't fill it you can only fill it with God and just IMet a lot of super Uber wealthy people especially in my position now and I noticed a lot of them no matter how success well wealthy folks, jets whatever when I don't have God they're very shallow and insecure it's it's it's mind blowing and so I think it's a dynamic that everybody should explore again I'm not out for what I'd send just like the rest of them but you live your life in a different manner IMean I get my joy now I have four kids with my new wife and five kids total and that's you know what brings me joy and I like work and I like doing what you do if someone came to you Jack and said hey you know what we're offering a couple seats on this next space flight to the moon it's got a cost you whatever million dollars two million dollars would you go to the moon I would send you all right no I'd be bored stuff you never know you could you you might find some new new ingredients supplement ingredients over there. IMust get some arms they're going to burn up what's it? I don't know lately they said there might be life on Venus they found a lot of different things that indicate their might be life IMean uh who knows but I think it would be crazy to be in space and trapped uh bring it one with me because I probably have to shoot this. That would tell you some reagent Jack what what's what's the next big project what where where do you see your company going in five years from now. Well wait I got asked you first would you go in the space but if I would if I didn't have kids probably so I'd say no now because I would be afraid that I wouldn't come back but if I didn't have kids I'd probably do it yeah. Do you consider John Romano you can't yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah IMight go John wait if I can go a John and have like at least someone talked to the whole time I probably go yeah I'm gonna pay for both of you to go. I'm always a question guy. All right I'll pick you out if you pay for me I'll go. I love my producer says he to help come to you. Bye I spoke too sweet. Let me ask this question seriously IMean you see yourself continuing to do this you know for 10 15 20 more years you'd like if someone came along and it offered you a ridiculous amount of money for your companies would you sell? Well that's happened twice IMean in my house now I invited you over but you never came. But we've had an eyes for bushover contemplating buying a piece of the company and I told them I would sell them am I near by Nordie Cheryl only I said look you can't have anybody sit on the board I go with fat you're not even allowed to call me I thought they would be upset and they go oh we messed up our business and we'd really mess up years so they go don't worry we won't be calling that never materialized because they're losing 4% a year and when you're losing 4% of a 100 billion it sales every year that kind of hurts oh yeah 10 to 12 years but um the problem is here unless you're going to hire me I'm unemployed so if I slow the business it's quite when I work I tell them same it's like you're you're unemployed well John Ramon is I and then what who's going to hire us but you don't need to work to I can yourself a business you can go you can go off into space if you want to me it doesn't matter you can do whatever you want IMean would you I'd you see yourself wanting to retire at some point and cash out? Not necessarily I just like win in the game and I don't think about that right now but this just happened fine I'm trying to revolutionize things do things radically different than everybody else has done I'm and you would think that these big beverage giants know what they're doing and have everything under control but they they don't they're very dysfunctional and everything like that and so we're working on changing that right now we're putting a few hundred million dollars into our distribution and manufacturing right in the Phoenix whenever you want to go we have the fastest beverage lines in America running 3600 bottles a minute and wow so we just bought a a 654 thousand square foot plant in Georgia where we're going to put the fastest line in the world it's never been tested before but it's 4200 cans a minute oh my god what what have you buy down in that flar I know you just bought something recently there's a big article about it you bought a huge place yes so we bought sixty acres and and on the front end of the sixty acres there's going to be three buildings the first two buildings are once 2205 thousand square feet once 250 and the third one we're going to connect in the second one just then make a massive building and so we'll add a major plants all throughout the United States wow print print in the cans it's called a candacorator right it's 60 million dollars and 80 million dollars doing stall it's mind blowing oh my god filling them all in the same plant that's going to ship in the men and doing things wrong the way the rest of the beverage industry does it wow they're super excited about that I'm excited about aluminum because it's infinitely recyclable you can just cycle a 22 times for a plastic a yellow plastic bottle you cannot recycle it once into another bottle you can make carpet out with the second down but I'm a fisherman just too much plastic in the ocean yeah yeah just being responsible and having fun doing it Jack you're an amazing story I've been lucky enough to have been friends that you're over the years and I've seen you grow and you've seen me do you my thing and so it's nice to have a success story at the end of the rainbow and you know you're fighting the good fight and I like the fact you still got the fire and you got to keep going and I'm enjoying watching your journey because it is it is cool to say hey I knew this guy when he lived in his store and now he's fighting you know these major uh drink distributors and winning and at the end of the day it's a lot of the good guys to come out on top yes and I want to tell you you're listening or something really important that I've always looked up to you your scientific knowledge your ability to tren to do people's diets to do people's programs your your lot of supplementation everything you I want you to know I look up to I have the utmost respect for you always have and that's why we've always been friends for all this time I appreciate it and I appreciate our relationship and if you ever need anything and IMean that's sincerely just let me know you never have to buy dang again for the rest of your time I'll tell my wife that so like that the sanity of free but keep doing what you're doing you're doing a great job and and I also applaud you doing what we did is you pivot it right you you kept changing what the punches were a lot of people in this industry didn't last that long there was no longevity it couldn't reinvent themselves like you have done you know half a dozen times and I applaud you for that you're listening or she'd really appreciate that thank you very jack that means a lot to me I appreciate that compliment and best to luck in the future and we'll keep and touch obviously and you'll you'll give us updates on the latest products that you got coming out with and I know our viewers love that type of stuff and I have one final message yes God bless you and the horse you wrote in thank you thank you I also have a jack thank you so much and guys that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with on day polimbo for jack O'awwock we'll see you next time

=== FILE: HOW I RE-GREW MY HAIR! ｜ Jay Campbell on GuruTalk [uGS76EH9wLo].txt ===

I'm looking forward to probably more of you guys up, but to about hair loss. Had a preventative, had a reverse, the new modern thinking about hair loss and how it differentiates itself from what we thought in the past and joining me today to help educate us. A little bit is a good friend, Jay Campbell. Welcome. Hey, and it's an honor. Triflidge, always humbled to be in your presence, man. Since you and I did that podcast, while almosT3 years ago now, it really helped my career really help me in so many ways. So again, I'm always indebted to you and I, and in the spirit of gratitude, I appreciate it. All right, tell me how to grow some hair. Did you grow some hair back in your head, I noticed? I did, man. So, uh, we didn't give you the city to top of your head, we put it into the camera. You've got hair, you could definitely got more hair there. You're not afraid of how that's sprayed with anything, do you? This is great up, regrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone from almost being completely bald. IMean, the last time you saw me, I was almost bald. Yeah, you were shaved pretty tight. Yep. So what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, yeah, so obviously our product, you know, my company is a seercostum.com, my business partner is a guy by the name of Nick Andrews and he's like literally one of the smartest peptide biochemists on planet Earth and we were told in our company launched in November of 2019 and we launched this. I'm going to stop you. I'm going to let you go and rant on because you're, you're a good talker, but I want to just say something. Sure, it didn't start with the company. It started with you doing the research on what, what the ingredients in the company are selling and then you, and then you got involved with the company. So maybe you should explain the science first. I will. Yeah, absolutely. So our product is called Oxano Grove. The earliest two products that we had are a serum and a cream that are, the main, in this, constituent ingredient is called Copperpeptide GHK-Cu. So the copper ion is CU and if you look into the research of that peptide. What's the GT? What's the other part of it? What's the, it's copper CU and then what's the other of the G? It's glyco histidine and then whatever. Oh, all right. So that's just how it's, yeah, exactly. Yeah, IMean, I give it to you. The same copper peptide and I don't know if it was a copper. When I got my, I got hair, a graph, years ago, like in 2000. So that's 20 years and 21 years ago. And they gave me some kind of like stuff to rub on. They had for the first week to help heal it. They said there was some kind of copper stuff to there. Was that the same stuff? Well, I don't need the same stuff. And that was the same stuff. No, there's definitely, yeah. Go ahead, what? It had just come out, I think, at that point. Exactly. Well, so here's the thing. So copper peptide GHK-Cu was discovered by a scientist named Lauren Pickert. He still has it in the company. The FDA, what after him? Because like a lot of research scientists, he started talking about health and benefit of this amazing peptide and how many multiple applications it has to heal. IMean, it is absolutely, as my business partner would say, the sham wow of peptides. It has a hundred different applications. From healing, from nerve regal, from, IMean, cellular, regenesis, collagen, synthesis, angiogenesis, and what is copper, what is so special about copper that would cause healing? So copper is basically embedded in all of our biological systems. Like if you look at the copper peptide or just the copper ion, just look at our blood, the hem and our blood, you have copper up and down our cellular systems. So giving a replant of replacement, but just applying a copper peptide like GHK-Cu to the skin increases, all sorts of cellular mechanisms, which would obviously regenesis or rejuvenation or regrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. But it's like I said, it's pretty amazing stuff. So it's probably, obviously much better absorbed in this form that you're applying, then obviously just taking a pill with copper. Is that exactly exactly? So that's a good question. So let's back up. So the stability of this solution is best injected, but if you've ever injected copper peptide GHK-Cu, it burns like it burns. It's like a beasting. And our guys out there, then inject GHK-Cu into their scalp, no question, with tiny needles or whatever, and they get regrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, and they act with thousands of guys on Reddit to talk about it. But the next best version of it would be like our solution, which would be through the dermis, obviously. So it trensdermal solution. And it had a very gross to a lot of chemicals too, because they're exactly in an old version of it. It's just not gonna pass through the stomach. It's just gonna make it through the digestive system. You're not gonna have to let the alcohol even if there anything like that. So the oil bioavailability is almost meal. Okay, so you've got two options. You can rub it on your skin, and you have to, you know, clearly have a smart chemist that has a carrier agent. You don't want to be using the MSO, even though people do. Yeah. I'm like orient you. Now, our product, which again, we launched in 2019 in November, is a 3% grade of GHKC, so if you go on Amazon or you go on the internet and you search Copper, peptide GHKC, you get hundreds, literally, of products that claim to have it in there. But almost none of them have at the level that we do. And again, I always say this to people, take the Pepsi challenge, you know, use our product, put it on your face or your skin, or you know, do it for, you know, again, and we don't really advertise this, but on this show I will, you can use it to heal too. You can put it on soft tissue traumas. And it, you know, absolutely, you'll notice the difference within two to three days. On the face for most women that use it, they get like 70, 10 days or like, oh my God, my eyes are less. Right? But for guys, a lot of them in the MMA fighters use it. Whole contact guys use it. And from when they're using the ghee and they're sparring and stuff, they get cut off and slid up in their face, you put the stuff on your face, it massively speeds the rate of healing. So three percent, IMean, like, a lot of people don't know, and I'll give it an analogy to food. Sure. People think like, skin milk is like some kind of amazing thing, because it's, you know, zero percent fat, but whole milk is only three percent fat, okay? Which is still a lot of fat. Now, you know, reduce fat, and then they got the 1% to percent. So you think, you know, oh, that sounds like a little bit, but it's actually, three percent fat in milk is a lot, you know, same thing with what you were talking about is that it sounds three percent, cop of peptide, doesn't sound like a lot, but that is a lot, that's a high, that's a high concentration, right? Exactly. Exactly. Good good good good good good vision here, because if you went higher, you'd be in the clinical side of things. And obviously, we can't be doing that. And again, Nick worked in the bio-forma space for 20 plus years as a consultant. So he's a master at creating formulations. And obviously, our round the guidelines and our considered over the counter and application. Now, the issue or just, again, so people in a big picture standpoint can look at this as like there are tons of cosmetic companies, you know, Lori Owl, Rodan and Fields, the high-end boutique stuff. Yeah. Who mentioned the name, Copper peptide. OK. And then there's other stuff like P1 and all these different peptides that they put in. But they have, if anybody ever bothered to do a task, this stability test. And looked under the microscope, but what was in these products? They would find almost no active ingredient. Wow. OK. So they're really good. Well, look at all our stuff. Is it like these proprietary formulas you see in like the new application? Which, for you to kind of just sprinkle it in, they're like, Pixie dust. You just magically said the word proprietary blend. Exactly. Exactly. Hey, no, no, no. So we have to explain that because I want people to get results if they're going to try something like this. And they have to understand that there's a lot of the stuff that they're marketing out there because these companies are big bucks. And they can really suck you in with their marketing. But if it doesn't work to stuff, then you're wasting your money basically. IMean, do 100%. And that's right. Again, we tell people, when you go on a website, products are expensive. But we're not ripping anybody off to put a 3% copper peptide solution in a product is not cheap. IMean, that's a very high end aspect of creating this. But again, the process due to extreme expertise is not simple as just getting a 3% rate of copper peptide. And then, you know, slapping it on your skin or anything like that. It won't work. But again, just to go back about the business, we were in business game for about a month and a half. And a guy sent me an email. And he said, bro, we had it before and after picture. He's like, dude, on the big fan, blah, blah, blah. He's like, I was listening to Ben Greenfield's podcast. And he had on Ian Mitchell. And Ian Mitchell is the guy that owns our carbon 60 company. And I forget what they're called, but it doesn't matter. He was talking about carbon 60, the nanomolicule. Also, regenerates the shaft and the nerve and the follicle rooted the scalp. And that his theory was, is that if you use carbon 60 to regrow your hair, it'll work. So anyway, this guy who was a listener of mine, basically, was using that stuff that I just showed you before we went on podcasts from Taylor made pharmaceuticals, which is a GHK dropper. And he started mixing it with Ian Mitchell's carbon 60. And literally, 45 days, he completely regrute the hair in the back of his bald smile. So again, he sent us this before and after, but he's like, look, he would nicknames the look into this. Because this is unbelievable. Well, we first saw the picture, bro. We thought it was Photoshopped. Yeah. Because we're like, you have to have a website somewhere or a quesit effect, right? Yeah, yeah. It's on the whole page of the website. You can see it. It's the first picture of one of the four and actors. But so anyway, dude, that was in the December, so Nick went to work and looking at both of these agents, to potentially put them together. And we launched our product, which is, again, GHK-Cu, copper peptide, and 3% grade, and then carbon 60, which at that time was in a carrier oil of MCT, which was, again, version 1, which we found, even though it still worked amazingly well, it was too oily. So when you put it in your hair, you'd have too much oil in the hair. So a lot of women complained, guys, we'd even complain, they were like, dude, it's awesome. And it's re-grow in my hair. But when I go to sleep at night, I'm getting oil on my pillowcases. So we obviously fixed that. And by the way, we launched the product on June 5th of last year. And the same day, the same day that we launched the product, then agreed for your promote of the phasian skin. So it was like a perfect coincidence. What's the carbon product do? So the carbon 60 is, it's a good question. So the carbon 60 functions as a sponge. So think of it as a very powerful, like a super antioxidant, disputase. So you put the GHK on your scalp, which is going to increase angiogenesis, increase red blood cell, and collagen formation in the scalp. Okay. And then the carbon 60 pulls it into the scalp. Oh, I think it would help you absorb it. Is that, no, I'm not going to. You set me this little thing, and I've been using it. And one is, you spray one on first, and then the second thing you put on is that those carbon, the carbon 60. Exactly. And we're finding now that it really doesn't matter what goes on first. We recommend that you put the GHK, which is Ceremae, on first because it's water based. Okay. So when you apply it, you literally spray it into your scalp. How much time of the spray should I be putting on that? For you right now, probably two. Oh, I've been using it. Two of each. So you don't get it to the place where you want your most, you want to focus your red growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, and then you just massage it. Okay. Now again, when I'm making 20 sprays, I want to focus it everywhere. So here's the thing. You don't need to over saturate the scalp. All you need to do is make sure it gets into the scalp. So me and you don't have to worry, but people with longer hair, if they're just spraying it into the hair and not massaging it into the scalp, it's going to go into the hair follicles. I'm not going to. Yeah. I'm totally blind. What I do is I comb all my hair forward, get it out of the way of my scalp. Because I do comb some of the back, obviously, and then I put it right here. I've been using it for abouT3 weeks, maybe you said. Yeah. So I'll see what happens. I don't like to get too excited, but I do notice some little hairs. I don't know if it's really, if it's real or not. So I'm going to keep letting it grow, and I'll keep applying it. Now, I wanted to just tell you a funny story because my son likes to go into my bathroom and explore like he's into sprays now. He thinks he's like a hit beautician. So he goes and he takes my daughter, my three-year-old daughter, he's five, and he styles her hair. I came into my bathroom and it's been very quiet in there. And I was horrified. He was using the copper. That's fine. Like it was like, he was like, spraying water on there. So I'm like, no, don't touch my stuff. It's like, what? So you're saying you need a couple of hours. Yeah, but if my daughter's not growing really, really thick hair, we'll know it works. So. So on that, so Victor Black, I think you know Victor. Yeah. He just posted a big thing on his Instagram. So he's been using it since May 12, now May 13, and he posted on Monday, which would have been what? So one month, and he literally like mine, like re-group his hair from the Volkswagen the back. IMean, it's not like, you know, super thick. But he re-grouped a lot. So IMean, we definitely have thousands of people out there that are using it that are getting re-grouped. Now, it is important that I'm glad you said it. If you are not living an optimized lifestyle, and what does that mean? You're inflamed. Okay. You will not get the best results because you don't have the optimal one for. So people are like you said. Type one diabetics, high blood sugar, high insulin. You are not going to get the same results as somebody that has less inflamed. Gotcha. Infirmations, but when I go for my, and you can test your inflammation guys in your body by going for a C-reactive protein test, IMean, I know I see people come back high on the C-reactive mine. Mine is always like 0.001 or something like that. It's very, very low. Cause I eat a very anti-inflammation diet to begin with, just because I know it's good for you. And a lot of people are very inflamed, like you said. So it's good to take you to your fish or oils and something like that and help reduce inflammation your body. Start stay away from sugar or something like that. Get control of your blood sugar. Now, Jay, you know, people are going to ask me because you know, I've been taking finance for 20 years. Okay. But I'm a very high DHG converter, just in general. So I really, I don't know if it ever made me stop losinGHair or not. I, that's what I took it for, but I knew my father had prostate problems of like that. So I took it more as a, as a protective effect. Because when I got my DNA tested about two years ago, I also, it showed that I'm a very high DHG converter. So I'm on no hormone replacement whatsoever. I don't think any testosterone, nothing. And I take 2.5 million of the finance right today. And my DHG levels are in the normal mid range. So you can imagine how high they would be if I did. I just am a big DHG converter. But for people who are not, let's say, what's wrong with, or what's wrong with the idea of DHG causes hair loss? Because I know you're against that whole school. So IMean, it's a very complicated question. You know, I will definitely say that we wrote an article which you have access to now that will publish on Ben Greenfield's website a week from yesterday. So it was at the 20th second. And people who don't know who Ben, can you explain who Ben is? Yeah. So Ben Greenfield's a big biohacker. You know, it's got like three or four million people that follow up. And you know, we wanted to him. My partner and I also did a podcast with him, recently, that breaks tomorrow, which will be Thursday, June 17th, breaking down the DHG inhibition theory of hair loss. So anyway, thEQuestion, I would just tell people that it'll be on the internet. There'll be an 8,500 word article with all the science. No one reads it. No one reads it. Give us the read is digested. No one reads it's right. Except people like me in New Day, no one reads anymore. You're right. You're right. So the garden group basement understanding is this. DHG inhibition was once thought to be the primary cause or the causal agent of hair loss. We now know that it is not even close to that. It is if anything, it is a secondary downstream potentiator of hair loss. So all that, you know, finance derived, and by the way, I know thousands of guys like you, then if you guys have been taken, you know, did you stop your hair loss potentially? Yes, but have you addicted your body or, you know, committed your body to being attached through that drugs, mechanism of action to stopping DHG formation. And now thEQuestion is, is if you stop taking the finaster, right? Yeah. Is your hair going to all fall out? IMean, for you, it's different because you've had the trensplant stuff. Well, guys, the hair in my back of my head, too. So yeah, yeah. Well, that's what I'm saying. So I really take it for maintenance. So I don't even care if it doesn't anything. I just want to keep my DHG imbalance, you know? Right. No, no, no, for you, it's a different story. But for most people, it goes back to like, when you and I are talking about testosterone, and like why you don't want to use an AI, you don't want to inhibit any biological systems, because as I always say, God is a lot smarter than Big Borma. Okay. And there's always downstream negative side effects that can happen. Now again, not everybody experiences these with DHG, right? But we now know that you can regrow your hair much better than using a DHG blocking that hemadro. That's the exact same science that's going on here for a talk. That's the science is what we now know is the primary causal agent of hair loss is blood flow to the follicles in the scalp. Now, do you think the reduction of blood flow to the follicles in the scalp happens to be a genetic time clock that goes off in some people? Because I look at guys like, you know, Jay Coler, he's got a full head of hair, the guy that loses a, the guy never lost a hair on his head from all the years of bodybuilding and using your gear and stuff like that. IMean, is it genetic that some people, because blood supply gets cut off if they have a predestosist to that? And other people, they're just, they're blood supply to the scalp is amazing. IMean, why do some people lose hair or not? Yes. Yes. IMean, there's basically five causes. Okay, but the answer is yes. Okay, it's, it's rushing the wet. It's biochemical individuality, but micro inflammation's in the scalp. Okay, genetics, right, androgenic alopecia. Right. And then you have lifestyle. So the more inflamed that you are in your life and obviously inflammation is, you know, multi-causal as well, the more likely you're going to have hair loss at a various time or point. And by the way, this is also for women. Women who have poor sleep habits, who are stress cases, who worry all the time, they also lose their hair a lot faster than people that are. Now obviously this is kind of subjective, but there's no question that everything boils down to the blood flow to the scalp. So yes, a guy like Jeff Jay Culler is genetically blessed because we all know that he did all sorts of things to look the way he did when he was competing. And he didn't lose hair whereas other guys just look it up, you know, at PhD drug and their hair falls out. Right. Right. So what's the solution to reduce inflammation in the scalp is this is this going to be the new, you know, standard that that hair loss clinics and people are going to basically say, hey, look, we could restore your hair with giving you hair graphs, but you've got to use these copper peptides. We've got to use this carbon 90 or a carbon 66, it needs to help absorb it or whatever version, whatever, you know, I guess you could say, compounding and you're going to use to help the absorption. It's copper peptide going to be the standard hat for hair loss. So from a angiogenesis effect, 100%. So what does angiogenesis mean? Again, stimulating the blood flow, red blood cell formation in these target area of application. So angiogenesis is the primary mechanism of action that we want to target to, again, regrow the hair follicle. Now, what are other things that you can do? Yes, so the absorption agent of, you know, think of it as like a super, a sponge, an oxidative sponge to pull in the angiogenic effect of the carbon 60. But you can also, and you said it earlier in the show, what's most important from an aging standpoint is improving mitochondrial function. Okay. So if we strike it and improve the mitochondria, then, you know, therefore, we will also improve the replication of the cells and all of the various things that cause aging, which is, as you know, telemere lengthening and detangling and then also anti-oxinants. So if we improve the mitochondria, which we can do, and by the way, in the article and I'll share it with your listeners, you know, we create a stack, we say, okay, this is the J and Nick's stack to regrow your own hair to the maximum allowable. And by the way, I want to say this on your show, if you have an endogenic alopecia, okay, so I had that, obviously you had that. You can still stop it if you start doing these things early enough. You just have to be much more militant and, you know, an orative than somebody who's like J color. Does that make sense? Yeah, let me ask this question. Since I'm 53, you know, can I regrow hair at this point? IMean, is it possible to get my scalp to start producing 100% do- Do-hairs. 100% you can regrow your hair even over the grafts that you had. Here's how you do it. So, you know, not being a shield. Because no, it's not a mistake. Just for people who don't know, when they do grafts, they only do it in the front because no one has enough donor hair to do your whole hair. So, right, and that looks, you know, whatever, gives you like a recedinGHairline, and that's fine. But you know, we all want our little bald spot to be, you know, filled in too there. So the only, you know, we've been waiting to get them to grow hair in a petri dish. They've been promising that for 20 years. No one's done it. So, I think the best bet, like you said, is growing your own hair back. That's exactly right. And I wish I had this picture, I would show the screen of Victor's hair because he has that bald spot. But whatever, you can post it all, post the link in the comments after this is over. But, so that's all you do it. Okay. You use our product as the base immediately. And again, remember, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, scalp massage 30 seconds 40 seconds, let it dry. I put serum B, which is the carbon 60, which again, and I haven't said this yet. It's in an oil extract of grape seed oil. So, Dave, you know, this grape seed oil is a very fine, misty oil. So, when you put it in your scalp, it actually adds, it looks like a product. Yeah, it looks like I put like my, some gel in my hair, something like that. Yeah, exactly. So, you could see mine right now. There's a tiny bit of oil in it. That's, that's the beat. Oh, okay. I usually have to push up. Yeah, a lot of people love that. You know, Chris Gethon is a big user of our product. And he's like, when he talks about it, he's like, I don't use product anymore. Yeah. Now imagine, dude, this is something new. And I should talk about, imagine what kind of damage we do to our hair, where we put these garbage products like shampoo and conditioner and all these things that we put into our scalp, look at the chemical constituents in these things. Right. People shouldn't even wash their hair, truthfully. They should just wash it with water. Jay, let me just tell you something. I'm a very greasy Italian. The grease that comes out of me, you can cook, you can saute, chicken, Nutton, it. So I can't be putting too much oils in my hair. It would be really good. I'm just saying that my hair. Well, I'm doing my podcast. So what I do is I take a shower at night. I use a shampoo that's not like, I use one of these shampoo from online too, that they just says it's a carbonic acid or some other crap. But when you just scare scalp, I don't know if it does anything. And then I get an average shower. I let my hair dry. I let my scalp dry. And then I put your products in. And then I go to sleep after that. And then it's part of the morning. I get up and I do another shampoo with that other product. And then because I can't walk around and grease in my hair all day. Because like I said, by midday, as Tyler, I'll have oil running down my face. Yep. No, no, no, look. And I totally get that. And again, that's a genetic thing with sea boom. Some people just overproduce oil and stuff like that. So I totally get that. But like, if you really did like a deep dive on hair health, most people are putting shit in their hair oil time. Oh, it's hot. You're right. So IMean, it's crazy. But that's exactly what you should do. OK, so you do that. OK. And then, again, this is like a state of the artist. I'm going to put you in the slide here. Do you die you hair? No, dude, this is literally straight up from the product. My hair, you can see I have gray. I'm close cropping side. The reason I ask you, you kind of gray in the size of your very dark on top, why is that? So that's another advantage of the product is it goes to your natural root color. Oh, real? So when people see me, they're like, bro, are you fucking dying your hair? I'm like, no, this is literally from Oxeno. Oh, wow. OK, because I used to die, but I stopped. And then, you know, now I have a lot of grays in this. I'll be interested to see if it my hair grows out darker. I still have grays. You can see, look, I have tons of grays. I'm salt and pepper, but this is from Oxeno. All right. I'm going to try it. It's pretty nuts. But then again, dude, I've only been using Oxeno. We never got into that story. It would happen to the company. But I've only been using Oxeno now consistently for three months. OK. So I have completely, for the most part, regram a hair and again, I already had the Vantice micro pigmentation done on the top of my scalp. Yeah, yeah. So I was going, but anyway, what do you do? You put this on? Then you do red light therapy to your scalp. Now you can buy a cap. You can just use one of those juice six minutes, eight minutes, whatever. What is that? OK. No, I'm getting really deep here now. You also use, Oh, what is the red light therapy, dude? Explain. So the red light therapy increases mitochondrial function. OK. So all of the mitochondria in the scalp are going to be tuned up. So that's obviously going to help with the geogenesis. It's just a regular red light bulb. But what is it? Is it infrared? Oh, well, IMean, there's a million days. There's so many now. IMean, if you get into dork speak about red light, it's due to the flicker rate, bro. But IMean, I use the juice that that's just a company that I fill it for. There's a million of them, though. So long as you get red light therapy on the scalp, you know what the truth is? I'll never do it. So I'm not going to skip that. Well, look, dude, you could literally you or guy like you could just call one of these guys like restore, I restore, whatever. And just say, hey, let just send me a cap. And I'll promote you guys. But IMean, they do have little caps that you can wear for like 10 minutes a day. I know, but I don't know if I'll put it on. You know, maybe we could turn the studio lights into red lights. And I can just I'll be all day long. I'll be hit by red light this way. I literally, there you go. So red light would be secondary. Now, again, I'm getting dorky here. You want to drink dutarium depleted water. Now, this is Icelandic water with the Ethereum depletion in size. What is the term like depletion? So deuterium depletion is. I know what the terium is, but I don't know what deuterium depletion is. So basically, there's two companies on the planet right now with depletion water of deuterium. So you already know what deuterium is. So basically, deuterium is in our cells. And deuterium is what causes us to die. We fucking die at a hundred, ten, hundred, fifteen, whatever we shut off, due to the effective deuterium in our cell. So if you deplete deuterium, you massively stimulate mitochondria functioning. Why is deuterium, which is not heavy water? Exactly. Why is that bad for you? Oh, dude, it's terrible for the cells. It destroys the functioning of the nanomotors in the mitochondrial. It completely shuts down your mitochondria. The reason you're mitochondria stop functioning optimally at like 55, 60 is because deuterium. So if you start drinking deuterium depletion water, you're going to massively upregulate your mitochondria. We're getting deuterium depletion water. Now you turn me into a complete neurotic now. You know that? I can't do these interviews with you, Jay anymore. Where do you get this water? I'll send you a link for a, so I've been using deuterium depletion water for abouT4 months now. Do you want to make your own or not? Do IMake my own? Do you make your own, too? Do they have any water filters to make your own deuterium? No, you got a bite, man. Sox, who makes it? And it's expensive. Who makes it? Who makes it? There's a company called White Water. It's drinklightwater.com. That's where you get it. Oh, it. You drink only that water. And you can just have a couple of bottles. No, no, no. So you just basically you take their water and you deplete your liquid sources. So you can even do it with like wine, you know, whatever you drink, you just add some of the deuterium to clen it water. And you do it for like 90 days until you get, and then you take a test, like anything else. And you figure out where your level of deuterium is and your body, if once you get to a part's per million, your body is like maximum mitochondrial operation. Is there a kit that's determined this? Like what you're deuterium level? Well, you, what the company they send you, you know, you can buy the test. They want you to take it after like 90 days of using water and you'll see them. But IMean, I'll try. IMean, dude, it's, it's definitely, so I like infrared saunas. That's one of my things. But like between infrared saunas, drinking due to chrame to plate of water, it's all, it's a big time like biohack. It's, it's, it's pretty amazing. You definitely feel better energy. Guys in our world do, we'll get leaner. You will lose more belly fat, just naturally. Not doing it. I don't have any belly fat to lose, but I want to live longer. And I want to go out and out. You're blessed. But then the other stuff would be, you know, to add to it with the last thing would be to take either met foremen or like a burger and to massively suppress insulin. Again, circulating insulin. Because now they know and there's all sorts of studies coming out, bro. Yeah. That, you know, basically met foremen and like a burger and all of these like glucose suppressors or regulators, there's a massive improvement in mitochondrial function when you keep circulating insulin weight out. Yeah. Well, you know what, I, I, I, I, IMean, mitochondrial oxidized fat, so that would make sense. But my point then, what I use for mitochondrial function is PQQ. Have you used that? PQQ is amazing. I haven't, I'll take it every fucking day. It's expensive. I asked them to regenerate my mitochondrial. So the only issue with PQ is there is unless you have somebody that you, I don't know about, but like, it's, it's difficult to get it into the cells. So it's still a great product. Don't give you a, I just like extension. I don't know if there. I don't know if it's any good or not. Yeah, I take life extension too. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's a great product. So IMean, you know, I, you could throw that in, but in truth, I think met foremen or glycoberat is probably just a little bit stronger than that. Maybe I can go through. Met foremen is like, people have a digestive issues within. Bro, that met foremen is only a problem if you're diet sucks. Yeah. Because it's increase in agrimonia in your gut. So if you're a gut, if you have digestive issues on met foremen, that's basically a gut check. That's literally San Bro, you need to clen up. I have never tried it, but, oh, you, IMean, you don't need it because you're so, so ripped and you have such little, well, I didn't mean my butcher control is good, because you know, everyone can use a little better. Bloods and sugar control. How much do you take in the aim it? So, so let me just say, I'll get to that in a second, but let me just talk about met foremen. So it does so many things outside of the things that we talk about. It causes a pop toasts of tumors. It increases, I'm sorry, increases. It decreases all of the gunk in the dendric and synaptic pathways in the brain. Yeah. So if you're going to take like a supplement that is like an all-encompassing, you know, life-extending supplement met foremen. So I take a gram, AM and I take a gram, and P.F. Now, it's a lot. Most people take 500, 500, women take 252, 50. I've been taking a gram for about almost 10 years now. I used to take 500, I don't know, for 20. And by the way, I just had my metabolic health done with true diagnostic, and I'm 20.75. And I'm 50. What's your hemoglobin A1C? Super low, like 4.9. You know what, I was shocked. Mine came back at 4.6. I don't know how to do it. Same. That's right. That's right. Ever since the COVID hit, and I don't go out to eat every night anymore, I'm eatinGHealthy. Well, you are a super freak. You're a mutant. But that's extremely low. Yeah, I thought it was a lab error to be honest. But I had done twice, and it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, I don't know. IMean, most people who are healthier at 5.3, I know. I know. I would have been happy at 5.2, believe me. I'm a shot. My wife thought I was lying. She's, I'm shocked. I'm amazing. That's literally amazing. But so that's it, man. So, you know, an angiotogenic stimulator, which obviously is going to be GHK. You know, I'm a little bit of a thing as a whole. I don't need to, you know, my, my, he would go to an AMOON C was 56. I got thyroid cancer. I had my thyroid removed, and that's when it all was sudden to drop down. I wonder if that has anything to do with it. Wow. Interesting. Isn't that weird? Yeah. I wonder if the thyroid cancer was, you know, fucking up my blood sugar. I don't know. IMean, it definitely could have. Did they remove your entire thyroid? Yeah, the whole thing's gone. I'm on replacement. So what are you taking as a replacement? Are you taking, uh, desiccated or just teeth through? No, I just take, I take like the generic, you know, of L.F. I rock scene, you know, T.B. Right. My, my dinosaur right whatever you want. I said, well, let's see if it works. It's cheap, you know. I don't care if it's, yeah. That's, they're in the job. My T.3 levels are normal high, and my T.4 is normal. So, IMean, you're so lean. It wouldn't matter. I would just say be careful because usually, if you're not getting something to supplement T.1 and T.2 to, you can get it in balance, but IMean, for you, it doesn't probably matter. Yeah. I don't know. We'll see. I don't know if it, it was just weird. It seemed like just when I got that done, that's when my hemoglobin A-Metese dropped. Now, my surgeon originally thought, well, maybe it was due to the fact that you lost some blood during the surgery, and, you know, you hemoglobulin levels went down, but now it's been, you know, four months, five months, whatever, and I'm still low. So, well, that's interesting. Interesting. Interesting. Anyway, let's get back to Harold's. So, what do people want to get this product from you? What, what, what's the procedure? How much did they need, what's the cost per month? You know, give me that stuff. Yeah, it's good question. So, so right now, the product is $249, and for most people, depending again on your length of hair and also the rate of loss, it can last 90 days. So, it's, okay, that's good deal. IMean, when you really look at the cost versus the benefit, IMean, give me a break, you know, people are fan, yeah, you know what, guys pay for a Rimm and X, right, let's, IMean, IMean, I did, I did, I did. IMean, I got you still using a Rimm and X, dear, come on. Okay, you know what, some people just need. But my point is, I'm talking about the hormone placement, I'm talking about guys, you know, like body builders, that are, that are on drugs. IMean, they spend way more than that. That's, that's, yeah, I got, that's a lot. I got a few bucks a month you're talking about, right? Yeah, IMean, exactly between 50 and 75. But it's $75, $75, $75, $75, $75, $75, $75, $75. Yeah, IMean, you know, you can get, you know, we'll say, you know, here's thEQuestion show is a discount. Here's thEQuestion. Before you get to know this, Carol. Let's say I take it for six months. My hair, why do you think? You do not. It's a great question. You do not. It's not, it's not like the DHT inhibition where you're attached to the follicles and the apps that you're on it. No, but you definitely want to maintain, you know, that angiogenic effect in the scalp. So what we're doing and we're not there yet, but we are developing, well, two things that's important for listening audience is the product right now is a two phase, again, Cerema, GHA, Cerembi, the Nanomolecule carbon 60. It will be a one phase product by end of September. Oh, really? Okay, so you need to put it together. That's good. Exactly. And we have a provisional pattern on that right now. It's basically going to be able to tell people, it's going to be a light basomal, right? So the oil base, it's encapsulated in the water. And it ultimately will probably not be a sprayer anymore. It's probably going to be like a dropper, you know, pop it in, drop it in where you have the, the, the, the, the, the, the, I'll tell you one thing, J. though, when metrics first came out in the early 90s, they had the base and the plus and you did two scoops of each, and then you blend it up, I kind of liked that better than the one pack, even though the one pack was a little bit more convenient. The only problem is, is like, believe me, if you remember, you see the first, the first formulation was a, was a dispenser. Wow. And again, the B was in, um, MCTOL, so as much, you know, yeah, yeah, yeah. But oil, air, and grease. I'm just kidding, I'm sure it'll be amazing. So IMean, the women, it's a great question. And, and, and, and, you know, some guys will say, and this is actually important for listeners to know this. And again, I didn't know this might, my, my, you know, Nick, my partner, really, kind of, knew this. So a lot of guys in the hair plate is due, and you know that a lot of these guys that won't mention their names, they have foam, mooses. Yeah. And that shit is worthless because guess what? As we already said, it doesn't get into the scalp. It's going into the hair shafts, right? So all those guys making foam mooses are not getting into the scalp, which is where you need to get regrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and regentuses. So it's all about penetration and into where you need to get it. Absolutely. Okay. 100%. So two your question, because it's the best question. Yeah. We are creating a scalp product that will be considered Oxano evening. So the product that you and I are using in thousands of people around the world, we're using right now, which is just called Oxano Grow version two, will become Oxano Day. Okay. And then the night version will be what you're doing right now. So you already hacked it. You take a shower, you leave your hair a little bit damp, and then you're going to take this dropper, and you're going to apply it in your scalp, and you're going to go like this. Yeah, we're going to go to bed. So I got somebody to do twice a day now. IMean, you will for if you want like super regress. I want super growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I want to do it. I want the best. Don't don't don't go lightly on me here, Ajay. No, no, wait, I can definitely tell you this, the version, the night version, Oxano evening, will be stronger than Oxano Day, and reason why is, well, it's going to have a couple more peptides that we don't have in it for hairy growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. But most importantly, when you're sleeping, you cannot create micro-information. Sure. I'm just starting the day, you're outside, you're sweating. You're, you're, you're Italian, and you have all sorts of sebum. Yeah, exactly. So you'll get much better regress at night sleeping with this product. Then you would during the day, put it in. But there's no question that when you put version or a very product and evening's product, you're going to get tremendous growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I'm looking forward to your office, Santham. Now, now, we have a link. We have a banner on our Exmusule.com. I'm going to be putting up and on my daypalombo.com website. And you can go click on that banner and get over to your site. Is there a discount or something like that? Yeah, absolutely. So for all of your listeners, you'll be able to take 15% off. It's huge, 15. Huge, 15 is the 15. And the link is just a searcostum.com board's last huge. Okay, and they can just click on the banner guys off of either website, my website or the art's muscle site and it'll be just easier. And just use the huge 15 code and you'll get 15% off your order. Look, I like the fact that it's not something you hooked into for life. Guys, do it for three months. Try and see what you get. If you get hairy growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, keep doing it. That's what I always tell people just do your own experiment. Because you know what, I have to believe, Jay, that every person will respond differently. You're going to have the high-priced partners that have amazing growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Cause maybe they have like you said tremendous inflammation. And then you might have people that have maybe some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, but not as much because maybe that's not the issue that they have. I don't know. Exactly. No, that's exactly right, Jay. There's nothing perfect for anybody, but I will definitely say that if you are living a healthy, low inflammation lifestyle. And you attempt to grow your hair with this product. And obviously follow the instructions and watch the demonstration videos. Right. And it'll be very hard for us for me to think that you won't get some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Now, we do have people that regrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone our hair in two weeks. Most people, Steve regrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone within 45 to 60 days. And then you know, I was just talking to Victor Black about this this morning. He's in Thailand. The strongest, most pronounced effect is between day, 50 and day, 90. That's when you really see like the hair just coming back. And you're kind of like what the hell. That's yeah, I always believe in look. You got it. You got to put the work in. You got to put the stuff on. You got to follow the instructions. There's a lot of people after two weeks they get bored and they stop doing it. They miss their applications. Once you do that, it's like not going to the gym, miss and workout. So missing meals, doing it. You're not going to get the best results we need to do that. You got to be super crazy in a rotic like I am. Otherwise, you're not going to get good, good results. It's totally true. If it's in your fat and you're inflamed. You're not going to get the same results because you do not have blood flow to your scalp. Again, it's all about how do I get the optimal blood flow to my scalp. I use this part. You just get my head. Is that going to help or anything? IMean, in theory, you would get better blood flow to your scalp. You know that neuro, what does it call this scalp? I forget to. So here's something we didn't talk about. If you took your hands and you lifted the skin, right? Like really tight right here. We all have like a genetic level of skin right around here. Some of us is much tighter than others. It's called the neuros research. Well, look, in a lot of the newest research, they know that the people that have the most laxity right here have the worst hair loss because again, it can't get in. They have really a lot of micro inflammation in the skin. So the tighter your skin is right around here, the better you're going to maintain your hair for life. Interesting. I didn't know that. I'm this a true story. I'll leave us with this story because I had a crazy doctor friend to mind. He's no longer with us. May he rest in peace, doctor Mike. He was like one of these novel, you know, original thinkers. And you know, there's a strip of connected tissue underneath your scalp. I think it was called now. It's, I can't think of it. But it's a thick band of connected tissues as you get older and thicker. It's a must that you think that that could be, you know, his theory was that that's what caused hair loss. As it thickened and response to whatever stress, inflammation, right? And he's right. He actually, this is a true story. I swear to you, this is true. He found a surgeon crazy enough to remove his. So he peeled his head back and they took that band of connected tissue off because he was, and he was convinced he was going to grow back his hair after doing this. This was back in the 90s. And they, they, IMean, you can't make this stuff up. They closed them back up. He looked like a sharp pay as head after that because it was someone even, you know. And unfortunately, he passed away, like, a couple years later, not nothing because of that, obviously. But the point is that I don't know if that was the right thing to do. But you know, what was he using the Charter League role as hair? Nothing, because they didn't have anything. They used me in the oxenel back then and, you know, and put him in practice, and finaster, right? That was it. That's that. Yeah. People will ask, because we get that question all the time, can I continue my script, monoxidil, with this product? And technically, you could potentially have more hairy growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone but as you know, Dave, monoxidil, if you stop using it in a lot of users, has that potential of losing your hair. So we say, just work on improving the health of the follicle. Kill the monoxidil, use this, use the other thing. And by the way, we didn't mention this, we should. You can absolutely use PRP. You can absolutely use exosomes on top of this. So this would be... Them cells stuff. Them cells stuff. Maybe exosomes in the beginning of the year, PRP at the end of the year. But that would be it. And all of those, again, commodity red light, due to the period of the fleet of water, meT4 minutes like a Berberin, you definitely should get in very regrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And you know what, I wanted to just say this, you know, when I breed snakes, okay, and reptiles, people that I talk about this all the time. And to get a lot of these snakes to breed, there's certain triggers, daylight cycles, there's... Absolutely. Dropping the temperatures during the winter months because that stimulates breeding, there's just a million different like little tricks that you can do. And you don't have to do them all. If there's enough, if you push enough buttons, in other words, the snake will breed. Same thing with hair, regrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. JJ's gave you 40 different things to do. Don't get overwhelmed. You don't have to do every single one of them. Right. That's the key. You don't have to do every... There could be 100,000 things you could find in the internet. Pick the ones of the most potent. And I recommend picking one or two because if you do too many variables, you don't know which ones are actually doing something and not doing something. So, you know, try that copper peptide, you know, combination, the oxana. You know, listen to J in terms of, you know, fixing your diet, getting a blood sugar on the control, reducing inflammation, and seeing if that works. If it works great, you don't need to do 40 other things. If it doesn't work, it doesn't work effectively. And nothing tries to start adding some of these other variables. But you could overwhelm yourself, because I know I get overwhelm with this type of stuff sometimes too. But it's not, you don't have to do everything. There's only a couple. Once you trigger the hair to start growing again, you'd done your job. Right. Spend two or exactly Dave. You're 100% right. Two or 49 bucks. Give yourself 60 to 90 days, depending on how long your hair is. If you can find a $50 in there out there, a $50 portable hair light cap, you know, after you put this shit on, put that on for six minutes, and then that's it. You don't have to do anything else. Yeah. Give it 60, you know, give it 60 days. You will see some degree growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone again, assuming you're not inflamed or disease. And by the way, we didn't say this. If you have COPD, and I don't think many of your listeners do. But if you have COPD, or you have another serious blood issue, you definitely won't work, because you're not getting blood flowed. Guys, go. All right. I'm going to tell you this. I'm not doing anything other than the stuff you're sending me, because I want to see if it works. Because I'm not putting a million different variables. I'm only going to do that. IMight look into the deterioration of the pleater water if it's not to, if it's not going to make me too much of a nut case. But other than that, I'm not doing anything else. I'm sticking with my normal regimen because I want to actually see how much hair I really grow with your formula. And everyone knows my audience. I'm very honest in terms of it. If it works, I'll say it works. If it doesn't work, I'll tell people did work on me. But I trust the science makes sense to me. I like it because you're very analytical like I am and very scientifically gear. It makes sense. I'm going to give it a shot. Anyone else I want to give it a shot? You can check out the website. Use the code huge 15 to get 15% off. And give us your feedback. Put them in the comments below. If you've gotten good results or if it works, let us know. We'll get J back. And when the new formula comes out, we'll talk a little bit more about that. And J, I greatly appreciate you coming on the show. And educating not only my audience, but me as well today. And IMean, that's an honor, man. Guys, smart as you do. I actually just gave you the link to the article that my copyright owner and I wrote on Dutier even to play the water. It's cool. Exactly. It's perfect for you because it's like, what the hell is this? Why would I use this? And how do I do it? It's pretty simple. But yeah, IMean, that's advanced stuff. But yeah, I'd man, I appreciate you for always bringing me on your show. And it's an honor. And I look forward to the future. I'm using the vitalizing plus right now. I'm spinning my water. Do you do it yet? Have you seen that? The... I have. I'm birthed from a river. IMean, that would actually be something you would add or throw in after. IMean, did all you have to do is just drink the solution. You ought to say it's heavy water. It's depleted heavy water. And just throw it into your current liquids. And it's 90 days. IMean, I want you to do it 90 days in test. Right. And then you'll prevent your love testing. You don't have to keep drinking it. You don't, Jail, tell you one thing. I'll leave you with this. I know we keep extending this show, but people like this stuff. I took a heavy metal at home test. Like where you could actually test you, a heavy metals. Yeah. And I came at client-led. I'm like, what the frick did I get led from? So I'm thinking maybe I was in New York, my facility, my dad, because it was cement dust there all the time. Sure. Sure. So I said, you know what? Before I start getting crazy. Okay. Let me go for a blood work at Quest. So I had my doctor friend, Sammy, physics, and you know what? I came back normal. So you know, take it for, you know, sometimes, you know, these at home, everyone's at home testing now themselves. Sometimes they're not that accurate, because when you have to send your blood through the mail, and it might take two weeks for them to actually test the blood, contaminants happen, blood cells break down. So, you know, make sure you get tested at a good accredited facility. Don't trust everything at home. So I can tell people with blood sugar monitors. They're not that they're not 100% accurate sometimes. So you've got to go and get your blood tested at a lab. Right. Check your hemoglobin A1C in a lab. I also did in that home hemoglobin A1C, and it came back wrong too. So just to let people know that sometimes it's better to pay a few extra dollars and get it done by a professional. Agreed. All right. Thank you, Jay. Keep us updated. I appreciate all the knowledge, and you will be back because I love having these conversations with you. For now, though, we are out of time on day polo, with Jay Campbell for another edition of Goot Roo Talk.

=== FILE: HOW REAL ESTATE MOGUL LOST OVER 120 LBS! Anthony Lolli Talks Transformation [HAKfftDBoR0].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. For you is only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is multi-millionaire real estate developer. But more importantly, a man who made an incredible physique trensformation proving that you can do anything if you put your mind to it. The man I'm talking about is Anthony Lali, welcome to the show. Thank you. Thank you for having me. I'm a big fan. I would have never imagined being on this show two years ago. You used to be in on Fox News and stuff like that. Having people ask you about how you make money and real estate. Yes, yes. I've made over 2,000 media appearances. I was a regular on Fox. I remember. Yes. But this actually means a lot more to me because this is like the next chapter in my life. This is health as well. Well, you know what the truth is? You can't buy health, but you have to, you know, you could have all the money in the world, but if you don't want to put the hard work into it, you're not going to get it out. And that's, there's a sacrifice to involve in everything you do. And I think there's a huge disconnect from making money to actually change in the way you look and feel. Don't you think? Absolutely. I think that the same principles apply. You know, I think that there's a lot of people that have a standard of excellence in the things that they do in business, but they don't apply it to their bodies. All I did was just cross over, same thing that Arnold did. You know, he applied the same principles of bodybuilding and applied it to his business career. I just did the complete opposite and it worked. It's hard to do the complete opposite because when you become, when you make a lot of money, it's like, well, you know, you want to just enjoy yourself. That's the mentality and you were enjoying yourself maybe a little too much, obviously. And that's, you know, where you went wrong. What point did you say to yourself, you know what? I'm going to die and not even be able to enjoy my family. I'm not going to be able to enjoy all this money IMade. I got to do something about it. What point did you say I had enough? Well, you know, everybody who's obese has this threshold, you know? And in bodybuilding, you know, they call it, what is it? Progressive overload, right? Yeah. It was a body of that. So people have a fat progressive overload. So my threshold was 300 pounds. Anytime my touch 300 pounds, then I started getting all the ailments, the sleep at the, the chest pains, all these type of things. Wow. Then all of a sudden the seat belt extend around the airplane. I can't get on the roller coaster ride. Right. I can't, you know, do do the fun things anymore. And so at that point, it was just ridiculous. But, you know, in, in, in, in my documentary, I talk about an incident with my daughter that changed my life because I just didn't want to be a fat embarrassing dad for my kids, you know, because kids can be pretty cruel, pretty mean. And I didn't want them making fun of my daughter for their dad or my son for that matter. Right. And it, and you, you were a dad who came into big a dad much later, like, you know, kind of my, myself. IMean, you're in your 40s and you, you know, you're starting to have kids. And so you didn't really care about the way you looked earlier. But, you know, you grew up, I was watching your documentary. You grew up as, as always, in an overweight kid, which had to come into play side and logically, because I'm kids are cruel. I know. I've seen it. I, I, I, I, I'm sure I was, you know, not the best kid either, because I was never overweight. And you make fun of the fat kids. IMean, and that's unfortunate that the kids do that. But it happens. How did that affect you psychologically? Um, you know, growing up in Brooklyn, you got to get tough, you know, and you got to get rough. So, you know, it does affect you. You know, you, you, you see things like, even as a little boy, mothers would, would bend over and talk to their kids and point that mean. See, you see that if you keep eating like that, you're going to look like him. Yeah. You know, little incidents like that happen. And they stick with you. Uh, and then throughout your adulthood, but you know, when you become successful in the world is your oyster and you're not losing and you're wearing suits, you're hiding the fat in your finding ways to adapt. And then then societies telling you, it's okay to be overweight. It's okay to be yourself and all this kind of stuff. So you start buying into all that. Right. Now, when you were growing up, did your parents like try to put you on diet, or would they be enablers who fed you? Yeah, they tried, you know, they tried to put me on the hack in, they tried. I was an only child. So, you know, it's hard. It's a cross between being spoiled as an only child with love and caring. And then at the same time, just eating, you know. But there's only so much a parent can do, you know, when you get to the point where you have access to doing things. I always was kind of like an entrepreneur even in my younger years, even before I was even a teenager, I was selling whatever I could get my hands on hard work. I was drawing and selling lemonade, whatever. I was always able to kind of make my own money. But that money was going into cheese doodles and popcorn and things like that. Where did this entrepreneurial spirit come from? Because your mother was a teacher, if all those are the teacher, right? Yeah, what happened was my mom was an immigrant from Ecuador. She migrated here, lived in an abandoned building, worked in sweatshops and then worked in abuse alone and then worked taking care of old people. My dad was a World War II veteran. He moonlighted as an insurance broker and then during the times of Elvis Presley, he learned how to play the guitar. He started tutoring everybody, how to play the guitar. He wanted to be Elvis. Oh wow. In his era. So, then he became a public school teacher. But he was moonlighting to make ends meet, doing photo with the parody. He had a blue and gold McCorn and shoulder and he would take pictures of tourists with a Polaroid cabra and little Italy and then all the way to the entrepreneurial. It was an entrepreneurial. So, I saw the hostless spirit. Yeah, that's crazy. Where did he teach? He taught in New York, he even taught in New Jersey. He taught all grades. He taught music, math, science. So, he was a man about town. Yeah, my dad was an English teacher in high school for 35 years. So, I can relate to that. And his later years, he actually taught in Rikers Island, prison. He high school of the GED program. Oh, that was interesting to see some of these prisoners after they got out of prison. Because he would teach them how to tie a tie, how to do an interview, who's a public beyond. They'd come to the house and visit and say, thank you, you know, for you, I got a job, I got a car and a ride. And a lot of these guys were muscular. That's funny. That's amazing. The influence you made, you made people. I know my dad taught the actor, Eric, or Strahta. My dad actually talked to him into going into acting, believe it or not. He later came back and thanked my dad for that as well. So, I could understand how, you know, giving teaching is an important, you know, professional. A lot of people don't put enough, I guess you could say, status behind teachers anymore. And I think that's a mistake. Yeah, well, I think now that the pandemic happened, I think a lot of parents, I really, really, really want the teachers back these days. Yeah, they don't want to homeschool the kids. That's why I don't want to homeschool bikers. I want to matter the house, you know. So, let's talk about, okay, so, at 19 years old, is that when you started your first real estate business? Yeah, when I was 19, you know, I was going to a community college and I knew that wasn't going to make me rich. I said, I had a high taste and a high lifestyle that I wanted. I was very ambitious. So, I dropped out and pursued a real estate career. I got my real estate license. And, you know, I remember sitting there in the classroom and the instructor was saying, you can be a millionaire, you can do this, you can do that. And I raised my hand. I said, sir, if that's the case, then why didn't you do that? Right. And then he pulled me to the side after class. He said, you know what Anthony? I understand what you're saying, but guess what? I owned this real estate school and here's how much 20,000, you know. And so, at that point, I knew he was making a million and a half dollars a year. So, I said, no problem, sir, I'm going to pay attention. Yeah. And then at that point, I formulated my plan. I said, I'm going to get my real estate license. I'm going to learn everything about real estate. Be a really good salesperson. But I said, I'll be damned if I have access to all of these multi-building owners and real estate owners and not pick their brains. Find out how they did it. Right. So, I started, you know, getting them as my mentors. I was bringing something to them, selling or renting their properties. And they were bringing something to the table to me. Interesting. Who is the most influential person that you encountered over the years? I think it's a mixture. There's just not one, you know. Be across between a lot of the landlords. I had a cousin. I talked about in a book that I wrote, who was a very successful entrepreneur, an alarm guy. My brother, I have a half brother for my mother's side. Became a very successful guy in the technology business. So, I had a lot of people that I aspired and admired around me. Even from, you know, remember, I was a young guy in business. So, I had to do business with attorneys and title guys and insurance brokers. And I was doing business with the owner. So, I saw and got a chance to work with them in their office and saw how they managed to staff. But, you know, when you're a new business owner, a big deal is getting a secretary. Being able to afford a secretary salary, you know. Right. Finally, you know, giving a, you know, sharing the workload with somebody else, being able to stress somebody else that can do something what you do. That's what I wanted to ask you. I've had historically problems with getting, you know, employees who are willing to work as hard as I am, you know, to have a side thing. And, you know, how do you tren people, or find the right people to put into positions of importance where, you know, that, hey, my business is riding on this position, I have to worry about this person doinGHis good job as I would do. I think the analogy I can give you is, it's kind of like being a coach, right? I'm going to coach you to the Olympia. Right. So, a lot of these people, you need to talk to them. What do you want to do with your life? How long do you want to work? I know I'm going to be a stepping stone. Am I a stepping stone for one year, two years or three years? What, what, what, or six months? What is it? So, if you have that trensparent conversation, they'll give you the best of themselves for that period of time. Yeah. You can't blame them. If your business is not growing enough to be able to increase staff, increase responsibilities, increase their salary. Yeah. Then you can't blame them for wanting to fly and going somewhere else. So, you're going to have to pay your dues with a lot of turnover, especially if you're not looking to pay top salaries. That's the thing. Most people get into business even if you own a gym. Everybody on your staff is not getting paid more than 20 bucks an hour. What are you expecting to happen? There's going to be a lot of turnover. So, you just have to condition yourself mentally to build a system that handles turnover. Gotcha. Interesting. Okay. That's very good advice. I think a lot of people don't realize that in their businesses, expect turnover and be prepared for it and then you won't be taken by surprise or light down, as what you say. Yes. Yes. Absolutely. You want to be the key player in your business. And if you have a good structure of trening, then you don't mind the turnover. You don't mind that you like a fresh perspective. Some people get burnt out after a while. You embrace the turnover. Sure. Sure. Very good. Very good point. Now, let me ask you this question because 19 you start your own real estate. At what point do you say to yourself, I want to be just bigger than just, you know, what I can provide for myself and the words, what was your vision? Where did you get the idea that young and age to say, I want to have like a franchise of businesses? IMean, that's a pretty lofty, you know, golfer. Yeah. Yeah. It started way before that. When I was six years old, my mom would go to sex with the avenue she would try on mecoats and beautiful dresses and perfume. Put him back on the rack and we would leave. She'd never buy anything. Right. And she would look in front of the mirror and do turns. And she was basically fantasizing about those things. And in one of those visits, I saw a waterproof watch that I saw in a Saturday morning cartoon commercial that was like 12 bucks. And I was begging my mom to buy it. She didn't want to tell me why we couldn't buy it. Eventually she broke down in tears and said, I'm sorry Anthony, we can't afford it. Right. So as we were taking the bus back home, I told her one day I'm going to be so rich. I'm going to buy you a white limousine with a chauffeur and a white mansion. And you're going to go shopping and do whatever you want. And you'd go eat it that it's most expensive places and do whatever. And so many years later, I actually did those things. A little white mansion. I'd water her. She's had white rain drovers. She's had white hummers. That's awesome. Sadies. So, you know, it was that kind of drive that fire in my belly to change my family Wow, that's great. Now, during this whole, obviously building up this business and you have a unique real estate, if I understand correct, real estate businesses, unique. Because you only do rentals. Is that right? Yeah, what happened was I started and real estate like anybody else, you know, I was sellinGHomes and then the 2007 hit and that was dead. So I completely shifted gears into rentals. I said, you know, the way you become the 1% is by servicing the 99%. So I focused on renting and then I became one of the biggest rental companies in New York City. Wow. So I really grew the brand. And while other companies were shutting down, you know, shuttering, closing doors, losing salespeople, I was growing. And then I got into the Billboard business and then I got into the real estate school business. And then everything just was synergistic. It was just all growing and growing and growing. And then of course, the media came in after that. And I started becoming a personality in the real estate industry. Now, I have to imagine, because I know I have a lot of businesses, not to the level that you would do, obviously. But the stress that is ensued, even though it's exciting, even though you're building things, there's a lot of stress because you got a lot of bills to pay, you got mortgages, you got employees. How did you deal with that stress? IMean, how did you manage it and how did you keep balancing your life? You know, although you didn't know how to manage it. Yeah, you were eating a lot. But how did you balance all that? I did a lot of partying too. I did a lot of partying. I had a bachelor pad where I had a behind my office. I had a duplex apartment. I would crash there. Every Friday we'd have a DJ. We had a jacuzzi. And we'd have like a bubble party and everybody would get their pay checks and celebrate. So we did a lot of partying. But I remember there was this one specific moment when I was 21 years old on the second property that I bought. I had a fire and somebody died in the building. It was an accidental. It was a candle fire. It was a 13th candle fire of that year. And they died a smoke inhalation, even though I had smoke detectors and everything. It was a tragic moment. I looked at my parents and my parents says, I don't know. I'm not in real estate. I don't know how I can help you with this. We love you. But this is something you wanted to do. And I remember it was like two o'clock in the morning. It was freezing cold. I was out there. And the lunch was there. The news was there. And then I called a buddy of mine. This really big, big time Greek landlord owned a bunch of buildings. And he last. I said, what do I do? What do I do? It's one of my mentors. He's Anthony. I own buildings. One of the elevator just got inspected. And there's a pregnant woman in it. The next day it falls down. He says, pick up your skirt and grab your bowls. Is either you're going to do this video. You want to be in this business or you don't want to quit right now or stick to it. Make a decision. So when I heard that this is just a part of the job. You did everything right. Life happens. As they say, shit happens. You just have to be able to kind of roll with the punches. That kind of shifted gears for me. Then I started looking at asking questions to a lot of these mentors about their hard times. What was some of the most difficult moments? So it shifted from aspiration to now just let me learn so I don't make those same mistakes. Now that's the the reason I asked this is a good trensition because at some point this wisdom that they're giving you really needed to be applied to you personally because here you are, you know, trying to help the world out, trying to make a lot of money. You're very successful. But yet, obviously you're not happy in your body. There's no way I don't believe any overweight person is happy because they try to convince themselves they tell the public that but inside you have to be hurting because no one wants to look, you know, overweight. No one wants people to look at them as being pariahs or something wrong with them. How did you internalize that and accept it? And at what point, you know, I know you said you wanted to obviously for your health purposes but at what point did you say, that's it, I'm done. You know, my wife, my wife was very healthy. She always liked eatinGHealthy. She always liked teaching those health habits to our children. Right. And I was the one eating off the kids menu. She's burger, mac and cheese, french fries and things like that. And so we didn't see it. I, on those things and I became a bad influence on the children. The children wanted to know why they have to eat vegetables and eat, you know, all these nice foods and then and I get to eat all this bad stuff. And so at one point I wasn't invited to eat at the table anymore with them because I was just a bad, a bad influence. So, you know, I at one moment I got so upset. I said, I'm going to eat with everybody and that's that. So I'm there and then my daughter's trying to eat my french fries and my wife got fed up. She said, you know what, my daughter's name is love. She said, love, don't eat that. You're going to get fat. She knew how to get under my skin. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. You know, she was two and a half at the time. She says, what's fat? She shows her a video about obesity and there's, you know, obese people in the video fat people and then it said, obesity kills it showed them in the hospital. Right. And my daughter's sore me going through sleep back in the intestines going to the hospital and then it's up. And she said, daddy, you're fat. I don't want you to die. Oh, wow. And you know, it was funny because, you know, you don't really think about it. I remember I was sitting with my mom. She said, you know, it's great. You have all these children. And you have these kids and it's awesome. She goes, you know how much, how much do you love your kids? And I said, man, I've never felt this kind of love before for anybody else. She goes, you know, I love you that much. And then it dawned on me. I said, mom, you really love me. You know? So, and then she said, but you know, are you even going to be alive to see them grow up, you know, like the way you're doing it? And I knew because my partner was also baloony. He was 295 pounds. Right. We would get custom suits because when you're that big, you have to get a custom course. You know, you don't get it. Yeah. Yeah. You know. And so, by the time this, the tailor shoot would get to my house, I would be fatter. Oh my god. And so it turned into us going, seeking out the best burger places, the biggest burgers, the juiciest and greasy as burgers, the craziest milkshake places. It was like a drug addiction almost the food. Yeah. It was like, you know, what we just threw our hands in the air. I said, you know, what we're going to just die fat and happy. Yeah. You know, I remember telling my wife, I'm like, you know what, if I die at 50, I'll be fat and happy. It's you just convince yourself. Right. You know, it's not, but it was that moment that IMade a decision and I was going to stick to it. That was it. Now, I watch in your documentary, you show kind of the first day back at the gym. Yeah. Who, who, who, yeah. You're a smart guy. You're a business guy. So you're going to, you're going to get people and surround yourself with people who are going to help you achieve your goals. What was, what was the team that you put together to help you get into the best shape of your life? And first, you know, how heavy had you gotten? What was the heavy shape? I was, my heaviest hours, 315 pounds. But most of these people know how lose between 10 and 30 pounds. Every obese person has the trick up their sleeve. Some sort of crash diet, some sort of exercise. Everyone has their their ability to kind of lose weight. But then they end up gaining more than they lost and then just slowly climbs up. So I knew I couldn't go into my old bag of tricks because insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result as Einstein says. Yeah. So I wanted to seek out people that were like me that were obese and made a trensformation. That's right. So I went to my local gym and I had met somebody that was obese and he had an amazing six pack and on top of that he was somewhat of an entrepreneur aspiring. So I knew I would bring something to the table business wise. I got you. I could mentor them business wise and he would teach me all the tricks on how to lose weight. And then I knew I was going to hit a wall. I joined CrossFit because I tried it once when I was really fat and I failed. I quit like after 10 minutes I walked out and I said I want to hit you know I want to hit the things that are the most difficult. Let me go back to what I failed that and conquer that. So I did a joint CrossFit too and I started doing all those crazy things that they have you do and it was working and then I started doinGHit with the guy that was obese but then I knew I needed to get my nutrition and check. You know I knew that I was still doing bad at this point? No not at all not at all you know I eat whatever I'm told to eat whatever I programmed to eat. I was very fortunate to actually go on a bulk during the pandemic. So there's my first time going on a bulk because I it's impossible really to gain muscle while you're losing 120 of course. I did it but I didn't really gain the amount of muscle that I really wanted like in my legs and my back and my chest. So I was able to kind of go on my first real proper bulk this time which was kind of fun. So I found the nutritionist online that was from overseas and he was obese and he did his own trensformation and I said this is a guy that can relate to me and he was young and I remember he had a tattoo on his arm. Has a tattoo that said million it right on his forearm and I said are you a million it says no man I want to be. I said tell you what if you help me do my trensformation I'll help people become a million. So we you know we worked together a nice deal and now we worked together now in our business so it's kind of awesome. So I assembled a nice small team and then I had another trener buddy of mine that IMet through my barber who also wanted to be like a trener. He wasn't really a trener but he had an incredible physique and he used to play for the match but he hurt himself so he wasn't able to kind of play professionally and but he had an awesome physique he never competed before. And so I was I encouraged him to actually compete and he won his first competition while treninGHim. So what was his name? His name is Ed. So he's an NPC here in New York City. So Ed Pania. So he's in the documentary. Yeah, he's a yeah. So now how long does this whole trensformation take place? And how long does take you to lose all that weight? It took me nine months you know nine months to lose the weight and honestly and then I went into a surgery to get rid of the loose skin and then you're supposed to take a year to recover from that but I actually just took a month and then went back to the gym even when I had the blood bulbs collecting my blood I was working out and I was able to kind of heal myself enough to continue working out and then just you know going to a cutting phase and just get a nice thing. Why don't they want you to work out for a whole year after you get a skin reduction surgery? Well first of all you're you're you're cut up. You're wholly tire waste from you know the entire circumference it's they basically cut the loose skin like a long shirt. How much loose skin did you have a lot? I had quite a bit in the documentary I actually pull it and stretch it out. I'm sure it'll be good. I'm sure how much I have it was it was quite a bit and you know your chest your stomach so there was a lot to cut off but you know you're basically if you you can't even lift your arms up because you can pull out the stitch. Wait you're right when you hot will you horrified when you were losing all the weight and you saw all the skin was that was that discouraging for you like you never look at us. I was thinking to myself it's not gonna be me it's not gonna be me I'm not gonna be one of those guys and then when I got to 10% body fat I said oh man it has to be addressed you know when they took that skin off how much weight can do lose just from the skin being removed. I think it was like maybe four pounds three four five that's a lot. Yeah yeah yeah you know and you know what they tell you when you're recovering the doctor said no diet no no structure you gotta eat like you you were 350 pounds they said McDonald's Burger King passed the time. Why would they call you that? They tell you that because you're burning over 3,000 calories a day just in recovering they said basically you're running a marathon and it really was the case I actually had to eat like a maniac and I didn't put on any weight it was really that I think I think a lot of that eatinGHelped me recover a lot quicker and and be able to kind of bounce back you know I think a lot of people would have went the opposite route and I'm sure you could have eaten clen and eat a lot of food too if you wanted to IMean it's kind of weird I'm telling you know it's like telling the heroin that it takes him heroin while you're recovering from this this well you know even in bodybuilding you know you you want to kind of make those meals short and dense and caloric you know so there's only so much the stomach at handle right so you can you can accomplish a lot with a nice cheeseburger hey look on the cheeseburger guy so you're talking to the choir yeah so you recover a year recovery doing a month you're back in the gym and at what now at what point do you say you say this up okay I'm happy with how I look I wasn't you know you have body dysmorphia I didn't know I looked incredible until two days before my competition you know it was funny because I would do a lot of jump rope a lot and I would have to do it in front of the mirror because if I didn't do it in front of the mirror I would run out of breath after five jumps psychologically I still sort of myself and saw myself so my trener at the time said wait a minute it's standing in front of the mirror then all of a sudden I'm like okay I can do this you know so like and I'm jumping for 10 15 minutes so it's a big difference so you have all this so even up until like two days before the competition I was still shy to take off my shirt I really didn't think I would look good so we did a video shoot and a family photo shoot and the gym it meant had a real fancy gym took off my shirt I was shy about it and then he showed me the footage on his camera what he just did and I was doing some sort of battle rope thing I saw a muscle bulging out of everywhere I said man that's me I said oh my god I did it you know and that was like the first time that in two days later I stepped on stage you know that gave me the confidence to say I got this you ever see yourself regressing back to the heavy guy again no way you know I have such a good grip on nutrition I have such good goals and you know that's why I tied the business component to this trensformation you know our company radical body trensformation is I'm very lucky and bless IMess my met James you know by happenstance you know he had a show on Amazon Brunn called radical body trensformation and it says submit your story maybe you'll be on the show I submitted my story and he loved it and he flew down the next day it said Anthony I've never seen a trensformation like you're in my life I've been in the industry so long why don't we partner together and why don't you you know we do big things and I said man that's that's great idea I says I'm kind of retired I love to see my teeth in the physics and if I have a business it's going to keep me solid it's going to keep me on this path you know so now that's it you know it's business it's health it's success it's all encompass and I want to really be an example you know I set a lot of things in the documentary I get 500 to 1000 messages a day from fans wow I was speaking it's like the obesity whisper I was speaking to people that you know that's struggle that's strong you'd be surprised at moms that are reach out to me and you know they're like I'm tired of taking pictures hiding my fat with my children in front of me bending over like this all these tricks that they they they they understood what I was saying right what year did IMean um what year did you set L your business because you sold it before you started this trensformation right I sold it before I started I sold it like a year before and that was making things work worse I was smoking cigars I was eating I'm just just hanging out you know and really do a board bench you're a board yeah yeah and it was just I wasn't doing anything in my wife's like what's your excuse now right right right right right right right right right you know so you know it was just I started looking at other I was going to get into this business where it was like involving food and and shapes and you know bad food and stuff that's how much I was really into food wow so you know I was going down a dark path yeah wasn't really it wasn't really right got you now your house is incredible in Brooklyn and people don't know anything about Brooklyn or New York City real estate there is ridiculous expansion this house is just phenomenal we'll put up some video in some pictures but um how did people contact you to actually use your your house in videos because they know 50 centid a video there yeah yeah yeah how does celebrities um you know what happened was I started an entertainment company because in my company a lot of people wanted to do a reality show you always have I was on the show called Million About a Listing so a lot of people you know I had all this entertainment stuff happening around me and then of course my daughter she's an actress you know she's a very busy actress she's four and a half now she's done like 50 acting jobs she actually has the file tattooed busy you say like she's 30 years old yeah so so we started an entertainment company and started investing in small films and large films and so it just comes to you out there you know in real estate you start working with celebrities showing them how homes selling them homes leasing them homes and so the word was out and you meet enough producers and and directors and showrunners they say I know a guy named Anthony he has a nice house you know so I had the roles Royce I had the nice house and I had all the things so next you know music videos movies short films everything I'm surprised you let people come in your house and film in there until you know it's that's kind of like your sanctuary sort of spirit yeah yeah but I love that you know I know that I was building a lot of context and connects for the future and and all those relationships were very grateful very solid um and we always had you know they always clened up they had insurance and all that kind of stuff so it was kind of cool where do you go when they're filming in your house a lot of times they would put me like in the scenes or behind the scenes or I would just watch it you know I just wanted to be around it I'm not saying would you you have to move out of the house for a week or so when they fall no no not at all not at all the shoots would you know we'd be here and they would they would work around whatever we had going on so we're pretty laid back people yeah yeah that that look it's it's fine you know it brings I'm sure your kids love the turret oh yeah they love it now when people like you know 50 cent come at your house and you're interacting with these guys do you do business with them or is it kind of just like yeah you know a lot of the celebrities you know they they want the right guidance you know they have a lot of people around them that are good at what they do but they don't really have a good investor business minded person it takes a real skill set to invest in real estate and these people don't want to manage it they don't want to run it so they want to invest in things that are hands-free and that can pay them dividends without headaches because you know there's really no type of investment that's going to beat somebody that's making millions of dollars on a record deal I don't care how good you are as an investor a lot of these investments are are slow and steady and stable investments but that that balloon and explode into big things five years to 10 years down the road and also pay your dividends along the way but you know you need to know how to pick and choose the right ones looking look at vitamin water wouldn't fit for 50 cent right yeah you know you need a fortune now your home gym okay well I asked you before the show I said you know what did you do during this whole you know thEQuarantine because new York City had all their gyms closed for months and months and you tell me you took out the entertainment center in your basement with the your pool table lots of and you've replaced it with a gym was that yeah that had to be the finals like straw you you know you you throw out the old life and you're bringing the new life IMean I have to imagine right it was it was it was it was first of all it was so difficult to get gym equipment during the pandemic yeah dumbbells good luck you know it's like that was like you know it was like you found dumbbell for a thousand bucks at that time I know what did you where did you buy what equipment did you put in there so I bought a Smith machine you know I bought a dumbbell set from five to 150 pound dumbbells I bought you know dip a dip bar a chip machine leg extension hacksquat preacher curl in the right client bench the meat and potato stuff you know I was able to deadlift and do all that kind of stuff and I was very lucky because it's funny my partner Carlos was in New Jersey and he passed by one of these fitness equipment centers and it said close nobody coming in so he looked through the window and he saw somebody knocked on the window and he said because I was struggling to find this equipment right knocked on the window the guy comes he says we're not we're close we're not taking anything we're also booked like you you know we we don't have anything until like months because of the pandemic and he said well you know my partner Anthony Lali this is Anthony Lali I used to work to that man five years ago oh my god and he changed my life he told me how to sell it I got this God this giGHere IManaged all these chain stores he said for Anthony Lali I'm gonna get him the equipment wow you're like a crazy coincidence where they actually gave us like the showroom equipment and delivered it and all that kind of stuff so I was lucky because otherwise I had to waiT3 four months that you know that's called the vine intervention but you think yeah yeah yeah it's funny because I was on the phone with him my partner Carlos he was driving in Jersey on the highway and I was like I have no luck there's so many ways and he turned he said wait a minute there's like a fitness center right here I'm gonna see what's going on oh my god it's just like crazy and you just happened to tren that guy that's that's incredible yeah that's an incredible story so now all right look you're a guy that likes a lot of highs IMean you that's what makes you excited about life you've achieved your physique okay you've got the six pack you know you got obviously all the money you could ever want in life at this point IMean obviously you're a young guy you're going to still invest the business what what what floats you're about now what's the next the next move for you that's going to keep you just as excited as you were before um this business venture I'm doing with James and Carlos with radical body trensformation we're really taking a fresh perspective to the fitness industry because I'm really an outsider I'm new to this so you know I'm kind of working with the general population you know I'm bringing the general public who thought that this is really a close community and it's really open you'd be surprised how many people in body building and in fitness embrace and welcome new people and your faces as long as you're willing to put in the work and as long as you understand that you have to have nutrition I get so many gym owners and treners and nutritionists they say IMake my clients watch your documentary because you're teaching the basic foundations you need a coach you need a nutritionist and you need a trening you have to have those things so and then also people that do shows they write to me all the time they're like man you know now I've made my family watch this because they thought I was crazy about doing shows and now they're all embracing me and they understand what it's like to do a bodybuilding show behind the scenes and normal people do it and it's can be very popular it's not just for the people that just want these crazy big bodies it's for everybody yeah absolutely and and I encourage people that the documentary is from Fat Lally to Six Packs Lally and you can know the it's going to be on Amazon it's on Amazon Prime I watch it on Amazon Prime it's Amazon Prime it's ranking as the number one fitness documentary it's ranking as the number one documentary to watch on Amazon so it was it was it was it was it was a great watch and I'm not even done watching it I got to watch the end of it but it was it was it was real and I think people could relate to it because you you were a guy who was so successful in life and in making money but you were like a dummy when he came to how to take care of your body and that's why I think people can relate to it because here you are is the sky who's like controlling all these people and and has all this money and power and yet you're helpless to help yourself and it's and it's humbling and I think that's where the the endearing aspect of the documentary comes from yeah you know I talk about it at the end of the documentary you know obesity can can get anyone the richest or the poorest doesn't matter remember the nine times that I failed I still had money I just didn't put the work into it you know and honestly I didn't spend an incredible amount of money I hired my local Jim like you don't have to be a millionaire to join crossfit or join a jam or this free information online too you know you may want to show that every day and you can get the motivation and the tool set it's whether you want to do it inside or not exactly and you know even nutritionists and coaches and stuff like that you don't break the bank with those now everybody has stepped on stage with was not a millionaire and I don't have coaches and nutritionists so you know if you really want to do it you can do it and that's this we kind of created the system now that's like for the everyday joe through our company just like to eliminate the excuse you just if you want to change your life you can do it I get more pleasure to tell you the truth out of helping guys like yourself and women also in the same boat I love the trensformation aspect of it because you know if these people are so grateful to you and they're such great referers to other people because they're not expecting to win the Mr. Olympia they just want to look good and look better and be healthy and go to the doctor and have the doctor say wow your health markers are good you look great you did a great job that that to me gives me more pleasure okay and more satisfaction than helping some guy win the Mr. Olympia competition although that's exciting too obviously but but I get more satisfaction at helping people make big trensformations well you think about it you take a regular person that's competing in body building and they're on stage they're lucky if their girlfriend or their husband shows up right you take a trensformation person the aunt the mom you know the boss from work everyone's there cheering them on supporting them right so there's a huge audience for trensformation now a lot of the federations are now incorporating trensformation into their body building because it's a really feel good stuff yeah now it might be a good it might be good to have a division of trensformations division yeah it really is IMean honestly that's the division I competed with in the WBFF okay and there's I had five other trensformation divisions to compete in except COVID came but I was really looking to keep in some of them or Europe some of them are in California so there is it's really growing by popular demand right when you would watch that show the biggest loser on TV did you ever have an an inkling to do that show you know first of all they quarantine you for a couple weeks and you know that just shows you how difficult it is you know people say you know you need you know he was a millionaire these people first of all not all them had money and they they'rEQuarantined they have a coach nutritionist a chef a trener you can't go anywhere there's no snacks and they still fail yeah it's amazing right yeah you know IMean that's how hard it is without you know the right guidance and there and so you know apparently it's just within the person to really want to write well Anthony I want to thank you so much for coming on the show and sharing your story with our audience and I think it's very inspirational I think you're you know you've done it all now so you kind of can see lies from every different perspective and I think that that makes you a much more realistic you know role model for a lot of people and you know I appreciate you taking time and coming on the show I know you know you're an avid watcher of of our muscle and I appreciate the support absolutely I appreciate all the content you play yeah I love to do something with you the future maybe from day one you know and the big fan of yours since day one and and I'm an even bigger fan now maybe maybe we could do some kind of like a joint venture where we do like a sponsored trensformation on our muscle using your company or something like that and and yeah and given out some prizes to some of our viewers and something that who maybe want to do a trip I used to do a trensformation challenge years ago when I was with Muscle Development MHP was the sponsor but we would take like five or six guys and I would coach him for free using my system and we were using MHP products because they were the sponsor at the time and we actually had some amazing trensformations and I'm still friends with a lot of these people that that we have been in life changing I love to and amazing okay that's all about that all right guys that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with on day polo andbol for Anthony Lali we'll see you next time

=== FILE: HOW THE NPC NORTH AMERICAN CHAMPIONSHIPS WAS SAVED! Gary Udit Interview [d1KZypJmEw0].txt ===

Welcome back to our ax muscle update. Today we have a very special edition because this is a contest season. We have the North American championships coming up this weekend. It's one of the biggest events on the calendar year. It's always been one of the most exciting ones because it's not only do we have open men, masters. We have a lot of pro cards up for grabs and this has been a show notoriously. It's been a four-day show. If you can believe it, I think it's the longest show in all of NPC history in terms of how long it goes. The only promoter that I know that could probably pull something like that off would be a good friend Gary. He's here to join us tonight. Gary, welcome to the show. Hey Dave. Good to see you. Oh my god. Gary, I had to get you on because you know what? I just had Tony Darnion last week and we were talking about some of the challenges of promoting a show in 2020. And you know, I set to myself, Gary has got to be bang in his head against the wall and losinGHis mind because I know how difficult it is for you guys to promote a show just a regular show. You hold the biggest show in the history of bodybuilding that we've done. Four days you hold it over. It's normally at the Sharon Station Square right in the Pittsburgh there. It's a beautiful venue. It's so easy to do there, but you know, you spread it out. The competitors love it. It's a great time. And you have had the rug pulled out some of you on this 2020. I don't know how you pulled this off. Tell me what it took to make the North American championships work just coming when you're getting God willing it happens, obviously. Yeah, that's well, well, put especially with what happened yesterday. But you know, I got to tie everything's real very relative. And then one could have predicted this stuff. And there's a whole lot of you guys in a worse position in me. They had the cancel so shows. They couldn't put them back on the July show. We had the rescheduled for October. And this one here was coming up. And I'll be honest, I, our, our governor set the numbers at 25 people inside. About five weeks ago, I'm like, kid, you've, they've. Well, what happened? Because originally, IMean, you changed the venue originally. Well, was it there's a problem with the Sharon Station? They don't want you to hold it. They're going through a purchase. So they weren't going to open. And there was questions about when they would open. I was to mention, you know, how it is, they, I'm. I heard a guy in the radio that a day describing what exactly it takes to open a business. I think these circumstances. Costsly in and of itself, plus they have to have enough business on the books to make sense. And they've been closed all year or so. Oh, I didn't even know that. We, you know, we kind of, they've been great to work with. And they said, look, we're not going to be open in time for July. And then it's the intern for September. And they're totally moved over to the window, which is a nice facility. You had to nail on the head when you said it's so easy over there. Oh, I love the new facility. You know, how it is, first time for any things is a trip. So, um, it's pen and education for sure. So what is the wind them do? They call you up and say, but sorry, you can't have it here either. No, what happened was the governor set the numbers inside at 25. Okay, so how many people can be in there at a time, which is basically your staff basically. Yeah, yeah, he said it in 25 instead of 250. And, um, at that point, I remember waking up for a whole gym. I said, I don't put just thing outside somehow. Right. So you never thought I'm going to cancel you said I'm going to make this happen. No, no, no, there are the poor people beinGHit right. He says, I know. I'm helping a lot of people get right. I know, believe me, they're dying. Yeah, and I knew that they're, you know, there's a lot of guys doing the same thing. I'm doing it. They're finding a way around. Helps Steve move down to a Tampa, I think. You're a little bit too much. And that Tim's moving the Chicago contest. So everybody's tapped in to the round this. Yeah. So he said, how you going to do this, I said, I have no idea. So I went in search of first a parking lot. I wanted to get something close to the window. Right. And start talking to my stage guys about a chance. And how do you read the parking lot, though, Gary? Like, what are you talking to? We're in the parking lot. That's what I like to know. Dave, like yourself, you know, up for you live. You know everybody. So I put the word out to everybody. So listen, I need a flat parking lot right now. And sure enough, the valet guy goes right across the street. We notice guy and turned out I wasn't thinking, but a good friend of ours has a parking lot there. And one block away four minute walk from the window. So then we started the development of the the 10th situation, which was it has been an education also. I can imagine. So it's been a trip. And then yesterday, how big of a hole? How big of a tent do you need to the hole this thing? I went with 100 by 70. I think 10. Nearly nearly as big as the share it's involved. They air condition. I think he or is it not air condition? No, we have the sides up to create ventilation. Right. And then we have lots of industrial fans. They're actually, I was amazed. I'll quiet there. Right. And we recreated the ballroom in the tents. Okay. And you know, athletes don't do well with change. Now that's like what you said about the share it's an I was there since 93. And they don't do well with that. So when we mentioned there would be a tense. We've gone through every question about. Well, the athlete, bikini grows on my buddy trens. So athletes and they said, I'm going to play a cow under that tent light. Right. And they'll say, what exactly lights do you think he's going to use? He always bring the ones from the ballroom. And I can't, someone actually asked if I would consider having a cover over the stage. Oh, it's good. Just in case it rains. Yeah. Yeah. I got that coverage. So yeah. Yeah. What did they think they knew we're going to have it to open air? Well, I, I, I had, she texted me and I just had to call. And I sent you a, do I actually think? Yeah. My expirators have been up there with the umbrella. IMean, what were you thinking? Yeah. No, no, no. I didn't think so. I go, when you ask me, IMake you expect it. Right. And we have the advice. We have a system to get people from the wind to the tents. Mm-hmm. If, in case it rains. So we've got to read every detail. Now, what, now, what, um, how many people can you keep in this tent? Is there any, like, restrictions on that? Well, there is, as of yesterday, thank you Dave. Yeah. I think that that, well, add a little bit more challenge to it. Before yesterday, we were at a point where we could do 250. Okay. And, and an outdoor facility. And then, sure, you know, people have been asking me all along. Is this contest actually going to run after, you know, after they've all been canceled? And I said, uh, well, it is until some political guy, right. It's nice, not. And, um, sure enough yesterday at noon, they had their Friday meeting with the state capital. And they decided that 100 people was all they'd give us outside. So, um, that changed it because once you get two classes of athletes, ex-fordators, judges, scores, photographers, you eat up 100. So that took away an audience and vendors. I had to contact every vendor and say, hey, I'm sorry that we can't accommodate you. I wish I could have you here. But, uh, so it's going to be athletes, um, much like today. And we were in three ports today. Right. And Superman had the same situation. So it was Superman, what? Yeah. Judges and athletes. Wow. You know, it's funny, Gary, because people, here's where we're looking at the picture of the tent. You have on your Instagram. So we know what the funny, I was with the owner of the company last week. Laying out where to put this tent. Yeah. And I go, I go, I go, so what the hell's this thing look like anyway? He's, he popped out of a picture. So I told him I had no idea. Oh, that's funny. Well, there's your picture there for people, man. I don't know. I envision the circus tent. Yeah. That's what it might have been funny here for was a certain effect. Yeah. Yeah. It's funny. I see people commenting on like your posts and when you're updating people and telling them, like, hey, you know, sorry guys, you know, there's no, there's no audience. You can't, there's no audience people allowed. And there's no backstage passes and all this stuff because we have a limited amount of people. And people are writing responses. As if you don't want to sell tickets to the show. I'm thinking, don't you think Gary wants to sell a million tickets and make a ton of money and sell backstage passes and make money? He's not doing this because he's trying to like victimize you guys. He's trying to make the show happen. That's when I really felt, felt my heart went out to you. I'm going to be thinking, I can't believe these people are so stupid. I get a tell you though. I don't blame them. There's been a tough year. And Jim and Tyler from day one have been pushing everyone to do their best to run their show because the athletes deserve it, frankly. And IMean, there's a bunch of guys out there that have been, they walk in the door to their show knowing, well, they're not going to make a dime. So at least I've got a number of athletes. So what we're losing on vendors and seating doesn't hurt as much as it would have otherwise. Sure. Sure. What's the difference in price between reflecting a venue and a tenth of the parking? Well, I can't define that exactly what the hell one of these can't see. What is the, because you need a for four days to it. Now you need to do it for one day. Yeah. Well, I don't know how that works relatively the days because I think I think. I think these companies aren't doing that much business anyway because right now it's speaking to the owner. He wrote a thousand orders this year and canceled 900. Oh, right. Wettings went south parties went south. Yeah. So, but you start, yeah, those, these tents. They cost so few bucks. There's no question. I know, but I believe me. I can imagine. Yeah, and then, but, you know, it's going to be good to go and I feel, I felt terrible for the family. So it can't come. Right. WorkinGHard now on trying to figure out live streaming. I got some issues with Wi-Fi over there. But, yeah, I was going to ask you that outside of public camping to great. It's a little difficult. But folks who never wait more than I do. IMean, I was trying to figure that out. So I'm hopeful about that. But, there would be nice, I guess, if it was live stream. So at least people like can watch it. IMean, that would be a great, IMean, you don't have to do that. IMean, as a promoter, IMean, that would just be you saying, hey, I want to show you guys that, you know, I'm trying my best year. I love to have them because a lot of the athletes rely on family and coaches. Sure. They come in. So I want to find a way that we can do live streaming so they can at least watch it and support it in some fashion. You know, the other, and the other some logistics stuff to tell you the truth. If there's been a challenge to spend the logistics of getting people in the tent at the right time. Right. But control the flow because some people once they finish. We're not going to have your typical pre judging at eight and finals at six. You're going to trade for it, right? Pardon me. You're going straight through pre judging finals boom boom, right? Well, two classes at a time like class A will do pre judging. Then class B will do pre judging. Then A does finals. Got it. And they're going towards B does the same and they're gone. So my goal is that anyone's in that tent for an hour and they don't come back. So. Alright, well, that's good. So you're, IMean, it's going to be a long day, but you're done. Yeah, you don't have to hang around. Yeah. There are already requesting it for future events, whether we have a tent or anything. Just a much idea. Yeah. Yeah. The higher up so make that decision. It's a long day. I think people because it's a long day, but you know, the way you spread it out over four days, however, it's really not as bad as it used to be. IMean, I've been there with you when we did it in two days. IMean, and it was like, IMean, two in the morning we were out of there. You know, it was like, it was like, jam and ice sitting in the press pit. Like, and that was it. There was no one around. It was everyone couldn't, they couldn't handle them anymore. It was just so late. And you're doing the men's body building open or whatever. Master's like 40 and over overall. And there's like, there's like 20 people in the place, but it was like, crazy excitement because everyone's, you know, once a pro car, you know. Yeah. And thEQuestion. Well, I look at, glad you guys said, I'm making it happen because, you know, it's important. IMean, because think about the, you know, the loss of pro car ability that we have this year, IMean, there's this going to be less pros, you know, this year because of the fact that we can't hold these shows. No question. And and and truthfully, the fact that people've been getting ready and somehow. IMean, I'm, you guys, clients, how have they continued to get ready to miracle all this time? It's miracle, because they just keep dieting. I feel bad for them. I've been giving them like breaks and then we were like, I, and I, and I've been telling everyone. And this is not because I'm standinGHere. And like there's no doubt in my mind that Gary will have this North America. There's no way it's getting canceled. And like, yeah, but all the other shows, and I trust me. Gary will have this happen. Well, if anyone could do it. We had the benefit of the weather and this tent thing to get outside. But yeah, the curious thing to me has been how the hell you have your clients. Keep going and not for nothing. They're mental fortitude to make it happen when things keep going south. IMean, it's got to be done. I think a lot, I, I talked to someone one the other day actually. Who talks to a lot of athletes. And a lot of them are, are heading for these events now because they're afraid of a second wave. Sure. So it's on folks mind, there are anxious to compete. Tyler, Tyler had it right. I called it wrong. I thought we have a very small, manageable event here. And how many you got? Probably 1400. You can see you got more. You got more people than you normally do. It's crazy. I hope because you're picking up the slack from the masters' nationals that didn't happen. One other question and from all of them, you know, the USA and everybody. And, but I think this is going to continue through the fall. Yeah. People, I've seen it today. It's amazinGHow much people miss this. Gary, you got to remember also, you know, these these people, not only of them, and dieting, a lot of them had no gyms to tren at. Look at, look at Steve up in New York, his gym just opened. IMean, it hadn't been open for months. I'll tell you truth, we're so fortunate that we had access to a gym at home. But I don't know how those people accomplished it, even on a mentally, because of how much it means to us to work out with that blood flow. So they have to respect that. Yeah, of course. IMean, yeah, I know. This is a bit of a survey. These folks are ready. They don't touch a good job. No, I really, I know you have a great crew over there too. And like you said, a lot, thank God, you know everyone in Pittsburgh, you and Jim. I think Jim, she just run for government. Then we were moving to had a problem. Yeah, if you were the governor. For least mayor of Pittsburgh. Yeah, absolutely. He would have been like, Gary, we grant you a, the auditorium on that. No, what, are you worried about the whole COVID thing? IMean, what do you guys have in place in terms of in a show of that magnitude to live in exposure? IMean, there's COVID rules, but you know, Jim was pushing us to exceed those. So that every where he'd go in the hotel for check-ins, everything, temperatures, masks. We got people controlling the number of people in check-ins. Social distancing at his best. Just at every turn. And even then come over towards the, come over to the tent. Temperatures again. Right. Matsx in place because someone, but I've seen it these advances that there's some haters out there. Obviously. Of course. And I've already told my guys that go to expect someone to come and try to show us now. Okay. It's going to happen. However, I welcome it because we're going to have our numbers in place and the correct things. And I've got somebody there with a counter. And I'll say, how, help yourself take a good look. We have it covered. So, IMean, even with permits. You get a tent. You get a tent permit, Dave. Right. And with generators to run the electricity. Any permit. I forgot about that. That's right. Electricity. You can go in the macro. What kind of generators do you have to buy to rent to that? Really big ones. Freak. What do they run off gasoline? What if they run out of gasoline? Has that work? Well, the lighting company I use has been doing this for 35 years. So, when I call a Jennifer up and I say, hey, here's what my need. She goes, how we do these things on the middle of a field sometime. Oh, wow. And the generators actually roll to thEQuiet. So, yeah, if I can, if I keep my fingers crossed about the weather, that would be a black and control when that's not my look, Jim Mania can't control. Hey, you. I look, I, I, I pray for you, but there's no, there's no rain. And, well, what was your, what's your turn out like for the, the pro masters of it you're doing? Well, we got 110 right now. I don't know. And I've had a hope that people continue to eventually, at some point, we had to shut down the online registration to collect our paperwork. Right. Keep the constantly. Hey, can I come in? I said, yeah, sure. We have them collected by their community, I have our pre-fueled math trying to kind of care of our athletes and so can they do things like that. We have to get those are new exercises for the community. I've worked at a program for this university. Wow, that's smart. Yeah, because I can imagine. IMean, look, let's face it. It's costing you an enormous amount of money put the event on, but you're also making an enormous amount of money because there's so many entries. So if you have to refund that would be insane. That's, this way, they don't have any money out of their pocket. And that way, if they can't come to the event, no much, no fuss, you know, it's talk good to go and that they kept saying, well, change is, change is partial folks. That's the biggest thing in routine. And they would, they say, well, if I register and don't pay to I get there, what happens if I don't come? Do I still have to pay? That's the best one. I'm sending people to your house. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, what do you get is there right? I get a collection money. So I think the funny thing is with bodybuilders, they all show up. That's the one of the, you know, I talked to Tony, Dario and Tony actually was, you know, very blunt with me and said, you know, I almost, I almost went out of this, I just went bankrupt, you know, because of this, this, this season. IMean, if this, if this North American didn't go off, and would that have been a big financial hit for you? Well, Dave, luckily my passion other than this is part. Right. So if I didn't have made already, I've already started to sell them off. You got to do it. Really? Wow. Because I have worked all year and it doesn't grow in trees. Now I know it's people don't realize that it's, everyone's been hit hard. How many cars did you have? I didn't know you collected cars. Well, yeah, you know, it's a sickness for probably. Yeah, I believe me. I know I got a bunch of collections myself. Yeah, the duty of it is that in times like this, you can sell them. Yeah. There'll always be more on eBay later. Right. Right. What kind of cars do you collect? Oh, geez. I'm a Cadillac freak. So I go over nice. So 64. Yeah. Yeah. I love those long loaves, you know, and did you read like redo them and everything like that? Well, I have one that got redone. The other one I bought it on eBay in perfect shape. Oh, wow. They shipped it on home run. But really cool. Yeah. So that's kind of been a good thing for me. I feel bad for a lot of guys who don't have something like that to do that. Right. Right. But to shave you had to even do that though. IMean, that IMean, that's what the hell wants to do that. You're at the point in your life when you're doing well, you know, you're promoting shows every year. It pays the bills and you're offered to worry about anything. IMean, it's pretty, it's pretty much a guaranteed thing except when there's a pandemic that hits the world. Who the hell expected that right? None of us did and put some people in some pretty jammed-up situations. Yeah. You know, not to mention what it does to folks mentally. IMean, when got the other day was talking about on the radio, the man forgets a pandemic here. You've got to take a look at the side effects. You start to take away people's jobs and they can't pay their rent. It's a mess. So I choose to be worth fortunate. Yeah. IMean, you went through personally tragedy in your life. I don't know if you want to talk about that. But IMean, that had to be, this is a hard year. I don't know. I choose to be on mine because maybe it'll wick somebody up. You want to tell us what happened? Yeah. My ex was involved as a drug addict for about 10 years. I ten year rollercoaster ride. And then her daughter also, my step daughter, gotten involved. And so we lost my ex last July, Dorian Masters Nationals. Was this the picture of him? And it sure is. So it was the first day of the Masters Nationals. I got a call that my daughter found her mother. But I've fortunately, you know, they were using together. Wow. The body system. I don't know if you're familiar with that. No. Yeah. People used together. And that way if one has a situation, you're the one can save them with that Narcan. And unfortunately, her mom passed away last year. And then we lost Katie two months ago. And then it's a hell of a thing. But it's discouraging there. It's not going away, Dave. And like you and I were texting earlier. The challenge at this point is protecting your kids and my grandson. Right. And so that that day's going to come when someone's going to offer them something. And they've got to say no. The challenge is to drive that home that they will save no. Because man, man, you know, when I was a kid. I remember that on the streets where I lived, there was heroin. However, it's not the heroin in what exists these days. Yeah. And I've lost a few friends. You know, too, it is well. And it's not it. People think of the heroin as a drug of like, you know, like, Darrelick's or like, you know, low lives. It's a drug. It's hitting everyone, including the upper class, you know. Well, it's cheap. And it's extremely, a dick thing now. But you know, losing the two of them has put it everything and perspective. Because we talked earlier about the high stress of this event. I got to tell you truth. This is stressful. Right. I started to find folks passing away on you. And in my grandson's upset by these only six years old. Right. That's what the real anger comes from. But so things being relative. This is pretty easy stuff. Worried about a tent was that grandson is was that his mother to die? No, no, he's mom was good to go and clen. Okay. She's the light of our life and she's fantastic. But unfortunately her. Her sit. It was her sister. Her sister. So it's really tough on her because she lost her mom and sister. Right. And she's like, it's tough on my grandson. Said lot for a six year old to take in. How old are your kids today? My daughter just turned one today. Amazingly. And I've been older than dad. But I have a five, a four year old. And my daughter's, the daughter's two years. So, you know, I think about these things. I see this happening. I'm like, oh my gosh. Right now I have complete control of my kids. Because they're too young. But once they start going out and seeing other people. And then you don't know where they are. They're doing. Yeah. No. And that's how. You know, it's almost like the journey has to start soon. On. How to educate them on that. And it's only going to get worse. I know one thing is not going away. No. No. Drugs are out there. And we're not keeping people away. And it might be worse now because he said, There's a lot of depression because people can't do anything. Yeah. But it's awful when you, you know, people are such. They need routine. And suddenly they lose their job. Yeah. Or they can't go to the gym. And they can't pay bills. And the next thing. You know, depression just ramps. And they turn to something else. So it certainly puts everything in the perspective for all of us. But even all these people that we're not able to tren and exercise. And it's really cool. IMean, that's the foundation for you and I for ourself and well being is working out. So look at what happened to Luke Sandow. IMean, IMean, that's that right there. That's that's the post a child for what's going on here. IMean, I truly believe he'd be with us. Still if there wasn't a whole COVID quarantine. Yeah. And you know, I guess the main thing of taught me was you never know what's going on in somebody's life. Yep. You never know it's a hell with things. He was such a sweet guy. No, I know. Did I never anyone say a bad word about him? No, he was a season to be around. We used to gravitate to him. And all the shows. He was a funny guy. That's why I can. I was like, yeah. So Gary, just to change gears now. IMean, which is a whole COVID thing. IMean, you obviously are plugged in with your man. We're going to be right there in Pittsburgh. What are we looking at if you Olympia you think at this point? IMean, are we going to see enough qualifiers before that? Are they going to give out special invites? You think what do you think is going to happen for the Olympia in terms of thEQuality of competitors on stage? Yeah. But I don't, I certainly don't know anything. Anyone else doesn't know. But knowing Jake would. Yeah. I see him as a guy who's committed to run that thing. No matter what. That's the image I see that's there. He got a real passion for this thing. And if there was ever anyone who should be the owner of that. He's shit. You got to have a fan who actually has money and is the owner of something. That's like Joe Weeder. It's like, you know the thing is going off. Yeah. You really do. And he is. He's just watch what he's done. And he keeps finding ways. And he's the mainer appears to be one that. You got to let it roll off you and we'll move on and find another way. Right. So I personally think it's going to happen. No matter what, even if that means no crowd. Right. I think I think I'm I wanted to impress you. He would he would do that just from my rare conversations with him. The kind of guy he is. Yeah. And yeah. And I think so. And as a promoter Gary, you know what kind of a financial hit that would be to run the Olympia without sponsors and without without a crowd because we get they got to give some serious prize money away and there's no application fees, you know, to pay the bills. Yeah. No question. So I don't know what you think. Let's talk for a minute about the women's body going. Yeah. And and relative to Jake wood because in my mind. When he bought that thing. I started to put the word out in my zone at minute landing zone that female athletes should take a good hard look at women's bodybuilding. That's a possibility. As a possibility because. And we talked to some girls today as an example here at the in tree port. We're hanging out in Andy Bartoliget Bartoliget for grab something. And I was so glad the one girl came over because. She's dead women's physique. But in my mind, she should be doing bodybuilding. Right. She got some a lot of muscle and sure enough we suggested it. She was horrified. I was you people are horrified because we because you know what happened. They created a stigma on bodybuilding as though it's like something that you shouldn't do. It's dirty or something like that, you know. Well, they get the impression that they have to be so big. And and that's I'm be honest with you. I had a conversation. I was in Arizona for two weeks in March. And I've worked with them and I that's when I got to get together with Jake. Right. And we got talking about about the sports and. You know, no one wants people people want marketable women's bodybuilding. Right. And the job blonde. Can you picture? Jo Blondon. She did. She could definitely cross over. Well, she did. As a matter of fact, year or two ago, we were on Toronto. And I remember type Tyler and I were getting ready for this. Contest and we were talking about what they had to do with women's body building and women's physique and how we judge it. What direction to go in. And Tyler had said what we need to go with a sleeper looking women's physique. So Jill had chosen women's physique that day and she was too big. She was too dense. She did not do well. Maybe six, seven. Right. There's a herna trener came over afterwards. She was what do you think I need to do? I got go to bodybuilding. Her trener's like, what did I tell you? She goes, oh my god, no, I go listen to me. You don't have to be super duper big. I said you have no super duper big girls anymore. Okay, you have a great look. She was attractive. Be tapered. And I think six weeks later she went to Chicago in one. Oh, that's right. You're on. But just there was a girl today. J. The Beverly. I believe her name is from Columbus. And she stopped over. And she's what do you think? I said, Chief, I think you should consider it because not only is it. There's a correct look and I think Tyler's got that nail down. So they're all we have to do is educate our judges. But I think because of Jake, women's bodybuilding is going to get a lot of great exposure. And I'm sure he's going to, I know Jake, you know he's going to put up a lot of prize money for that. For sure. And so what I've done in my zone in the NPC is I put it out there. If you do women's physique, you get a free entry to women's bodybuilding. That's right. So I'm going to tell them, look, crossover. Right. You're going to find out that there's no horrible stigma. There's a great look. Someone like Jill or Teresa Ivansica or these girls that get great looks. Why not? Well, my whole thing is why don't they just combine it already? Why don't they just call women's physique and just make the title, Miss Olympia? Wouldn't that solve all the problems? Well, I guess ideally there should be two distinct body types for that. But it there isn't right now. IMean, unless you guys start as judges start really, you know, hammering at home, you know? Well, before and I'm going to tell you, I'm dragging this kid all the time. The fourth dollar came along. And it worked and really hard on criteria. Right. I remember we're one of the big shows that might have been USA. I looked up and I said, down the table, I said, you know, any of the things we don't support women's body voting. They're in the art right there. The book is the Z-girls. They're giant. There you are. But, um, and they're ripped too. We just have to draw a line to the sand and keep working with our judges to do the right thing. And, um, and they can both be good divisions. But, but do you think they'd even want? And do you think there's enough people that you need to division to this point? Why would my not just make it one division? Well, I have, you know, um, at some point as conversation should probably stop because. Yeah, I'm just, I'm just, I throw it at them because it's just to me, you know, I've been in this sport a long time together. I've been watched it. I've helped competitors. And I see them. They have merged. And there's nothing wrong with that because we all loved women's body building. They've just got out of control. And so you guys rebooted it. It got back in control. It's where it should be now. And really, that's where women's body building should be now. There's no big girls left. There's no giant girls that even put into women's body. They can cross over and, and, and I don't think anyone would complain either way, you know? No, you're yes, I think. You know, the, you know, I'm sure you remember why week, why we created women's physique. 100%. We need to be done. It's the fact that, uh, so many figure girls would come to us and say, I want to do figure and we say both. They're, no, you're too big. You got to go to body building. Right. So the idea was to create a division, slightly burden of a figure. Right. That being women's physique. However, um, you know, we kind of took it to another level by taking their heels, away, right, and making them do poses. Yeah. And so many of the girls did not like that. So obviously the body part was gravitated to it. So right. Right. And, yeah. And, but then the figure girls got bigger. And you got to, you let the figure girls get bigger, which is fine. I like it. I like the look. But so now you got the girls that, that one of where he else that can still be sizable and have good conditioning and figure. And then you, you got women's physique, which is really women's body building. And that's why I said, just put them together. Because I think the miscellaneous title is really awesome. And if I'm a woman and I pose, I want to be called miscellaneous. IMean, I would think she need grant would want to be called miscellaneous. She's, she's like, you know, she's like the next one tomorrow. She's like, she's from some other planet. Right. IMean, well, I've had put her off against Iris Kyle and do you live here. IMean, that's what I want to see. Yeah. Forget about. Yeah. Well, yeah, you know, you got this, the show coming up this weekend. It's going to be Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. Yeah. You got it all spaced out. If you go, people go to GaryUt.com. You can check out all the, when the classes are going to be run to get me run together, pre-judging Finals, you're out of there. In the tent, there's going to be no people who can come visit, but you're working on that livestream. Is that what it was? And the place to really go is, uh, NPC North American.com. Okay. Because we put all the updates on their map. I thought you were like, I thought you were like a genius. I thought you were doing the, he's, he's the tech whiz. Oh, really? I didn't even know your brother was involved with this. Oh, forget about it. I'm like, can you? I told you. I could not do any of this for like a while. So he does your whole website. Oh, I was wondering. I thought you were like a genius. I thought you were doing this. He always was the brands of family. I'm like, I'm not. He would, he would tell you that, but, you know, I have some idea, and he pops a reason or a way to do it and accomplish it. So it's such a biGHelp. But, uh, so we use that to update everything, relentlessly as NPC North American.com. So if we have something that's coming, people should tech that because the, the key for us this weekend or this coming week is, uh, getting them in the tents in a certain flow. Because I can't have too many people in that tent. Right. And then I got a shuffle amount. So we're going to protect the large system. How do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you text all these people? How does that work? It's a two full text alert and it's weird. Because some phones don't do well with text alert. Right. So we're going to get them there. We, we figured out a real protocol to make this happen. We need to put all the numbers in and it just, it spits him out at one time. IMean, I don't even know how that works. Well, they sign up for it. I'm sure they could have more than American.com. NPC, North American.com. It shows them how to sign up for it. Oh, okay. So you have to do that. You have to do that pretty much. We're pushing them to do it. However, I understand their apprehension. So that's going to be the trick this week. But I think just after we've got that nailed down. I get, I have the benefit. No lie of having the best team in the world. These guys are good guys there. I would never get to a doctor's appointment anymore. If I didn't have that, I'd text alert system. That's great. No, you can't remember anything. I get too much going on. You're laughing because you probably did the same thing. You probably missed every doctor's appointment. You know, Jim and I had the same doctor. So my text alert system is Jim Madden because, you know, not only is he watching this, I'll see you watching mine. He goes, hey, I got a night in my phone. You got a point in the with Robert. I go, nah, I got a call on me. I'm not. Next thing in the front of the front is Robert. Hey, I guess you got a come in and see me. I go, yeah, he goes. I think he's tracking more New York. That's great. Gary, man, IMade that a hard year, man. But God bless you. You know, you're making this happen. It's not only for your own benefit, obviously. But the athlete really, I talk to these people. I'm in the trenches with these guys. They're so happy that you're having this show. I can't do that. I'm so happy they're coming. And the other thing is this, I got to tell you. The other folks, I don't blame them for being upset. IMean, I get it. There's been a lot going on. And now this thing went no crowd. And so we're struggling to get this last stream together for them. But, yeah, I really don't, I hope any, any, any, it will go towards people there upset. So, we'll do the best we can, especially. I'll hold the old will against them for you because, you know, what, you should be kissing your butt that you have in this show because without the show, there would be, there would be 600 less pro parts. That's what that thing, because the one person in the country is you don't want to have the old will. It's from painful rumbles. That's right. That's right. But very angry as I'm getting older. I'm getting like a, to be a grumpy old man. All right. You're having this show and good luck this weekend. Yeah, my best year away from hope the kids are great. Thank you so much. And guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of RX Muscle News Update. I'm Dave Palombo for Gary. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: HOW TO PREVENT A HEART ATTACK! Dave Palumbo's Heart Health Tips for Bodybuilders [0I8gVHzdjj4].txt ===

Day of the level here with an RX Muscle Supplement and Science Education as I like to call it. A lot of people out there have contacted me recently, you know, we see a lot of people going down with heart attacks and blockages of the coronary arteries. I just, we had Guy Grundy on the show last week with Lee Priest and he was saying, you know, you had a heart attack over the course of five days. You had blockages in two of his coronary arteries. You know, this is something that has nothing to do a lot of times with body building or body building, you know, gear or the lifestyle. A lot of times it just happens to do with bad genetics, you know, you have a family predisposition to have high LDL cholesterol carriers to have blockages in the coronary arteries to lay down, calcium deposits. Is there anything we can do about it? That's thEQuestion I get asked. How do I come back this? What do I do? A lot of people just come back to me, hey, you know, I got blood work done. I have very high LDLs, which is the bad cholesterol carriers, LDL cholesterol carriers are the ones that kind of traverse and travel through the body and just drop off gunk in the blood vessel walls. And we don't want high levels of LDL. The HDL cholesterol carriers are the good ones. I don't like the vacuum cleners that kind of go around and suck up all the stuff that's kind of laying around. The, you know, for most body bulls who's gear, however, they're HDLs are suppressed. So that means the clen up crew is not so great. But if your LDLs, okay, the bad cholesterol is not high, then those suppressed HDLs don't really matter as much. But some people have a family predisposition for high LDL. And usually high LDLs is parallel to a correlated with higher degrees or higher likelihood of blockages in the coronary arteries. So what can we do for this? Number one, you know, obviously I've been advocating essential fatty acids. You know, there's two, there's basically two families of these essential fatty acids. And they fall under the, I guess, the umbrella of a polyunsaturated fatty acids. Of the polyunsaturated fatty acids we have omega-3s and omega-6s. The balance of these two is really important because predominantly the omega-6s specifically are raccoon on a guess that are the inflammatory, uh, essential fatty acids. And then the non, or the anti-inflammatory fatty acids are usually the omega-3s. And so when you have the perfect one to one ratio or balance them, they kind of neutralize each other and you don't have excessive inflammation in the body. You do need some inflammation, especially for body-building purposes, the build muscle. So you don't want to have two little inflammation either. So that's why you want these things balanced. Interestingly, now they have actually blood work you can go for it, which can actually tell you your omega-3 to omega-6 ratio. I haven't had that done yet. I should go get it done just at a curiosity. However, so I've been a very big advocate of taking, you know, essential fatty acids. We have a product called the Mangle-ized from species nutrition, which is, you know, three grams of fish oil, which is very high in the omega-3 intermediates EPA and DHA, which are the two essential fatty acids in that family that actually reduce inflammation and do all the good stuff. And then of course you have your omega-6 fats here coming from evening primrose oil, which is a great source of GLA or gamma-1Aic acid. And that is one of the really good omega-6 fats. It actually has an anti-inflammatory effect as well. Now the other omega-6 intermediate, which is known as a rack and an anacastate is the problem of the flameter. That's the one that causes inflammation, which in excess of amounts is not good. If it overshadows the anti-inflammatory, you know, a central fatty acid of the body. But it is good if you're trying to build muscle. So you want to have, you don't want to have no arachidonic acid in your body. It's an essential fat, but most of us get a lot of it. If you eat chicken, red meat, you probably get our whole eggs. You get an arachidonic acid in your diet. For people who are maybe like fish eating, you know, I wouldn't call them the cherry, I guess you can call them pescatarians. They only eat fish. They don't eat red meat or they don't eat chicken. But they eat fish and egg whites and weight protein. They probably don't have enough arachidonic acid. So there's a balance. But I don't put arachidonic acid in this formula because most of us get enough of it. What we want to do is get those anti-inflammatory fatty acids into the diet. And so that's really important. When we talk about the omega-3 intermediates that are found in that omega-3 family, EPA and DHA being the two important ones, they found recently through a lot of studies and on different groups of people that pure EPA oil, just use the EPA, nothing else, can actually have a coronary artery opening or clot reducing effect. Meaning it can actually act like drain out and clear out those coronary arteries. So of course the drug companies had a jump on top of that and they have a prescription form of pure EPA oil. Okay, that you can get. It's super expensive. If you have severe blockages in your coronary arteries and it's documented by a cardiologist, a lot of times your insurance will cover that. But for most of us, that's not the case. But you can go and there's a company known as Omega VIA. And I talked about this before. Omega VIA makes an over the count of pure EPA oil. They're in 500 milligram capsules. You need to take four of those a day, 2,000 milligrams a day to get this artery clearing effect. Now if you don't have any blockages in your coronary arteries, you don't need to do that. So a lot of the doctors, the cardiologists have been writing prescriptions for this pure EPA and or recommending if these guys even know to take this. However, you never want to throw the balance of the EPA and DHA component of Omega 3's off either. So it's kind of misinformation in the sense that a lot of the drug companies are sending to us and that these cardiologists are sending to only take the EPA oil if you want to improve your health and well-being. Because while the EPA can still clear out these vessels supposedly according to the research, you still need the DHA DHA component for your eye health and for your brain health. Remember, the brain is made up of a lot of fat. That's what conducts all the impulses. So a central phase is very important to brain development, to brain healing, to brain renewal and regeneration. So you don't want to limit these essential fatty acids. It's not dimension as far as muscle gains go. These essential fatty acids arecomponents that are made up of will the cell membranes that surround the muscle cells. So when you break down muscle tissue, while most of the muscle cell is made up of protein, which is why we need to have a protein, the outer portion of the cell membranes are made up of essential fatty acids as well as some saturated fats. So you need to take in fats to help optimally repair these memories. And that's why I'm a big advocate of fats and always have been bodybuilding terms. Only recently have I really focused on the health aspects of these essential fatty acids because obviously as I'm getting older as a bodybuilder, we need to consider that as well. We don't want to actually be unhealthy individuals. So these essential fats serve a dual purpose muscle repair. Okay. Production of these, what we call, prostate glands, okay, which are basically the intermediates that are produced from the EPA, DHA, GLA, and the Racket Nonagastid. And obviously the ability also to keep our heart healthy. And if you have a problem and you have a blockage to clear that out. Now, how do you know you have a blockage in your coronary arteries, other than having a heart attack or you know having pain in your chest? Well, we've talked about this before too. You can go now rather than be old way. They had a stick of catheter up your, you know, three you're growing and threaded up through your vessels and go check your heart out that was called an angiogram with now that can give you what's called the cardiac CT scan. They literally, you know, something they put a little die into an IV for like two seconds. And then they take an image using a CAT scan machine and they can actually visualize the coronary arteries. How open they are if there are blockages there, if you have anything to worry about. It's a good idea to get that done if you're over 35 years of age. Or maybe younger if you have a history of heart disease in your family. Just to know. And then I recommend people get it done every five years just to see how your your your coronary arteries are looking. I have, you know, other problems but I have no blockages in my coronary arteries, no calcium buildup. And I'm lucky because my dad had, you know, a triple bypass when he was in his, you know, in his 70s. But he also smoked his whole life, you know, and that doesn't help. That obviously increases the risk of that. He didn't eat well, you know, for most of his life. And, you know, diet is huge. So you, you don't have to be a victim of your genetics. If you eat right, if you take the right essential fatty acids. Okay. And if you do have a, a, a, a, a, a, a some blockage of the beginning of a blockage. Start taking that EPA oil at 2000 milligrams per day from a male, male, mega, via and just stay on it. But the take home messages don't neglect the full spectrum of essential fatty acids as well because they're necessary for brain, eyes and other and muscle repair as well. So you could take your, your omega lies, you know, your three pills twice a day to get your three grams of fish oil, 2600 milligrams of evening per muzzle oil, which is those mega sixes. And then you can also take the pure EPA oil. If you need it to help with the blockages or any kind of potential blockages in those carneroarages. This is, this is easy stuff guys. You know, I explained a lot of science here, but the take home message if you didn't want to listen to any of it, you didn't understand it and it doesn't matter. Take your essential fatty acids. If you have a family history or predisposition for blockages or you have some blockages, take your EPA oil on top of this. I guess why you're good to go. You can, you can, you know, relax. Now, if you eat, you know, foods that are high in good, essentially, that's like wild caught salmon or grass that be for omega three eggs, that's even better. You know, if you eat nothing that has good essential fatty acids in it, because you don't, doesn't just foods you don't like or you don't have access to them or two expensive, whatever the case may be, then you might even want to take a little bit more of these essential fats, just to ensure you have enough, especially if you're a big guy or a tren real hard, and you want to make, because you think about it also. If your body thinks that it's devoid or it's not getting in enough of these essential fatty acids, and remember your body can't make these essential fats. That's why they call the central. You have to consume them. If your body's not getting enough of these, and you're trying to burn fat, getting ready for a competition, something like that, your body is, is, is, first priority is not to let go of body fat. It's going to think it's going to affect the price state. Even though you may be eating enough of the other fats coming from red meats and chicken, something like that, but if you're not getting the essential fatty acids, your body will hoard fat, and fight you, and that sometimes is a reason, at least I see it in women a lot, why they have trouble getting their lower bodies lean enough, because they're not taking in enough essential fatty acids, and because women have the hormone estrogens in the variety, that makes it even harder, because the estrogen wants to hoard fat too. So you never want your body to think it's deficient in anything, or sense that it's deficient in anything, because then what it does is it fights you. And if it's fighting you, it's going to make it hard if you achieve the look that you want. It just makes sense, right? IMean, if you don't eat any salt, okay, ever, okay, and then you eat salt, what you're about to do, it's going to hoard salt, because it thinks it's not getting enough of it, and it senses as a deficiency. But if you eat salt all the time in your diet, okay, there's no rise in al dastron, there's no propensity for your body to hold sodium, so now if you eat some salt, you're not going to over-sighten you have bloated the next day from it because your body's used to it. So same thing with fatty acids, your essential fatty acid, okay, content of your body, is something that your body is constantly monitoring. And if you neglect this, okay, and it's so easy just to take a supplement of this stuff, it's going to have negative ramifications on your body building goals. I promise you that. And your annual long-term health. So make sure you go get checked. If you want to add to your blood work, you know, IMight add this to my blood work check because I always give a list out. If you guys are interested in the blood work, I suggest or recommend that people get you can shoot me an email at huge285adayawall.com. I'm more than happy to send you the list. I think IMight add the omega-3, you know, index or and also the omega-3 to omega-6 ratios so that you guys can see actually when you get blood work, what your status is and you can see if you're actually deficient in these things or if your balance is off. Most people's balance is way off. That's why it's important to take an essential fatty acid supplement. All right, I hope this helped. If you guys have any questions, put them in the comments below and I will try to address it on the next topic. I'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle supplement in science review.

=== FILE: HOW TO SPOT FAKE GEAR! #RXRants [_Ui19_4P7nI].txt ===

Day Palomo here with another RX Muscle rant brought to you by RedCon1.com. Today's topic is a historical perspective of animal accelerates and all the counterfits that we've encountered over the years. You know, you guys, you millennials out there. I love to say that term. I think actually with this probably a younger generation of millennials, but the truth is that you guys don't really know how steroids came about. You know, back in the, even before my time in the 80s, you could actually go into a pharmacy with a prescribed regular prescription, like if you were picking up a prescription for antibiotics and by antibiotics, steroids. They had anivar, they had anodrol, DACA, wind shul tabs, and testosterone injections. As well as HGG. And guys were just going with prescriptions they get from their buddies who were doctors and no one cared because it was like picking up a vitamin C prescription basically. And no one solved the stuff. People just had their prescriptions went in and they got their stuff and no one really abused stuff back then because the dosages that people used back then werecompared to what people used today. People would laugh at what the dosages were people used, you know, two to 400 million of DACA, they used 20 milligrams, maybe a bunch of shul tabs. They would take maybe one shot of testosterone away, you know, close to a show, you know, they would take anivar, maybe 15, 20 milligrams a day if you're a guy and now women are using that, like, to start off with. So it was a big, big difference back in the 80s. Once 1990 came about, okay, they passed the steroid control act, which made anabolic error as a control pre-substance, which means no one could go into the pharmacy and with the regular prescription anymore and get this stuff. It became scarce. People were panicking, they didn't had it, you know, body bills didn't have to get their, you know, gear. And so what they did was people started faking the gear, not necessarily the body bills, but there were people out there who exploited them. What they would do is they would try to exactly match the compounds that were being sold in the pharmacy. So if you had an anodoro 50 bottle that was a bottle in a box and it would have a red label from syntax, people would actually try to duplicate. And I remember this was before really the internet was around. So you couldn't just go on your computer and print up a label. It wasn't that easy. How to go and get a mage from a label maker. But people would do this. And what what happened, what was happening to the body bills is we would become like, sure, I told them to detectives. You'd have to get like, you're magnifying glass out and you'd have to find the imperfection in the label. The biggest mistake they would made was rather than stamping on the expiration dates and a lot of numbers, which is what the way it normally would be done. Because they would just print it with the label. So if you lick the expiration date, it should smudge it wouldn't smudge it and it would be like part of the label and you'd know that was a big one. That was a big one that was easy, easily caught. The other thing that would happen was sometimes the labels on the anodoro bottle would be rounded and they were supposed to be sharp, you know, right angles. They would do the pamphlet inserts were a big one too because they couldn't get the right paper because most pamphlet inserts are made of an attissuary paper. They would use regular life, you know, I just photocopy paper and they would print the exact insert but it would be on thick paper so when you fold it up, you'd actually, you could feel the difference in the paper wasn't tissuey. That was another way that you really could tell. So the tissue paper inserts and the stamped on expiration date, that was the number one in number two ways. And if you look at the original Bill of Well and Books, the anabolic books, they used to have the fakes and the reels and they tell you how to find it and say, if this doesn't match it, if it doesn't have this. And then as the 90s progressed and they got more sophisticated and producing these fakes, what they started doing is puttinGHolograms on the box, it's because those were almost impossible to to fake and you could actually verify lots on websites like Dankel had a website, you'd go on there and you check your lots and you see your hologram and you know it was good. And that was one of the first security measures that they made. Of course, as you got into the year 2000 and the internet became bigger and China started producing a lot of the raws and selling to the US people started making their own brands and nowadays it's all underground labs. So there's no way to tell. There's no real and faking more. No one's either, it's an underground version that's either good or it's not good. And some people don't even know if their stuff is good because they don't know what they're getting from China. It's good. No one is getting raw, raw powders from China and they're actually running a three HPLC and checking what the potency is and if it's the compound that's supposed to be. So they just put it in the bottles and they don't care and some people do know that this stuff isn't real. They might put test propaneate into a pre-rebole bottle because it's cheaper and they don't care what they need. A woman might use this in turn of self-interimant. They don't give a crap because they're just trying to make money. So how could you guys out there verify now? What do we do nowadays? Well Bill O'Reillywellen, who's been involved in the animal store, I guess you could say business for 25 years, identifying compounds, educating people. Just came out with his new book, Anobox, the 11th edition there. I have it at daypalomba.com. It's a tremendous reference book of everything about Anobox. You could possibly want to know. He came out with these right test kits that I also sell exclusively on daypalomba.com. And once again, you could test your compounds to see if they're real and you see the chart that I have on there actually tells you what vials you need to buy to test all the different compounds. So look at the first line, boldenown there, which is aqua poise. If you want to test, see if your boldenown is good, you have to get the v in the devile. Then you follow the directions, I have some videos on how to do it. Then you go down to the next chart and you look for boldenown there. Keep going. Next chart. There it is. You look right at the top where it's boldenown. You'll see when you put it in different vials, the devile, it will turn from purple and in 10 to 20 seconds, 20 to 20 minutes, it will turn brown. If you match this up, you know your stuff is good. Now you have a way to verify if the stuff you're actually buying is real, which is something that we never had at our disposal in the past. I would have loved to have that in the early 90s when there was all those counterfits out there. There were guys who were using Wincheryl back then and it was actually armoroll. There were massive infections of people had in their legs and getting their muscles full of weight open. You know, what a lot of people, smart people did, at least I did. I know everyone stopped using American-made stuff and we went to Europe and we tried to get the stuff from Europe because everything was an individual ampules and you pretty much knew the stuff was good. There really was no fakes in Europe because at that point in the 90s it was all legal there. You could walk into a pharmacy and Spain and you could buy Wincheryl injectable, that effecT3 vials, three Wants to see vials of Zambon Wincheryl would be like two bucks. You know, you'd get a bottle of testosterone 250 milligrams in one at CC amp and it would cost you like a dollar fifty or something like that. And so that's everyone was just getting it from there and then they started buckling down in Europe and started following the U.S. as lead of making it harder and harder to get and it became much different more difficult. I remember 1996 when I went to Dubai before it looked like a divide this today. It was just a big desert basically but like a couple of maybe a hotel here or there. I was there with Mielo Sarschev and Laura Bass and we, you know, the amount of gear they had there was incredible because it wasn't illegal and they just were giving it to us and big shopping bags and stuff and I was like guys, I can't taste his home. I don't need this much. You know, even though it was cool to have it but that's, you know, how and I think in the Middle East it's still pretty easy to get, you know, you know, that's where a lot of people go there to tren, especially at the oxygen gym that they have but it becomes a little more available and no one has to worry about the stigma of being arrested or that you're criminal using it. It's kind of like going to Colorado the smoke marijuana and you know, you kind of feel like well, right? I can do it every morning or if you go to Holland, you know, Amsterdam, you can kind of do whatever you want to, drugs or legal there as well. So, you know, the history of antibiotics that are used is just really evolved with the times and the laws that they've made and once again, there's always some kind of shitheads here at there are Charlton or frauds, frauds, or trying to make a buckle off of people who are trying to get something that they need and look, I guess take home message here is that you have to be an informed user. If you're going to use antibiotics, steroids, you got to be safe about how you're using you have to understand how these things work but you also got to make sure that what you're using is real because the worst thing you can possibly do would be to use fake stuff because number one, you're wasting your money, okay? Number two, you could be jeopardizinGHealth. Number three, you're not going to get any results, okay? So, if you use the fake stuff for a year because you would too cheap to buy a testing kit on a, you know, a right testing kit where you just would too lazy, you know, shame on you because you just waste all that time and money and set yourself back, you know, all that time that you could have been making progress. So, guys, be smart, be informed, you know, these are the times we're living in, it is what it is, underground steroids are here that I've gone away for any time soon. Make sure you test your product, make sure what you're using is real. I hope you guys enjoyed the little historical perspective I gave you. If you liked these videos, make sure you click below and show us the love and turn on your notifications. I'm Dave Palumba with another RX muscle rant.

=== FILE: HRT： The MOST IMPORTANT Thing You Should Know! [mf61Gt_tEzk].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations that are stosed from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best join the evolution. Day Palombo with another RX muscle rant. Today's topic we're going to talk about is HRT Home Run replacement therapy. A lot of people ask me, hey Dave, is this somethinGHealthy that you can take and long term? If I take it long term and I replace what I naturally produce, is it the same? Am I going to have the same health benefits? Am I going to feel better? Are there things to worry about? And you know why? If I would have answered this question 10 years ago, 15 years ago, 20 years ago, I would have told you if you replace your total Testosterone, let's say your natural total Testosterone, we say a natural high level is 850, whereas the low level is 250. So we try to get, when we replace testosterone, we try to get it into the 850 around that range, the high normal range. If we replace it, and we give you 150 milligrams, 200 milligrams testosterone a week of a long-acting injectable, like say testosterone, sipping aid or an antheid, and we get it up into that range. You would think that you would be restoring what you naturally produced and you'd have the same, you know, body chemistry. But just like when you take insulin, okay, as a type one diabetic, because you produce no insulin in your pancreas, you take it to replace it, you don't quite get the same physiological, okay, effects. What do IMean by that? IMean, things happen differently. When you inject insulin versus it being produced in your pancreas, you're fighting the antagonistic hormone glucogone, which is constantly being released every time you take an insulin injection, you get a pharmacological type of effect. And a lot of people notice who take who are type one diabetic, they build muscle a little easier for some reason, because they're taking an exogenous source, if it's the one that you want to have taken more than they would normally naturally produce. Same thing with testosterone. What I find is that what I found, at least over the years is that I've done antibiotics, I've done hormone replacement for 10 years, and now I've been off hormone replacement for five years or more now, and I notice a difference. My blood pressure is not as high off of hormone replacement. I'm natural now, as natural as you can get, I guess you could say. I take my testolized product, just to balance my DHT estrogen and testosterone levels, but I'm not taking anything, I'm not taking a source of testosterone, I'm working with my natural levels. But I notice my blood pressure is naturally lower. My lab results are all normal, meaning that my HGLs, which is the good cholesterol, is high, it's not low anymore. My red blood cells are in the normal high range, but they're not higher than they should be. Once again, your on HRT, even though your levels are on the normal range, you're notice we're noticing low HDLs, we're noticinGHigh red blood cells, hematocrit, which is the thickness of the blood and how many red blood cells are in there. We're seeing differences, we're seeinGHigher blood pressures. People seem to have to take blood pressure medications on hormone replacement values. They don't tell you this. There's nothing wrong with that, but you have to be aware that if you want to restore your hormone levels to the high levels, they were when you were younger, there is side effects associated with an exogenous source of them. You don't have normal body chemistry, things get altered when you're taking an exogenous, which means an outside source versus producing it naturally. I'm lucky in the sense that my body naturally produces higher testosterone levels. It's not what it was when I was younger, of course. I'm sure when I was younger, I was probably very high in normal. Now I'm mid-range, I'm like 500, okay, as opposed to 850. I'm 5500, I feel good, okay? Once again, I like the way I feel because my other body chemistry is normal. I don't feel paranoid about high-ivinGHigher liver enzymes, about my creatine is much lower. IMean, at some point when I was on HRT, my creatine was, I would consider high. It was like 1.8 or something like that. I noticed it had crept up that high. I don't even know why. I wasn't doing cycles or anything. And when I went off their HRT, and I did all my liver clenses and kidney clenses and detoxes and all that stuff, and brought my protein and take down. Now, I'm almost like normal. creatine is completely gone back to normal. And I attribute to a lot of the old things I did, including the supplements and the kidney stuff I used. But also to the fact that I'm not on HRT, I think HRT raises certain blood markers of things. Now, whether that's good or bad or it's an artifact of what happens, we don't really know for sure. But I'll tell you this, I do feel different on hormone, I don't feel as aggressive. I don't feel like I can do muscle as easily as when I was on HRT. But I'm not holding as much fluid either. I noticed that my subqtaneous fluid that I was holding in that could be one of my blood pressures lower is less. I see it my face. I looked back at the pictures. I had a little bit, my face is much leaner now and drier. I'm not on hold as much subqtaneous fluid. And I think that's because when you take an exogenous source of testosterone, just like when you take an exogenous source of estrogen and progesterone for women who take the pill, they tend to hold a little more fluid as well. So these are things that don't tell you, okay? They don't really warn you for this stuff. And so you have to be aware of it. You're gonna have blood markers that are different. You're gonna look different. You're gonna feel a little different. And once again, some of the stuff that you feel is better, IMean, you have a heightened sex drive probably on HRT. You have a better strength and recovery from you workout. So those are benefits. But then you have to also look at the negatives. If you're prone to certain high blood pressure, for instance, or blood clot, you have to really watch your red blood cell count. You have to watch your blood pressure. You gotta take it and if blood pressure's high, you gotta keep it high on your creatine and B-U-N that your kidney function to make sure your kidneys are not being overtax. And as you get older, these things are more important. When you're younger and you're doing this, it doesn't really, you body's very resilient. As you get older though, you become more prone to having problems with floods, or having problems with getting anger reasons if your blood pressure's too high. So, and then of course, if your LDLs are too high and your HDLs are too low, you can get blood, you know, like a blockages in your coronary arteries. So to answer thEQuestion, there's no simple answer. And so what I think a lot of people have to understand is that when people give you definitive to these doctors or these supposedly, you know, hormone replacement clinic people, you have to do a lot of your own research. The reason I like tight medical over there is because, and that's why I work with them is because they take this all into account. They don't just take your blood. Say, okay, here's your prescription. They look at all your markers. They see if one person per se is havinGHigher values of creatine, their blood pressure's running. They're looking at the blood markers and if they're not good, they're not going to give you the prescription. They're going to tell you, let's get these values down and guess what, here's how you're going to do it and get it down. And once we do it, then we can go back when we can revisit this. Because at the end of the day, we're doinGHormone replacement to feel good but to the healthy as well, to live a longer life. We want to live our better quality of life. Now, I know people that just don't produce testosterone, whether it be because they're older now, okay, or because they took out of all of it, you know, for many years and they just never divided us, never turned back. Or because genetically, they just did, they're not programmed to produce high amounts, I don't know. And for them, they feel terrible because their levels are so low, you know, I don't have that problem. So I don't, I don't have to worry about. For those people taking a hormone replacement dosage is something that they need to do and is a good thing. ThEQuestion is how much do you take? And that's when I'm over, that's where I'm going with this. How much HRT is, because everyone says well, 200, okay? Well, 200 milligrams per week, if I take 200 milligrams per week, my testosterone total Testosterone will be 1500. That's crazy high. I know other people who take 200 milligrams per week and they can't even get up to 800, okay, on their total Testosterone. Why? Well, because everyone's body responds to drugs differently. That's just the nature of the human beast, how our genetics play out. That's probably why I put muscle on, you know, more easily than other people, because I respond, look at Kevin LeRoni, you give him a nature RT, does it probably put on 50 pounds of muscle? So you have to see how your body works. So for someone like me, if I ever went back on HRT at some point in the future, I probably could take a, I could probably take 75 milligrams a week of testosterone, long active and be at very high, let normal levels, whereas someone else needs more. The more you take the more side effects, however you get. I know people say to me, hey, Dave, can I take 400 milligrams of testosterone in an antate a week and be healthy? Well, I don't know. Let's take it and see what happens. Form 400 milligrams a week is what I would call a pharmacological dose. Usually it's gonna take you over the age 50 value. If it doesn't, you're probably using bootleg testosterone that's not dose properly, in which case I would tell you, if you're not getting it from a legitimate clinic like Titan Medical, I would say you better go by the Roy test kits I sell on Daveelumber.com and thEQuantitative test. Now that we have both, you can test the testosterone to see if it's a legitimate, and then you can test using thEQuantitative test how much is in there. This way you know if you're a testosterone dose properly. These are all things you need to do and you need to get blood work to test your testosterone estrogen DHD levels. If you're on HRT and you're gonna plan on saying it for a long time, you're probably gonna take a product like test the liys as well because that's gonna balance those testosterone estrogen DHD levels in your body. Understand that each person is a separate entity. And each person has to look at these values and how much they need and what their blood markers are and what their levels are as an individual person, not as a group. We can't say, well this person does this and I know five people to take this amount and that's when I'm gonna take no because every person is different and processes these compounds differently. So, to summation and summation here, if you're gonna take HRT because you're low and you need it, okay, you have to understand that you have to figure out what the correct dosages, okay, because you're gonna be doing this long term. This is not a short term solution. And if you do decide to go off, you're gonna have to figure out a strategy so you can make sure that your testosterone is high enough that you feel good, that your health markers are good and that your estrogen and DHD are in check. And once you have all these things figured out for yourself, okay, congratulations because it's not gonna apply to anyone else. Remember, we're all individuals, we all have our own genetics, we have our genetic gifts and we have our genetic flaws, you have to figure out what your as are. And the only way you can do that properly is through blood work, I highly recommend you go to TitanMedicalCenter.com. They'll send you for blood work, they'll check you mark as the help advise you had it adjust the level so that you get them where you want. And if you wanna go on hormone replacement, it's up to you. And you make that decision and you do your diligence on yourself with working with a doctor to see what the optimal levels are. On day polo, with another Rx muscle ran.

=== FILE: HUNTER LABRADA BRINGS THE ENERGY! [x6fJamlXiBk].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary food muscle in the morning. On day polo and today is Friday, August 21, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Finally I've been talking to some of my friends in the corporate world who've been telling me about how there's a big push now to making practicing mindfulness a part of the daily routines. The thought is that by taking more time to be aware and intentional, it'll free up their minds to be more effective decision-makers. But people like Samsung doubt or don't need a mindfulness retreat to get their heads right. All they need is a gym, a pair of headphones, and a date startled on their calendar. I've been told by a few people that Samsung is quite targeting a new show sometimes soon to make a season debut, where I think he has a chance to make a huge impression if he's on his game. SamsunGHas all the tools you look for in a future Olympian, and if you could hold it all together, that future might only be five months away. Here's a fun back view. Did you know that when wolves hunt large prey, there's one animal in the pack whose job it is to circle around the front and take their victim head on. With so many wolves circling in the men's physique division right now, I'm curious to see which one of them is brave enough to be the one who tries to take Ray Edmunds head on. If you just look at the recent history of the division, when someone makes it to the top, they usually occupy that spot for a while. When raised at his best, he's a different type of animal. He's got a bigger bite than anyone who's been in his place before. So if someone is trying to circle around his front, they better make sure they come correct. I've been around long enough to have seen or read about every supplement and pill known to man, and I could say with a hundred percent certainty that there's no magic bullet that can turn you into the Hulk overnight. But if there was, don't you think a guy like Josh Wade would be the poster child for something like that? Recently, Josh announced that he was planning to make his season debut with the Chicago Pro eight weeks from now, where I'm sure he'll be ready to jump right into the mix. If they're having to stop and start his prep a few different times, due to shows being canceled. If there's one thing we know about Josh, it's that he's not the type to shy away from the grind. He likes to dig in, so I'd expect to see him kick it into height here over these next two months now that he knows for sure it's go time. Until I had kids, I never truly understood what it meant when people said youth is wasted on the young. And now that I do, I can say for sure that all of those people are wrong. Just look at what a guy like Hunter LeBrona has done for body-building already. Not only did he step in and dismantle all line up of battle-tested veterans in his pro-day view, he also did it in a way that completely re-energized the part of the season that was losing a lot of steam with shows being canceled left and right. He brought a youthful energy back to body-building at a time when the sport desperately needed it. And I don't think he's done yet. There's still a ton of uncertainty swirling around the rest of the season and being able to latch onto something like Hunter who has an intangible, it-factor will be huge over these next few months. This isn't youth wasted. It's youth stepping up and seizing the moment the way only young people can and I think we should all try to enjoy the ride. And that does it for yet another edition of Lusselin the Morning on Daypalumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: HUNTER LABRADA ON TAMPA PRO WIN & OLYMPIA EXPECTATIONS! [Xlb5d0gmGDI].txt ===

3, 2, 1. Welcome back to live with Brought to you by species nutrition on Dave Palombo and it is really an honor now to have on the show our Tampa Pro men's open champion is first pro win in his first pro try on to LeBrona. Welcome back to the show. Hey Dave, thanks for having me on again, man. I'm starting to like how infrequently we talk because we're only talking when the show's right. That I'm not going to talk a lot. I don't feel we'll be able to talk a lot more about it in a couple years. Yeah, we're talking very frequently because you've been winning a lot. Now let me ask you this question. IMean your dad wins his pro debut. You win your pro debut. A lot of similarities there. You know being undefeated as a pro your first shot out has got to feel pretty good. Man honestly it really does you know I know no entren is not to win every one trens to win but you know it's one of those things the entire time was trening for the contest and it truly believed with every bone in my body you know as long as it worked hard and you know do what I need to do with all the plan and execute that I would win when I truly believe that the entire time. So it was really cool to you know have that belief come to fruition. I really feel like it bolstered my confidence a lot coming into the pro ranks and it was a honest man the whole weekend the whole week was like a dream come true. It was like kind of like fairy tale to me just like everything that happened you know leading up to the show how the show and how like it was it was really cool man it was a very cool experience. The funny thing is you'll probably remember this win beyond all the wins whatever you get in the future because what happens is they all start to merge together but you never forget the first one. Yeah. Now let me ask you a question because I love to ask people thEQuestion because when I would compete and I've said this before on interviews I would look at my pictures after the show no matter how good I did even if I won and I won a throw up like I would see every flaw in my physique I wouldn't see the good stuff I would just say you know what everyone else says he looks great but I I'm missinGHere and I'm missing there. Did you really say that you said that so this morning was the first morning I went to the PC news online and looked at my stage shots from Tampa I drove and you know how I was like normally like you see like people sell a sticker that you start seeing all the good professional photographers pictures and then the then then your actual stage shots drop and you see IMean you're like and you know this morning was the first time where most of them I was still like but you know there were a couple of I was like okay I can work with that. Finally I know like I see stage shots that I'm actually so much pleased with and you're not saying so yeah it's never satisfied I don't think anybody will ever satisfied. Yeah I'm not introducing. When you when you look at yourself in the last time you got on stage when you went national what do you think you made the biggest improvements in over that course that year? It was it was a year and I like nine months actually and I feel like I like look like I hate myself all over if I'm beinGHonest you know the scale says the same thing national before I walked over the finals I was 229 pounds right um the be morning of the show this year I was 249 and then I walked over there I was 247 right before we walked over so you know good good solid I was definitely a leader for the show the nationals as well so I couldn't have been happier at the progress we made you asked specifically where to I think IMade it specifically where I needed to make it that's no secret but from the waist down I'm pretty complete and pretty there in terms of the mass and stuff I needed from the waist up and I feel like I did put on quite a bit of the size and the time frame that I had from the waist up and especially in the back and something I'm really looking forward to continuing to improve on because you know at the timeline that I had this last year I really only had abouT3 months of really trying to push the envelope and get new growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone you know that I had my surgery I recovered from my surgery I got back for it. I was telling you how ever you want what you had what injured and and how that went because I think a lot of you had an injury you dealt with that was you know pretty pretty severe a required surgery. Yeah so I've said in a bunch of interviews so I had a like boiled down a little like 30 second high-light reel what happened 14 years old got tackled from behind came down on the shoulder broke my arm up here dislocated at the same time blew out my trensverse humor element so looking at the poles the lonGHead of the bicep in the bicep little groove from the time I was 14 until 26 it was basically just riding in and out of the groove rubbing itself in half it started to really presenting it painful after I won junior USA's I thought it was just kind of an impingement like getting back like from the show gettinGHydrated thing never got better when it got the MRI on it and that's when it was presented as okay well you have some pretty bad degenerative stuff going on in your bicep tendon and we're gonna okay well is it something we can push through it is something you need surgery I saw three doctors two said and surgery one said let's do it the one that said let's do it I liked the most obviously but the one that said was also the orthopaeducing Texans so I trusted his opinion we went through it you know PRP toward all whole nine yards for nationals didn't really tren upper body much you know couldn't do a bicep curl couldn't overhead press all machine work for chest is very limited finish the show had to have the surgery thought I was gonna try and get a better therodry for three months and I was really focused on his letting my body heal didn't happen had the surgery woke up from the surgery and the doctor says so if it presented the way that it actually was IMean MRI I would have told you don't go to the gym the next day because he said it was like holding on by like a thread so you like it in terror actually yeah I'm I'm very very blessed didn't tear so because of the fact that I had it repaired instead of blue and blowing it up it's literally exactly the same as it was and it's the same size you know it's exactly the correct it's perfect instead of you know exploding it and then having to go in there and fish it wouldn't have been the same so it would have been a career and they're honestly so feel very blessed to not have that happened but that's what I want to show you so I have my shoulder fixed that bicep 10 and got drilled into the bicep little groove I had some rotator cuff stuff clened up and I think that actually needed sutures or anything though and my AC joined the bridal then yeah that was it so wait for it once we take it to 50 like I like I yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you don't hold or replace but that that who cares you're you're you're really now do I just I need another 10 years of another you can help them you know it's funny because there's a lot shoulder injuries are really common in body you know honestly it's it's a busking in the career it's the most mobile joint in your body obviously so you know it's with that mobility and then with what we do you know if they screw them inside first your feet both the muscles they have the tendons that all that mobility it needs space to move around and you just take that space away over the years obviously the bigger you get and yeah because of the problem for those big guys eventually and most of your really conscious of a for sure and some people you know like I had like I had too much space in my mind my joint like it's not too short because you have been crazy heavyweight you did grinding in there and that's you know that's why I think my shoulder joints didn't last as long you know all good though you know what you did the right thing and you know a lot of people don't want to go through that process I can't tell you how many people I talked to you it was one of the first things I've ever done in my life you know you don't know for surgery because I like it because you got to think about let me think the picture before I have never had surgery before I never been under anesthesia before I had just one national 2019 was my year that I was supposed to spend you know I'd go around the country I guess posing seeing everyone I have them fun having my year to go over for my protein view and instead I spent it at my house so I've deeped up for four months in an arm swing so it was hard but you know if you end up the day it's what needed to happen at the end of the day you know not a perspective on things and then the end of the day it's a lot of me to get healthy to the phone rank and tren exactly like I want to you know people are blown away by this crazy progress this crazy progress happened the four months of healthy trening I think those gonna happen big long offseason after I do the end it's gonna be fun I'll put this out here I'm gonna make this much progress between the series between last year and the series and we'll just do this year next year which is you know 10 to 15 times the same way but I'm makinGHeaven you know like I said I and I and it happened to my career too but they have a solid like you know offseason like of trening when your healthy is and your focus and you have the ability to live that bodybuilding lifestyle there's nothing you can't make it everything and everything everything everything everything everything everything's done everything's done it's crazy I'm a progress like you make think about Dorian the progress we made from 92 to 92 or a lot yeah or cry when they made the crazy leaps it was because everything just kind of worked out perfectly now going into this year's Olympia being your first Olympia is it is a little nerve-racking a few I know obviously with the crash on you but but it still has to be pretty amazing thing they hit your first year out there you know like it's been it's been so like it kind of hit me when I want to tell you okay you're looking at qualified you're going to the Olympia like I told myself that and then it's like it's been a whirlwind but yesterday so I forget what paid us on I'm gonna saw the Olympia qualified list you know and the Olympia qualified list you know like I'm reading and it's like you know like fill he's making a dash you know James Lewis how do you pay and you know roll you in clear William Benach and then there's Hunter LeBron at the bottom and I'm like these are guys of an ointment like the last like five or seven years since it's that kind of made it set in and see like a little surreal for sure so as far as pressure goes ahead and into it you know I had a really interesting conversation with my mom and dad about this about you know what it's like going into the first one and I can't tell you how much how you know in a good headspace I am with it because of the fact that I won Tampa before Tampa I had never lost I've never lost his name I'm not sure I won I did five shows I won the overalls of four of them it's crazy I'm free of them and into it and we're national level shows so you know head in the Tampa I had never lost before and you know I was very much able to maintain that mindset you know throughout prep you know the handle your business and you're not gonna lose you can't lose you know so I took that with me to Tampa I did what I did in Tampa I have that mindset and tap now head it into the Olympia it's it's not it's not a possibility to win it your first time it's just they're absolutely isn't it possibly the winning first time it's never been done it won't be done it is what it is right so with that pressure of you know like you give you the winning remove I can focus entirely on you know bringing this the absolute best package that I can bring and you know really I feel like I'm gonna be able to bring something that I'll be able to stay next to some guys and you know be like oh okay he does belong there you know especially with the time that I'll have starting crap for the Olympia very lean you know I'm one of those people that can definitely grow into shows so my body feels very healthy right now and we're still you know fresh off a show and I feel healthy so I'm really excited for what I think I'll be able to bring in the improvements I'll be able to show let me ask you this question because a bunch of people you know as soon as you win everyone loves you and then it's then they also want to also deconstruct you and figure out what's wrong with you the pectare you have a little bit of a pectare on the left pecta a lot of people comment the other we all have a little we all have a little beatings here and they're what what happened had that happened and that happened before I even started body balloon that happened when I was 19 years old which it was basically man and I'll put this out there to everyone if you're a bodybuilder don't do flat bench press I agree the day the day that I did one 35 for 20 185 for 20 225 for 15 275 for 15 315 for 12 365 for 10 and the first wrap on the eccentric before of I did it. Is this the terrible exercise yeah it's a me it doesn't look bad I don't know I I think a lot of people just making a big deal because they're trying to find some little chink in your arms. There's been a long time since we've had a mystery one peo that I don't say that I Dorian had to turn by some for quite a period. I don't know if you can have a little thinGHere in there for sure and you know one of those things too that it looked so much worse a year or two ago than it does now because I couldn't push hard on that side from the shoulder the amount of tissue that I've added around that time for the lasT4 months it's going to become more and more and more and more and more of a not as few as time goes on people don't even know the tissue that I'll be able to add around and do the fact that everything else is healthy. People will realize also it's not a tendent hair it's an intermuscular tear and people get those all the time and it can't tell you how many times I'm in the gym and I'm you know like you said bring in the way down and you feel that little separation you stop you put the way down and then you know you get a little little divot you know you're a hair you know it happens to everyone and it doesn't you know it's like to be truthful if you haven't had I had two different than just come up to me and say normally it's not like that about to me but it doesn't affect your flow at all and it really won't hurt you in the lottery. So yeah that was really nice to hear too because honestly you're just something that's on my mind especially after this week it gives a biGHit a lot of attention but you know like you said Aaron like I said there hasn't been really any mr. Olympia that hasn't had something you know so yeah I was backstage at the gym in the USA speaking of junior say 94 and Gary striam bruise. Okay Kevin lover and what yeah like to be really like yeah I'm very sure I didn't was guest-posing it was warm it was that he was like pumping up backstage with like 60 pound dumbbell flies or 50 pound dumbbell flies and unlike well it's Gary striam bruise dude I can do it. I don't know what possessed me to pick these dumbbells up and do it and I tweak my pack and you know what backstage like before a show backstage pumping up for junior I say I'm like what wrong with I was so mad I was so mad I was so mad I said about this I got a little different from it though that you know what I never ever for the rest of my career ever pumped up backstage in weight I would only pose and I think that's one of the biggest mistake people make is over pumping backstage absolutely you know you can go to just as much blood in the muscle from posing but posing goes all the water in too so what am I doing you're in shape all you have to do is is pose backstage you get the blood flow that's it you don't get the blood going and get the water these guys are doing like an hour workout backstage I don't understand you know so anyway but it's all great. I let me ask you a question obviously Ian Valier and you were battling first and second I don't know what had happened to Ian who his turn wasn't good he was like you were like the epitome of like polish and and that's what you should be and he looked like who was like something was just off I don't know if he was sick or what but it just goes to show you how important you know that whole presentation is that's a me guy and a got from your dad like you know presentation and wait you know it's something they definitely got from my dad but then it's something that I've always kind of ever since I've started bodybuilding it's never really made much sense to me to not have things that arecompletely under your control to go completely right you know my my color heading into a show that's completely under my control IMade sure weeks and events that the girl that always tans me can be there and I proteins always done my tan I've never had anything else on you've always done in the same process it's always come out the same it's a very you know like just like you don't know I don't stress about my tan because I did the homework kind you know and like you know at any level that should be something that's done you know you you something is completely under your control you know the same way like you're trumps fitting all right the same way the trunk color being flattering you know the same way you know like getting your water in every day during peak week like all these things that can make a huge huge difference that are perfectly under your control you know it's it's it's it's it's it's unusual to show to show and be shaking like the leaf and out of breath after posing around it means you were just lazy like you skipped her it's like skipping cardio to make I don't know like you want white tren hard to do in our cardio and diet and they basically kill yourself if you're not going to be able to present it it doesn't make any sense and you know and early in my career I was also guilty of that because like you know it was just I was so focused on the diet and the trening and all that stuff there you know it's that reason on the east coast it's really funny I'm sorry interrupt you but I was saying the difference between me and my dad yeah obviously my dad is a huge person and presentation and that the posing team yeah I was one of those guys I was posing three and four rounds of days of my mandatory is because I know my mandatory is a little bit of a chance I needed to be able to make them through them and like I'm thinking okay you need to be able to posT3 rounds that your stomach go and like that in my mind where I have that that my posing's unlocked that's your me and my dad differ because he's like I'll be the first one to admit I've been kind of been more polished but I was spending all of my time in the little energy I did have in the final weeks make sure my mandatory is around the point that's where we end up with a little bit but we both believe yeah well you know what you're smart because they don't even care about the the posing round anymore evidently whereas when you dad competed that was like a big deal like now it's see my opinion that is why they say they don't score it judge this recruitment beings and so our audiences and it's human nature if someone presents something that really is beautiful and moves you and captivates you is as objective as you want to be you know it can't create things like all things were the same well he really did something you know at least IMight not feel like that I could be that thing you know and if it comes down to that one level half percent and it's something that's in my control I'm gonna take it well I think you know and I said this many times before I think that you know Kai Green was probably one of the best free poses and the posing round but in the annitories while he had good endurance because he practiced so much with him because his mandatory is we're not that great IMean I think we've got to think about Kai's closinGHow beautiful and cool it was it was the trensitions with the dynamic posing around him so cool that amount of muscle moving is fluidly and is dynamically as well as that's what made Kai's posing so awesome you're right but I'm just saying I don't I think he if he'd worked more in the mandatory that I think he might have beaten fill a couple times you know I think that fill was a little still a little more polished I don't know what she's got there bad I was so I can say about that I really find a lot wouldn't it be great if the two of them were on on the Olympian stage man one more time just so you can say I have it but I have the best seats in the house yeah let's talk to me a little bit about third place competitor Duane yeah a lot of people super duper duper duper impressive like super impressive and I really get the internet you know like way of doing that robbed I can understand where it's coming from especially whenever the shot like this is floating around you know this front last thread was the best front front front front on the stage by far he just a freak in the fact that he was going to be doing 2012 until four weeks out and I decided to do open like I got it to my hat to the guy for sure I was just you're ready and no that's got you to know that that I heard that from a couple people I his coaching and decided that they weren't going to squeeze down to 2012 for a week suddenly that's crazy you know that being said if you're objective when you turn us around I feel like he needs a little bit more hamstrings to be truly competitive in the open class I feel like his body's really good but I feel like he doesn't need a little bit more hamstring and you know coming from 2012 like that's somethinGHe can fit so he really quickly you know so I think this guy's the limit for that guy he's got some crazy crazy genetics of shoulders that front last thread's nutty nutty nutty nutty so yeah I was very impressed with him he seems like a good dude too yeah and I tell people look first of all I wasn't at the show and I never judge a show if I'm not there because you know what when you you get to see these guys on stage together your stage presence and you have been to an avati living shows you know pictures or not it's a non-sarvey you can't go out and I'm not and I'm not being racist at all but black eyes look better in pictures because no that's that because their body the shadows but they take out so you got to be in that front row with the judges judge and you know what alone in pictures he looks great and if he puts on another 1015 pounds he's going to be dangerous but you won that show IMean there's no doubt about that IMean I would agree with you I respectfully say I agree with you yeah IMean you you just you dominate that lineup and you know it's it's nice to see you know I think you're you're the feel good story because you know people what like the whole legacy of your family and they they want to see you do well just like we want to see Sergio leave a genie do well because because of his dad and everyone loves his dad as well so to see you guys following in your dad's footsteps and create your own legacy is like something like it's a fan dream because we can see dad on stage anymore we can't see others in third year as dad is not even alive anymore but if we can see that next generation of guys that are taking what their dad did and taking it even to the next level IMean to me as a fan of the sport taking myself out of the forest can't get enough of that it has to be nice to you it says no all right here's here's thEQuestion I want how tall is he dad my dad is five five okay I I think he's shrinking I know I shrunk it like at least I will say this I will say this I do think he was fact six a long time I really do I really all jokes aside he is six years old and I really do think he's got my little shard yeah we all we all shrink dance from all this cutting over the years and you're and you're five not right I'm every bit of five nine over five nine not five ten but I'm over five oh yeah and you weighed what you weighed the day of the show I weigh in 240 nine when I woke up and I believe it was like 247 before I walked it unbelievable okay and I think you I think your body can probably hold another 15 pounds I think I think I could hold another 15 from the waist up yes now yeah I'm gonna let you off I know you got to stop you today my last question is Lee priest on my last show I did with him on Iron Age I asked him about you know your potential he feels that you can be Mr Olympia one day what when you hear like a guy like Lee priest say that what does that mean to you man to be completely honest with you I've had quite a few people of his you know like statue gravitas if you will you know reach out to me privately kind of saying things along the lines of that you know I've said the same thing as you know someone asked me like oh fucks wheeler said said that you can be the next Mr Olympia two and it's like I'll say this to hear you come from people like Lee priest or flux wheeler that they believe I have that potential like it is the biggest honor in the world to me you know that being said you know they say about potential it's a big asshole and you know what else they say how many how many all this because future Mr Olympia is in good you know there be 300 Mr Olympia's right you know so at the end of the day it's surreal having people like that say about me but I know it's just a whole until I throw it off course I'm a look at Dennis Newman Dennis Newman won the the USA everyone said this guy's you still won't be got the key to the brewery yeah I try brewer all right there's you know again his and they make big flashes and they come and you know this sports America that's great I think people like that you're a young guy coming up and you're one of the few guys with potential we haven't seen any new people who who emerge with such potential it's such a young age and I think that excites people we want to see the new the god I don't want to see the 40 year old guys winning the Olympia I want to see the new young guys I want to see you out you got us coming up you got us coming to me James Reagan yeah right here's a good crappy young dude coming up yeah there's a crappy young dude coming up well Hunter enjoy these spoils of your victory of course and I know you're Olympia preface probably gonna be starting up in a couple weeks but rest up and once again congratulations on the big one thank you Dave appreciate you have me I'm really absolutely you want to have you want to thank anyone or call anything yeah no let me say something real quick I want to thank LeBron nutrition I want to thank gas they really have floated me through you know the last couple years more recently revive came on and pride foods both of those companies werecompanies as using before I actually got sponsored with them very people behind them great products that they make a huge shout out to my mom and my dad without them none of this is possible obviously in addition to that my trening partner Brian Trin and I'll have to get to me a huge shout out he welcomed his little girl into the world yesterday I would have been able to see what's in Tampa with me the whole week before I would have been the board I would have been the board I waited for the divorce me if I were to go yeah so just to be fair it was a schedule C section we went to the doctors like everything was good and we tried to like we could get them back within my four hours of her calling because there were that many flights back and forth so I still I would have been divorced we got a shout out to shout out to him right and then yeah in addition to that just my coach Andrew you know this is the third big show we'd want together you know the first two were national level body welling shows were one my class in the overall and obviously we just want our bro debut so looking forward to showing you what we cook up into summer and you know beyond that I just I really have to give all the glory to God for this without without him this isn't possible and you know I told you at the beginning of this you know this whole week it was you know I say I say it's a real I say this I say that you know I say it they felt blessed you know just being able to do with my family being able to be there with you know like the people like everyone everyone there is been doing this with me for two three four years and you see in those YouTube videos and stuff that people I find myself saying a lot after I won the show I feel like I'm a blessed person and the world to do what I love with who I love and so to be able to say that again today it's pretty cool hey man to that yeah well thank you so much for joining us take a time and enjoy the rest of you day for now though we are at a time here I am Dave Palumba with another addition of live with we'll see you next time thanks for having me did thanks on

=== FILE: HUNTER LABRADA WINS PRO DEBUT! 2020 TAMPA PRO WRAP-UP [sVeCV67lZkw].txt ===

This is Dave Palombo with an R-Ax muscle update. I'm here with Lee Priest and John Hansen and we're going to be wrapping up tonight. I have to be Tampa Pro men's open event that took place. Just minutes ago John left the venue he was there in the front row and the press seat. John Huntal Abrautah. Another generation of great bodybuilders. This is his birthday new. He wins it. Tell us was he was he is good as advertised. Yes, he was. He was excellent. He was awesome and it was pretty wild seeing Lee the product son up there. Lee LaBrada was right there on the front row with his wife and his kids. And man, he resembles his dad's physique a lot. He's a super sized, obviously. But he's got a lot of same similar qualities, great leg development, great side tries to pose. It's even broken to a flaws when he hit his side tries to. I was just telling Lee, that's why I put this picture on that. I said he was. I try his unbelievable. Lee, it really is on candy. How much in contact with shape he looks like his dad doesn't mean I think Lee was probably a little bit leaner in the face, but overall the similarities. I want to ask John, of course I didn't see the video. I'm sure he would have had a good posing routine, Woody. Yeah, he did. The best pose you're a team of the men's open for sure. Started off doing the lunging pose, like Lee, he'd used to do. And he finished up with that pose too. So it was some kind of classical, slower music. But yeah, it was really excellent posing on a lot of Lee LaBrada poses too. So it was really cool. It was really cool. I go back so I remember seeing the Neville Brought on stage. And it was really, really cool seeing the sun do the same thing. I have to imagine that to see your setup on stage, IMean, I wouldn't want my kid necessarily go into bodybuilding unless it's somethinGHe really, really wanted to do. But if he did it, and I'm back, to see your setup on stage better, maybe then you are in having more potential because he's obviously taller and he's bigger than Lee was. Yeah, exactly. No, it got to make Lee feel pretty good, right? Yeah. And he won this first pro show, just like Lee did. If you remember Lee won the 86 night of the champions, come right off the universe win. And his son wins this first pro show too. So he's going to the Olympia. He said he will be at the Olympia in December and Vegas. Wow. I'm still sticking by my prediction that within the next couple of years, he's going to be top-free or even win the Olympia. And I leg up, run her up a few times. But I think he's son is going to pull up and get us in there in the LaBroute of Family. I believe it too, Lee. I think so too. I think he definitely can do it. He seems like he really got us back together too. Real good kid, you know, and real humble on stage. And it was a convincing way. I didn't think anybody was close to him. Well, I think we've lead in his corner too. I think he's going to have that smart head on his shoulders from his head. He's not feeling like a full of a gatelet sea. I big I can get in thEQuickest amount of time possible. I think he's going to pace himself with Lee in his corner and do it in a healthiest possible way. He can do it and just be smart about it. Yeah, I agree. What John Europe master of like statistics? What was Lee LeBraided wing and how tall was he back when he competed compared to Hunter here? I think Lee was five, five. And he won the University of 176. And I think, you know, when they did that way and at the 88 Olympia, he went in at 176. Oh, did he really? He was that light, huh? Yeah. So I'm sure he was probably 185 at the 92 Olympia one Dorian. Yeah, I think the if I remember correctly, they fleshed the thing once I was reading at the could have been the 92 one. I think he was 186 was the heaviest. Yeah. He was 186. Right. And that's certainly not heavy at all. What I didn't mean is that. So what is Hunter? What is his stats? I think he was 246 something like that. Well, 247. I think different, right? Yeah. Yeah, his legs were phenomenal. Huge legs, really good arms. He is interesting because he had the same weak points and strong points that his dead had. Yeah. Great. He got his routine here. Hold on. Let me see if I can pull this up. I don't know if I've watched him, Hunter's progress. So the member in the first got into it, you'd see him and everyone's thinking, oh, maybe he might do a physical seat because you're the physique and then maybe he'll do classic as almost like he's going through a physical seat, classic straighting the body body. Yeah. Tess is routine. So we can kind of watch him do his thing. He does head a lot of the same poses as dad. He's going to let the lead the broader poses. John, you were there in the front row. Was this a convincing victory? Yeah, definitely. I didn't think it was close at all. What do you think clenched it from? Just morecompleteness? He just had everything. He was really full. He was real hard. His collar was fantastic. I don't know who did his collar, but he stood out because his collar was really, really good. Yeah, he just, uh, was a convincing way. I didn't think he would be in the Larry was really close to him. It was supposed to be real close for those two. But I thought he had him all the way. And I think in the same thing, gone by, you know, photos always had to tell, but I was saying overall, Hannah just looks overall like morecomplete. Pallies to the team, everything and looking at Ian, that just seemed like Ian, gone by photos again. Just looked a bit flat and he's just looked dirty, compared to. Yeah. Now, polish with right and looks. That's a perfect work for it. IMean, I think it's a perfect work for it. Look dirty, you know, and, and, uh, Hunter, his tan was just like golden. It was like really, really, really. What is, you know, he always have problems. I know he's very pale offseason, but, you know, we always tan. IMean, I was always in the tanning bed, you know, prior to putting coloring on just so that if you sweat, you're not going to have like zero underneath your, your, your, your color, you paint on. Right. I just think that the skin doesn't take the color as nice. When you have a good tan. I think something with you. I know, remember, basically use Jane Tannas sometimes. It would never stick under my body. Pro team would work and then I used to use my food contest, color, but there were certain things, wherever it was just the chemicals in the tanning. It would look good on me. But then as soon as I come up and start as sweating, it would just run off. It wouldn't take the my skin at all. So I guess maybe people need to start practicing a month or two out, which pain is going to stick to their body. Right. Right. And the funny thing is about this is that Ian is an absolute freak, you know, before he starts depleting downing at that last week of the show. Like I'm almost wondering if he's if he's over depleting for these shows because Hunter looks bigger than him in these pictures. And there's no way that Hunter is bigger than Ian. Excellent. I think they weighed about the same from what I heard on the podcast. It's really in came down that much. This is a guy who weighs two 70 on stage a lot of times, you know? Yeah, I think they're pretty close. I think they overdid it, maybe. Yeah. I've never been down by the pictures. They've been surprised if that Dwayne had a got into second place. Gone by photographs and stuff, but you can't really tell him that today is, I guess, the V in there. And it looked like it could have been fairly close for Dwayne. Can I ask him that guy was excellent. Wayne, he was excellent. I never saw him before, but man, he had, he was probably the hardest guy up there. Really, really good abs. And just a really good body. His conditioning was fantastic. I could have seen him in a second. Now talk to me a little bit about the Wayne Walker because we don't really know that much about him. A lot of people don't know about him. I love his insight. Yeah, I love his insight. He has great muscle separations. He's got good abs, try to relax. We don't see him. We've talked about him before. Some reason that we don't see a lot of try to pegs anymore. But this guy has got lots of, you know, crazy separation in his body. And he's got great separation. Great abs. IMean, a lot of these guys, you know, you see the guys from to rip boots and they're missing the abs. The abs are totally washed out. I see that more and more of these pros. Right. Not this guy. This guy had washboard abs. IMean, they look fantastic. And, you know, he always has a classic look to his physique. Doesn't he? Yeah, he does. Yeah, there's a lot to be said for, you know, coming in sharp and condition and separated. That's what Phil Heath was so good at. And that's what this guy has to. Very pretty physique. That's funny. If you have his shots, he's side on in different poses. He just looks like a small version of Tony Freeman coming up. That's a very, you're right. That's a really good comparison, you know? Yeah. I think givinGHim another couple of years to and he'll be. Yeah. I think this guy's going to go far. Who's really got a great physique. I'm impressed with, you know, just he has like almost like, it's like immature muscle like you know that you just wait for this guy's body to explode, right? IMean, like at some point he's just going to. He's going to just reach his potential. Yeah, so he's staying with when Ronnie Ronnie was competing when he started off as a pro. He had to everything. Yeah, but he had there soft looked at all the sudden one year just went boom. And you're like, yeah, right. Right. IMean, look at the glutes and hands right there. He seems like a very young guy too. So I think he's got a long way to go. Right. Look, you know, there was a lot of potential in the show for the fact that, you know, a lot of the international guys couldn't come in and compete here. I think we got a pretty good show and I don't know if it's because guys were diving longer for the show because, you know, I'm sure a lot of these guys were going to compete earlier and then they had to keep putting it off putting it off because the oldies show is getting canceled, right? Yeah, we'll like that classic physique guy. He said he was diving since February. Yeah. That's crazy, right? Yeah. I wanted to go under what they're eating now. Yeah. Exactly. But you know, that goes to show. I always say if, you know, it's the people that work the hardest to make it rewarded, you know, because If you put all that work and you don't give up, it's the guys that give up, they just get screwed, you know, because they're like, Yeah, because they don't even get to get one stage. They can complain all they want, but you know what? No one told you to stop diving. Just looking at the, I just looked at the comparison shots on page seven day, the last picture of the most sort of standing relaxed and the way 100 is looking there. He looks so much identical to Lee just standing there. Yeah. He, you know, he obviously Lee is definitely helpinGHim out. Obviously with, you know, all his, all his posing and presentation. He's not even posing. He's just standing there smiling. You'd swear it was a young version of Lee standing there. Right. He's got that same thing. He's got the same faces him. It's crazy. Yeah. He's got to get rid of the beard and get the mustache on then. Right now, you know, right? Because he did that together. He would be like a clone firm. It would be scary. Yeah. Yeah. And they're good to see. Like, I know I'm my daughter. She did a couple of shots in the same studio. I did wear in the same overalls. Twenty six years later. Oh, because I don't want that. The same pose. It's good to see. That's actually great. Hunter, grown my station. Do some old classic. Yeah. That would be that. It just for just for pictures. Yeah. Well, I'm Paris, and yeah. Let's talk about Phil Quahar, who I actually helped. And, you know, he was, you know, I said, you're going to do well in this show. Because I knew how well good his conditioning was. And, you know, he wasn't in the first quad at the pre-judging, but then he moved up at night and wound up finishing in fourth. He actually got the third place vote as well. So I'm talking to me about him, John. Yeah. He had a really good overall structure, a real big guy. Why? I would think the only weakness might have been his calves because you could see that in that. Yeah. That's, you know, he was lacking a little bit like the hamstring calves, but overall it's real big guy and really, really well conditioned. So another real strong competitor I thought. I told my kid, look, you just, you're still coming into your own. He put a lot of size on from last year from where we started working when I started working with him. And he said, look, you just, you're still, I know he's not like the youngest guy, but he's still like growing. He started late. You know, sometimes you start late. You don't peak collater. Yeah. Yeah, I do. Thank you. Well, you have a right spring as well. I don't know if I'm wrong. I'm wrong. Yeah. Nobody knows because he won. I think he might be in his late 30s because he won a man. He won the man. He got his pro card. She gets pro card down and like one of these like Caribbean championships or something. Yeah. That's something. See in that shot how wide he is and look at the guy. Yeah. Yeah. He's got a big structure on him and he can hold a lot more muscle too. That's what's going on. Yeah. Yeah. Let's, you know, when you see, well, let's talk about let's talk about the fifth place competitor. Because you know that that whole top five was really good. Ronald Gordon was was I think was super impressive too. I, you know, anyone at the top five really impressed me because usually in a pro show, you say, well, you know, the top two were good. But then everyone else sucked, you know, that wasn't the case at all here. You know, right. We had a lot of like really good guys in this top five and which which had to make the show really exciting to watch. Talk about Ron Gordon. And I think like you said, D for a second, David, which may be Ian overdiding. He just, I don't know. It just says that looking all the photos where he doesn't look confident. He doesn't look like, you know, he just looks like he doesn't want to beat it. Where everybody else is smiling. He's the hope stage presentation when you look at the E and he just like, well, you know, Lee, when you, remember when you showed up at the LMP with the lonGHair, you knew you were, you knew you were in a shape. And I could tell you were not your usual self. Oh, I was like, I was like, Donald, I was like, Donald, it's a week before. Yeah, I know. But you know when you're not in shape or something goes wrong. I think maybe he just wasn't confident. Look at this. Like everybody else is smiling and looking all right. Right. Even like he just just looks tied and with the, like I said, the team looking like that almost looks like it was a rush. Robin, I just looked like Todd or that one and be here. Yeah, I don't know what happened to me. Yeah, sometimes when you get stressed out your pH of your skin changes and it won't accept a color either. So that could be a problem. Ron Gordon though, look at this wacky shot. IMean, IMean, you look at this. You're like, this guy probably won the shot, right? IMean, that's what I see when I look at it. You know, he's got some wacky cool shots. Yeah, he could still fill out more and could still use the more thickness than you have for body, because he's still on the wide, but he's another real imposing guy. IMean, he could structure a long and it's height. IMean, he's got great genetics too. How cool would see John, do you know? I don't know. He seemed like he was taller than everybody else. I'm going to see like, well, Ian Valier is about what I'm with six foot, right? Yeah, I think you're in honor of what five and five nine. I think John says about five nine. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, so this guy had to be at least six feet. Oh, wow. IMean, look at that back double. IMean, he could be a little maybe a little sharper, but like you said, it's a little bit more muscle maturity maybe. Yeah, I just think like in his torso, it needs more size, but that'll find my guess with time. Yeah, no, I'm pretty impressed with the way he looks here. All those guys think great leg development. When they did that final call out, you know, and they were had Lee and Ian posing down against each other, were people going crazy? You mean, you should be sued me. Hunter, sorry. I don't think Lee Priest was in the shower for a minute. Oh, Jay. Yeah. I felt like the audience felt like Hunter had it all the way. I didn't really feel like it was a close thing. You know, it seemed like once he came out and did his routine, it was pretty dominant. And I think he established himself as the winner. Right, but you don't think that they did. Did they usually when they do those call out, the crowd goes crazy. IMean, IMean, I listen to New York, they do. Give me a little crazy. I don't know. I didn't have the top four. They didn't do the top two. No. Were you at pre judging? Oh, no. I wasn't a pre judging. They had the two person call out. And IMean, look how wide he is, but you're right. Look, he looks like he just got rolled out of bed there. And something definitely happened. I'll have to get him on the shot. I guarantee you had to get you the sick or maybe he was throwing up. I hope he doesn't have COVID. You know, are you worried about that junk going to the show? I don't know. Everybody's wearing a mask. So IMean, the hotel is really, really strict. Like when you walk, you did your temperature and everybody had a wear mask. And even when the show was over and everybody cried out into the lobby, he had the hotel employee standing on the stairs yelling at people to head their mask down. Oh, really? They were really really strict about that. Yeah. I just went through all of the ins pictures, the four pages. And you must have heard something on his mind because he's not smiling in any of them. No, IMean, who doesn't smile on stage? It's the first thing to hear. I'm surprised everyone that went that assured, it must have been like shit. I'm getting our temperature taken a bit of layoff to clen for the next two days. They're getting the shit out of the house. At least they weren't doing anal, anal temperature readings, and leave, right? Or the sun, the these guys might like them. My old house buddy Paul DeLett when they're going to visit the fake land and sit there a day. Sun on burn and up on burn and up sun. They could have been doing the anal temperatures. They could have given him that job. Yeah, you feel 90. Let's segue John, just real quickly. The figure champion. Let's let's play a farly. What were you think thoughts on how to see her on stage? No, I didn't. I just thought of that. Are you like black men? You don't even watch the girls come on. That's why you're a little out of it. We were wondering, right? So John's having trouble openinGHis eyes up. What is John Hansen drink? You know, when he drinks? I was having the cardi and coke. Nice. What somebody shares about that long, you go to drink, just to get through it. Right. Exactly. Look at this, Lee, look at this physique, though. IMean, this girl is, I never even saw her compete before. She is really good. What a bunch of what a set of quads are, right? We're seeinGHer for better. Phenomenal. Yeah. IMean, this girl is going to be, I think this girl is going to give some of these Olympic girls a run for their money. I think she's that good. I don't know if you guys agree, but I'm very impressed. Great structure. Yeah. Great legs. Right? IMean, she can always do women's physique, although her upper body is not as big, but, you know, I'm impressed. And Jennifer Dore won the, the, the, the, the promocene, did you see her? No. She's, she's, she's a, she's a perennial, obviously top Olympian. And I think that, you know, a lot of people just come and, they want to compete before the Olympic, you know, so this was their first chance. I thought they had a great bikini lineup or it was Bolbicene, Olympia girls in lineup here. She jumped back in when the wellness was on, didn't you, yeah. No, you missed that too. Oh, yeah. That's when he started doing shots. You know, I gotta tell you that the whole, the whole wellness thing is, you know, I've been pretty vocal about the fact that I, let's, I'm gonna pull up the wellness winner, okay? Who looked really good by the way? And I want you guys to distinguish for me, if you can. No. We see the, we see our bikini championship, Jennifer Dore, right? And now we're going to go to our wellness champ. You tell me the difference. Okay, Renee Hartley. Can you, what's the difference? I won head purple on, she's got white and gray. I need his theory difference. I don't know. What do you mean really? Do we really need another category? IMean, obviously, what if she looked from the back? Is there a lot of great from the back? But I'm just saying she's, IMean, the bikini girls have have nice round, you know, from the, when it really goes, you've got to see who's carrying the most money in their pouch, why look at it? I'm going to give you a booty shot because it's just fully pretty, just fully free. Yeah. I can't see that pose. How's that? Like glasses on too. All right. IMean, that, IMean, let me, let me, let me, let me, to spray it, I just don't see a difference between bikini and wellness. Now, does this, I thought, I thought they were going to much bigger, loose. This is the winner, this is the winner. This was the winner. I, to me, I think you could, you could put the bikini in, you could put wellness together. And I don't think there's that much of a distinction. Maybe it's a little more muscle and wellness. Yeah. I, look, you know what it is? It's a very big division down in South America. I've talked about this before. And the cost of that, they, and they running shows down that they, they had a sanction it is what it is a mouth or two. But I don't think it's, look, it's like it would be like coming out of the men's division. IMean, what else could we do? IMean, at the Olympian, instead of the two, 12, can we have the two, nine with it? Just, we should do the, you know, how they have those, you know, how like some like gay men like the hairy hairy guys. We should have the bear, we should do the bear division. We instead of, you know, instead of shaving down a putton tan on you, you come in completely pale with just a hairy chest that I don't know. And a bead. And a beard, right, a lot of hair. Now, we, we call it the bear division, you know, and. I can catch that. Why not? Sanchin it, right? Makes a money. Well, it's not going to be a thing. Well, this, well, unless you may, would, to me, it's almost like when they hear well, this is almost when you go to the just the normal nightclub, when they said to Hawaiian tropics, hunties. Yeah. Yeah. Similar to that, it just looks like they get a guy who's in good shape, looks like a model or a girl that looks like a model and they would win prize money and stuff and smell like coconut oil. But they're not, but the girls are a really good shape. That's the whole thing. If they're not just, they're not the key. They're not like bar room, high body kind of, you know, people. You know, if that was the case, I'd be like, all right, well, that's what they want. Fine. But if there's not a distinction like that, it's just weird. I got, I got to pull this one shot up. This is a great shot away. Oh, IMean, keep calling me. Oh, my God. Great shot of hunter, hold on. Is he doing that same pose there or what? He's doing this, doing the butt pose. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I'm sure you talked about George Peterson already, right, then. I talked about him yesterday. He did my rap at B.S. They're on him and you know what? How, Lee and I were speculating for how would, how would George have done in the open class? Oh, I think I'm in great. Could he have placed top three? Yeah, IMean, sorry to say how he would have looked next to the bigger guys, but, man, he looked fantastic. He was definitely one of the highlights of the whole weekend. Real. Yeah. That's a big deal. Not really. He was like, he was like, There's the thing like the Leela brought a back in the open days. Yeah. How's that shot of Hunter from behind? That's a great shot. IMean, look at the glutes, hands. IMean, the guys got a lot of muscle maturity for relative to young guy, you know? Yeah. I think he's going to be a future star. I was predicted he's going to win the Olympia. That's what Leela's prediction has been. Yeah. Do you agree? Yeah, I think it's possible for sure. And I don't even think it's back is one of his strong points right now. His arms and his legs are the strong points. But I think that's, that's like bad there. It's like I said, so when you're looking at him, he just says thEQuality is that a young Jay cutler head coming up in a new Jay head potential later on. And he went underwind the Olympia and he had a hunt that looking at Hunter, you sort of see he's got everything there. He just builds on it and does it smart and everything falls into place. Which he's doing. Before he would. Yeah. Well, John, thank you for, you know, even though you're drunk. Thank you for a recapping show with Leena. And obviously, Le is got a very bright future. We, Hunters got a very bright future. And I think I predict that Ian Valier will come back with the veterans, vengeance of the next show and we'll come in right, you know, full dance, ten. And I think he'll he'll win a pro show before the Olympia and we'll see him on the one of these stage. How many from this show qualify for the Olympia just the first or top three or the first and then you get points. So for the top five so. Okay. For the other guys have to build a, which which are significant, though, Lee, when you think about it because there's not that many pro shows before the Olympia. So if you get points in one or two shows, that could be enough to qualify for the Olympia, you know. Is that any more to more shows in the narrow. I don't even know how many more they're going to have. I near Crow right, we got still. What's the reporter? I a bit of a ask Nick strength. Yeah. John Hanson just statistics. I, but he's drunk. He doesn't remember anything. I know I got you cargo to right. That's right. Yeah. So the John does remember after going to a show that long, John's trying to fucking forget. He doesn't even need to call the get drunk. You get drunk just from being there that long. You get it, Lucy after while you're. Exactly exactly. Well, guys, thanks for joining me again. But this little Rx muscle news update on day polumba with Lee Priest and John Hanson. We'll see you next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: Heavy Muscle Show #34 Teaser [SSqd83jVc1c].txt ===

All you people look at me like I'm a little girl What do you ever think it be okay for me to step into this world? Oh Like you're this rumor that Jimmy Tom is a cockroach on the busier Yeah, there is actually a... People took a look at me and I'm heart beating That everyone took my pizza left Don't put it on your shoulders You can't do that

=== FILE: Heavy Muscle TV Show #27- Part 1- Juan Morel Talks to The Whack Pack [DuRGSAUEzR4].txt ===

Nive for the�RX muscles to your discs... is the heavy muscles無hhh.... with your muscles... Cause you're Neo's Dave um Uncle Century Lump Metal Ax Sh Et meible tube AAAHH Ya dragons Chettles and my friends Welcome back to the episode. It is August 17th, 2011, and we are here at the RX Muscle Studios in Westbury, New York. And I am here with the entire WAC. We have a full studio today with some very, very interesting guests. People coming as far as California into the studios here. It is very special guests sitting to my right here is Juan Diesel Morelle, who was just came off his second place, finished in the super heavyweight class at the USA Championships. Getting ready to the North American to be hired in the studio and do a little posing with the IFB Pro Chris Cormiero. Yeah, awesome. He's a beast. I learned a lot from him and he's told me a lot and you know what we actually spent an hour and a half, but at the USA in a little high-fowler he was able to fix my routine, fix my posing so that night time, he commented on how much better I look, how much better my posing was and it was just a little bit of a half hour. Now in an hour and a half he taught me today a lot of things that I know is going to come and hand he comes to us from now. Isn't it amazing though? You think you know how to do all the work in the gym, you do the diet, and then it comes to something as silly as getting up on stage and posing and it's little details that really make it huge difference. And we're going to talk a lot about this with Chris a little bit later in the show, but I'm happy you're in the studios. I wanted to congratulate you on your second place, finished in the super heavyweight class. And hopefully you'll be cominGHome on IFB Pro at the North American Championships. Hopefully, God willing, IMean I worked hard for it and I feel that I feel this is going to be my day. September 2nd, I feel like I'm going to be a pro. Give us a little give us an arm shot or something like that so we can show the guys what's going on here. Wow. One morale gate has been gaining steadily 10 to 15 pounds of muscle every single year since I think IMet you, which was abouT4 years ago. It's almost incredible when you think about it because a lot of guys can't gain one or two pounds of muscle here. Well you got me eating all the time. You can't just lose. Don't tell the world you've done a lot of unbelievable even. But we have a few more celebrities in the house. We have Jeremy the casting director here. I want to just congratulate you. You had been falling off the cuff a little bit in the last couple weeks. You booked guests, they never showed up. This week, however, we have a full house and you have a special guest coming in from New York City who does explain what she does. Well, her name's Kat and she actually does a little bit of a bunch of things. But she has a DVD out for a... Oh, I want to do a bunch of things. She does sex or size basically. Well, kind of yes. It's exercise for better sex. So she has a DVD. It's functional. Right. And she also trens people. A little on the kinky side. So if you want to get that kind of trening going, I'm sure she has a whip or something she could whip you in the shape. She looks right herself. And you guys are going to see that I think she's going to be a good guest. So this is a good, a way to find Kat. Actually, my best friend's dad is her account. So Jeremy always has... So it's like six degrees of Jeremy, the cast. Oh, it's like Kevin Baker. Yeah, he knows everyone's somehow. We got a Jeff to produce with his new haircut over there. Well, you know, again, I can't match this guys because the wind is coming from this direction. It's kind of pushing it that way. Mine, the wind's coming from beneath. So it's going straight up. He's got that like swoopy haircut. I'm trying to think of what Cartoon character has that little swoop. Oh, that's right. The, uh, we're like with the blonde hair, right? There you go. That's it. I'm going to talk with Chris, quite a bit of throwing in from the side lies there. We also, of course, have Magnus Magnificent. Oh, hi, hi. Hey, hey, hey. Hey. Now, uh, you have, uh, I wanted to ask you before we start the show officially. My, uh, my earring that I got, my ear that I got pierced and, uh, we had Lisa here from Bill and Sheaware. That's finally healed a little bit. Where I could actually lay on my head. How is your nipple piercing? They got nothing. Payingly once. No, no. Let's give us a little preview. Let's see what it looks like here. Let's perfectly play the main point. Very willing to show my dad. Still there. And you have even doing the, uh, the care. The care. Not that the day for, I think these, uh, alright. It's a little bit more. I'll be more, just. I'm staring at the cat. So, I'm going to be a show. He's not on the other side. He's not on the other side. He's not on the other side. He's not on the other side. Oh, right. Jeff, is that for me? Yeah, no, it's because Chris showed me that if I pose a third of the way, I would flex the decand such it direction. Why don't I hit the little ghost deck up? Wait, what type of press that Lisa say I had? She took the book was the day she gave it to me. You had that sat nipples. No. IMeant, meaning, meaning in the post. It's very cool. It's the meaning of both now. Um, so. You gave me a couple pictures here and you told me that you became a mess that was a, no, that I's made methadist of the day, that they had their eyes. Oh, you were methadist of methadist of methadist. And they had the end. a barbecue and their pastor in Reppent Duan, he's a really cool guy and he said like I'm just making sure that's past the loo and with despite my reading, there were very nice people, there's satinists, they came up with the two years at the church and he's really, really hip and he said I'm going to make you Methodist of the Day and they welcome me, he introduced me to the congregation, he told them that I was writing a book that it's coming out in December, which I thought was all very grateful and they tweeted me with a little like a family, you're very open to religious beliefs because you were, I think a rabbi for a day and that was cool and I've now owned a methadist and I've got a shower, Chris just kicked out that other swamps down, I got a chance to call the little piece of happen which is going to be in my next book and it's that I'm desparking to pick, like it's just a delight for little, what's your next religious expert are you going to become a Muslim for the day? yes and my first assignment, I'm going to blow up America and that's going to be my first assignment I'm going to become a Buddhist, I think that would be cool, it's got might be the Hindu, I can do it, I like that but I'll maybe open to different people, like the types of religious beliefs maybe you should report me, we should send a camera crew with you when you go on these religious beliefs you'll be 72 virtues but I don't care what we're looking at such a distance, long as who you are super excited, you like to festive aspect of the religion, more so than the actual like the Bible says, right in the closet and whatever you have to do that, it's a matter of the way to say, I see the best place to praise the closet because the hypocrites I have, the ifleaching and the minute you hear somebody preaching, you know, they have to create. what do you always say, love thy? they buy, never love thy, enemy, now I know she have this, you've been very excited about this peanuts book here, this is great, now I just want to before you go into what why you have the peanuts book here and probably a lot of our viewers like Pete the intern probably doesn't even know what peanuts is. yeah I do, it's what you eat, you eat peanuts. Peanut's. yeah it's over. Pete's never, he's too young I tell you, this is like from our generation Snoopy and Charlie Brown. I know Snoop Dogg. When I look at this book that this is great. I know it's a library book because I haven't seen a library book and well I didn't know people went to the library anymore because with the book. Oh, I throw it like so, especially you should step up. I'm still busy because I think that people just go online and download books, it's a cult sprinGHop a lot for every and it has cult sprinGHop, but that's a 13 million dollar Why did the libraries put those plastic coverings on the books to make sure that they're not far you Dox or cats, so anything like that what it is I got you and what's the what's the our special occasion The 13th of the 16th anniversary and it's a great book and I draw shorts the author the writers Child Shops is the author and I thought it was really cool that he passed away 50 and he was the me out the day he's I guess she learned after 50 years how to do it. How to do it. Yeah, it's exactly like bunny host First quarter me as on his second slam shot You'll get used to be by the end of the show You You Life is paying Life is dedication Life is pressure Life is 28 Sp<|zh|>ian is evolutionary nutrition the species line of products champion original thinking and carried for process to its larger conclusion in the form of Supplements that's strictly alert to the corn nutritional principles of Dave Pulombo founder of species nutrition Visit species nutrition.com to purchase the next generation of high quality supplements available today They're full here to the theory of a choice election Consists and all the fit survive species nutrition.com This is eight time missile Olympia Lee Haney and you listen to our ax muscle that calm Let me go back to one for a second one talk to me a little bit about you know How hard is it to IMean you've been diving a long time now you did the USA championship now you had a continue diving I know you're eating a lot of food, but after a while it becomes mentally tiring IMean how do you get through the day and how do you get through your work? It's it's funny because one a Jeff will send me emails aT4 in the morning right I'm thinking what does this guy do in up? He's dieting and then I realize he's waking up for the day. Wow. I'm obviously still awake I know you're still awake down. Yeah My boy is up. How do you motivate yourself every day when you get down to the mini-gritty? I love motivate myself is honestly I have a passion for this sport. IMean I love Body I love working out. I love doing everything that I do so is like I don't do this just because all I'm gonna get this and get that That's just a plus that I can actually get a career out of you. You do it for free. Yes, pretty much is what I'm doing for now You have to do it for free. It's costing you quite a lot. Yeah. Yeah But um, you know, IMean I just I first of all love trening anybody who sees me in the gym knows I love trening I love tren hard I cannot back down and like oh, you know where I'm gonna lift the plate today and Quarter the workout and just going in jerk-wreck. No, I can't do that. I love to tren But um it gets hard right now because I'm tired My body's just I guess my body fat levels as soon as so it's like So how do you get out of bed every morning and say I'm gonna go to the gym? I'm gonna do my workout Well, I can get myself an option. I just get up Wow, and that's important because I think a lot of people do get themselves the option some people in the list of options One of the options is I'm gonna eat extra food today one of the options is I'm not gonna do the cardio And one of the other options is that I'm gonna complain about it and you don't seem to have those in your option list No, IMean This is something I chose to do and why am I gonna complain about it first of all? I love it IMean, you know, it's hard it gets hard at all That can begin in the start of easy eight weeks out you're still you know pretty good Once that level by fat goals be on the certain point You just feel like crap all the time no matter what and you know you just If you feel like shit, but you have to tough it out and especially if you want to be a champion You want to be a winner, you know, IMean you have to be able to to me I don't restrict myself and give myself no limitations. There's nothing I would not do To be my opponent. I would do whatever it takes whatever it takes. Let me ask your question This is a serious question more serious question Relationships is it hard to stay in a personal relationship with someone when you're when you're It is IMean it's very hard no one understands very hard a few people understand yeah, IMean IMean IMean I had a few relationship one That I had which was the longest that I had was like two years what I was doing is we didn't break up because about it Because she was very she knew how to get in my space the last eight weeks But what I've had problems with recently is girls like you know they just Get to the point they get clinging in like the last eight weeks you tell them like listen Oh, can I I need some space and that what you're in a relationship you can't have space And I'm like well listen, I need to do this. I need to do that. I got to I got to I This is stuff I kind of do and they want me to take our time listen I'm talking about a week of a relationship For me to do something that is very it's for my career You have your career. I'm trying to do my career now. I feel he's being focused on what he's doing Yeah, I do you have do you lose relationships matters? You're with your theory me with the writing and you're fighting the selfie just say it's I'm passionate about what I do the writing comes first before I anybody so you so you have trouble staying in a relationship Because of the fact you're so passionate about you're writing the You might blow and girls off a little bit I see how focused he is I have a goal and I'm trying to get to where I got to get to anything the same I think it's anybody who's with me and if this I'm in a relationship with somebody They have to understand now this is something I'm gonna be doing for the rest of my life All four as long as I can do it is if eight with I'm action for eight weeks You know, I'm still there. I just I need to you know you need to be supportive of that and be there by my side If I need to some time alone because even as human beings we all Need our space I'm a person I love my space I Have to be for the minute I wake up next to you to the minute I go to bed It's like the man that takes a special moment I'm watching woman IMean I was space you understand this man this because I he actually took a photograph of his Facebook page and he's gave it to me here and it I To take you on my face if he has a couple girls to say I'm so excited for your book magnets another girl who says I cannot wait I cannot sleep at night thinking about when I'm gonna be able to see I didn't People are looking forward to your book, but yet you know these girls don't understand you need your time to write this I'm not all that I'm a shameless promoter I see no and I love the promoter So these women think that you're like a media horror? Yes, I know that IMean I'm shameless at it and I'm good at it and I don't hope back it what I do and I need to promote myself And they don't understand why I need to be constantly going up to total strengers telling what I'm doing To problem it's a problem well we can Explosive Jeff what about you when you uh, you know, you don't you don't compete and you don't I don't I don't I don't I don't I I don't do anything at all right? I don't even read the fucking world sandwich When you are you? When I what I audio at it, I you know I have to let my girl know I'm like look woman I have to fucking audio IMean I have the audio at it So allow me to audio it. Yeah, that's usually what I told them Yeah, but usually it's you know, they they run away for the water they always can't do Anyone without the okay deal with with giving the men their space we want to hear from you Right us please and we will bring you into the studio Maybe we'll have a set up a get a date with Magnus or something like that I'm gonna date with one that might go be a little more popular but for now we do a commercial break IMean come back Chris for me over here

=== FILE: Heavy Muscle TV Show #27- Part 2- Chris Cormier in Studio [O8yjDJ307Vs].txt ===

...lives from the R Worth's muscles to your fists! Is this the Heavy Bottle Show? With your hands saved on the wall! ...seem to lay the neck back! Shaving practically, Peter K. Lovely Ар Fleisch! Tell him not to let those process burn! All right, while the back of the break on the break, while we were waiting, I heard a motorcycle revving its engine and look who walked in at Jimmy the bull. Did you actually hear it from outside? I heard it from outside, yes, I did. I was actually just ready to dock you too. It was just about the co-baked of the Texas. That was a big talk to me. I thought it was like, I've fortunately, I just got off work so I had to, I just... You've been working a lot? Yeah, I'm exhausted man. You look, I don't know if you look bloated or if you just look bigger. Have you been trening? Uh, it's probably a little boat, you know? Probably more bloated than anything. Yeah. Yeah. I get a lot of, a lot of Turkey's slumber wouldn't work. I guess the salt retains a lot of weight. Why is it that they do a lot of the guys that do construction and trucking and so that they like the Delhi sandwiches? Is that just because it's simple? Are you easy to access? IMean, I usually make mine the night before. But I, but I, by Turkey, that's what I eat all day. I just said that. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about 20 Pepsi's. Now we have Chris Cormier, I FBB Pro and now Venice Gold's Jim officionado trener of Champions. In the studio's oil from Venice, California, Jimmy. You guys make the same. I got a guy's man, way back when in the Palm Springs Gold's Jim. Yeah. Yeah. Talk to me, Chris. IMight have never said you met him. Right after the earthquake, IMet him. Wasn't there an earthquake down there? Man, he had a bigger earthquake than, was I in the one of California? It was like, wasn't it down at Palm Springs? Because you said you were selling shirts, shaking bake? Was that you? Was that you? Was he doing? Was he doing? No, I couldn't swim. I went over his house. Yeah. And that time, you know, Chris was an entrepreneur. He was making money anyway he could. I was making a big, I was making a more year. No, I actually, I, yeah. I asked him where's shaking bake, you know, what that means? Because because the desert, you know, shake in the bake. Because it was an earthquake in the desert. So it was going to shake. So that's something that doesn't matter. It's a little confused effort. No, it was an earthquake. That's what the shake in bake is. Yeah, shake in bake. It was a dinner game. It was a dinner game. It was a kind of point, but it hit hard down in Palm Springs. Yeah. I've never experienced an earthquake. Thank God. What does it feel like when you're actually in it in the midst of one? Is it scary? The decent Andrews Float line runs right through Palm Springs, right Chris? Is it scary? Is it scary? Is it scary? Is it scary? It's close. Is it you, I'm certain when it's going to stop. You're like, when you're going to stop. When you're moving around. You're going to home pool with empty out. And shit, really? Yeah, for most of the people who have empty out. Like, they cracked the pools. Just the whole, the Earth. The Earth is a world like a mitigation. Like, if it took a shit in the water, actually, do you fly out of the pool? Oh, no. Oh, no. It's fucked up. Ripples. I tell you exactly what it feels like. If you want to get it, have a feeling of what it would have kids feel like. If you stood on a, got out of your car on the Wingsburg Bridge or Varnas on a bridge and you stood on the bridge. I wouldn't move a little bit. Yeah. You could feel the weight of the bridge. You know, as a first day, give a little bit. You can swathe in the, that's what that's what it feels like. You could feel like the weight of the Earth. It's a, it's a weird feeling. Because I wasn't, to what I'm a Santa Monica. No, was this, when you and Chris met in Palm Springs, was this when you were living at a Connor's house? Yeah, I was living at, did you hear the story about how he wrecked that Connor's house? Oh, I didn't hear it. He did $20,000 worth of damage to that house. Oh, I saw people molesting 20 cells. Oh, yeah. That's what they say, man. I don't know. Yeah. I don't know what he said. And I told me, we're in this house. Yeah, yeah, it probably came with that. It's not a, you know, no kind of shit up. Yeah, they were throwing shit in it. Yeah, of course. What was he lifting that? Chris was a very, you know, strong lifter back in the day. Yeah, what? Did you guys ever do any kind of chess work? That's when you were at your best, you know? I'm kind of stood in the style. I was like, I could quite, you know. You were teenagers back then. But I was quite a bit. We trened in the same gym. No, we, you know, we, you know, and then we started hanging out a little bit. And we were doing kind of cool. Funny, he's cool. He always told me to talk out of food. I can't, you know. I think I eat y'all. Hey, oh, hey, oh, hey, oh, hey. I thought, but that's so funny. I got a booty show. I thought it showed. You were a muñe, we kind of can hang out. Yeah, go to the movies and live. And that's when I got the whole idea, when we started selling the shirts to shake a bit. Yeah. We'd go, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I was just, just amazed by how strong you were. Oh, it's brutally mean. Oh, this is not my, I just can find that way. There are that boyd arbor, they don't move the shirt. Yeah, they don't move the shirt. They don't move the shirt. Yeah, we don't go, we're about to get it. Don't worry about it. Get the fuck out of here, you fucking asshole. It's an Italian expression for a wine. You're a fucking asshole, you're a fucking asshole. You're a fucking asshole, you're a fucking asshole. You're a fucking asshole. You're a fucking asshole. You're a fucking asshole. You're a fucking asshole. Yeah, that we, that mean, we've kissed had a mutual friend too. We're the time we had this, this, this young kid, jazzed him, he's jarrid. Right. Is he starting to? Crystal knows every, it's amazing. It's crystal. He's actually with everyone still. Crystal knows every person he ever made. He's still in contact with everyone. Yeah. He knows, he doesn't matter what city this guy goes to. He's got a guy there. He's got a house he could stay in. So he's got a pick him up from the airport and he's got a place to tell a foreigner. He's like, well, why? Why? He's got a place to tell a foreigner. He never, because he doesn't break out. You know, when you meet someone, you might never talk to them again. He stays in contact with everyone this guy. That's good, darling. He's good. He only lives once. He's the lot. The twins always take people home and give a shit. That's, that's cool. I like that. So anyway, this guy, you know, we, we were like, I don't know if IMet Jarrett first and then Chris or Chris first and then Jarrett. I think IMet you first and then then Jarrett came along, right? Yeah, because he was trying to be a body. He was trying to work out. Yeah, right. He was trying to like, you know, do all buffered stuff, you know, but then that met his girl, you know? What is girl like, like, she's hot, man. I want to bang us so bad. Really? Yeah. Yeah. At that time, maybe early 20s, maybe. Cause then he's got a club. Then we, that's when that's when it was cool because elders risked themselves. But they had, that's when when when the pump paid. Yeah, pump paid. Spreens paid. Oh, people would go to their for spring break. The five spring. Oh, spring break was unfuck and believable, man. I never even knew they had a fucker spring break down. I didn't even. All the sudden one weekend was like fucking mob to what happened. I started trying people away because they didn't want it. Okay, one year they didn't want to have the G strings on the back of the bikes. That was the best part. I don't even try to cut that out. You can kind of cut out the different. Yeah, they were breaking balls. Yeah. IMentioned people's marks that when they start going to the river or else, or elsewhere. And then now they're like, oh, please come back. Please go back. They didn't realize how good they had. The best part was, he's seen rice burners coming down the street. Oh, it was like a bike week. Spring break went to have the kids brought all that fucking. It was, it was the bikes. You should say anyway, Mingler started short. They used to buzz around their old ladies on the back. Right. IMean, how the girls got to sit on those things. You know, you know, You know, The fluorescent color, uh, G strings on. The town people got upset with that. I didn't get upset. I loved it. I know what happened with this guy, Jeremy. I was in a couple of accidents. What if we're looking at that is? What happened with this Jared's girlfriend? Did you ever have sex with her? Well, what happened was, uh, you know, uh, I tried to, I tried to ask that. Oh, the rock that was happening. Yeah. Yeah. I have been, you know, I hit on a couple of times, but you know what it was, uh, It, it Jared, like kind of looked up to me. And she felt bad. She felt bad. She felt bad. Oh, so you're right. Yeah. I don't feel bad. So you're right. It's a good idea. Yeah. She was like, I was head of like it. And then she was like, Get her own, generally looks up to you, you know. Christopher. Oh, man. Uh, she was fine, man. He was too young. You were still toninGHis shoulders. Yeah, we were too. She was too. I'm a, you know. She was too nice. I don't know if you're aware of it, Jimmy, but it's going to be, It's Chris's 44th birthday this weekend. And that's why he's going to be going out. Oh, we're going to do some body and yeah, he's going out. Where are you going out in the city this weekend? I don't know. I think my body bones were going to bring me somewhere. But where are we? Yeah. Where's the part of his real, Paul? No, no, no. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, Jeff, the producer just woke up. The one thought you were talking about. Yeah, no, they still run. Paul, when who's at the maniac? Hopefully. Yeah. Have a day of the day. Didn't they have like a, they, they opened the world wide. Pono was something. We have a TV show. Oh, so. So, what's going on there? Are they having their own guys? No, these two, we met these guys from Israel. Yeah. Yeah, it was, yeah, it was off. I think everyone's going to vote off a game. And then the guy, and then see, Oh, uh, Zion. And then we're going to see. And then we're going to see what was the purpose. I don't know the hotel, holiday, holiday, uh, long time. What was the purpose of the, if you had to tell him something. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The black little curly hair, who is best friends with the old firm in the, and bow. I thought that was off the loop. Hopefully, we're doing a TV show. So, you got that kind of feel. I know, yeah, yeah, yeah. These guys, uh, they're from Israel. You know, of course, we met them in the gym stuff. But, uh, yeah, right, they were bodybuilders, you know, but, uh, Why not one more than that movie with on the floor? Oh, that's old for several, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. That was a little over. That was a little over, right? No, over. That was bigger. I was in the movie. Yeah, yeah, that fight went on and the bathroom scene. Remember that? The group on the department. That's okay. That's what I wanted to say. That's the guy you should be with the friends. For my. Yeah, I think, I think that they should edit that name out of that one, but I, but, uh, I think they're going to win away. They're going to win away. They're going to win away. They do, they sell porn on tape. Pretty good, man. They sell porn? No. No, you don't want to talk about it. Life is paying. Life is dedication. Life is pressure. Life is p28. The shooting is evolutionary nutrition. The species line of product champion original thinking and carries it for the process to its larger conclusion in the form of a unique supplements that's strictly alert to the corn nutritional principles of Dave Palabo, founder of species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com to purchase the next generation of high quality supplements available today. To purchase the next generation of high quality supplements available today They're full of here to the theory of a choice election It sits and all the fits survive species nutrition dot com This is the heavy muscle show With your host Steve You This is Dexter Jackson Mr. Lampieu and you're watching all right's most of dot com for the best covers of the Dexter Jackson classic Let's go back to So your friend Beau who's not the bow is in the portal boys. He's the guy who lives in this and you are The bow is taking you to posh. He said which it used to be called the sound factors And I know you've been there many times Sound factor. Yeah, I know you've seen the ceiling many times And you have to produce a happens to luck posh. That's one of his Well, I liked it. I liked it when it was still sound factor. I didn't go there as much John John You know I'm surprised you by You know I just I just just came to my mind. I was in Vegas And I walk it to the fucking night club right and there's Chris on our fucking one of those podium standing up there with a white Jock strap on So that's when you got naked in the thinGHe stripped down and then you've lost his metrics kind of check because of that But he was just a guy He was Probably the worst person the walking would have been Scott Kyle you should have pulled him around What's got his kind of bomb anyway, but you know He was He was really That's right He's protected at the clubs, but not this bad guy if I abandon that night What kind of shit happened? Yeah, white van sites white me Did you do anything about it? Yeah, I changed the van down And I started beating on the fucking door and everything Scott told me that I'm how to go get me You see a wild didn't there you see I didn't take much man for me. You know, I had to hit trigger fucking pepper Well now you go in there. I am assuming you know usually people get the posh at 430 in the morning They don't usually go early. I don't know when you're going you'll probably be there all night. I assume right I'm sure victorly yeah, I remember leaving posh. I wanted for in the morning In Victor was just getting there, so you know he goes out with the lady crew Exhausts gone but the saffectors are placed by poshers in the same building it's the same club essentially No, I got a couple of guns at least second give you a go Hey, the wicked kitty Oh Later on the show we have cat who does exercise for better sex It's gonna be damn interesting If you're gonna light me she can recommend some places maybe she lives in the city so oh Well, let's talk about like latrapies and the now carousel Marks he doesn't like you. Yeah Laughing Shit So that you don't mad I go I just pick a chicken on a street we go You're not really a couple you just go Yeah In my experience I would think that the swingers are the people kind of ugly in these places I don't know my stood up you don't even care Whatever's best thing you got to a swingers club yeah, yeah, they ever seen any high girls in any of these places Yeah, what's it? On the other side with evidence that it wasn't always honest about huge Bet Swim Fight it Beggolepes Bodybuild a girl Just fat. Fat. Where's this working on his fourth slabs? Where's everybody taking their rounds? They were just at a hand and there and there. But it was cool. Then I was like a bunch of them grouped around his wine now. The problem is that all the guys want the hot curl. So the other girls are just laying around and getting nothing, basically. And then it was one of Chicago about being tired. I had a wrestling in it. Really? Yeah, have you do it? Have this one? I think it was, you know, within a little always got it. You know, you can appreciate their pose and shit. Really? Right in the club? White, yeah, white. Oh, they don't want to be a bigoted. They're making it in me. It was white powder substance, right? Around. I'm trying to. Oh, no. I ain't just like a couple of things. Cat is. Cat is. Cat is. You're going to go. We're going to get tired on the next floor. It's a bra. I'm going to get tired on the next floor. I'm going to get tired on the next floor. I'm going to go and experience. I'm going to experience. What? Are you doing? Let's hold this talk. His cat seems to want to participate in this conversation. So we're going to save it for, for, for, I have to go. Actually, I wanted to just introduce one other person. We got the zapped stoners in the studio again. Yeah. He's back. Any any. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. Where's it going? Good for you. I would, huh. What did you know? What did you bring in for us? I used it for wrapping to. What does it mean? It was pretty good. Will Sam get a smoke this? What is this? Actually, ... What? This is, looks like sitwheel, and kick... Shit for you. Just not. Shit. Hey, this huge drop in water, has a shit's. I was just joking. At this huge drop in water, I didn't expect a shit man to come. Hell no man There's a ringo was wrapped around sushi, maybe. Not bad actually. I got a big story salty man Would say okay Why they called okay can they look okay? Okay? Hell no, I don't know Jelly bean He's a mushrooms He's a psychedelic mushrooms ThEQuestion these act Of course, I don't know if you don't never met Zach, but Zach does this is this is a stick now everyone who comes on this show Ghosts is herEQuite down So See we this guy everyone does this show what comes on this show works at Zach works out But he doesn't he doesn't do trening with weights. He does a robust classes. He does Day long you give the guys some more to me We have to take the time I'll stop you to fuck this shit Cuz it feels good Yeah, he does like everyone who do like the step class He's trying to help he does he hangs out in the back I saw him I like the seaweed the seaweed is good. I think I'm tripping on it I also IMake some cake I would be surprised with this No, don't touch me. What is that? That was fucking nice hey man. What kind of cake two girls won cupcake Homemade by myself What else you got in my guess I was trened I just had eel in here Are you tripping? Chris you're the expert here. What do you think he's doing? What would you guess the X to see? Milk Bobby amountus. I've fallen to You guys went to swing би style we need that stuff right? All right, you know what? Let's go to commercial break. When we come back, we're gonna have cat. No, exercise, exercise, exercise, exercise. What do you have? Yeah, when I advertise my food, some people... 90's dance dance. Oh, oh, what the fuck is that? Yeah, barge! You see it! He just wants his art. I feel like I'm giving shit. IMean get on hard. Oh my god. Yeah, I don't know. I'm not being. That's enough for that shit. Wait, wait, wait. If you want to. I don't want that yet. All right, we'll be back in two minutes. Fucking damn paws. So show you. All right, but it sounds like a harder ritual myself. Don't know what he'll do for you. Okay, let's go now. You'll know where they're going now.

=== FILE: Heavy Muscle TV Show #27- Part 3- Kat Teaches Exercise for Sex [4yNUUJ8TQjk].txt ===

N quote, You're watching. Mr. Kaye. You're not me. Shit, I've got to break some servers. All right, welcome back from Break. Zach the stone is still here eating. I guess you... How much we did smoke today? Yeah, that was not enough. That ain't smoking. Yes, you did. How much did it? I don't think that's enough. Let's go to our next very special guest. We have a really star-packed show here. We have Chris Quarmear and we have Jimi the Bulls. It luckily graced us with his presence this week. We have to be absent. And we have cat from exercise for better sex. Thank you for coming through the studio. Jeremy found you somewhere in the city through his accountants, brother and lawyer, something like that. And talk to me about what you do. I do fitness for better sex. I've been a trener for about seven years. And... What do you tren people? Right now independently, but I did the whole near sports club, Rribox, but I actually all met Dr. Koo. And now I tren with myself independently. And I focus on fitness for better sex because I believe actually, to be honest, having a lot of sex helped me this week. So you believe in sex? So rather than this you believe in functional exercise then? Yes. Also part of the motivation behind it is that I lost a little weight when I started having one of those sex. Now when you saw the new sale a lot of sex, Chris is looking at the nibble that's sticking out of your shirt. So... I'm looking at a breast still. Yeah, help it. No. When you say you've had a... What do you say a lot of sex? What do you define? Because Chris and Jimmy might define that as something different. What would you consider a lot of sex? Oh, gosh. How many times a week? How many times a week? Why not? How many times a week? I'm not asking you how many people you have. I'm not asking you how many times a week. How many times a week? How many times a day? How many times a day? It has changed. I was 31 and I was kind of having weight issues until I was 26 and then I had my big ePIPhany. And that's when I started having sex. I'll be honest on a daily basis. How many times at one time today? Two times a day? Four times a day. And so times on people were involved. Also you believe in multiple parties then. I don't know if my plan was about. No, I don't know. We have to get back around on you first of all. I didn't spend the whole day. I didn't have a lot of time. Jeremy did a good job. I like to do a lot of research. To be perfectly honest, this down playing against. But I was a big, then-jeer. Like, I used to binge eat every day. It was an uncontrolled until I suddenly became multi-air guys. I was like, start having all kinds of sex. So I did research behind it. There was a big correlation. So you became a being sex person. I don't think I switched addictions. But after about a year or two, you were going crazy at calm down. Okay. Now, let's talk a little bit. You said multi-air gazzmic. Yeah. What would define what that means? Because some of our viewers are not that a versed in sex. I especially like Magnus and the sex. I can't. I can't. I can't. Oh, I don't know. Okay. According to Taoist belief men can be multi-agazmic. Well, obviously, I'm a woman. So it's just, it's kind of like a- Chris, you multi-agazmic. Yeah. I used to shoot a bit harder than that. So you say multi-agaz means you can have, or guys is one after the other. Yeah, you're like a roller coaster. And how many can you have in a row? Like, what was your record? I don't really keep calm, but I realized that once I had about 20, I started to... Detired. Yes. Okay. Now, when you say you've had, you like to do different combinations of people. Like, we talking to women, to guys, three guys, three women. I'm doing the good thing. I've been there everything. And that year and a half, two years. You've done every combination. Swing gloves, pink parties. What? I was just gonna, you know, you read my mind. Chris, you guys are both just doing the right thing. You read my mind. I was just gonna, I was just gonna ask that question. I have, for a few times in my life, but to be perfectly honest, I did not feel better than radio orgasm. That's me personally. It looked, it's, it's, it's more visual. If you think about it, Chris, though, you can do a lot of sheets and stuff like that. Yeah, and then it's how old is it? So, the fuck is wrong with that? My best friends were, she gets the whole bed just like... Oh, really? That we should have brought her out. But let's talk a little bit about our team. I don't know what to shot the face. That's what I just, my, just like the slam shots. That's my dad. Have you ever been shot in the face? Yes, man. I'm so worried. Did you look at all that? No, no, I'm so afraid of my face and she can't really. You're just, trench my whole fuckinGHead. Life is pain. Life is dedication. Life is pressure. Life is p2a. 1a. This is the X-Men Tony Freeman. You're watching our X-Men. She's going to show us a program. She's got a DVD called Fortra, Kill a Workout Killer Roy Guysom. This is available at FortraDvD. It's full of facts. It's full of facts. It's full of facts. It's actually a very good fat burning 30 minute workout. Straight pencil muscle. I do see. Does it tickle a little bit? It's actually a good thing. I'm looking at some of these pictures here and I see girls making out what he chose. Is this part of the whole video? Well, we have Fortra. We've got frequent orgasms. We're very good for weight loss overall health. It's just really workout. I think it's all sex-related. That's the one I'm talking about. That was the main motivation behind anyone getting a shape. What do you believe that? What do you prefer? What's your favorite video? I can't ask a question. I want to see something interesting. I want to know what's in all her experience. What was the favorite stuff you like to do? Well, to be honest, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You kind of worked it all out already. Yes. One out of time? What's the most outrageous thing you ever did? I think we could a lot of judgment. This judgment was freesome. Chris has definitely done worse than you have. You could possibly say it was a trust me. I had sex with a horse. Oh, no. It's not made. No, no. No, no. I've told you that the crazy thing you did. The thing you liked. Oh, my god. I can't believe I did that. I told you about my first sex party experience. I usually see my own party. There's just an equal guy, a real ratio. But in this party, there were more guys. That night, I came into the scene. The lifestyle of saying I had a sentence. 10 guys at one time. I had to say 10 guys at one after the other. And then I did the same thing in one later. Real. I was saying the life you liked it. You liked it now. Yes. But then I got to go. Do you notice that these swing parties at the girls tend to be ugly? IMean, you probably are like a big thing. It's kind of ugly. Oh, the guy is so ugly. No, it's really hit or miss. It's really a risk. You know, because the entrefee is like. I'm going to get a ton of showers. Right. Right. Right. What if you swallow that like mean to swing club? Would you be like, Jimmy, if you don't turn that fucking phone off, you're out of here too. I'm sorry. What are they going to do? I don't even know how to laugh. I'm here. Put it on my best thing. So let me get back to that question. You've got to shut it off now. You're going to face so good to the lady over here. No. What are you hiding down here? Let's get it. Let's get it. What are you looking at? Jimmy breaks about his decision. I've told you that. We try to have them mold it with one of these molding kits called corner willy. He never brought it in. So I'm assuming that he probably does not trust him. He might just had a killer fuck a moment. This guy. That's the girl. I really good question. Probably people want to hear. What if he would start with a fucking willy? IMean, you're fucking. You're fucking. You're not. Fuck willy. You're willy. Can I ask you a question about this? I'm sorry. I didn't make a. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. Because you didn't bring the clen corner willy. Of course I was asking the lady. I was going to get a thing. You're not going to see what I. And you're stuck on my willy. I bet IMight. IMight. IMight. Fuck the shit. I bet. IMight get close willy. If I gave Chris the corner willy, can't he would have clothed it? No, I wouldn't did it. Yes, he would have. No. If you don't want to stick. What is he saying? So I'm going to give you the kid. Jeremy would have given you the kid. Chris. You got a sticky thing in it. And you got a mold. Chris would have done. Tom Springs. He would have sold it. He would have done it. I asked thEQuestion. I. He did. I know you do it. I would know you would do it. There's a little. She could flop them in the bathroom. What? My video has a finished angle. Just for entertainment purposes. I could. I saw a diamond. I wish I knew you were here. Jeremy would fucking call me because I could have coordinated my body with how we. We could still do. I just thought we were going to do. Guys, here we go. We're going to go to a quick commercial break. When we come back, we're going to have cat demonstrate some of what she does on maybe on you, Jimmy. You can do like the fetish stuff. Chris, maybe. I think I'm sure could time me. Chris, you know, get whatever you like. We can generally. Zach and each Ellie means off for stomach or something like that. We're laughing too much. Thanks for watching. The heavy muscle show. Or more. Rags muscle. Zach. Zach.

=== FILE: Heavy Muscle TV Show #27- Part 4 [J2qGNBSPbwI].txt ===

Life of the Auric帽 Studios! This is the Heavy帽 show!acho! I don't stay on the wall. Since I hate the black soldiers We should be hogy for them! There's some kani! Should have another way to save! Bergeay! Hi, where's 살� lumière? It's not stopped smiling. Ever since we said that we were going to do some functional exercise. That's very sub-nose. Well, let's see some of the stuff that you do because we did get you in here to see that have this exercise program works. So what do we get? Can you do some of the exercise? What do you get up on the table here? And you can show us a little bit about what you do and what to work out. I'm really long. What do you need to know? What do you need to know? I don't pee at head over there towards Magnus. South. Isn't that South? South. Go South young. How tall are you, Kat? Wow. She's a big girl. I think we're going to do some surgery. Girls are like to be called big. Okay. Chris, do you like that button? No, that's not good. I don't know if I should bEQuick. Can I just say I'm a big guy? I think you've been a big kid. It's firework's liking my bulls. She's like, I gotta say she taps actually on a very good body. I'm sorry. All right. I've shown it to all of you guys. First of Jeremy, pull that in this off the table. My name is David. He's a state right. He's a state. He's a state. He's a state in the world. You have no idea where he is going on. David, he's he's fjursing writing right now. He's like breastfeeding. Now this is breastfeeding, right? All right. What's that call? The fortune? Yeah, I'm calling it the fortune. Chris, you have perfect thought. I said that. I've got to provide you a job. Show me some more provocative. Now what does that simulate Chris? Oh, love it. You don't know. The earth quick. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. Shake it big. There you go. I love the stage. Shake it big. Shake it big. Shake it big. You don't. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. She's such an acai. I would rather see. I think I like the exercise where this two guys involved. IMean, two guys. IMean, two people involved. What? Two guys. I'm just kidding. Get him. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. All right, now. Are you going to write two guys at Taylor? All right. Chris, the other bodybuildinGHere. Let's get you down in front here. And she's going to show you some exercises that she does with some of her clients. All right. Are you going to tell us where my dog's just protectinGHim? Chris is going to look into this camera, I guess. And he's going to pretend he's doing what kind of exercise. Some bent over rows. Bend over fly. Bend over fly. She's going to do that with those. Look at the camera. Yeah. That way. Yeah. Chris, the camera's right down. All right. Where's he? I'll be. I figured he'd look this way. No. All right. One year. Till that way. Now Chris shows proper form here. Give us proper form. Bend over rows. Bend over the fly. It's all the form. Yes. Back, back, fly. I'm just trying to get your back here. That Chris is having the exercise more enjoyable. Yeah. And I'm just trying to show the way for the guy to do this. The hammer's just crossed, they get you to tren someone like this. I'm going to go. I'm going to try to run 50 now. It's not bad. It's not bad. Chris, would that make it hard for you to concentrate? Oh, yeah. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. One more time. Chris have good gluteal development. Yes. Yes. Chris, you like? That's that. This is Chris. It's pretty much better than you. It's Chris and his best. For slam shots in him and he's doing my job with the hat. With the girl behind the naughty stick work app. But you're not really ready to talk to you. You're going to be a bull. You're going to be a bull. Let's get you down there, I front. Yeah, now. Jimmy's. What's your name? I have exercise. Yeah, and what you say you're going to do with my knickers up by the same time? My stretch. You're all right with the touching nipples? Absolutely. Okay, you like that. Jimmy, the bull is takinGHis vest off. He's having a lot of trouble with flexibility. Jimmy, be sure you stretch out a little bit. Jimmy, you're very stiff, I notice. You're going to be okay with this, right? All right, go ahead. Go down there. I'm looking at the back of the video. There's a guy laying on the floor. You're going to be able to do like this. You're going to be able to do like this. Are you going to be able to do like this? Are you going to be able to do like this Jimmy? Just lay down, all right? I'm going to show it. Go ahead. I'm going to show it. I'm going to show it. I'm going to show it. All right, Jimmy, the bull about to lay down on the floor. And we don't know exactly what's going to happen to him. But this is another one of cats trening exercise. She does with her clients. She has a new butt. And on the butt. On your butt. On your butt. Oh, that's a new thing. Jimmy trens apps. This is, I have to be sure that he's doing this. Oh, no. That's just going to squat on the edge. You're going to want to do like that. Yeah. You're doing like that. Oh. Yes. You're going. You're going to have that. I think you should squat a little lower on. He likes to. He likes to do it up. That's very sexy. If you like the view. Oh, this goes. Oh, this goes. Oh, this goes. Oh, this goes. Oh, yeah. Go on. Come on. And get her with you. Phillips haters go over. Nice going through. dale lif�s a 1996 head down. He Carroll companies a 6K ec. you restaurant. You twice so that you're doing it. It's take out that everyday. I don't think you're pub. No, I ate that everyday. All right. Dave, can I do one. Man, this is Asian lovers who go, no, you can't go. Life is pain. Life is dedication. Life is pressure. Life is V-28. Species of Illusionary Nutrition, the Species Line of Products Champion Original Thinking, and carries them for a process to its larger conclusion in the form of public supplements that strictly alert to the corn nutritional principles of Dave Pulambo, founder of Species Nutrition, visit speciesdutrition.com to purchase the next generation of high quality supplements available today. Therefore, in here to the theory of a control selection consists that will be the Fit Survive Species Nutrition.com. This is the Heavy Muscle Show. With your host, Dave Pulambo. This is Miss Figure Olympia, Aaron Stern, you're listening to rxmuscle.com, the best coverage for bodybuilding, fitness, figure, and bikini on the net. You're going next. Okay, okay, the tab. It's alright. Is that alright? I have a good foot there. Zack is a virgin when it comes to this stuff. He does a lot of exercise classes, so he probably pretty experienced. Give us another good one. You want to do the same move? You want to do some ads? You like to do that, but I'm going to watch that. I lay on Zack. You watch the hell today, right? Alright, alright. Let's go. Pretend you're in a rubber splastack. Pretend you're in a rubber splastack. Zack's going into P going through Puringna. I'm wearing the bucket. That's the one. I'm not going to die. Zack, you take it all day. This guy's going to floor. This is so hard. Hey, you got a wet spot in his pants. What's going on? You like that, Zack? We'll never get rid of him now. He's going to come back every week. Alright, thanks. Alright, Matt, is your next. Are we going to do a different exercise with Matt and this? I placed out this on the movie. My foot's by this move. Lionel Pan. What is this, my friend? What is that? What about you? Oh, yes. All right. Get Matt and get down there. Fix the first one. I know all there. I know. This is very good for trening. Fix my body. Jeremy fixed the thing that the black thing there. What are you going to do in this year? How are you going to motivate Matt and this to do this? These thrust things. I'm going to do it. No, no. How do you get it? First, nipples go. He's going to pierce nipple. Can't that happen the last week? Yes. Oh my god. I know what it does. haben held it back. What's going to do is off your legs or shadows on fire. And he came... Thank you! Hi!! Why do you let him right off the pitch? You wanna let he go! I think Matt is going to break. I think Matt is going to break. I think Matt is going to break. What's up? You want to go? Go on. Go on. I think you should just go. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Where is he going? Go on. вход. over. Oh easy. How fun. She's six feet tall, Bob. There we go. Oh, who's with guns hijotesya인데? Ughh. Oh, she put it up. Thats what you're about. Oh, John. Oh yeah this is happy he must've had a showedel ад. No one's forceful like she says. Is this oversight!? Aww. Can't he declutch? Aw. Will he? Watch him! That's fun. Check in box on the book. You're in the fun. No, no, no, no. You're in the fun. You're in the fun. You're in the fun. All right, before we end that, close out the show, I want to just get your feedback on all the guys that you worked at. First of all, who is the most, did you enjoy doing the most? Oh. First of all, we're doing. Doing. Oh, I don't remember what you were doing. What are you doing? What are you doing? The next question on her people's feelings. This question was. IMean, I don't even know what's the press by his strength. Okay, so you like both strength and muscle. It's very impressive with this guys ability. Really? Yeah, and I saw this wing club I would definitely. You would do them. Yeah, totally. Would you do them? Yes. Would you do them? If it's a draw for me, I'm going to do my son. I'm going to do my son. Would Chris, Chris, is a good, well-developed. Oh, yes. I don't think you like that. I will never forget. I'll have good dreams tonight. I'll have a hug. Did you miss the next half of the motor? Ha ha ha ha. Yeah. Oh, my god. Yeah, I said that. Yeah. What about Zag? It was work. It was work. Was that nervous? He looked a little nervous about the motor. She thinks he's right. Yeah, that's the answer. It was great. It was going to be hard. Yeah. They were getting ready. They were hard before I touched that. All right, so 150 bucks an hour. Cat will tren you. You have other girls that get involved with the trening, too? A online, yes. I'll have an online. I've been an independent trener, but what IMostly do with my website is Selvedee and then I have a blog that I update pretty much every day and I always have pictures of hot girls. And you do lesbian stuff with them, too, right? Maybe. Yeah. You do go do everything with them. You do like, um, Felicia and stuff like that, too. And my personal life, yes. On video, unfortunately, it's not for me. We go, it's sold and I have a zone. So we go just. It's got you. Just to the point. Which is the point that Amazon won't take you. Um, well, we don't show nipple. Okay, I pretend like I'm going down and continue. I see, so it's like simulated sex. IMay or may not have done that in real life, but on the video. So if you met Jimmy in a swing club, you might have another girl and you might have sex with Jimmy on the other girl. Um, yes. Okay. Jimmy, okay with that? Okay. All right. You know, magnets like to end the show by dancing, you know, and the tank is out there. Jeff, you have some good music that would be relevant to this topic we had here today. Let's talk about sex. Oh, my God. I think I'm a dancing. I see. That's it. I'll be dancing. All right, everyone. Dance. I'll play a shot. Chris, we're gonna be a 44th birthday party. Yeah. Potion, I'm setting it. He's gonna be a, the Mr. Levine contest with our, Oh, it's the first show. The ball is gonna be a swing club this Saturday. I would chat in the same. And now this is officially not a virgin anymore. We have a great show on the big journey to catch the DJ. The producer of course, he did it and turned and Zach, the story of next become a dance. We'll see you next week. Thanks for watching the heavy muscle show. One more race muscle. Zack, I will be dancing. I'll be dancing. I'll be dancing.

=== FILE: Hunter Labrada 675 for REPS + C-Bum & Steve Laureus Updates! [5owGdLfxgLY].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love this show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Tuesday, September 15th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Even though it's been a really strenge year overall, one of the coolest things about 2020 is been the resurgence of women's bodybuilding. For the first time in years, we'll have women's bodybuilding at the Olympia, and for the first time in her career, Mila Ash will get to compete for the women's Olympia title. After spending the entire first part of our career in women's physique, Mila surprised everyone when she announced her decision to cross over into the bodybuilding realm at the New York Pro that it might have come as even more of a shock when she stepped out there and dominated. But that's how these things go. You have to seize opportunities when they're there, and that's exactly what Mila did. And now that she's less than 16 weeks away from one of the biggest opportunities of her career, it will be fascinating to see if she's ready to answer that call. At different points over the years, I've told some of my clients that the way to do anything is the way to do everything, which is my way of just trying to stress how important it is that I'm the poor, all of their energy and intention into everything they do. So if you see how hard someone like Steve Loris is working from a distance, it kind of lets you know that somewhere along the line, he managed to get the message. A few days ago, there was a video of Steve cranking out a set of T-bar rows floating around social media where you can see how dialed into the details he actually was. He's the perfect example of high level athletes who understand what it means to throw everything they have into perfecting their craft. And when you keep doing that over and over and over again, eventually the results start to speak for themselves. This is the clenest I've ever been at to 60. These words came directly from defending classical Olympia champ Chris Bonstead, who's trying to put everyone else in the division on notice. So while documented that Chris had been battling a bunch of nagging injuries for the last few years, including some issues with his knee, that limited what he could do in the gym during the last years of Olympia prep. But the fact that Chris is healthy and lean and feeling good about where he is this far out from the O should say a lot about what he can bring to the table this year. Even with a few cards being shuffled at the top of the deck, this year's roster is still completely stacked at the top, which means that Chris repeatinGHis champ is an all-set and stone. But if he shows up at Planet Hollywood looking better than he did last year, I think it's down there impossible that we'll see him get knocked off his throne. Regardless of whether you're a bodybuilder or boxer or something in between, anyone who's ever experienced what it feels like to be in a flow state knows how surreal it is to have everything clicking all at once. But even if you don't know that, you can almost get a sense of what it's like just from watching Puntula Brater. Over the weekend Hunter's team released a clip of their guy knocking at a set of rack poles with 675 pounds for reps, where you can tell from the look on his face that he was operating at a whole different level. Out of all the athletes in this year's Olympia, to me Hunter might be the most fascinating. It's not that I think he's ready to contend for the title. It's more so that the runny's been on this year has been so much fun to watch. So regardless of how this year's contest turns out, the fact that he's come this far, this fast is still fascinating. And it's also proof of what a person can do when they tap into the right head space. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Hunter Labrada WINS Chicago Pro! What Happened To Roelly？ [fxVdppUKtEE].txt ===

Day for Lumbo here with an RX muscle update, the Chicago Pro, Saturday night finals are out. And we have a new champion, Huntal Abraata. I don't know if a lot of people suspected that Hunter might sneak in there and knock off some of the big names, specifically really winked over who was, I think, the man to beat in this lineup, but Huntal Abraata surely believed it and he delivered all the goods plus some. I had in my prediction video, I said that Hunter was certainly going to be coming back with more muscle on his body. We know he's a consummate professional, like his dad was, conditioning is always spot on. The tan is always there. The presentation is there. He takes care of all the details that he has control over, which is an I always say this. conditioning, presentation, tan. You screw those up, you know what? You didn't do your homework. Lumbrodda does his homework and he did his homework here and you know what? That's what you need to do because we've said it a million times before conditioning wins shows. And conditioning one show here. Lumbrodda's got the tools set in the sense of he's got the structure, he's got the flow to his body. But he also has tremendous conditioning and how do you beat a guy with all those other attributes and the conditioning? And he's got more size than last year. So he came in here and I thought the only person in this line that would have been able to challenge him would have been a Rulli Winkler because Rulli is bigger and you know it really brought the conditioning. I figured that he would be able to you know stand next to Hunter and make them look not as good as we know he is. And what Rulli did was he came in here and he was I personally think he overdidied into this. I think he tried to brinGHis shape in a little too much, which is always a mistake with guys that are mass monsters because they give up what makes them special, the mass. And that's exactly what Rulli did. He came in here and if you look at the pictures he doesn't even look at that big. Librodda, I think everyone else in the top four, you know it looks bigger than him in this shot. Brett Wilken on the right, Max Charles, Hunter Librodda. IMean, you see a guy like Rulli Winkler get outsized at a show of this caliber. You have to say what's going on here, you know, something didn't go right. And I feel bad for him because he'd been waiting for the whole year after missing the Olympia because of COVID, you know, to come back here and exact retribution to stake his claim on, hey, I got a legitimate shot from Wendy Olympia and he has to sell for fifth place here. And this is a tremendous tremendous, you know, below, I think, to Rulli Winkler. And, you know, it's not anything taken away from him. He just was not the Rulli Winkler that we were used to seeing. But Librodda was everything and more. And I think that that right there alone tells you, you know, hey, you know what, this kid is special. He knows how to pick himself. He knows how to raise himself up for the big shows. And you know what happens when you do that, you win shows. And you know, it's, it's, you know, we always say, you know, we give thesEQuaint little things about how, you know, conditioning win shows. And we say all of these funny things before the show. But the bottom line is at the end of the day, the guys that are in shape at the show do the best. And, you know, Hunter delivered in that sense. And I think that you have to, you know, you have to say that this guy has got to be a legitimate top, you know, six Olympians this year, possibly, because he is consistent. And IMean, if you look at the scorecards, IMean, the scorecard say it all straight first place is for Hunter Librodda, Brett Winkler who finished in the second position. IMean, that has to also be a little bit of a shocker, you know, because who expected Brett Winkler to come in here and be really winkler and beat some of these other guys in the line of it. And that's, we're going to talk about him in a minute, but I'm super, super impressed with what Hunter Librodda did here. And you know what, we all have to take our hat off to him. This guy is the real deal. And at the end of the day, you know, I know his dad has got to be super happy. You know, I love this shot, you know, with his father just kind of believing, you know, what father doesn't want to see this, you know, following their footsteps and be possibly, you know, potentially even have more potential than that. IMean, that would be, you know, as a dad and I know my father probably felt the same. And that's got to be, you know, something special. So, you know, congratulations all of the Broughtas. It was a well deserved victory. And I think he's going to be, I think he's going to be dangerous in the Olympia because of his consistency. And that, and that right there, says it all, because of his consistency, he will be dangerous. And you know what, you, you, you cannot discount, can sit, IMean, everyone always will branch Warren up, right on the Olympia stage. All the time it happened to him. It was like, it was like every year, you know, branch would show up and people would never talk about him. And then he would be up on that stage and be in great shape and be a freak and he would be guys that were just better than him. That's what LeBron is going to do for his whole career until he finally is the man to beat, so to speak, and maybe maybe we'll see him as being Mr. Olympia one year. It is a, it is a, it is a, definitely a possibility. IMean, he's got the, the mind set. He's got the, the, the breeding. Yeah. He's got the genetics. He's got the backing of his dad. IMean, when you have a family that, that is a, is a bodybuilding family. IMean, how much better is going to get to that? IMean, right? Most of us had parents that don't know anything about body, my father's not like the nobody building, you know, I was like, you know, he would tell me, brinGHome the, the HST, but I want to be a HST. Not that he wasn't supportive. He just didn't understand the sport, you know, and that's the way it goes, you know, and unfortunately, that's a lot of our parents, but, you know, LeBron has got that grooming. It's like the kid who was on the soccer team and his dad was the coach. IMean, he's been playing soccer since his three years old. Brett Wilk and though I got, I got to brinGHim up because he really, really impressed me a lot. And the reason why I impressed me was because no one expected him to come in here and be as good as he was. And that to me, that's a professional. That's a guy who worked his ass off all year round after the last year and made improvements. Didn't just coast. He made improvements. He's bigger. He's filled in the gaps. Okay, in his physique, he brought tremendous conditioning. You can tell I could see the pain lookinGHis face. He could tell he suffered. And once again, it goes back to conditioning, you know, does well. It's, can this human shows, but it also places you very high, you know, higher than people might expect. And he beat Rueley Winkler. Come on, he beat, he beat a lineup here that was spectacular. And you have to, you know, when a guy can come in and be this dominant. And I don't know where he's going to, you know, wind up down the road, you know, I think he's got a tremendous career ahead of him because I think that he's a hard worker. He loves the sport. You can tell he loves what he's doing as long as he can keep himself healthy. I don't see any reason why we're not going to see him be around for a very long time and be a very dominant competitor. So congratulations to Brett. IMean, it was a tremendous tremendous, you know, accomplishment. And of course, you know, our good friend Max Shawls, you know, Max is another guy that everyone's always writing off. No one talks about. And then he shows up. You know, the reason why Max gets written off a lot and the reason why he does so well all the time is because number one, he's got one of the best upper bodies in, in, in, in pro body. His legs are not his best body part, but they're, they're no longer weak. They're just not a strong body part for him. They balance his upper body is tremendous. IMean, the guy's got the best arm shoulders chest and possibly back, you know, in body and all the, but his weakness, obviously, is because his legs don't necessarily matches upper body. People think he's, he's not as good as he is. But when you get him up there and, and align up, and I'm not, not the Olympia line of course. When you get him up and align up, that's challenging. Okay. Like this show was, but where he brings his best conditioning, which he did. Okay. He's very difficult to be because he's, he's, he can stand with these other guys. Maybe 90, maybe he can't stand with the very, very top three guys in the world because then you see his legs, you know, deficit. But in this line up, he's very, very competitive. And you can make a case for him being in second place here. I wouldn't have a problem. I like Brett Wilkins, but I think Max has got a little bit more free factor going on. So even though it was a unanimous first place, second place, third place, fourth place, I think Max absolutely could have placed higher and no one would have complained. Once again, I think this is a good balance. Look from, I think if he goes any leaner or tries to dry out too much, his legs will get too small. And if he comes in any fuller, he's not going to be hard enough and happy. So this was a good compromise that I think this is a look that Max should look to bring every time he steps on stage because if he does that, he's going to always place well. Once again, it's always good to depend. I was telling people, you know, you can't guarantee places on people. All you can do is guarantee that, you know, all you can do is show up at your best and then see where the cards fall. And if they fall, you know, the right way, if you're then great, you know, I don't know, who knew that, you know, Rulee was going to come and off. You know, everyone probably was thinking, Mom, I'm going to be, you know, whatever. Wherever Rulee is, I'll be below him, you know, because he's probably going to be the guy to be. And he didn't even, and he didn't even place, you know, top four. He was at a self-defense. Now, let's talk about Moshebahn for a minute because I really liked this guy. He's really consistent. He's a guy who's also been improving every year. He's a, he's a sleeper guy. He's a guy you can fall asleep on. And when they first do the callouts, you don't even notice him. He's kind of like, off to the side. And then all of a sudden, the more the guys pose, you start saying, hey, this guy's got really good. It's good. Look at those lower tier drops. Look at the, look at the lack flare. Look at the conditionings. Look at those perfectly boxed abs. He's got, you start noticing the guy's got a lot of gifts. His calves are a little small, but his quads are ridiculous. IMean, they're really impressive. Andy brings good conditioning. And that, and that's a good combination. And I'm going to talk about, Luriz, I say, Andy brings good conditioning because when we talk about Hassan Mashtoffer in a minute, we're going to talk about Freak's active vote. Maybe a guy who's not as conditioned as Moshebahn. You can make a case for him placinGHis highest second here. I think that those, I think Hunter was a, was a clear cut winner. But I think second, third, fourth, all could have been flip-flop. No one would have complained. It was very close between those three guys. I think Rulley actually was the guy who probably got what he deserved fifth place. And unfortunately, none of us who were bodybuilding fans would want to see that, right? We want to see Rulley winkle a win these shows because Rulley's a freak. No one wants to see Rulley win the Olympium more than I do. And I love Big Ramey. But I want to see Rulley up there, that onion out with Big Ramey because we know that Rulley has the size. Now, I don't know if Rulley, look, my whole thing on Rulley is what I think happened. And I don't know for sure. I don't talk to Rulley on a regular basis. And maybe Rulley doesn't know. Maybe Rulley's got to come back to the drawing board two here. But what happened, when I think happened with Rulley winkle a win, was that he wanted to come in so freaky hard for this show. Because he wanted to show everyone, hey, look, I'm going to beat Ramey. If you Olympia, I could bring the freaky conditioning and he made him a state. And I'm going to tell you why I'm going to mistake because I just happened to me in my career. And I've seen it happen to other guys. They tell you look, come and shred it and you're going to win every shooting. When the show, you know, when the Arnold, you're going to win the Olympia because that's what we want. We want to see you shred it. But what they don't understand is that, and what maybe the mistake of competitors make in the coaches that help is that sometimes ultra shredded dry, okay, too much so you can overdo it. And then what happens is you lose the wow factor. Okay, and I've seen this happen throughout Rulley's career. Remember when he used to work with grandma, the coach he had originally, she made this mistake a few times as soon as him too. She brought him in great once and then she brought him in too. Then they were trying to get him too hard and he was looking small and small. And when Rulley's smaller, you see his flaws. You see, hey, you know what his waist isn't that really, that's small to a little big. It would be like a Jay-Color, okay, who also did not have a small waist, but he had ridiculously wide shoulders and cap delts. And so as long as he came in full, the V tape was insane. Rulley's got a great V tape when he's full and big around. But he overdited here, I think, and he probably overdited a little bit and dehydrated too much and his legs look small, okay, and his upper body lost some pop to it. And even the, like his side tries to, when he put that arm down, he just didn't even hit a pose, he's just a lock his arm down. He should be blowing everyone off the stage. And I got newsfield, a lot of beat him easily in that side tries to pose. So Rulley made, I wouldn't call it an amateur mistake. He made a mistake because of the fact that he was out of the game for a year and then he wanted to come back and be the best he can be. He's very dangerous. Don't write Rulley Winkler off. We'll see him probably in two weeks in Tampa. I hope we do at least. And he's going to come in full and bigger. Hopefully he won't overdisshoot the other direction and he's going to be very dangerous, okay, because he doesn't have a lot of muscle in. He has a lot of fullness. Probably tomorrow morning when he wakes up after eating for two days, he's probably going to look like 30 pounds big and everything is right now. He might even weigh 30 pounds more and look just as hard. And once again, that was a mistake. I don't blame anyone. It's very easy to fall prey to that, especially when you hear every single person in the press and all of the judges say, just come in harder. Just come in a little harder. That would everyone always says, just come in a little hard. Just coming in a little harder is not the solution sometimes because sometimes you want to overdo it. And that's what happened with Rulley. Let's talk about Hassan Mastoff who finishes in six here. I want to brinGHim up because normally I would even go past six, but you know what? So I'm doing a, I'm spending some time doing this analysis. I want to do it right. He's one of the freaky skies in all bodybuilding. This guy has got some tool set. IMean, this guy's got the freakyest freakyest of legs. He's got great arms. He's got great lads. He's got a good taper. He's a little narrow shoulder wise, almost like a fill Heath narrow. But he's so big that it doesn't matter. But the problem with the physique like that is you don't come in ultra dry and healed. You start to look a little boxy and you start seeinGHis flaws. And the flaws are that he's not showing enough detail in his body. Now, he's been doing a lot of shows this year. And I don't know if his body is just burnt out. Sometimes you get to a point where you can eat zero calories in that loser pounds. Because your body is just rebelling from what it's doing. So, I don't want Chris the Cedar tells me that's not the case. Chris works on him. But I just don't think his body is responding anymore. I know we want to get to the Olympia. That's his goal. And the guy's that one of the nicest guys you'll ever meet. He's a hard worker. I think he's got one of those metabolism's way you. His body just wants to build muscle. It's obvious. IMean, because the biggest guy up there, you know, height persporext, whatever. However, he's got to do whatever it takes to lose that extra weight. I don't know if it means eating less food. Okay. We're doing more cardio. I'm sure he's being pushed to the max already. But something is not working. Okay. His body is holding onto something. I don't know what the problem is if it's a metabolic situation or if he's once again a vis-vodity just in kind of a rebellious stage. Or if he just maybe just hasn't been doing this this long. Maybe his body just not that mature. Some guys at 125 pounds can get you shake, you know, and show a lot of muscle separations of it. Other guys, they can be trening for a long period of time. IMean, a short period of time have a lot of muscle, but they don't really show a lot of detail. Rammy didn't show a lot of detail in early in his career. He was a little tired of this, but not much. But Rammy's structure was so big that he was imposing. So Hassan Mustafa's got to spend time and get that formula down. And just I think more and more trening is just going to lead to better muscle maturity and hopefully over the next couple of years, the key Williams had the same problem. You could feed the guy like a bikini competitor. He wouldn't lose weight. And so I think once he finally gets to form that he's going to be super dangerous. You know, looking at the show as a whole, I think you have to be very happy as a body belief fan that the Chicago pro is a success. And the reason why it was a success was because you had a top five, top six guys and Zach Merkel looked great in seven two. I'll talk about him on the radio show on heavy muscle radio Monday night. But this was a really good lineup. With good competitors, most of them in very, very good shape. It was a tough battle. I'm sure it was not an easy decision for the judges. Yes, LeBraude did enough to win for sure. But the rest of the play sings will kind of tough and where do you put really went learn? When they first call these guys out, it was really hunt. Right? IMean, that's where every, you know, and then these other guys work their way up when the judges realized that really was not it is best. That's an exciting show. I've gone to lots and lots about it. I'm going to show them. You're not that many in the last year and have since COVID, but I bet to a lot of shows. And I'm telling you the ones where it's this close are the ones you want to go to. Did the most exciting, especially when you're in the crowd. And you can feel that everyone's screaming and these guys are up there for a long time because the judges are making them work because they can't really determine what the places are because everyone has a slightly different look to them. But that's why it's important that you bring your best to the stage. And once again, Huntal Abraude, the reason he's so good, tan presentation, conditioning. Dexter Jackson fits into dichotogory, Phil Heath fits into dichotogory. And it's a commitment professionals that always hit the mark. When the, when the, when the, especially when the mistakes were the highest, they always show up in shape. They always have good presentation. They always have a good tan. They never leave anything to, to chance. Those are the guys who always do well. And that's why Huntal Abraude is going to be a great pro for many years to come because he has that mentality. And, you know, you, you, you, you've got to do, you know. But if you don't have it, you can still get it. But you cannot let those variables just fall with a name. That's the only variables you have total control over heading into a show. Huntal, congratulations on the huge win. Congratulations to all the guys in the show. It was a tremendous show to him, Gardna. Great job. Once again. And I'm glad we're seeing some great competition leading up to the Arnold and the Olympia. And now they're on day full on boat with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: Hunter Labrada： ALL GAS NO BRAKES! + Maxx Charles READY for Tampa + Bryan Jones UPDATE! [ZUCtAS8yXsw].txt ===

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry with a low-carve cocktail. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning on day of car motor today. I've never had someone send you a text that makes you do a double take because you're not sure if you read it right. And then when you read it again you realize that you did read it right. So you just think, well they must have made a typo. Well that's what I did earlier today when someone texted me in videos up on Delabrada. Because since he won the Chicago Pro two weeks ago, he's allegedly already up 12 pounds on his rebound. We're going to hear the plan from Hunter's team is for him to push the food and the treninGHard for the nexT3 weeks to see what his body does before. They start the back-off and gear things up for his Olympia prep between winning Chicago and finishing eighth and his Olympia debut last year. The bar already seems and possibly high heading into this year's show. Considering that he's pretty much shattered expectations over and over again and provinGHim on that eighth place slot might not be as crazy as you think. With things that the Tampa Pro set the kick off less than 48 hours from now, I've had a lot of people reaching out to me over the last few days to ask who I see as the favorite heading into the men's open. And to be honest, I'm not sure where I'm at with that yet. But I will say this, people might want to start thinking about Max Charles as a potential dark horse here. Max looked great two weeks ago in Chicago where he finished third behind Hunter La Brada and Brett Welkin. And truth be told, that's probably the best that Max has been since he placed third at the Chicago Pro last year. So now that he's had a few more days to tighten things up, it wouldn't be the biggest shock in the world. It became in with one of those vintage, max Charles performances and ended up walking out of there with the victory. Up to this point, I don't think we've talked about any of the athletes on the women's bodybuilding lineup for Tampa yet. So I figured this would be the perfect time to float a name out there for you to keep an eye on. Jada Beverly, she's moving up from women's physique, makinGHer bodybuilding debut. And when we talked to her earlier this week, she told us that the combination of two knee surgeries during the offseason and making the move up to bodybuilding made this the most challenging prep of her career. But she and her team believed that they have a real shock to make an impact in this lineup. It's been a really interesting year in women's bodybuilding so far in terms of who we've seen step up and make a name for themselves. So if we see that tren continue here in Tampa, she can easily end up being the next in line. I know that we're still a few weeks away from needing to dive deep into the Arnold Classic coverage, but what Brian Jones has been doing lately is too good not to share. Earlier this week, a source set me these behind the scenes videos of Brian trening back and buys. And as far as I can tell, it looks like we might need to start mentioninGHis name in the conversations about potential winners there. For a lot of people, I think this fifth place finished at the Olympia last year was somewhat of a revelation, but at this point I think it should be pre obvious that it wasn't a flu. This guy is the real deal in every sense of the word and it keeps improving at this rate what we're seeing now won't even compare to what we could end up seeing a few years down the road. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. And they pull on the O'Remining you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: I CAN'T GET UP! [Lm1xOlrqR5Q].txt ===

There's no way not to get a dip. If you're at a thousand milligrams of testosterone, you're taking injecting a week, and your testosterone on blood work is like 3000 total Testosterone. And then you go off the cycle, even if your body went back to producing its own natural production at maximum value, which would be 800, you're still gonna feel low. How could you not feel low going from 3000 total Testosterone to 800? And most guys are going from 3000 down to 2020, because their bodies just don't turn back on right away. Obviously doing the right post-cycle therapy, of course, 2000 units of H-C-G, every two or three days, for two or three weeks, and then doing some clomin. I keep guys on test-alize the entire time that they're off, the balance to DHG, estrogen, and testosterone levels, that helps a lot as well. But you have to understand, you're not gonna be at that super high value that you are when you're on a cycle, it's impossible. And even if you were at max natural levels, it still would feel too low for you, because you're just taking away the sensitivity. IMean, you can't over-stimulate those receptors like you would do it. Now, having said that, when I would go off cycle, my sex tribut would not be as crazy as it was when I was on. But it never was to the point where I couldn't function, because I think a lot of guys that's psychological too, they're like, well, you know, oh, I feel different, and then they start thinking about it too much, and before you know it, they've taught themselves out of being able to have sex, because there is a psychological component too. And I understand when you're going from injecting every other day, a whole bunch of stuff, and now you're not doing anything, you think that you should sex tribut should drop. The funny thing is the firsT3 or four weeks, you still have a lot in your system, so you shouldn't have a low-sex tribut at all, for at leasT3 or four weeks, until you hit that month-more, then you might have a little drop. And then usually guys don't only stay up for eight weeks anyway, so IMean, what are we talking about? We're talking abouT4 weeks of being a little low. Come on, IMean, I think guys are crying babies about it to be honest with you.

=== FILE: I JUST HAD A COLONOSCOPY! [wjs7bCuwkXg].txt ===

Day Palomo here with an RX muscle news update. Well I just got done. I had my colonoscopy today. Yep, my first one. I'm 52 years old and I figured that it was time to do it. You know, I don't have a history of colon cancer in my family, but I do have a cancer in my family. My father did have polyps, you know, throughout the years and his colonoscopy. My sister did too, so I figured out I better go as well. But as you know, I am a big advocate or a fiber. I've been taking it for 25 years. I producing my own product from species nutrition, fiber lies for the last 10 years. And I'm also a big believer in, you know, in vegetables and you diet. I'm all so I'm a pretty healthy eater. Everyone knows me as the McDonald's guy, but you know, even when I was at my biggest and I was eating McDonald's every day, the other nine or 10 meals a day were really clen and helping, you know, eating, you know, good quality fats, high quality protein. I never ate a lot of sugars at all of my diet. That was, you know, very, very infrequently. And I used to fiber supplement. I would say probably the second half of my body, but I didn't really know about fiber before that. But that was not what I was in my 20s. So, you know, when you're in 20s, you get away with doing stuff, you shouldn't be doing one. I was using fiber every day. I still always had a silly and supplement in my diet. It wasn't as effective obviously as when I finally perfected my fiber lies probably, but, you know, I didn't really need the fiber lies like that all there anyway. Because when I was making it older, what happens is the, you know, the colon, which is a muscle gets weaker and it loses its ability to move waste through itself efficiently. I'm just like any muscle that doesn't get worked. But fiber is like the personal trener I've said is before of the colon. It makes the colon work harder and it builds up the muscle to the colon. And that's what we want on a regular basis. So, I was pretty confident going into this colonoscopy that there was going to be nothing wrong. Obviously, if there was, I would have been, you know, I would have felt like, well, you know, either my genetics failed me or maybe I don't know what I'm talking about as far as, you know, eating a high fiber diet, especially if you're eating a lot of food and a high protein diet. So, I went in there with a pretty open mind. I'll tell you the process itself was probably the leading up to the colonoscopy is the worst part of it. And it's really not that bad. It's one day of no eating solid foods. So I went to the supermarket that day and I went and bought a bunch of stuff, which I kind of was a little under-prepared, but you know what, it wasn't at the end, it wasn't bad. And they gave you this big gallon jug that go lightly, which I think you got a mix with something, you know, that you like the taste of. And it can't be anything like with it, like cherry flavor because they don't want anything with like artificial colors that could I guess maybe skew the colonoscopy. So I went and I got, they have the gatoried lights. I didn't want to get the ones of zero calories because I did need some colloquilodes. So there were the ones with like low sugar. So I boughT4 liters of it and I, the four liters fit perfectly in this big jug. And you got to drink this four liters. So the way they set it up to you is you start the day off, you're just eating clear liquids. I bought some bone broth, actually, which was really good. I, disgusting as this may sound, I was drinking it. I wasn't even warming it up, I wasn't even heating it up, I was just drinking it right out of the container like it was like a protein shake or something like that. And bone broth is okay because it's clear, anything clear liquid you can have. You can't have like protein shakes or anything with dairy and it, that's considered food. So I was drinking that, they let you have Gella, I was getting, I got the sugar-free Gella pre-made. I was eating those things. I was going to have more of those because that was the only thing that really was to felt solid, you know, dissolves once you, once you chew it up. That was the only thing that actually gave me a feeling of satiety. All the others of which is liquid. I bought some grape juice, so I was drinking a little bit of coffee or a lot of the half. So I had a, I had a cup of coffee or two cups of coffee, I think throughout the day. That definitely helped a lot. And what happens is that for a PM, they want you to start drinking this, this concoction mixture. And what it basically is deluxe it, it makes you go to poop, okay. Now, I knew that I wasn't going to poop as much as other people as far as the waste coming out of me goes because I know that I'm pretty clen anyway because I do so much fiber on a regular basis. I knew I didn't have a lot of impacted fecal matter which makes it worse for people. Because when people have that, they get a lot of cramping, it's numsy, it nauseous, they throw up. And that's just the way it goes. But so I decided to drink and they said, you got to drink an 8 ounce glass every 15 minutes for 2 hours. So you got to get through 2 liters in 2 hours. So IMade it with steak for as I, I poured it into a shaker cup. I thought it was 8 ounce, but it was actually 6. So I gulped down 16 ounces right off the bat. Okay. So I got a little bit, I got a little, you know, queasy from that after that. But it didn't, nothing, I didn't throw up or anything like that. I just, I think was too much at one time. I think about it maybe an hour after I started taking, that's when I started going to the bathroom. And then you, you just moving your balance, like watery, it's become, it's like diarrhea, almost you come and add you initially. I know this is a great conversation with him. But for a lot of you out there, you never did the process. I want to give you with the process was. I, people actually had his that stuff taste in the container. I said, I don't know, I never tasted it. And they mean what do you mean? Because what I would do is I would put 8 ounces and I'd go, whoop, go up it down like I was drinking a fiber shake. The only thing I tasted was the after tasted of the Gatorade. That was that I never, there was nothing disgusting about it. I know people have trouble drinking it. I can pour anything down my throat. It doesn't matter to me. I'm used to drinking pound and protein shakes all day long. So I did that every 15 minutes. I got through the first two liters. No problem whatsoever. Didn't feel fantastic. I was really hungry though, too. Well, that was, that was probably the hardest thing I couldn't eat anything. So I was, I started going through the bathroom pretty regularly around after that two hours of doing that. I was in my house when my kids and I was going to the bathroom. Once again, it wasn't, it wasn't cramp in, it wasn't terrible. Yeah, you might have to clen the toilet bowl or after you've done it because it's diarrhea, essentially. And then it kind of calmed down a little bit. I was only going like every maybe once an hour or something like that. And then you don't do the second half of a total 10 o'clock at night. So I went and put my kids to bed. I fell asleep and I actually fell asleep with my daughter. I was on my door as floor. When I got up, I had already missed a half hour. So I was supposed to start at 10. I was like 10, almost 11 o'clock. So I got to get this, I got to down these two liters in the next hour or, you know, so I started doing eight ounces of 16 ounces at a time to catch up, so to speak. And while I was answering emails by the time that 1230 came around, I had finished the other two liters. No big deal. At that point, when I was going to the bathroom every 15, 20 minutes, it was only just water coming out of it. There was nothing, there was no like poop sitting more. It was just water. And I guess at that point I knew I was clen, but I was still going. I went to bed around 230 at night. I had to get up at, I think I got up at 545, because that was an hour drive to where I had to go do it. I drove over there. My mother and I drove me there. Went in. It was no big, I didn't have the hospital actually. Some people can do it in an outpatient clinic. It doesn't really matter. Yeah, they hook up to an IV. They give you an S-K-Million questions, whatever. And then they roll you in there. And it's not a big deal. I guess it seems more of a big deal just because they're putting you out. You're getting anesthesia. But it's like a proper full IV. It's not breathing tubes or anything like that. So the lenient on your side, you land your left side. And they're like, all right, you're going to go to sleep now and then they push this thing into your IV. She's like, how do you feel? How do you feel? I'm going to sleep. I know that. Every the light side to go out. Next day, I know I woke up and recovered. They came to the doctor, came and saw him and he's like, well, you have nothing in there. You said, you're at the clenest call and I've seen in probably the last five years. So that made me feel good. I said, you know what? Vindication. He's obviously, you know, either healthy diet. I said, well, I do. I told my wife, I used my own fiber supplement that IMake and I've been using a fiber supplement for 20 years and he's like, they work. He's like, I tell all my patients that and you know, but not everyone listens and not everyone's as this. But the key is just do it regularly twice a day. And it just goes to show you that, you know, if you do a fiber supplement and you take care of your body, you know, you know, junk food all day long, okay? You can have a very healthy colon. Now why is that? Because what happens is when the waste moves through officially through your colon, your colon is strong, okay? The immune system in that area is very, very vibrant. In other words, it can eat up anything that happens. So if you grow a little cell, start growing out of control, which we call polyps, your body just eats them up. In other people that have a lot of stagnation in that area, the immune system is not functioning well and a polyps start growing and it keeps growing. And until you get in there with a scope and then clip it out. Most people when they get colonoscopy, the lot of people get that polyps clip down to they have in there. And that's that to say, I can't grow caught polyps, but I think if your immune system is healthy in there, if you're growing cells that shouldn't be there, your immune system will eat them up. Likewise, if you grow cancer cells produced in there, your body's immune system will go up them up if there is stagnation there. And you have a predisposition genetically for colon cancer. It might not do that. So the bottom line is it's important to get a colonoscopy at least at 50 years old. 40 years old, if you have a family cancer, cancer, colon cancer that is. Use a fiber supplement every day twice a day. And you never have to worry. It's going to at least if you have a disposition for it, we'll reduce your chances of getting it. That's for sure. The fact that he said to me and I didn't elicit this response, I didn't say, hey, how did you compare me to? He said to me voluntarily, it's the clenest column I've seen in terms of no polyps and nothing growing in there. That to me was validation that what I'm telling people and what I'm telling you guys that their works and that it's something good. And when I explain to him what I do, he just kept saying yes, yes, yes, yes. You know, and so this is a guy who that's only does for living is scope colon. And he knows, you know, the people who don't eat right, the people who smoke and drink a too much, he sees the damage that's getting done that. He sees the people who don't exercise. And he sees the people who eat a bad diet. What it does to that area. And if you guys don't care, then they don't take care of yourself. But I know most of the people who are watching this do care about their health. And they don't want to get colon cancer. They don't want to polyps grown in there. So guys, fiber supplement, don't have to use mine. Okay. I'm not, this is not a fiber-lies edge. Okay, what this is is it's a health notification to you guys that number one get your colonoscopy. There's nothing to be afraid of. It's not a big deal. It's the test. You want to know how long the test took 12 minutes? The preparation, it was a whole day up to that. And when I was getting in and out of the hospital, everything like that was took me a long time. Most people are going to get it done in the clinic. 12 minutes was the test. Okay. It's the best sleep you'll ever get. Okay, they gave you. I was a little groggy, you know, the rest of the edge took a nap. I fell asleep on my couch here. But now I feel great. Okay. So, don't fear it. Okay, there's nothing to fear. If you guys can do a contest dive for 16 weeks, you can do a one-day prep of no eating any solid foods. It's not a big deal. I gave you the whole routine. I gave you the whole, that's it. There's nothing else to it. And don't be afraid to find out the unknown. A lot of times the unknown is nothing. I was a little nervous. I was like, you know what, I'm always talking about cold health and everything like that. What if I get, what if I have pops like, God, if I have, I didn't think I will not even allow that the cancer word in my vocabulary. Because I will not let it in my life. I believe that there's a psychological component to that. A emotional component that's not into my wheelhouse. But I didn't know if I was going to have pops or not because I think, well, you know, running my family, you know, I have some logistics to my dad, but my dad smoked and he drank and he didn't eat right, you know, the latter part of his life. So, that's what happens. He didn't take my dad to take a fiber supplement. I used to drop that stuff off at his house all the time. He would use it once and never use it again. So, you got to make a party or daily ritual. You brush your teeth twice a day, you take your fiber twice a day. And that's all there is to it. And don't think about it. Don't let yourself run out. Don't get lazy with it. Just add it to your repertoire. If you saw my rituals that I have to do every day, all the different little super silly things and vitamins to take and this and that, as you get all the ad more and more because you're fighting father time, you know, in aging. But you got to do that if you want to live a healthy life. And I don't know if I'm going to extend the length of my life. But I do know that whatever my life span is, I want to live a healthy lifespan. I want to be vibrant and healthy until the day I leave this mortal coil, so to speak, as Shakespeare would say. So guys, the take on message, go get your colonoscis. If you're over the age of 50, if it's in your family, over the age of 40, get yourself your first colonoscis, I don't have to go back for 10 years now. So he says, you're good. And that, that to me is, hey, I'll do a colonoscis every 10 years. I don't have a problem with that. And I'm sure most of you guys wouldn't need it. So get those colonoscis and get on your fiber supplement twice a day, silly and based. I recommend the fiber lies for you guys. I'm telling you, once you use it, you'll never stop. I'm day polumbar with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: IAIN VALLIERE BIG WIN： Heavy Muscle Radio- July 23, 2018 [F-Tti5vj9b8].txt ===

10 and 9 You're my and I'm a group There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lomble Chris Asito Orangemuscle.com presents every muscle Leo Watch us Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio I'm the palombo I'm joined as always By the technician Chris Asito on this July 23 2018 afternoon at Chris Let's get to the first The story I wanted to bring up right away Which is The first of what I'm doing I'm doing good I'm on my You hear my chair Yeah you're squeaking You're palming keys in the background You're on my squeaky chair And I told you I'm having a midlife crisis But I'm trying to take a day and a job Right? Follow a good depression So yeah at least Some good like at least your buying stuff That's good I like that Well my wife told me today That my 14 year old Will only do with us another four years And I said But where's he going? Because it didn't dawn on me That he's Chris That Chris me I can do whatever Yeah Yeah It never leave it It's crazy when you think about it You know IMean already We've been in 18 I know it's not this little kids in your mind That's why Yeah you know 100% right So I I had two stories to tell you And then I wanted to comment on What we've seen before you said that your kids were Believing the house and I was having a midlife crisis No You know I said In context to that Before the show started I never look at single family homes In this town I just thought I went to aromasingle family homes A sit selling for And I saw my friend Who died of a heart attack suddenly A 51 years old So you know he died Like two months ago And here's my wife It just asked me what's happening with this house Who's living there maybe His wife's living there And there it is up to the It's under contract actually Wow You got a pair of balls I'll tell you that much Because when you buy properties You got mortgages It's a lot of pressure Everything's pressure Yeah I like this kind of Some of the dads not doing well I kind of mentioned last week But he's He's on his last legs Unforgusting a lot of people Fine I sound has a pretty You know good following On our ex muscle everyone seems to You know I'm a pole colon might be his number one Fan I think he set them up something in the mail I could get well letter But everyone seems to like my dad Stories and unfortunately they may not be around for very much longer But he's we moved into a hospice now Which is really it's a nice place But obviously you know you got a hospice to die And I don't know how much longer my dad's got But his body's kind of shutting down That hit per placement he had just had We have to be broke his leg You know just his body just didn't recover from it He's got an infection And something treated right it's just not Doing responding well he's not eating enough And he's just not goinGHe's going to know so I'm like given him like these talks like dad You know and he's not really that cogear He's not that he's conscious But he's really you know I had a whack that of his mind But you know like that you know you don't need to fight anymore You know just you know just surrender and just you know whatever happens Happens and Because you know he said does he know he's like at that stage What would I just he's talking about I don't know if he knows what I'm talking about I'm kind of hinting around him But I'm like thinking I'm like having these very deep conversations I'm kind of it's usually uncomfortable but I feel comfortable because I don't think he was really He's not he's not South London because if the normal South I'm like I don't want to hit his this spiritual crap You know but he's he's he's open hearing now But I'll be like you know he's telling me these people all these people You know chasing me and they won't leave me alone on in my dreams I'm like who are they? He goes they're not alive They're all dead people that I know I said well you know what does that mean? What do you think of me because I don't know maybe I'm dying I said I said you were peace with that I said or you scared you know he's like ah I'm at peace with it And today you know and they moving this house was something I was always less like someone he's like He's he's talking like his father and he's got these kinds of like recipe voice and He says No way I said no way why he goes I ain't giving up or you didn't say ain't because My dad's just over he said I'm not giving up I said I said alright Well, that's you know it's a good attitude I said now he's like forcing you know hold he's like give me that Chocolate shake you know he's like drinking now he's drinking these ensures They have like a refrigerator full of ensure there no one in the place will drink one of them like they everyone thinks to discuss to my dad I think it's like chocolate milk. He's like that's the only thing I'll eat But you know they got a lot of protein even though it's crap in there It's there is protein on there. So he's living on these ensures And you know it's he's coming down to the wire here. I wrote a piss I wrote a poem While I was sitting there all day today It is room I asked I put a no a quest to sell to write a poem for me, but go ahead I wrote a poem about his life. It's called death. It's him talking to death basically and I read it to him and I acted it out like my father would do it And I actually saw it I I don't even know if he's actually if anything's registering I actually saw a tear in his eye And so after the poem I said to him I said I'm thinking all right, well, he's IMoved emotionally right if he's got a tear in his eye Like what do you think dad? He's like not bad He's still he's still well then. Yeah, he still got a sense of humor about it. So I've you know, I don't know Like I said, I don't know how much longer he's got some going there every day just because I don't know how much longer he's got And you know we'll see what I will put the sample is out. I'll tell you one thing that those those Hospice places are unbelievable they set up that got there Wow Talking about dying and dignity you know, you give you whatever you want I actually brought my bottle my dad about a bottle wine Unfortunately, I'm the only one drinking it because I need it while there to deal with what's going on But that you want to sip a wine you take two ships Normally you would have down the whole bottle or One is one guy that I was I see all these walking around with an IV and his arm I don't know what's wrong with my he probably would tell me if I asked him but I really don't I find like I don't like to like ask People with the personal problems, but I guess if you're there dying and then when really you don't really care He's like asking me for cigarettes He's probably got like a lung cancer or something but the guy he's like yeah, these nicotine More addictive than any other drug in this world I said yeah luckily never got addicted to that I said so that's where I've been spending my days writing poems That by my father's death bed I'll read the poem after I followed dies I'll read the poem on the ear But I'm like a do before that Yeah, it's I always love the poem Do not go gently into that good night Which was a Tom that I don't even know movies do it was going on I don't know what's on Netflix alone, but I can appreciate it I'm pretty happy you read that school you weren't home schooled way No, but I told you IMade it through high school and clicked on something So I would have read that poem and like like it would have been like a game show I could have named that tune I would have read that poem in like three lines It was like 30 lines Dylan Thomas who was I think my but I think my father told me was AI was morphing that I did some like that wrote a poem of two shat You wrote it that poem was dad was dying And he basically was like you know do not go gently to that good night It was rage rage against the dying of light everyone knows it's kind of that's very common Lines from the poem He was basically telling us why don't you know don't give up the fight basically So I wrote my dad a poem symbol to that except he was my dad is art is basically You know telling off death you know in the poem And that's what that was the poem I thought it was I thought it was well done So and I did it pretty quickly it was it was inspired So I'm in it when my dad dies God willing at least we got another couple weeks I'll read the poem I'll get that all and I'll act it out the way I did it for my dad And then if you tell me not bad then I know I know I did a good job I know I did a good job So anyway so it changed a subject to a more positive note As you know you know I've been on this rampage to try to get Heidi Schouppen into the US to compete at the Olympia Yeah, I've been called everyone I know And it happened That's what everyone says No because I I was told when when when I go ahead I'll tell you I happen to let be a story when someone couldn't get into the country I went to my son at an academy and didn't go well Right well I called him in a lie who is friends with Roger Stone Who has a book drop He's getting ready to be a diet and put go ahead Right but he's he's he's a bodybuilding fishinGHouse that I don't know if there if What I try to do is I try to get and if anyone out there knows how to shoot and personally and Yeah, we're trying to get hot and shoot but I it's the guy is hard to get in touch with I can't get in touch with him I called King Kmolling King Kmolling is not really answering me So I don't know if he has access to this guy either I'm like look, have him calling me and let them arrange whatever they got to arrange And then I had another person contact me From what we said the last week and then basically said that there's there's They know a lawyer Who does this kind of stuff There's high you know there's there are exceptions to get people for exceptional people to get them into the country, you know for like this As long as he wasn't you know arrested or something like that or anything I guess he needs a sponsor here someone to sponsor him so I think I say Chris the seat of the sponsor Chris the photomuffin is that actually honey honey Rambot who does this I should be a sponsor We reached out to him to honey never got back to us I think he's mad because the whole Jeremy point to you thing That's that's I'm from I said reached out to my did personally and I'll try this week To reach out to anyway so my friend Chris met from who's you know formally from Australia now lives in Vegas Send me sent me a it's wasn't a serious Facebook He said how do you people will never be at the Olympia and then he sent me to screenshot from Donald Trump's Instagram And it basically says to Iranian president Rouhani never ever threatened the United States again Or you will suffer consequences the likes of which few throughout history we have ever suffered before We are no longer a country that will stand for your demanded words of violence and death be cautious Who's that? Who's that mess? Trump wrote that on his Instagram The real Donald Trump Chris through it wrote he's honey honey, honey, stupid will never When we first talked about it, that's what I said, who do I say would never you know because of who? Trump yeah, Trump it's Trump's policy. IMean that's the reason why you can't get it together Yeah, so it's you know it's aggressive policy IMean aggressive meaning there's like no exceptions you watch I went when when my soon but Callified for the Olympia I don't know what year was 2012 202 I went to see Susan Collins my senator I've met her a couple times You know she's got an office in town. IMade it in Poivin when I figured oh you know great I'll be able to you know it's a small state you know You know she has no problem She has she has she has she has you know she's a senator she has more club than like a mayor or or you know You know Bargist dome And she said this you know she looked into it some of you letters and you know after you know Ex Further you know blah blah blah blah blah blah you know like there's nothing I can do at this time Well, but there wasn't a year rested though, but well, yeah, it was it was arrested on it after yeah, he was arrested for on like no charges of no charges Right, but you know what sort of thing look like a trouble maker these guys no one's going to get involved with you know Well, everyone was brown looks like a trouble maker to Trump so You know the ultimate the ultimate like story would be like we get hiding stupid and then it causes problems That Everyone will think Everybody Calling for the Our lives No, no something simple After all this right the drama. Yeah, Mrs. the meeting you know Yeah, Mrs. the the athletes meeting So so Trump allows them in but you know Robin and Steve don't allow them in because he's towards late for the meeting Yeah, they go to be Thompson's gone right decides he doesn't want to go to the trade show Boy, boy, we had a busy weekend in the amateur division. We had a little bit of pro action But let's we'll talk about the amateur risk because this is a this is one of the biggest shows You know, it's funny the NBC master's teen collegiate That's exactly what you're going to do Go ahead. I think there was 1,400 people in the show That's so I knew you're going to say that that's incredible It's unbelievable you know, I want to open my mouth I don't want to get in trouble for it. So who's ever watching you know who runs you know the powers that they and we know who they are Don't get mad at me for saying this because I have to just say it for us because it's it's a little bothersome I think that the application fees for these shows these national level shows is too high Okay, I'm not going to go crazy on them because I understand the concept when we werecompeting it was What we wanted to cost to do a national level show was it even I don't even know for was a hundred I don't know it's gone up like five or ten bucks a year for the like last 20 years They're too high shouldn't be you know whatever it was I think it was 250 at the show or two seventy five and you know the nationals like 350 and USA is three three Five for applications why does it cost so much to enter these shows? They got enough people now to justify not having to charge them much because they'll still make their money and I understand that it's very expensive to run these shows Okay, the venue and hotel that whatever they get you get a fly of the judges And it's now that they have multiple day shows you have to rent the venue for you know extra days and I understand all that But there's a not when you have 1400 people okay if they all pay at 150 dollars you'd still make a lot of money Right, IMean the stole a ton of money really made it's still over 200 grand right there So There's no reason to charge that much money. I really feel that it's not fairly athletes these I work with a lot of these guys. They don't have any money. They're like you know this is this and they're and then they get a few multiple classes I have guys that doing they're doing classic and they're doing open and masters and three different masters divisions because they have they have an age category 35 45 How about if you pay once you can do multiple divisions or maybe make an extra $50 It's it's too expensive. All right, having said that the shows I want to I'm going to put that the rest because I don't like I said I'm not looking to get in trouble I'm not looking at the start trouble. I just think consider it consider lowering the application fees Okay, now that we have so many people competing. It's you know what you'll get even more people competing. You'll probably still make the same money All right, I said it now let's move on to the show because the show is a terrific show. I had a lot of people in the show and I had a lot of guys winning pro cards and congratulate them But it was a great IMean this show is is a monstrosity Chris four straight days four days of competition which I got a commendgar a unit for because It's cheaper if you don't read the venue for you know so that many days and you try to squeeze it into two But you know what it was so much better for the competitors not have to sit back stage for 18 hours and the judges got breaks and I'm glad I didn't have to go to the show because it's four days of covering a show is not fun But I will say this you know it's much much more manageable when you can spread the show like this over you know four days is opposed over two days And I'll tell you I was looking at the pictures on NPC news online Which I commend them for putting up all those pictures it had to be they must have had 14 people tagging the show It was it was a good show. It was great competition. I have a guy's a lot of depth. Yeah, I have guys on the same people I knew the masters, right. Yeah, I have guys and I had one of my guys do the 60 and over Larry Davis So love the fact that I'm mentioninGHis name and Larry was second and his way class But there's way classes now now when the night first started 60 over my friend Charlie on so you know he won two years in a row And they didn't even give the pro card the first year a Institute of the second because they realized you know we got to start if we're given pro cards for 15 I wish you give him for 60 though and now they give him for 70 but the depth of the 16 out when Charlie wanted there was like three guys in it You know four guys because there just wasn't that many good 60 year olds now They got weight classes in the 60 know that's how many people they got they got heavy weight. They got lightweight. I light heavy weight. They got lightweight middleweight Some believeable and they got and they fill the classes So I don't know if that means it's just more 60 year old guys arecompeting now or it means that the guys who are who work competing You know when they were younger and now getting older and there's more people available, but I was trying to figure out the same thing Where does the depth because there's a lot of depth where's everybody coming from because IMean the names are not familiar to me But that doesn't mean that they're not really really good. You know what I was looking through the pictures at the NPC news guys are a fifth place for tremendous They would have been winning four years ago easy. I'm so impressed with the guys the 50 year old guys are unbelievable I compete the scary point is I'm looking at the 50 year olds and I'm like yeah, I competed with him. I can beat him with him That's our show. I'm like I beat him. I'm like I beat him Except if I don't look anything like this guy does now, you know, I get crucified now So I commend these guys that they're still around. They're bodies that still functioning Congratulations these guys What a what a crew they give a lot of pro cards that but you know what that when you have a lot of guys you can justify giving a lot of pro cards If you don't have a lot of guys in your hand that pro cards then I'm not I'm not a favorite that I had a the guy when the lightweight class Joe Russo got his pro card My I'm a You see the every single is the bikini for a cards literally I'm gonna count it up 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 19 pro cards and in bikini and I think there's about 19 and 20 in figure also It looks for a pro card. This is a good show to do it out if you're over the age of 35 That's for sure And you go teenagers I'll tell you I help one of the teens who won this is way class like everything Let's see lost the overall unfortunately It's funny there wasn't that many teens in the In the open category Like you we used to the member teenagers always very competitive. I'll keep it You might have you you helped in the team light heavy. Yeah, I'm looking right now. See in Sam Levin's yeah, it was really good Good shape. Yeah, he's got a good good future. Yeah But what happened now is because they have classic Chris is that they're splitting what they're splitting up the you know and teens don't have money It's nothing these teen guys don't have a lot of money. So that can do two classes most of them unless they can compare it to put up the money You know, which is you know the amount of the teens I can only imagine if I asked my dad hey, that can I have 300 bucks Can I have 450 dollars to do two classes of the teenagers he would been like and I got a paper to hotel and then the hair fed to you You got to you out of your mind I would have had a So shovel side walks all went in and save money for that The older six the guys off the hook Right IMean off the hook It's crazy right I'm so impressed with these guys You can you can't you can't you can't write it in this I love it. I'm like look at these guys. I'm like man. I'd have trouble you know beating this guy You know when I was debating you know some of these guys I Help the guy also a frankpint that we came second and 70 and over and I couldn't believe the the level of the 70s. Well, I when I started in 70. I'm like frank known. I don't think anyone will be you know But you never know who's gonna be there. Oh god. I would never see what these masters people because you get some guy who's just peeled out of his you know IMean it was close you know Get somebody you're all guys don't even look 70. That's the crazy thing. They look you know They look like they're I don't know maybe in the 50s I remember the first year they had the 70 in order The guy looked like he was like you know He looked like he was 100 you know he's still I didn't get impressed with his ink, but he looked you know Look though now these guys are like they're like they look great and 70 I remember when I used to go cover the show all the time that whenever these 70 year olds come out They play the um actually it was used to be when the 60s come out. They probably now that was the 70s come out. They play at the rocky music I don't even you know a day I was gonna say what do they play the rocky music I was just gonna go to guess if I should have should have my mouth It's terrific You know the guy won the over 70 if you look at his packs But Ravenscrot crossed excuse me Ravencruft His packs are like great now like old people you have the saggy boobs. You know I'm getting saggy boobs now and this guy Crosstrated packs right across his nipples. It's crazy. Oh, the 70 which guy bud Ravenscroft Let's see Yeah, he don't look like imagine he's he's yeah, he don't look seven days at huge but he's wrapped IMean and his skin looks great I would see the skin skin We'll get this shit we're talking about now. That's that's how you know we can't get your old man's guys got the skin Anyway, I think that I love the show. It's a great job. I wish I could go to it I because I really didn't enjoy that show everyone's so nice there. You know why because these guys are just happy to be competing They don't have a Pisting matches with each other on Twitter It's the best demographic to itself to also because these guys all buy supplements and everything like that and they have money It's like a different it's a different show. It's it's the tone to this show is so good and so much fun It's like no one it's people think it's serious, but it's like really not serious. You don't even because like It's it's not like it's intense like as when you go to the USA The nationals and these guys are like ready to fight each other back stage everyone is having a good time and they're all hanging out with each other and people become friends You know get make friends when they're there. It's just not the same type of situation as you normally see it as show But you know that's what goes And you know it's funny because I'm not going to read off all of the winners because this is too many of them. I did that last time and Ralph Kochia Who won the 16 over the team universe Actually now they call the NPC universe. They don't use the word team universe anymore. He uh he kind of had someone had contact me He was you know he's competing is whole life. He wanted you to mention them. You know, and you didn't mention him. I got him on an interview this guy He's been competing 40 years Chris since 1978 Crazy and what did a great interview right there with them if anyone has this scene it was this guy's intense. He's been his and he's one of these guys I went tense you were when your body buildinGHe's been like 40 years Chris for 40 years. He's been back It's like a love with body building. Oh, he's still just his intense is he ever was in terms of like diet and supplements and trening and I love it I'm like how do you do it? I said how did you say so like fuck he's like that. I don't know. Just never stop First show he did in 78 John Kapper one the overall I tell you how long you're always John Kapper one May he rest in peace It's a good one though Did you see the latest the big ramen posing footage beta but dinosaurs all the latest the posing video to said said Forward it to me and I usually do some kind of little analysis of it. Did you watch on the sun? Yeah, I'm sorry. What do you would just think of room? I don't look good. I don't think it's like it was pretty good. I think for eight weeks that is good. Yeah, I think he looks good. I don't think he had an abscess on his glutes. I didn't know. Yeah, IMean he looked good. I don't think like I think he's in a good position. I think he's you know of course he's big but Does he have the biggest glutes muscles in like the history of bodybuilding? It's like it's like they're like huge. Well everything's big. I know it's going to be big. I don't know what your role is you're analysis of it. I thought he was in good condition now that this is a good condition. I think that you know like you said at eight weeks out this is a good look for him now. Hopefully they won't feed him up from here and try to make him bigger. I think that if he continues to come down from this point on he could be really really dangerous. He's got a this something unusual about his physique. I think that's the best way to put it. He's so big everywhere that I don't know. It's like he doesn't look like anyone else. You know what IMean? Yep. That's the best way. He almost has and he's way better than Greg Covax but he's almost very Greg Covax into me. He's got just large big muscles that don't look like anything I've ever seen from anyone else. But yet they're not Ronnie Coleman is shrown type. No. Dense like looking muscles. No. Put it this way. How would Coleman look at weeks out? Yeah, I don't know. Probably whacky. But the point is he doesn't look like any other body I've ever seen. So I think that's what makes it hard to judge this guy. But if he comes in ridiculously shredded I don't think you can deny this guy. Can he? Can Phil beat him if he's at his best? That's thEQuestion. Phil would have a lot of trouble potentially. That's that said Phil has without a shadow of a doubt the most amount of polish which is his calling card to last two years. And polish means. Detail muscle that's full and doesn't look flat. And actually expands and contracts when he flexes it because a lot of people they, you know, the inside chest and nothinGHappens. They look great, get into it, they look great in it. But nothing really happened. Yeah. You know, when Phil gets into let's say a side chest, you know, you see a lot more detail everywhere. Things like pop. Okay, you're speaking of Phil, you know, you did obviously, I didn't notice. We, we, we, we did the show as we were both carrying on about. How I, it's terrible that Phil can't have interview with anyone and I don't understand what this exclusivity is about anymore. There's no magazines, why why is there exclusivity? They should Phil should be promoting the, the limp. And it's, you know, we record on Sunday and then of course, you know, Monday morning, you know, I see an interview go up with the, with the, and muscled moment Ron Harris over there. And I found out that he's not he hasn't been on the contract with anyone for two months now. How we're supposed to know that he doesn't tell anyone. I don't know. But yeah, manager Matt, you know, texted me to it. I'm sure he did the same thing for you. I said Matt, how am I supposed to know if this guy doesn't have a contract if no one tells me? I don't know what the deal is it. I don't want to, you know, put him in an awkward situation, ask him to do an interview with him. If I know that he's on the contract or I think he's on the contract. So, we reached out to Phil. And I'm going to hopefully facilitate this interview at some point in the future. Working on questions right now. And I think I think I'm looking forward to it. I think that I can do a good job at Phil. I think I could bring another side of him out and ask somEQuestions that people haven't really asked him before. Because we know it's an normal. The normal questions are the softball questions, you know, that everyone, you know, it's pretty simple to talk about. The bubble got this to that last year, Louis Marko. You know, I'm kind of like, I've just nothing really. That doesn't interest me. I want to know what makes it feel he detects. That's really thEQuestion that I want to know. And then fortunately, I don't usually ask questions based on what I think people want to hear. I asked questions would I want to hear, which is usually what people want to hear. So, Phil would enjoy like breaking down the NBA finals. So, that was thEQuestion. Exactly. He's right. Yeah, of course. He's a journalist, much probably more enthusiasm for that than, like, you know, what do you think of. Thanks to Rami and Broden who have all been seconded for the lasT3 years. Yeah. Well, we'll see if that happens. Do you never know? I don't know if we talked about Julianna Malik on any retire. We did. Talk about it last week. We briefly touched on it. We're going to be getting you around the show this week. I hope. It's not this week. Next week. It's always good when you make a big announcement. So, I think we can be a big announcement. I think it's always the best thing to do. Make the big announcement and leave and shut your phone off. Oh, my god. I gotta find out what's going on with her. I haven't feeling she's not done competing. But maybe the, obviously, this year she's not competing. But who knows, maybe she's parked out. She's doing it a long time. She's been doing it a very long time. So, I don't blame her. I did a good interview with... You know, I'm pretty well Steve Cardilla too. Oh, yeah, of course. I love Steve. Steve's one. The real good guy. He knows the history of the sport. He's been around since the beginning. You know. And I'll never forget the originALCARdilla belt ads with Paul Damell on it. Remember? Good. Good. And so, he still making belts. He's still making a match. It's every, it's very few people who make belts anymore. He has no competition. No one can keep up with him. If anyone who's out there who has a custom belt. 99% chance it came from Steve Cardilla. And he's giving away a... He made these three years... A couple years ago, it made these... I think there was three of them. Three species belts. Beces nutrition belt. They were like these... Electrical green with the black... Species logo, species in black. And I think... I'm trying to think who got two of those belts. He gave them to me. I think a game went for Brousver's pros or something like that. And this one left I see it when we did the interview Tanging in this store there. And he's... I think he's going to give it away if you post on his Instagram. Why you want the belt? It's a good story. So, I think I remember once that belt. You know, he's made belts for all the celebrities. The rock... That's how he... He's made them for everybody. The actor... He's doing airbrush. Like, like, original art ones now. Like, for some of these... Like, movie stars. Like, the rock... Like, the rock wanted his tattoo on the belt. And so Steve's got this guy who, like, Custom spray or paint on the belt. It's actually... It's probably like more of a piece of artwork. The tattoo along with the word the rock. And it's great. I always said that the weight belt or the greatest, like, canvas, like, to put your message out there. And I think that's what Steve really capitalized on. Because, let's face it. IMean, the belt... You weigh your belt every day, you know. Think about, like, these guys who just wear these different t-shirts or slogans. You could wear a different... If you had, like, five different belts, you would different moods you're in. Or different messages you want to get across. You can kind of do it. IMean, it's pretty cool. Most people when they turn pro, they get the IFVP pro on there. You know, they're belts, you know. I would be pro, whatever the name is. The nickname... Sometimes they make up their own nickname. Put on there. Go on. Yeah. Yeah. The him and Paul the male were very tight. And him and Jose, a good friend. Very good friend. Jose talks very highly. Everyone does. He's one of these guys who's been around forever in the sport. And everybody says something good about Steve Cardell. He wanted to... He wanted to make me a belt, but I said, I don't even... What am I going to do with it? Get the technician on there. Yeah, that's what he wanted to do. So, I'm just hanging my stuff out. I'm just hanging the backdrop. So, when we do a TV program, we can answer that. Oh, so empty. It's got those two little pictures on there. You got... IMight look at him get midlife prices or something. I'd be able to give it to my son when he leaves him four years. Yeah. There you go. The real technician. Get on that. I don't know. I'll tell you one thing. You'd love Steve Cardell's house. If you watch that interview, I'd do it to him. There's some footage we show from there. He does these water workouts. He's got... He's got this big dock he built. He lives in the water. He's got this big dock. And he has all these pieces of wheat trening equipment out there. And he... Well, if Steve has the amount of him and Jose like lifting with those... Like weird. Yeah, and he's got like water contraptions where you... As you lift, the water pours out of the... He's got like these big jugs on the end of the barbell. They're like your weights. So you start out it's really heavy. And then as the water was pouring out while you're doing the set, it gets lighter and lighter. So you can... You can do it. He's got all these cookie things he does. It's pretty interesting. It's pretty interesting actually. But I don't even care about the way to come in. I love the dock. He's got there. It's this huge dock outside this nice house. He's obviously got it really great set up. And he said he keeps expanding the dock. It's like he owns the whole... It's like a marina he built from self there. It's unbelievable. When the word is a mass. Yeah, you gotta find that. He mentions it in the interview to somebody's. But you'll probably know it's... I was very impressed. He's got a nice little set up there. It's probably beautiful in the summer. It's probably freezing to death. But he goes out there in the winter and trens too. I've seen him. Well, the bundled up, but you know, jack, it's just like that. He says it kind of like wakes him up. It like it really gives him like a surge of energy to tren out there. And I'll tell you. When I was... When I was in jail for my five-month-old stint, I then... They had the weight pit was outside. And I trened outside and I'll tell you. It's nothing more in the trening outside. And it's great because when the season's changed, you know, you get... When they're, you get freezing cold, you get the summer. It's super hot and then in between it's usually nice. I... I love it. I told you, sir, I was... I was... I was... I was... I was... I was... I was... I was... I was... When he was in Paris, he'd do a set. You've walk outside. And then he'd step outside the gym in a tank top and... ...shorts. And then be freezing. And it's down there until he started to shimmer. He chocked protein. He chocked protein. And he would come back in and he would do another set. And he... he claimed which he was right. That shivering would cause his metabolism to pick up. And then it'd come in into another set. And then go all the freeze. Come back in. Him and Blackman, Blackman should... to be able to search and do very died. Blackman could've teamed up with him to first up on the line. No crumbs, shall I hundred days, though? I wonder what part of your body has to get cold to you. Actually initiate the shivering response. Maybe you can just put like a helmet on that's freezing cold. You know, like a little thermostat. Yeah, you can just put your head in. What part of your body? Does that have to be the whole thing? It's maybe just your head, isn't it? Yeah, what activates the heat shock proteins? Now you send me a picture just now. He texted me a picture of surgery on the human human. That's for you. He'll look really good. Yeah. Pretty intense. So many of you are doing the lip here? No, he's not qualified as your own Tampa. Oh, he's got to Tampa first. I forgot about that. He came in second. I'm going down for it. Oh, you are. He's going out of the house. Oh, okay. So you know what? That's even better because you know who John Hansen contacted me. He wants to know if I needed any help doing some coverage. Maybe he can have a good show. He just admitted to me. Oh, good. Together. Some wrap up. I got Henry P. R. Oh, no. Doing the classic, too. No, you're trying to... He got Richard. I'm just saying I think that might have been the... The botry of the year is placing up in... I think my personal opinion. You know, I put it look really good up there. That's a bit of a show. Well, there he is. I just think you have a picture. IMean, tell me if that's not classic, dude. I'm telling you, the surgery. I love the surgery of the picture. The surgery of the picture is great. Great front double. Why so? He really looks good dad there. He doesn't. Yeah. Henry P. R. Oh, no, I said to you a picture of him. He looks like his dad as well. I thought that was the surgery of the brain just set me. Yeah, I said classic, right? Yeah, that's good. It's good. I like the old black and white picture, too. I thought you sent me surgery of the brain first because it looked more like it was black and white. I'm like, oh, I surgery of the brain. No, it's Henry P. R. No. So they had this show out in... Spain. Spain? The whole lot of pro shows in Spain. It's called Spain Aportical. No, that Portugal was a bit too weak. See, this was Spain. It's called the IFB Big Man and weekend. I like the Big Man show. I wonder if it has a bit. It probably sounds better in Spanish, don't you think? Yeah, probably trenslate it well. It's probably a much more much easier mode, a word in Spanish, but trenslates to the English to the IFB Big Man weekend. Which is kind of like, I'm just kind of like a little... Almost there I say politically and correctly, a little gay sound. But I like that. Went down in Berndorn, Spain. Where does that? Berndorn, Spain. It's probably on this. Probably South Spain. And I know I'm going to have a million people who are going to just be texting and telling me, you don't know what the fuck you're talking about today. You don't know a new geography. I don't... I really don't know anything. I'm very ignorant. I don't know anything about Spain, but the answer to that. Except Barcelona, I've been there three to four times. In Valier, who've been talking about all year, as being the sleeper guy in the open division. A lot of people, I thought he probably should have been higher at the last show he did. He comes in here and he wins unanimously. Beating a good line up. We'll talk about the other people in a minute. How good is the invalid year? Chris and your mind, and where does he stack up among the rest of the elite body builders in the open-prod division? He is... By the way, we have pictures at RxMuscle.com. If you want to look at these pictures, we do have conferences. I think I've said it already on the show that I think that if he picks the right show, he can win it. Because he's got size, he's got condition, he's got height, he's got width. But he keeps picking shows where he's going up against people with... Maybe a little bit more flow, more roundness to the packs. Less tall, which makes him look more filled out. So I think for him it was just a matter of picking a show where... It was capable of winning based on his physique, where the show was... ...I don't want to say less competitive, but actually that's really what it is. So where do you see him stacking up? Once he hits the Olympia in eight weeks? At the Olympia, it still appears, not going to do anything in the Olympia. It's not... It's great experience for him because he's young, it'd be a great experience for him because he's qualified, it'd be a great experience for him. Because he's going to have to go against the Grammy types. IMean, I don't know the guy, but he's not afraid to compete. And that's... I don't know if it's a lesson or a good story of that when or his win is that you have to compete to win. There's a lot of people who quote, I know a lot of people over the last ten years who do this to me. I should have done that show, I could have won it. I'd just say, yeah. I'm not saying they could have beaten in a year or like on end of this show. I'm talking like just different shows in the past where people... ...to 12 bodybuilders don't really build their story of his life. Well, IMean, it does outside of the center. There's lots of people. I know lots of people. Not lots, but a small handful who could have won multiple shows or just one other shows... ...had they just done it. Tray Alps was the champion of picking the right show and then winning it every single year. I want to watch the show and win the right show. Yeah. I think it won eight. Eight open bodybuilders' shows. Open, not too 12. Yeah, no, and he was usually to 17, you know, to 19, to 19, usually to 17. You're the best. He wasn't afraid to compete. That's why. Yeah. And you see, giving four weeks notice, I'll do the show. So... Well, I was pretty impressed with Ian. I was also very impressed, Chris, and I know I've sent you the pictures from the show. By the way, thank you for the peer, purely for sending me the show. Yeah, I thought he was great too, and I thought he was great on you along. But I thought he was great. I go, I go, I go, I release from Slovakia, play second here, by one point. I believe. And I was very impressed with him. This guy's got a ridiculous amount of muscle on his body. Yeah, he's thick as a baby. He doesn't have the smallest waistline, but he's dense. IMean, look at those arms. Big legs, big legs, and glutes, and his back shots are pretty powerful. I think he's going to be a future big, big name guy. I really do. I think that we should see a lot from this guy. You know, Jimmy doesn't, you know, try to get too much bigger, because I could definitely see him runninGHis physique. It would be that he doesn't really need much more size, you know, maybe just refinement, some posing, help posing. I was very impressed. Yeah, I was also impressed with the almost everyone in the top five in the show were ultra conditioned. Because we haven't seen a lot of conditioning, grainyness, Chris, and the open division this year. That's been the knocking, I said. Well, the open guy, I was being a real cool to show people were talking about people having tremendous condition. Top five. Yeah, but these are guys that like are not household names, and they're crazy shredded. IMean, this guy, I grew up guy. And of course, our good friend Roman Fritz was probably the hardest guy in the whole show. Maybe to the maybe to his entertainment. Yeah, because he probably could have been a lot more full. And I know Roman listens to the show, and I know Roman knows his biggest problem. He doesn't eat enough food. Because he never thinks he's, he never thinks he's going to be hard hard enough. And he's probably, Roman is probably in better shape, offseason than most of these guys are when they can come up. Of course, they. So he does do. He does do many of season pictures once, and I thought this was like four days out for some people. Yeah, he needs four weeks to be in shape. You know, there's nothing wrong with that. By the way, when I was competing the lasT3 years in my career, I used to die for four weeks. I'm not kidding. I would four weeks out from the show. I would start my diet. And the second day of the diet. Do you eat almond domes? Yeah, pretty much. Yeah. The second day of the show of the diet. I would feel like I was dieting for eight weeks, 18 weeks already. Because when you lean, it doesn't matter. As soon as you get to that lean level, you feel just as bad. It doesn't, it's like you just started out feelinGHorrendous. You know, when you have body fat, you start dieting, you don't feel that bad. You get some reserves to go on. So Roman might need to be doing like, you know, four to six week diets. You know, I would put a little bit of cardio in, not a lot, and maybe 20 minutes. And I would cut back my food, you know, a little bit. I'd be like, yeah, that, my son's calling. Oh, my goodness. I have to show you. I have to do a pause here. A pause baller for our, let me see if my son quites down. This is the chat. This is the challenge of being a parent. Dad, Dad, all right, hold on, Chris. So yeah, I didn't really diet that while I'm Chris back in the day, but I, you know, Roman's got to come to grips with the fact that he just doesn't need to diet that while I'm over dieting, he's not helpinGHim. Now, this guy, Andrea, Munzi, or Munzi, from Italy. I was impressed with him too. Really good. Right. I think he's a conditional. Right good conditioning. Very good. IMean, I see a guy who's crazy conditioned on stage. I'm impressed. And I got to tell you, you know, it just goes to show you. Conditioning, you know, really places you high. Because he has a guy we never even heard of. And obviously his conditioning is what landed him in this top five in this competition. So that's a message. I'm sending this, the judges are sending to all these people because it wasn't five guys in the show. There was, there was a lot of guys in the life. It was 16 guys in the lineup. So, you know, to make top five here, it wasn't easy. You know, so the most conditioned guys with the guys in the top five. And then you get that Mohammed Shaban from Kuwait, who's fifth, who's also really impressive here. So I thought it was a good, it was a good top five guys there. And I think that, you know, if anyone has a take home message from this, it's sharp and shape. There was also a prop, the, the prop bikini on the other hand was terrible because it was four girls in the show. Diana Solomon, one from Hungary, the graduation star. And so that was the, the first rendition of the big man weekend. Take it. You know, I went to school with the elementary school with a kid by the name of Scott Bigman, spelled the same way, Bigman. It was a good soccer player, Big kid. It's always going when your last name is Bigman to have to be like over six feet tall, you know. Imagine if you're like, yeah, you can't. Exactly. Imagine if you're like really short. Obviously, you know, I always think about how these names came about, you know, like in the beginning. Like when people were first naming them each other. And obviously, everyone makes up their first name, but at some point people made up their last name, too, right? They probably was based on what you did, you know. If you were a big guy, there was probably the big man. The kid Scott, Bigman probably his relatives were giants or something like that. So they called him they, they, they, they, they, they, they, Bigman. Get over here, you know. And I don't know what, where my name came from. I think Palumbo means the piece or something like that, or the pigeon, and Italian from what I understand. So maybe they would maybe my relatives were pigeon breeders, but for all I know. Cito means vinegar. Yeah, you guys were vinegar makers. You probably grew grapes and, and from, and you're, you're, you're, you're probably horrible making wine. And they turned it all the vinegar by accident. So they said that we need vinegar. Well, you guys will be the vinegar makers. So they said, we get a seat, though. See, though. Bring us the vinegar. We have to preserve some some pickles. Whatever they were making back of a day. That's the juice. What do they, what do they, what do they tell you? What do they tell you? What do they tell you? Pickle, I don't even know. I don't know. Pickle vinegar for salad. Sorry, who knows? I could be. Yeah. They're, they're, they're, like, like, like, think of some other good names. Like, uh, I don't even know. Schwarzenegger. He was black. They, they probably like, they're, they're like, shots in the egg. It doesn't mean black, black man. I think it does, right? Yeah. Jeremy Boindy. A Boindy doesn't mean good. Well, that's, that's possible. And the one, he says. He's, he. Uh, yeah. Spass a line of tapes like Trump sex lawyer. Yeah, he's got, he's got plenty evidence. He doesn't need it. He's got his photographic memory. Yeah. He's got him. He may have the most photographic memory outside of NASA in this photo body film. But she's hope he doesn't wind up the same way NASA does. I will say one thing, Boston wise, got one cute little kid. This little baby is really cute. Everyone's baby. Everyone is having babies. They're all growing so fast. It's crazy. My, my daughter is six months old. Seven months old now. Just, just turn seven months. And she's almost walking. My son was, wait, my way, way. I think women girls in general tend to develop quicker than boys. But she's like physically, you mean, yeah, physically and emotionally and mentally actually, too. I think boys are just, like, a little behind the girls. I don't know what it is. Maybe all the testosterone and their body just kind of distracts them from developing. I don't know what it is. I haven't come up with my theory shit. Child development theories. I'm like my kids are all enough to really have them. I will have them at some point on how my own child development theories, you know, what's wrong? I told my toy old today at dinner. He didn't need to salmon. His brain would not grow. There you go. That's good. I would use the same thing on a problem. And he would not eat it. He's, he deferred to eating vegetables. Vegetables. Vegetables. Without make my brain go. That's funny. Yeah, I don't know what what age the kids get to it. They don't eat my son. You'll eat anything pretty much right now. I don't know if that's going to change. Yeah, as he gets all the kids taste buds change. I know him's my taste buds have changed over the years. I'm eating stuff now that I never would have eaten 20 years ago. I taste buds are like, it's like, I'm becoming, yeah, what we've talked about before. Been coming out parents. Yeah, I'm something that you eat like my dad eat so much. That's the last time I'm like a little glass of wine every night with dinner. That's probably just to deal with the stress of being a parent. Yeah, that's it. I'm just going to say that's just because you have two kids to say the same one. And I was eating all of the green olives. I've always hated my whole life. I love all of them. But now I'm not allowed to eat them because the garlic breath. As Italians, we emanate our spices through our skin. And then they claim to smell like terrible. The garlic that comes out of my skin is terrible. And I wouldn't argue with, I would present the argument up because I do, I do notice that my skin will release whatever I'm eating. Onions, garlic, that kind of stuff. So I try to just limit it so that I'm not offensive to her. I'm not offensive to her. I'm not offensive to her. I'm not offensive to her. It's probably not a good way to have a good marriage. So I'm willing to give up my great olives. You don't notice the smell of garlic. And she does. You know, you can always taste it a little bit in your mouth. No one can smell you as much as the next person. And she's got a very good taste. I always thought I had to get to the smugs. People always irritated that I would smell everything. And she's way way more, her sense of smells way more cute than mine. Which also is one of the reasons why I think IMight be getting Alzheimer's. That's one of the first things to go. You said to the smell, did you know that? I know that. You can't smell things as good. That's one of them. So it's terrible to be around someone who's got to manage it. There's a correlation. Is that true? Yes. No, I'm not making it up. It's a direct correlation. They said that you can't smell certain things. You can Google it. You'll say. Just funny. You know what? I can't smell anything. You know what? I'm serious. We're going to wipe out this. I'm fucking loony bing me too. People. I'm dead serious. If you were in my house, people would say you smell that. They get mad. No, I can't smell it. That's the first time too. I can't smell it. I can't hear it. And now with glasses, I can't see it. Yeah, I can't see anything. So my sense is being dull. So that even makes me think that I'm really losing my mind. Because you know, vision is a huge sense. And I can't say anything up close anymore. I can see distances, but I can't see close. Unless I need glasses. I have contact lenses. This is the irony. I have contact lenses in my eyes. And I have to wear reading glasses really if I want to read something close. That's what happens in the head 50. I said, I hit when I hit 30, I lost. I saw losing my hair. When I hit 40, I don't know what happened to 40. What happened to 40? I have my hair. I just can't smell, see your hair. I'm sorry. But you look at. That's my dad's famous statement. I said, but at least you look good. My father's famous statement is that I look great. I'm falling apart though. So I took a picture of them today while I was laying on his death bed. And basically, dad, you look pretty damn good. I got to tell you. He's like, hey, Kibeli, speak. I show him the picture. He's like, yeah. He created. He's like, he's so main, my father. He's so pit. Matter of fact, in the hospital when he was he was having some really bad days. But I thought he wasn't even going to make it to the areas today. The only thinGHe responded to, there was a really pretty good look at nurse that was working in the hospital. And she would come in and want to feed my dad. He all of a sudden perked up a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. It was just like, it was probably like a subconscious like perking up because I don't think he really was, you know, even aware of what was going on. But all of a sudden he was eating well for her and you know, and responding to her. No one else he was responding to. I was like, putting my eyes like three inches from his eyes. And I was like, you know, I can get a response. That was the only way I would get a response from him. But like, yeah, but she just had to come in there with feed him and he was like, he was loving it. Let me see what else took place this past weekend here. We had the Los Angeles didn't think the Los Angeles championships used to have a pro open division or my make-up. The cow has one. I put the LA championships to do. I think they think so. You must have changed it. The LA image has showed you. Remember how competitive that is? I know. You used to be crazy. That was like a step away from the nationals. Yeah. Yeah. You know, that's because Chris that's because everyone moved out to California to be professional bodybuilders. So they all did a little bit of a little bit of a show. Yeah. Yeah. Michelle Pinto won the pro figure out there. She's from Brazil. What a resilience. Melissa Bumsted, second place Chris Bumsted's sister. She's got a great physique. You know, I always wondered why she didn't go to women's physique. She's got like Chris's physique. IMean basically Chris Bumsted and sister got the same exact physique. They built tall. These crazy structures. She likes figure though. She likes figure. She was at the Olympic last year. I still think she should do women's physique. I really like her because I think she'd be great at it. But maybe she doesn't want to get that big. I think she's actually big enough. But who knows? What do I know? Third place. Julie Mayer. She's always in there. She's doing it for many, many years. So congratulations to those ladies at the LA Championships. And the only other show of the weekend was the battle in the desert. So he was one of the show. There was a romance physique there. And Anthony Woods took that title. Long Wu from China, second. And Daniel, a month. And called station third. Long Wu, I think is the only real men's physique pro that I know from China. Thank you. Thank you. Right. They got some good, well known that she's a Korean. The Koreans got the good two, 12 guys. I'm surprised we don't see more Chinese athletes. Think about it. They got two billion people there. I was thinking that the other day. How's that? I think once China, like, just really, you know, basically relinquishes control, you know, of all their athletes and let's, you know, really, I guess spread their wings. So to speak, I think we have to see a lot more Chinese athletes. I really do. Like you said, because of the sheer numbers. Indie too. We're going to start seeing some really great Indian by those. I work with a lot of these Indian guys. And I'm telling you, they, they, they, they, they, It was such a corrupt system there that you couldn't get pro cards there. They didn't have any pro qualifiers. Now that the, the, the, the, oh, we've opened up. You, we got rid of Rafael and we, we've opened up the ability for people to, you know, hold pro qualifiers and then you're going to see some great Indian body bills. IMean, there's no reason why a mid-roy had to come all the way from India to the United States get married and then qualify. And it was the most, the most cocky, maybe way he had to turn pro. Now people in India, this pro qualifiers, you know, a good French, the Ruhoads pro qualifying events and this one coming up pretty soon. So we're going to see, we're going to see that this, the, the landscape, I believe in the, uh, some of these men's divisions. And eventually the women's divisions completely changed because you're going to get some really great talent for Asia that we never had before. Because they were restricted. And we can get these people from the Middle East over here from my ran to, I got to give Kamali credit, King Kamali predict it. He said, he didn't remember. He predicted it, you know, because he said this, you know thEQuote, right? Say it. I know what you're going to say. You say it. He said the hotty chopens are a dime a dozen. Yeah. He used that a permanent dime a dozen. He said this better. And to turn out, they, he kind of is a dime. IMean, there's just a lot of good, already bodybuilders. Yeah. Good genetics over there. tremendous. And you know what the difference is when the country actually surprises and supports the sport, you know, like bodybuilding in, in these Middle Eastern countries, the guys get better because they, they're, they're not like running around scared like, oh my god, I'm going to be arrested. They're like, the fucking government's pay me, give me a house and, and pay me a salary to, to beat the best bodybuilder can beat. Not just if we had that in this country, how good would we just, the talent would be unbelievable if you, if they actually, you know, embraced bodybuilding is a major sport here and they actually didn't try to stick you guys, stick us a jail for being bodybuilders using anabolic steroids. That's the guys would be unbelievable. They would be 25 running commons out there. Oh, all in the lineup. That would be your, Olympia lineup. You'd have four running commons, five running running commons, competing against each other. Yeah. Yeah. I think it was, well, I think it was dusty. The hand show played a joke on a lady who's when he won the North American, so I was classed at the North Americans. And she said, wow, he won the, I think it was dusty. You won the North Americans. Maybe someone won the nationals and they said, yeah, and they said, what he went for that, and they said, the government gives me $250,000 a year. I can just work out. Listen, wow. Yeah, what's his name? Come out. Oh, gardening there. Who's going to be doing the 2012. This guy got paid more money from over his course of his life, right? Yeah. He was, he was, he was, he was quote amateur at a post at a, at a higher than per level salary. What was he making? He told you. He was ridiculous. He was ridiculous. They were, you know, open gems. Like, you know, not lovely, little hole in walls, but, you know, gems are no partners. Yeah. No. It's tremendous. Maybe one of these days our country will lighten up a little bit. I'd love to see. Wouldn't you love to see some of these professional athletes that, like, you're doing, like, football, and they're doing, like, some of these other sports because they can make money there. Actually, using their genetics, like, for to see what their physique development could look like. My god. Yeah. I can't even imagine what the physics would look like. If it was, if it was something that you can actually make money doing. Well, IMean, passion, Trump's money, too. IMean, a lot of people. It doesn't. No, what money doesn't hurt. Money is a very good, a very good driving force for, for guys that have great genetic abilities. Well, yeah. Right. I'm sure, okay. Look, this guy said, would love to probably be professional bodybuilders, but they're, like, you know, what? I could, uh, I could throw a football, you know, 100 yards, you know, and, you know, 20 million dollars a year to do that. So, they had a pro bikini, excuse me, pro, uh, figure division, oh, no, pro bikini. Sorry, division also at this, um, battle of the desert. And I got to tell you, this, Ashley called wasser is on a roll. She's one three shows since her comeback. She's obviously a former Olympic a champ in bikini. And she'll be going up against, uh, Angelica Tashara this year. And, uh, this might be one of the most anticipated battles in the bikini divisions. We haven't seen two Olympic a champs really square and off against each other. Seems like every year there's like a new bikini champ. So, this will be pretty interesting to see what happens. Francesca Lauren was second in his show, India, Paul Lino coming back, you know, after giving birth, very recently coming in third. She's, I believe, for second a third show. And she's placed, I think, top three and all of them. So, who said, given having a baby is, uh, is a death warrant to your physique, because the Indian Paul Lino is looking great as ever. So, congratulations to those ladies. And that was it. That was all the action in the I-3-bit as best we can. But, I will say this, Chris. The schedule's heating up with eight weeks to go to the mister. I want to be a competition now. We're going to start getting so a lot of, like, uh, I think a lot of exciting stuff's going to start happening now. People are going to really start, you know, focusing on who's going to win this Olympia. And thEQuestion is, can Phil Heath score number eight? IMean, to put himself in the rarefied era of guys like Ronnie Coleman, Le Haney. He's already tied and Arnold's, right? Seven, I want to be as, who would have thought when Phil first won the Olympia that he was going to win this many? The only person who would probably have said that was Jay Colour, right? Jay said he was going to win 10 right? I was just saying the show dude, because I can't get, I can't get that. IMean, I'm going to say that too. I knew you were going to fall that with. The only one who would just predict that would be Jay. Jay has been saying the only one who would come and answer him. He said he's going to win 10. Jay sent me an email picture of the date he met Phil. Was that anyone who won the Colorado? No, you just, no, Jay went off to guess post somewhere. At the Colorado, I believe, right? And then Phil went off to guess post somewhere. Then he said, IMet it. Jay would remember this too. He said that met it. He just started trening. And he's a combo wheeler in the room. Yeah, he was right. He was right. Well, one of thEQuestions I want to ask Phil is what year does he think he was best? What would you say? I know who would. I know what you're going to say because we've already discussed this. The year, his best look was at the Sharo without a doubt. And I'm sure he would agree with that. Yeah, I don't know if I saw that one. I think I was a, you were there, right? Yeah. What about the year? You remember we were talking about how great he looked at that 2010 Arnold classic. We were a Ky Green one. I thought he should have showed. Yeah, I agree. He was, he was, he had paper thin skin. Absolutely papers thin skin for that show. And he was, IMean, round the house. Small ways. And structure was just he. He looked good. I think, you know, look, you know, we saved this all the time. And you know what, I'm probably guilty of it, too. We all, isn't it true, even riding to, we get too big. Jay, Jay, it's thEQuote machine. Jay said somewhere. A long time ago, he told me we were all better smaller. That's a quote from Jay. We were all better, smaller. Because we lose, we lose touch. We always think we got to get bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger does look better in tank tops in the gym, but not necessarily on stage. So. And then again, maybe that's just what happens. Maybe you can't even stop it. You know what IMean? Maybe if you try to not get bigger, you, you couldn't do it, you know. Like if you just keep trening and doing what you're doing and taking the, the supplements. Maybe that's just what happens, you know, I don't know. Unless you're pulling like a LeBronian, just not treninGHalf the year. You know what IMean? And I think anything. Maybe that's the problem. Yeah, but he was, you know, LeBronian was the Brooney's best was when he won the New York Pearl. Yeah, and play second. Period. Period. IMean, he had a lot of good years, but those years, you know, those two shows were when he was as best. Yeah. And I think I asked him, I think he was 28 when he won that New York Pearl. Oh, really? That's it. Wow. He looked great when he placed the second of that Olympian in the behind the arena. Yeah, it's crazy. That was great. I think the 9 to 9 champions. You know, it is his legs whenever I don't know if he had an injury or he just didn't tren them. He had crazy legs. What do you want to do? Crazy. Big, big, big legs. And he never went best body part. Yeah, yeah, no one really remembers LeBronian when he had a huge legs because his, his legs were never great after that. I don't know if he just didn't tren them, you know, or if he had an injury. His legs was so huge that in 1999, I told the story a million times. In 1994, I was competing at the NPC's suburban championships. And he was, it was no, it was 92, excuse me, 92. And he was gasposing there. And his legs were so big that he was wearing these pants. I don't even know where he got these pair of pants from. The pants was so big that the legs of the pants were as big as the waist. And he, I remember he couldn't even get his pants off on it. He had someone helpinGHim to get take his clothes off. And when he took the pants off, I couldn't believe how biGHis legs were. They were huge. And I was just like, holy. Yeah. His guy was enormous. He was never, he had, he would never be that big again. This was in the offseason. He was offseason. He never, after those like first couple of wins he had in the pros. He never got big, he always stopped trening in the offseason. And I think it was because after he injured that pack bustle, remember when he tore his pack, he always, he said he was afraid to tren after that. He wouldn't want to push himself all year round because he was afraid to pair something else. But man, he had some freaking wheels from hell. Really, very impressive. That a very impressive. Alright, well, Chris, people seem to be enjoying our banter lately. I don't know why, but this is like I said the exciting part of the season. Coming up, we got the, we got the USA championships this weekend, right? That's right. How's Chris? That was a show I used to be talking about. Yeah, well, I don't even know who's in it because God forbid they put out in a competitive sheet or something like that. Obviously, we're going to be getting some new pros this weekend at that show as well in the open division. And that's always a great show. I used to love to go to that show to be honest with you. But then, you know, then they, John Lindsay, who's, I consider a very good friend, who made it too hard, you know, they jump through hoops. I don't want to go to these shows where I get to go to hoops. Plus, it's a thousand people in the show. It's too hard to get to the American show. Yeah, it's one of these long shows. But I love to see, I love to interview the winners of these shows because the, Mr. USA is not like a great title. So you're Mr. USA. And the National Champ is great. And the National Champ is great. And the National Champ is great. And the National Champ is great. And the National Champ is great. And the National Champ is great. It was not a great title, Mr. Minister Mary. I think they should buy it back from who I'm on set. Yeah, I think so too. Even though it's a little, it's, IMean, it's less known than let's say when you are a kid. Right? Keep it a thing made upon. IMean, will there be just great on Mr. America? IMean, that's the open men's, the best, the greatest men's body-building amateur body-builder in the world to be Mr. America. IMean, I remember all the guys who would win the Mr. American, American they would get like belt him could cardill a belts with Mr. Margaro right? Yeah. Moholic opened the gym Mr. America's because he was Mr. Margaro. That's right. That's what he could. What was the name of the town? I think it was in Hexville. It was in the town right by my house. Yeah. I never trened there. I never saw the gym ever. I was before my time. But I heard it was it was the old gym with the paneling on it. You know, remember when people used to put paneling on their walls? Of course. Of course. I still see paneling around. Yeah. It'll probably make it come back, I'm sure. Paneling. No one knows what was walking about. Probably. No, that's why I'm saying paneling. People won't know what it is. Well, though, no. IMean, you can describe it. I can, I'll say how you describe it to everyone knows what we're talking about. If you watch the movie pumping, and you remember the gym Louis Furgno was trening it in Brooklyn. It was a whole paneling. It was a little paneling. That was paneling. Why did people panel to like update their place? It was like wood. It was like wood. It was like wood. It was like wood plank. It was like almost like put you how you put down a wood floor. It was like wood on your walls. That was like cool. And think about the whole 70s was paneling because then they had the station wagons with the paneling on it, right? IMean, that's so funny. You can have right on the outside of the. Yeah. It was like the cool thing to do to have like paneling on the outside of your wood paneling on your station right in there. But that who would put wood on a car? You know, that was really wood-bought. No, but sure a lot. It's just, you know, everything comes full circle. I guarantee it'll make it come back. It's a little different type. Yeah, that's like some of the type of paneling. It'll be like a cooler version. This is cool. I got to have that. They have to call it something different though because paneling is just not sexy anymore. You know, wall covering. Kind of like, you know, wood plank blowing there. Something like that will come up. It's a better crazy name for it. Or Zilly and wall cover. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, they got to throw like an international name and they're like, it's been like. The Amazon rainforest. Yeah, they got it from. Something like that. That's a little make it more appealing. So anyway, I'll be spending this week probably mostly except for Tuesday and Wednesdays when I do filming will probably be my dad's. I should set up like a cat. I should set up like a webcam there. The case by dad does says anything like really, you know, I'm waiting. I'm waiting. You need to. You need to because you. No. IMean, you. I've been video to. What I do is I fall my phone out. Yeah, I pull my phone out and I put the video camera. I started asking questions. I'm like that. I'm like, I'm like waiting for him to give me some kind of like, like from the heavens. He's drawinGHim, you know, some kind of tremendous like. Words of wisdom for me for the rest of my life. I'm waiting for the deliver something like that. But he hasn't. Yeah, it's all been gibberish pretty much. But I know my daddy's so creative. He wouldn't just go out like with without a bang. He's got to get him. He's got to hit me with something, you know. You're going to pull the fire on the front of the place. He can't even lift his hand up. He can get out of bed now. That would be some miracle for sure. It's a little sad. Well, it's a, you know, I got to just say these these hospice houses are just unbelievable. They have like rest like a cafeteria there. They have like, you can be that you can say the 24 hours a day if you want. They have a pull out bed. You know, you could have, it's, they have a beautiful garden and water. I'm like, I think it holy macros is so nice here. It's what a great place. It's great idea. I like man, look at that fountain. I would kill the heaven. My house and everything's donate, you know, pretty much a lot of stuff is donate by people who were there before. And it's a very peaceful environment. I recommend that you have any loved ones that are, you know, have their days of numbered. Look at the hospice. It sounds like a depressing thing. It's completely not depressing. It's like it's, it's dying with dignity. Really. IMean, it's what it is. It's funny that Dr. said to me, I was trying to decide what to do with my dad. And because I didn't want to pull the antibiotics, but they really weren't working. And I just felt like, you know, it's just like, you know, it's not the right decision. And he's like, look, let me ask you this question. You follow, obviously, it's, it's Kim. He's, he's got dementia. If he was fully, you know, aware of what was going on. It can articulate the way he did in his young years. What would he say given the situation? If he was looking into the situation now, I'd say, you'd get me. I'd say, well, I said he told me to get a gun and blow his brains out. The doctor almost thought a laughing. I said, I said, I said, and my sister said the same thing. I could say I'm pretty much, you know, she was there. And I said, yeah, now he wouldn't want to. He wouldn't want to see you end it. End it, end it, end it. He was telling me to call Jack of Orcine five years ago. You know, and, and, and, because he was, you know, Well, that was the, that was the dramatic. Yeah, which the funny thing was, my dad was in more pain five years ago, then he was now, which, which tells me that it was probably mental pain. It was in more so than physical pain. Because he's only, he's on like, no pain. No pain. Meds now. He's met amazing. Yeah. I told you, my dad was on 80 milligrams of oxycontin twice a day. And it wasn't any bestillin pain. He was telling. He would complain. But because it's in my, he must have been going through a painful point in his life emotionally. It was mental pain. Because it's nothing like emotional pain. It was, it's a total mental pain because as soon as he's, his dementia got bad where he couldn't remember anything. And he couldn't remember his pain. He wasn't in pain anymore. Is that crazy? Is that the only area of life? Yeah. Well, that's the, yeah. The week and create our own pain. It's suffering. What? That's why it was tell people. It's a quarter of the week. You get what you think about whether you wanted or not. My dad was thinking about painful thoughts. And that's what he, that's what he was in. As soon as he couldn't, he couldn't make those thoughts anymore. Because he couldn't, he remembered the thoughts. He was out of pain. Isn't that a, if that's not causing effect right there. Think about it. My dad, you know, supposedly, you know, chronic the, the genital of our spinal arthritis, which, you know, that's where it claims his pain was coming from. Which it should have gotten worse and worse from worse obviously, right? His, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his pain got better. Less and less. And if that's not like a message out there, guys that, you know, sometimes if you're, if you're feeling chronic pain, or you're feeling like something is like, always wrong with you. Maybe it's the way you're thinking. Change you thinking. Not, and people, they have to go through it. People, people, they have to go through it. People, sometimes it's easier to do that. Yeah, but you know, because people think they have to go take these yoga classes, and they think they have to go and be retrened. And you can change the way you think in three seconds. You don't need to read any spiritual books to do it. You don't have to watch any way in dire seminars. You don't have to listen to Anthony Roberts, Robbins. You can just change the way you think and just stop. Let's say the buck stops here today today. I can say I know a lot of people have to, they're depressed all the time. And they think their life sucks and they don't realize how good they really have it. And it's just like, just because they all they do is just dwell on the negative. Just change the way you think today. Think, think about, no matter how bad everything that's going to be. Think about how bad everything that's going in your life. Think about good things that are going on in your life. Just focus on that. Try it for two days. I'm sure you can, you can manage to do for two days. I guarantee you things will change in your life. I promise you they'll change in your life. That's how sure I am of it. And on that note, we're out of time. Until next week, remember with heavy muscle radio? The truth hurts. Good night, everyone.

=== FILE: IAIN VALLIERE BRINGS HOME THE WIN in TAMPA! Palumbo & Aceto Wrapup! [M2R1arXAPpM].txt ===

Day, Palombo here with Chris Asito, for an RX muscle, news update, the Tampa Pro 2021 open class has led out. Chris E. Invalier has won the event. He is going back to the Olympia, as predicted he came in here and he took home the victory. ThEQuestion is, how good of the victory was it from on first impression, what did you think of Ian? I think it's his best ever look by far. He looks bigger than he was last year for sure, but I think his condition was better than it was overall last year. He had good fullness, which is really what he needs. Going forward, let's say from last year, how can you make the, what can I improve? I think on his physique, fullness is more important than like mind, boggling condition, but he was full of the other last year for sure. Right. And his condition is just better here than it was last year. He got, it's he a guy like a dentist wolf that if he comes into flat, he'd be just over the wow from his physique. Yes, you know what? I think last year, like I was critical of his condition when he won whatever it is that he wanted to take a new pro or whatever show he won. And he got beat by Hunter of your member last year. Yes. And then next week, yes, he want to show. And I think in both of those shows, you know, he looked good, but I think here the added size helps give the illusion of more condition. And outside, remove the added size, he definitely had better condition here. So not only did he get bigger, but his condition improved. IMean, he didn't have these glutes and hands and back detail last year. So that's all improved. And as part of the improvement is more development, I think he's got better developed hamstrings here. He's got better mid and low aback, but his condition here is, you know, for for that size is spot on. Even his arms are bigger from behind this year, I think. Yeah, I think people are a little critical of him because they were expecting, you know, and you said this before, IMean, you're probably one of the people who puts down the internet as much because, you know, when you put pictures up on Instagram, you know, it's not a true representation because it's like putting a gym photo of you in a tank top. You know, you can look like the Dennis James looking Mr. Olympia in the tank top as a gym. And, you know, I'm sure if you put that picture on Instagram, people would be like, how did this guy not win the Olympia? You know, and so, but I think this was a good stage look for him. And I think you're right in the sense that he had the fullness with conditioning. He's still the most conditioned guy or pretty close to the most conditioning. IMaybe still, well, I was a little tired of it. It's structurally, you know, he's really good. And I think when he fills out that big frame of his, it's impressive looking, you know? Well, the number one Colin Cardazee has is the frame. It's like, IMean, the Dennis Wolf was a perfect example. Dennis Wolf had shows that, you know, when he was round and full, even if his condition wasn't spot on, people loved him and the judges loved him as opposed to when he tried to like dial it in and bring it like, you know, a super tight look on that frame. It's so wide and big, you know, it acts as a detriment chasing condition. So for the big, for someone who's big and wide, it's always important to try to keep your fullness. Of course, the criticism is when you try to keep the fullness, that's the same thing Dennis would sometimes, you know, experience. People said, well, you gotta bring it in tighter. So I think for this, for this show, this is, I don't think, I think this is compromise. Yeah, it's a perfect spot on way to come in. He's, you know, big, full and hard. Phil Khohar, you know, I worked with him in the past and, you know, this guy has the ability to get ridiculously ridiculously tight and shredded. And, you know, that's his calling card. He has good shape, but, you know, obviously, I don't think he's as complete as in Valier and I, you know, a lot of people thought, you know, well, maybe Phil could win the show because he was really, really tight, especially from behind, but I think at the end of the day, IMean, it comes down to, you know, muscle size and structure at some point. I think that's why Ian was able to, you know, securely win unanimously. Yeah. I thought, I thought he'll look tremendous, like his, his backshots with the condition was like absolutely outstanding and from the front and from the side. Yeah, he's improved, too. He's improved. He's improved. You know, he's teased bigger and he's harder. And, you know, this is his best and I think that if Ian was like, quote, not full enough or just not as tight enough, you know, Phil could have landed in the first spot, but I think it was a very well deserved second place and his condition was really, really outstanding. IMean, he was super tight in the backshots, like a really tight. And this, this shot you put up too, side chassis, super tight, pecks is threaded. Yeah, Wilson Ham's are like really dry. And I know these pictures don't really show what people's true condition is. So, you know, he looks super tight here, but, you know, I'm sure in real life is even tighter. He's a guy who works his butt off and, you know, what, he, he, he, he lives it. IMean, he, he, he doesn't care. You can make him suffer as much as you want. And I'm sure he worked this whole offseason on making improvements to his music, which I see did and he brought the conditioning and he needed to. And you know what, he was rewarded for it. I think I, I love to see guys get rewarded for hard work and bringing something special to the stage. Let's face it. Every guy in this pro lineup is a, is a, is a genetically superior to the average person. So, all these guys have their own gifts. But if you can, you know, make your gift, or bring your gift to the stage at its best, then, and then you get rewarded for it. You can't, you can't come away from the show with bad feelings. I'm sure you wanted to win, but at the end of the day, he knows he was his best. So, I think this was a great second place for him. Well, the effect of the matter is in Chicago, technically on paper, he got smoked. Yeah. He was like out of the top 10. And I think he was overlooked there. Yeah. You know, when, when you get overlooked, it happens sometimes. When you get overlooked, it's just hard to bounce back to another show mentally for a lot of people. You know, they, they, because what happens is they, you know, have a thousand different opinions from a thousand different people that say, you know what, Phil, what you need to do is this. And, you know, half the people say, fuller, half the people say harder. You know, some people say, fuller and harder. Some people say, you know, you come in and too soft to tight, you know, you flat because you were bigger two weeks out. So, pinned the bounce back like that from a bad place and not a bad showing. It was a good showing because in terms of looking great. But it's a great bounce back and it's good to see it's great to see, like solidly in the mix of first place because the judges obviously, you know, looked at him and couldn't deny that type of condition that he brought. Now, third place Charles Griffin, you know, this guy gets bigger every single year, he gets improved. He has a tremendous amount of mass on his body. And for me, I always thought, you know, he's got that very short torso, almost like a guy greenish like short torso. And I think that that can sometimes hurt him a little bit just because maybe he doesn't have the crazy, crazy V-taper of, you know, of some of these guys. But what was your overall impression of Charles here from on a scale one to ten? You know, he's stuck there, you know, like an eight or so. I think just what happens is he's going to get in who's very wide. In a bigger guy, you know, and he's going up against Phil, who just brought in, you know, his lifetime best-dense. Phil was just dense city. So, you know, the odd guy out, you're not as wide as in Valier. And you're not as dense, even though you are a very dense bodybuilder, you're not as dense as Phil. So, you know, you land as high as you can in a show like this. You know, it's a deep show. You know, third place is nothing to sneeze at. You know, he looked great. And I think he, you know, IMean, he's markedly better than what he was the last couple shows. I don't know if he had injuries a couple years ago or peaking problems, but, you know, he looked really good here. All right. I think he's his size and fullness with the best they've ever been. He definitely got bigger from the last time he saw him. I think he could be could have been a little drier, maybe in the glutes. IMean, and hamstring, IMean, that's being like super picky, but I think with his structure, because he does have the short torso, if he was a little harder, I think he would have had a little more wow to his physique. And I think he might have snuck by Phil. I don't think he would have been in, but I think he could have snuck by Phil if he was tired. Possibly. Yeah. He possibly got him snuck by Phil. It's tough to say, because then he got more muscle than Phil. He does what they're the torso on the front double and the abshot. That type of condition that Phil was in. I don't know, even if this guy was even tighter, I would have put him ahead of Phil. Possibly. Let's talk abouT4th place max troughs, because max has been on the upsurge. I thought the last show we talked about his physique and how he actually was might have been the best he'd ever been, compromised for upper body and low body. I thought his legs look really good here, but what was missing from max and why he's the end of this top grade? You know, like he's just the other three guys were better. You know, Anne's bigger, you know, with better condition, Phil has got better condition. And Griffith's got better legs. And Griffith's got better legs and better glutes in him. So, IMean, this was a really tough line out. I thought max was better. Yeah, two weeks ago, I think he's better than Chicago. Yeah, I thought he was the I thought he was better in Chicago. That's the point I was trying to make. I just think he had a better combo of leanness or water lack of water retention there and you know, which could have given the illusion they are fullness, but he just looked better. They have fuller tighter. IMean, look good here. I think his back shot was pretty good. His hamstrings and glutes were pretty good here. Yeah, I feel like maybe he's a little flat. Maybe I don't know. Is that is a possible? I don't know. His upper body doesn't look as much. Doesn't look as it's. It's a little bit. Yeah, you know, I think is that the way it is. So, this is the reason why let's say when Tbilicalhar gets on paper smoked two weeks ago when you get a million different opinions. The, you know, max probably, people probably judges and clued it said, bringing the glutes in him's brought him in, but the back thickness is like not as thick as it was two weeks ago. So it's like a trade off. Right. It's fullness versus, you know, it's, you know, it's, you know, unless you're like, Coleman, you know what IMean? We have everything right. Roddy had everything. Like he could get everything. IMean, he did look at that. If you look at that picture, you know, he did what he needed to do. This is the best. IMean, from the back, I've ever seen Max Charles. I got to tell you, you know, it's a good balance of glutes, hands back, but you know, I think it was better in the back from the trunk sub two weeks ago and, you know, let's talk a most shabon in fifth place. What do you think? Give me a comparison of the last couple times we've seen him to this, this time and did he deserve was the fifth place right call for him? Yeah. Do you know, he could have placed higher? IMean, all shows he can place higher. That's a crazy thing. That's right. Yeah. What would you like to see improve on him? Because he's really, I think he's really good. I think he's one of the most ungraded. I think he's very underrated. Yeah. IMean, that front last friend, it looks like you know, five six version of hands with that allakes. Yeah. IMean, you know, back up his back shot is unbelievable. You know, so he's, he's really, really good and really underrated. IMean, that back double was really good. IMean, he was saying, you know, Jose would say that they're judginGHim on height. That's true. You know, is he short? I'm not sure. I didn't know. You know, he's the one that the short guy is up there. He's outstanding. IMean, everyone's got that you can nitpick and say, could his back be tighter? I guess. IMean, I suppose so, but, you know, side chest is outrageous. Front double front last for the outrage is most muscular is outrageous. You know, lot of size, density, volume, per square inch. Yeah. That sounds like a guru formula. I want to. I want to give a little props to Sunchul Lee who is in six place. I don't know, was this his pro debut on that short? No, he competed in Romania. People left him there. They loved him there, too. He's really good. IMean, this is a good, this is a good front double firm, you know. I think he, he made some great improvements from last year, too. Yeah, he's really good. He's, he's really good and, um, you know, he needs a little bit more muscle-church majority. I think he'll be tighter from behind. Yeah. Really good. I think we're going to see a lot from the sky in the future. If he can show those legs, arms, you name it. He's got it. He's got, uh, you know, get a lot of people would say, right? Yep. Why did front last break? You wouldn't tell there. It looks a little, you know, possibly never on the front double, but he's very, very impressive. Well, I thought the Tampa Pro was a great show. Obviously, we had Carrot's Bajow when, uh, yesterday in the two-off of the day. You might go, I, oh my god. You do do do. Carrot is a great guy because, you know, he's worked his way up from like the ground floor. IMean, I just, I sort of work with my team. He's got talent. I wanted the team universe masters, you know, division to get his pro-card. You know, people write those guys off, you know, and then he just, I said, this guy's got the ability to do well, and he made a lot of improvements over the last couple of days. I called him a wet day off the hour. I have no problems saying what I'd lent him. Yeah. He's a triple nobody. It's, in other words, he's a rocky, he's a rocky. That's it. He won the show convincingly. He arguably, he could have, he could have won Chicago, you know, I thought he was the densest, you know, guy up there, he had, you know, as good if not better condition than the two guys who came above him, they rewarded him here for having the best condition. But when I say triple nobody, IMean, he's, you know, you, what working with him, you know, took him essentially from masters' nationals, right? IMean, if you had, right, when you won the Masters' Nationals, IMean, it was masters like team universe. It was masters. Yeah. Masters team universe. So the point being that if when he won the Masters team universe, if, you know, he had told people, I'm going to win one of the most competitive two-twelfth shows of the year in 2021. People would have laughed at him. Yeah. This is, he, he, he's a lot more impressive than people think, because he has dense muscle everywhere. Yeah. That's a good front of vice update. There's like, you know, crazy V-taper, he's got wheels. You know, he's from the New England area, you know, and Connecticut and Jose, you know, had seen him and Jose told him, so the same thinGHe was, man, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to devastate some people once. Jose is always on the money. He told me like four months ago he said this guy's winning shows this year. Yeah. Yeah. No. I knew it. I didn't want to get him too excited. You know, you know, how when you, when you were, you know, you know, you don't get to want to like get him too pumped up, because yeah. Yeah. But he's, he's very grounded and I think, you know, he's, he's, he's a really good guy, too. Like, you know, he's, he's just like a very humble, and I think that I'm so happy from that he's going to the Olympia. Like, I, I think I'm happy that he is. Actually, I think all I thought Dave, when he wanted to say, I wonder if Dave will go to the Olympia this year. I don't, that's that portion, but we'll get another variant. You'll be stuck on the right. Well, now they have the gamma variant coming out. So I think that's awesome. Like that. Well, anyway, I want to just congratulate you in Valier and Carruth, Madjo, great job guys. And great job for the whole line. It was really a great show put on by, obviously Tim Gardner. They did a great job. The Tampa Pro is really raised itself up to, I think, a real top-tier level show every single year. And I, I enjoyed, you know, even though I was home, I enjoyed watching the pictures and the videos and all that stuff. So once again, we will do a full wrap up of the entire show on heavy muscle radio on Monday for now on Daypalumbo with Chris Asceto or another RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: IAIN VALLIERE IN MONSTER MODE! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸17⧸18) [T3RZeZuU85M].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Day of Columbus. Today is Friday, August 17, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If anyone tries to tell you they've got this classic physique line up figured out, I can promise you they have absolutely no clue of what they're talking about. Especially when you try to factor in some of the new blood this year from guys like Steve Lawrence. The rookie phenom is looking like a serious problem five weeks out from his Olivia debut. We'll get the chance to put that crazy x frame on display against the rest of the top dogs in the division. When you look at what he did in the two times we've seen him so far this year, it's not hard to get excited about the sort of future this kid might have in the division. But whether or not he's ready to go toe for toe with the rest of the elite talent in the sport, is something we'll all have to find out real soon. According to Google, the largest free-rumbing populations of Buffalo here in the US live way up there in the bustling metropolis of South Dakota. The early of this week a little birdie told me that we had a rare sighting somewhere up there in one of the small corners of Connecticut. On Monday, the body-building world got a rare update from one of the pro leagues most reclusive superstars in former Olivia contender Evan Centupani, who doesn't seem to be any worse for the wear these days after being sideline with knee surgery earlier in the year. And what we can tell in the pictures, Evan looks at these keepinGHimself in pretty good shape these days, which has to give you some hope if you're an ox fan that may be possibly, he'll think about jumping into a show sometime here late in the season. At the end of the day, Evan Centupani is probably still one of the top 10 to 15 body-bos in the world right now when he's healthy. So if for some reason he does get bitten by the bug again, I would be on the lookout for this guy to do some serious damage whenever he ends up. Dropping in next. One of the coolest things about the playoff atmosphere in sports is that there's always a team or an athlete who figures out how to take it to a new level that no one ever saw coming. And if you're like me and looking forward to the action at this year's fitness Olympia, then one of the athletes you'll be watchinGHeading into this year contest is energetic third year superstar, Riel Kodar. You have to put in together the best performance of her career back at the Arnold Classic. I think Kodar is heading into the Olympia this year as one of the true dark horse challenges that can go in there and turn this entire thing upside down. Every single time we've seen her, since she's turned pro, it feels like she's been able to add some sort of new elements of her game. And assuming she's made the right adjustments, I think she has an legitimate shot to be a top three finish of this year when the final bell is finally wrong. If we were doing an Olympic style metal count for bodybuilding this year, I think you guys would be surprised at the hardware that team candidates been able to rack up so far. And one of the new faces leading the way for our friends up there from the north is 212 sensation, Mamudal Dara. In my opinion, the rookie phenom has been one of the coolest stories of the year so far in the 212 division, especially when you look at how dominant he was in his win up there at the Vancouver. At the Vancouver Pro, whether or not he's got the firepower to hang with some of these monsters at the top of the class is still probably up for debate. But if he's at 100%, he certainly capable of a top five or better finish of a few things break his way. Speaking of Canadian monsters, you're not going to find too many guys walking around up there in the land of Moussen Moussen, who are scarier than our old buddy in Valier. After finally punchinGHis first ticket to the Olympia a few weeks ago, the 20-something freak show looks like he's makinGHis personal mission to bring back that old school 1990s super grainy look that most guys flat out just don't have anymore. I don't know what the hell he's been doing over there the last year or so, but this kid really seems to have figured out how to get everything clicking lately. So if he hits the ground running in Vegas and he's at 100% he has a chance to be a dangerous threat to the top 10 guys in the world. And that does it. The yet another edition of the Moussen Lundam Warning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

=== FILE: IAIN VALLIERE TOP-10 OLYMPIA？ + BRANDAO PEAKING + CASEY SAMSEL WINS TAHOE PRO! [L-LqIEw0CbY].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro. There's 30-year-in-a-row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. On day polombo and today is Wednesday, September 30th, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the last day of September and I can think of a better way to close out the month than brewing you up a fresh pot of recap Wednesday to get you going to the morning. Let's start out in beautiful sunny San Diego where there was plenty of men's physique action to go around at the border states pro. And swooping into steel a huge win here was India's Buwan Chuan, who caught everyone by surprise. While second place went to the dangerous one at Stephen Chow, who's only gotten better as the year has gone along. Jason Hunnib slid in to third with the solid effort which forced rookie Miron Griffin to settle for fourth in his pro debut. And closing at the top five year was another impressive rookie in Artson, Edyan. We're staying put in California for this one because it's literally in figuratively the hottest spot in bodybuilding right now. Especially if you were lucky enough to be in the vicinity of the Tahoe pro bikini last weekend. The big story here was Casey Sam Cell, who was absolutely dominant from the moment she stepped on stage. And the judges rewarded her with career win number three for her efforts. Ashley caught Wastard turned in another solid performance here, which she comfortably slid into the second place position. While New York's Gabriella Messiahs fore home, the bronze by Angie out, eventual fourth place finisher, Breona Martinez. And round the out one of the strongest top five groups of the season so far was the impressive rookie, hope harbor. I haven't watched the news yet today to hear what the ratings were for last night's presidential debate. But I'm sure the numbers were insane. That being said, I think they both have a hard time winning the popular vote against Rafa Brendeo. On Monday Rafa released progress photos, a few weeks out from his season debut with the Europa pro. And based on some of the early polling numbers it looks like he might be on his way to winning by a landslide. Here's the thing about politics and bodybuilding. Winning and losing are both completely dependent on whether or not you're peaking at the right time. And if Rafa really is starting to hit his stride, it sets the stage and then he'll have to start pulling away from the pack. Sometimes getting the proverbial monkey off your back frees you up in ways that makes everything feel like it's finally falling into place. Just ask my buddy in Valier. Since Ian locked up career win number one for the year, a few weeks ago, he's been trening like a complete savage. And the way that his body's responded has been incredible. This is the scary 1990's throwback version of Ian that we've all been waiting for. And when we all projected ahead to what he could be a few years ago, this is the guy who I think we all had in mind. He has a unique look that no one else on that Olympia stage has. As long as he keeps playinGHis game, I see Ian as a dark horse threat to crack the top 10. And that does it the end of another edition of Musselin the Morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: IAIN VALLIERE vs. MAXX CHARLES for Tampa Title？ [b1oFuFVeyq4].txt ===

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Friday, August 6th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Happy Friday, ladies and gentlemen. Not only is it the last day of your work week. It's also the Tampa Pro evening, and I want to start today's show off by highlighting two matchups in the men's open and in the 212 that I want you to keep your eyes on, heading into this weekend. I'll start with the men's open where I think we can expect to see fireworks between and Valier, Charles Griffin and Max Charles. These three bulk look like they're coming into the weekend in the best shape of their career, and they're all coming in with a chip on their shoulder because they have something to prove for Ian as a seventh place finisher in the Olympia last year. I think there's a certain expectation for him to show up and take care of business here, even if he's up against the heavy hit or like Charles. And for Charles Griffin after sitting out from most of the full year, being able to get a win here over an athlete like Ian Valier would immediately throw his name into the mix as a top 10 Olympia contender, which comes with its own set of pressures. These two are prime for a head to head collision right now, and in this moment, it honestly does feel like a coin flip for who comes out on top. Two weeks ago at the Chicago Pro, all anyone could talk about was the carnation of Keon Pearson and rightfully so, the kid was amazing and probably even exceeded expectations to a certain degree. But right behind Keon in second and third, there was also a serious battle between Amad Al-Dassani and Carthbazio. And this weekend, these two were about to run back to back, starting tonight. We talked about Amad heading into the year as a potential top 3 contender in this division and up to this point he's looked apart. But for a lot of people, Carthbazio performance in Chicago was even more impressive because of how much better he got from the last time he saw him. And without Keon in this lineup, these two sitting at the top again, well, all the pieces are in place for a major showdown head to head. And considerinGHow much is on the line here, there could be a serious implication for whichever one of these two ends up taking the back seat. If memory serves, we haven't talked about the Europa Pro championships much lately. But now that we're less than two weeks away, I figured IMight as well dive right in with this brand new update from Jose Maria Mette, Florida Berry, who will be known from here on out on this show as the Madelman. Because there's no way I'm saying that name over and over again all year long. Who makes the go Madelman confirmed that he was, in fact, planning to compete at the Europa Pro championships despite the fact that he's already qualified for the Olympia, thanks to his win at the Portugal Pro a few weeks ago. If there were any doubts about how good this guy was heading into Portugal, they're long gone now. Because I think he proved once and for all that the rumors about him being a top 10 Olympia guy were all true. And if he shows up and spying even better than he was in Portugal, at that point, I think we'll have to start having serious conversations about where he fits into the hierarchy of this division. One of the other big names in Classic Physique that we're looking forward to seeing at the Europa Pro is former top 10 Olympian David Hoffman, who set to make his season debut there, even though we haven't seen David since his disappointing 12th place finish at the Olympia last year. The reports that I've heard from people close to his team are that he should be coming in significantly bigger and with better condition than we saw at the Olympia as one of the 12th of guys in the division, Hoff has the ability to be overpowering in certain poses when he's dialed in. So if he does end up being as good as people say he will, then it'll be interesting to see if the old theory about the old big man beating the good little man can still hold up in the modern era. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo Reminding You to Always Be True to Your Patience and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: IAIN VALLIERE： FULL TAMPA PRO STORY & FUTURE IN BODYBUILDING! [efU4KxOSdxQ].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Motor 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low carb clock tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in this species nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Species Nutrition on Dave Palombo. And today we're joined by our 2020 IFVB Tampa Pro Men's Bodybuilding Open. That's a big title. Second place finisher, runner up our good friend Ian Valier, welcome back to the show. Any of a pleasure to have you on the show. Yeah, you're on the road. You're in search of a refrigerator. Yeah, just a inventory. I'll tren with one of my buddies and pick it up for it. Just down here for a couple of days and join this. Good gyms here. A true bodybuilder will go in search of a refrigerator and will drive two hours to do so. Which I find rather admirable on your part. This is what you use Melissa to blame. This is kitchen renal's wife edition on this one. This is not me. It's like a big French door fancy one. We're just in the process of redoing our kitchen. So I thought she found one that she really liked. So I was like, well, it's exclusive to come out here and tren. So you know, you'll search high and low for a pair of 180 pound dumbbells. She'll search high and low for refrigerator, you know. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. I'll tell you something. I was in the market for a freezer because my garage freezer burnt out. And there's no freeze is to be boy. You know, because all these people are hoarding food. So you can't buy a freezer and lows home depot. And they're all out. Everyone bought them up. Yeah. So I was in a, a lows the other day just picking up some stuff and I just happened to say, hey, I know you guys probably don't have it. You guys have any freezes to like actually, free came in the other day. We have one left. So I was like, what the freezer was you'll have to bought it right then. They delivered it and it was like dented. It was like, it's like, oh fuck that. Like so. I actually had to, they actually said, you know what? Keep the freezer for now and then when we get a new one in. Which could be who knows. And here from now we'll replace the dented one. It's crazy. We love them crazy. Anyway, speaking about crazy times, when you travel to Tampa, which I'm glad they actually like you travel to Tampa, that must be it was that a problem. Just the travel general. I'm looking to find out. No, IMean, as Canadians, we have no issues traveling into the US. It's just thEQuarantine when we return. But no, it's it was honestly the travel was easier than normal if I even say so. Like the airports were so dead. Right. There was no lines of customs like anywhere. IMean, it was it was awesome. IMean, you know, you had to pick up the litter in terms of seating on the plane. IMean, you know, I paid for first class flight. But I kind of fucking regretted it when I got on the plane. It was empty. I could just sat there anyways. But IMean, yeah, IMean, it was it was it was good traveling all the way there. And on the way back, it was fine. Just, you know, when you come back then onto the Canadian side, they kind of, when you come through customs, they kind of, you know, give you the ropes of, you know, what the processes for thEQuarantine and make you feel some paperwork and stuff like that. Who's in forcing thEQuarantine, I knew. IMean, they have the Ottawa, like, so the city, I live in the, they will send. I didn't like, it's not everyone will have it. But they sometimes do send the police by your house just to check if you're home and an abiding by it and they'll call you and stuff as well and just, you know, ask somEQuestions and stuff. But IMean, you know, with how many people you have come in through the border, because Canadians, it's pretty fucking impossible. Yeah. Yeah. So they decide to post to solve a lot of foreign. I think they really use thEQuarantine more as a deterrent to travel, because for the average person to take, you know, two weeks off work and write these kinds of things, I think it's more just to deterrent than anything. Right. You know, and then just the, you know, the potential of, like, someone might show up and if they might show up, you're fucked, right. You know, it's just the deterrent to, you know, make people not travel or if they do travel, then they stay home. So, you know, that's what I feel pretty much to, because, um, yeah, like, who the hell is why looking up on everyone? And now, I guess probably in five years, you know, they'll be able to track your foot, you know, cell phone, they'll have some kind of computer system that will tell you up. He left the house. Yeah. Well, IMean, there is some kind of COVID tracking thing on iPhones. I've heard that. Yeah. Use it. But IMean, I obviously have all those locations shut off on my phone. I'm trying to be. I've ever once said that wait until in five years, you won't be able to turn it off. You want to have a choice. I'm not going to say it. I'll be getting land. I'll be getting land lines. I'll be about it. Yeah. Man, this is going to be no money, no land line. It's going to be your cell phone. You might just plug into your brain if that goes, you know, it's going that way. That's for sure. Yeah. And probably, it'll be way convenient, just that you're not going to be able to do anything that you shouldn't be doing, you know, go and watch it. Big brother will be there. It'll be a lot harder. That's for sure. Yeah. So, you set up to do this show. Obviously, it's in value ever. It's until the brought up. You traveled alone. Okay? Now, the reason I want to mention this is because a lot of people, you know, are speculated, my self included, you know, what could have gone wrong with Ian's prepping? Didn't look as polished and ready as we expected him to. And I heard you did the food out of the podcast and I heard you talking about pressure and the pressure got to you. And you can give us the whole synthesis of what that entailed. Was it difficult as a bodybuilder flying down alone to tap and not having anyone there to kind of cater to your needs and stuff like that? Yeah. IMean, like at first, you know, the main concerns I have was just like the silly bodybuilder selfish shit, you know, like I was thinking to like, who's going to shave my back? I was going to, you know, do stuff like that. But you know, I thought I was pretty self-sufficient. But you know, when you sit there in a hotel room, like I flew in on Tuesday and you sit there, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, you sit there in your head, you're, you know, sit on Instagram too many hours and you know, you're right, mine starts to run a little fucking rampant, you know, and you don't have someone to kind of like, you know, keep your head space a little occupied. But, you know, maybe if I was a stronger person, I, maybe that's just the thing. IMean, maybe some people would be good with this. IMean, I know plenty of people travel and do shows alone. But for me, this was a first and it was, you know, it was new uncharted territory. And, you know, obviously because it was a lot of height, you know, between Hunter and I, you know, it just the pressure mounted and I sat there and my thoughts for a little too long. And it, it definitely, you know, was, was detrimental to my look and to my confidence and my, how I was on stage for sure, you know. So now, see what you got to do is you got to get a hobby. If you were to have like, if you were like me and you breed snakes, you could have just been looking at snake pictures on Instagram. So it's supposed to body building pictures on Instagram. Well, IMean, I really, like, I brought like some video game stuff and I was like, oh, keep up, but at this point, I had so much anxiety built up. I couldn't even sit still and focused on any. Why is that? Why do you have so much anxiety relating to body building and computing? Do you enjoy it? I don't know. IMean, this is something I struggle with in my life outside of body building as well. But, IMean, definitely especially in body building as, as I progressed in my career, right, you know, and I feel more pressure and not even just from, from fans and stuff like that, but also, you know, myself, IMean, it's, you know, when you've been doing this for so long, you expect to see some return from it in terms of, and it wasn't even, the, the placing is irrelevant. IMean, I've placed worse in shows and been very happy with it. IMean, I did Vancouver for a last year where there was hotty, there was Nathan. IMean, you know, there was an awesome lineup. Everyone looked good. I was for place. I was fucking a static, you know, and it was because I looked great. I could have cared less what my placing was, you know, I just knew that was pretty close to a, you know, 95% 100% Ian. And, you know, I displayed, oh, I want to display the size that I have, the fullness, and I showed that and I was very happy with that. Right. And, you know, that's really what it came down to. And here, I think, you know, after the fact is, you know, the hardest thing was not even, you know, I'd be lying to say I'm disappointed with second place. IMean, you know, obviously I would have liked to win the show and solidify that Olympia and put that Olympia birth. But, IMean, the, the placing is so secondary. So what the look was there, you know. So what, what happened? IMean, IMean, I know you said that, you know, you got it. You said what did you do when you sat doing sabotaging behavior, we under eating, over eating, what, what didn't go right over that. IMean, obviously just the whole, you know, the stress as a whole is going to, you know, IMean, I've even heard you talk, you know, when you were a bodybuilder, you get mad when you get stressed out because you're like, I'm releasing cortisol. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, you, you, you like, not want to feel that, you know, and I was like that for five days straight, like I was having like, like, like, like, like legitimate panic attacks. You know, like, like to the point that it was like debilitating to be, you know, like, this wasn't just where I was like, oh, this sucks. Like, I was like having like extreme, you know, situations, you know, where it was not really pleasant. And then would you get like, do you think you have it? Because I've had anxiety attacks, so I thought it was having a heart attack, you know. Yeah, yeah, you know, I, I, I've definitely been to that point, you know, but it was just yeah, IMean, it was, I didn't do a self sabotage or not whole of the plan or anything like that. IMean, you know, a combination of just lots of stress, you know, and lots of pressure. And then combined with, you know, obviously we made some small mistakes from a, from actual peaking standpoint, you know, which I think just comes down to the, the water manipulation. Mm-hmm. Too much water removal. Is that what happened? Yeah, IMean, we, with me, especially when I get into a certain level of conditioning, we pulled a little too much water like we went from, you know, drinking lots of water on the Thursday and we pulled down to three liters on the Friday and three liters sounds like a good amount. But for me, you know, thaT3 liters, and then when you use a tiny bit of dioretics, I just kept like even Saturday morning, like when the diorics had long worn off at that point, yeah, I was still peeing like every 30 minutes, like full clear peas, like when you take a little diorics and like your peeing, like two trickles and it's like yellow sand, you know. Like I was still having like full like all from, my wife woke up at 70 and Saturday. So I went on stage. I was still like pulling water, pulling water, pulling water, you know, my body just got into this like hyper, you know, excretion and you know, from dioretics, just from, you know, the cutting of water, and you know, I just started to smell just a crazy rate. And IMean, it was just too much I couldn't catch up with it. And then, you know, that obviously induced more panic in my mind. And then, you know, you have you combine those two when it made for, you know, kind of that like cortisoly watery look plus then flatness, you know, do you eat sodium the day of the show normally? Yeah, I was doing like a gram per meal, which is a good. That's a good. That's a good amount. And you're still losing water. That's crazy. Well, I was pissing like crazy. Yeah. I was talking like trickles. Like I'm probably like 20, 30 second piece. Yeah. That's not it. That's crazy. And I could understand why that would put you into a panic too when you started seeing your body completely flattening out, you know, like that. Yeah. IMean, like, you know, and then also the tan thing. IMean, you know, which was a big issue. But IMean, I know if I'd looked awesome and had a bad tan, you know, obviously wouldn't have been as big of an issue. But when you combine the two, you know, obviously it just makes for overall fucking shit look. And, you know, you don't even want to look at the pictures after that. But the tan is much that's one thing that comes down to being alone. IMean, I thought I was dark. I really didn't know. IMean, when I'm in the hotel room, setting pictures to my coach, you know, in those photos, I look fucking dark as hell. I know. And I asked the liquid sunrares people. I was like, am I dark? They're like, yeah, you're good. We did extra coats. Like, everyone said it was dark. So I trust their opinion. I, you know, can only see what I can see in the mirror. And, you know, when you're used to being a fucking ghost like me, and all of a sudden, you're a big dark. You think you're dark, you know? Right. It's not until you're under those hot lights on stage. And you're like, well, I fucked that up. You know? Yeah, I think the key for you should be a Milano tan. Well, which is what I've started now. So like, IMean, for a long time, the tanning places were all closed here, right? No, I know. That's why I said that. So, you know, I've been doing the Milano tan, I've just started doing some bed tanning as well as the. Milano tanning. You know, they have a nice base under there. So, yeah. Yeah. I'll do the combination of that. And then I've got some protein. I've been contact with them. They're going to help me out. But I'm going to start doing like light bases like way earlier. Right. I've started like Tuesday, Wednesday, and do like a couple of coats, rinse them off, a couple of coats, rinse them off and build up like the old school guys used to do and kind of, yeah. Sure, I'm plenty good, not like a buddy you look. Bye bye. My next show comes. So. Yeah, it's it. I was telling me of a base tan is a really, really point. You know, I want your situation. I'm a scene very similar to, you know, I don't know if you remember back, you know, a number of years ago when I was helping Anthony Pascuali before he was going to do the USA. He was probably a shoe into when the USA that year. And five days before the show pulled out and he never competed again after that. And he just he said he just didn't it was too stressful for me to enjoy it. Even though we look right and he had to visit to probably go to the Olympia level. It just was too much for me. Couldn't handle it. IMean, are you at that level or is it just, are you just still trying to find that balance where you still, I love body building, but I got to just find how I can not get so stressed out of the show. IMean, I wish I knew the answer to that to be frank. IMean, you know, like obviously, you know, as of late there's been more days than less where, you know, I'm really like am I enjoying this. It's really hard to, to tell if I am, you know, you know, obviously I still love trening. I still love, you know, the essence of body building and the roots of it. And that's something I have loved and I will always love. But you know, the actual like competing aspect that, you know, as the farther I get into it, you know, and I don't want to like, it's tough to say because like, I don't know if it's like, the stress makes me not enjoy it. And that's just me being a fucking chicken shit or it's like, and I need to work on that or it. You know, I don't really know what end this needs to be to work on, but, you know, at the end of the day, I do love trening and body building and trying to get my physique to the best it can be in the look that is rendered on stage. But, you know, I definitely need to work on, you know, getting my mind set and alleviating some of that pressure on myself and making it an enjoyable experience because like at the end of the day, like if you're not enjoying it with a fucking even doing it for you, IMean, it's not like I'm making fucking $30 million a year doing this. Like IMean, IMake a living and I, you know, for a mid, you know, upper mid to your body builder, I do quite well, but it's, you know, it's not enough that to impact my life in the way it has, you know, in my mind state of mind lately, it's like, it's a very gray area. You know, you have the kind of a zik and I'm not, I don't want to, obviously, you have a real Olympia level physique, but you have the kind of a zik that if you did with like Rich Piano, did you probably make way more money just doing YouTube videos and doing a channel and coaching people than you ever would just from competing. That's the kind of, so like, sure from a, from a money standpoint, yeah, absolutely, you're right. IMean, you know, and that's, it's something I've thought about. IMean, you know, obviously I, at this point, I feel like I'm deep enough in this that I owe it to myself to, you know, try and work through the issues I'm having from the mental side of it and at least, you know, get the most I can out of my physique. You know, if it comes to a point where it's like, okay, it's been two, three, four seasons and I'm not improving or I'm progressing, then yeah, obviously I'm, you know, going to have to, you know, take a change of course here. But I don't feel I'm at that spot, yeah. Yeah. I'll give you a good analogy and I'm not trying to talk you out of competing because I think I think you're a great competitor. I think that you can go far if you want to, but I was in medical school, okay, and I was in my third year. I had the third year to finish and I had fourth year, which was kind of like just like, you know, rotations in the hospital. I know that I would have been a good doctor. I wasn't, I was intelligent enough. I was one of the top guys in the class, but I didn't like it. I didn't realize that I didn't like working with just pop writing prescriptions for pills for people for to treat symptoms. I wanted to do something beyond that, but I knew I needed that knowledge base that I got from medical school to be able to do whatever it was I was going to do in the future. And obviously, you know what I do now. And obviously, I've used all the knowledge I have that I learned in school. So it was a mean to an end. So for me, quit, I felt like I was letting down so many people. If I quit medical school, my dad, you know, my family who thinks I'm just going to be a doctor and all the people around me who's like, what the hell is this guy quitting for? He's like, you know, he, he, he, this is it comes so easy for him. But I knew that it wasn't something that I wanted to do. So it was a tough decision, but it wasn't. But once I left, I felt like a sense of relief. And all of a sudden, now, all these other opportunities, I opened themselves up to me, because now I was pouring my, what I enjoyed doing, you know, was, which is the health and keeping people healthy and up. And I started applying it towards that. So sometimes, you know, you go to a certain point and you start, you hit a wall and you say, you know what, even though everyone expects me to go with certain places, that's just not my future. Now, I'm not saying that's your case, but there's nothing wrong with that, you know, that's wrong and out. And IMean, you know, I, there's 100% validity of that. And IMean, this is obviously a conversation Melissa and I have had, you know, you know, there is a reality that that is, as obviously crossed my mind, you know, that it's like, you know, maybe there's not enough enjoyment in this and I should, you know, take steer the, steer the ship somewhere else and, and, you know, kind of veer off into another avenues within this industry. But yeah, IMean, I, I'm not 100% there yet. IMean, you know, there's still some things just, you know, because of the time I put into this that I, you know, these want to have accomplished just to feel at ease with myself. And, you know, after that, I think I could, you know, hang it up and, you know, make career changes within the industry and feel a lot better about it. It's good though that you, you made that, that intellectual decision that you just did because, you know, now the pressures will often you because now you're saying to yourself, you know, what it doesn't matter, I don't have to win the Olympia. As soon as I don't enjoy the same, I'm going to stop. But now, now you'll see you'll enjoy it more and you'll do better because now you remove the pressure that it happened to me at some point. I realize you know what, probably not going to turn pro. Stop, take the pressure off yourself. Go to these shows, enjoy yourself, have fun, joke around backstage. And as soon as I did that, I, so many more opportunities. I got, like, guest closing every weekend. You know, I just, it changed my, the persona. I, I stopped being so serious about it. And I said, you know what, let me have fun with this. And I'll take it as far as it goes. And then when I can't, when I feel like I can't get better than I was last year, I'll move into another avenue of bodybuilders. I still love bodybuilding. You know, I didn't want to leave bodybuilding. I just, I knew that, all right, you know, the delusions of being Mr. Olympia are gone and now. And so I'm, I'm not going to put that kind of pressure on myself. And, you know, you guys on the food, podcast, we're talking about Luke Sandow and how he kind of felt the same way. And it's, it's trening point. We say how, you know, he hated, you know, the pressure was just so much. He put on himself. It was almost like when people expected him to do well, he almost didn't want to compete. Because he hated that pressure. And he could have been a guy, you know, I really wish he was still with us. I do miss him. You know, he could have been a guy who could have done anything. He could have just been a guy who had his own YouTube channel and just trened and met a monster, you know, guy, because that's what he enjoyed doing, just trening. And never competed again. And you know, what he would have made tons of money and would have been super popular. But I think he was afraid that he was going to let down people and that he had to like prove himself in a sense on stage. And that puts so much pressure on him, combined with obviously he had some, some mental issues that he even admitted himself. And he couldn't handle it. And so it's important. I think, and that's why I'm bringing this up and I think in this point, I'm not saying that you fit that category. You're not, you're not in that category. But people should understand that are watching this. There's no, there's no half-two or has to do what makes you happy and gives you pleasure. That's the take home message. Yeah, and then as we also discussed a lot of people, and that's I think really where my mindset was, unfortunately, going into Tampa. You know, I felt like I had to win or I was going to be a disappointment. I had this image in my mind that I thought people expect me to come out looking like fucking Jay Cutler. And that because I hadn't posted any pictures and if I didn't, I was going to be a disappointment. You know, I put people expect me to come out and make, you know, hunter look like a child next to me from a size perspective. And there was just so many things that was just, you know, running through my mind constantly and I started to just really doubt myself, you know, and then that's when the pressure really started to amount them out and out and you a band in your own game. At that point, I was doing it from a negative avenue, right? IMean, like I was I was looking at it from the perspective of not doing it for myself, but doing it to appease other people. And then it just completely sucked the life of the joy of it for me, you know? Right. Right. No, and it's a good point and I think people need to understand that and sometimes having this little ePIPhany or awareness for yourself will change your the whole course of how you compete also. You might actually have a better attitude. IMean, I was thinking George Forman before he lost the Muhammad Ali negative, you know, very, you know, like didn't talk to people, just angry all the time. After Ali when he makes the comeback, he's everyone's grandpa, you know, and everyone loved him. And he actually wins the world championship back at it. You know, an unbelievable old age, you know, that no one ever got impossible. So he changed his whole reality by just changing the way he was thinking about things. And I think that that's a very powerful message right there saying that, you know, anyone could do, you got to change how you you view what you're doing because otherwise, you know, you're not going to get the best out of yourself. So just being yeah, absolutely. Yeah. So anyway, having said that, moving forward obviously, I know you still want to get through the limpiest stage. So what's the goal? No, you hit the nearer pro. What do you wait closer to the limpier and hit one of those later shows? Or do you just pack it in for the year? What's your mindset? Yeah, no, IMean, I'm in shape, but I'm keeping, you know, the foot sent me on the gas. As if I'm ready to do New York or I'm ready to do Chicago or the Spain show, you know, I know they made the Spain shows top three's there for Olympic balls. You know, right now, IMean fourth and point. So even if I show up at, you know, any of these shows and come fifth, qualify for the Olympic. Right. IMean, that would guarantee me that would put me a 13 points and first place right now is 10. So IMean, even a fifth place at New York or Chicago or any of those, I would be almost guaranteed. IMean, I haven't placed worse than fourth and quite a while. So IMean, I would feel very confident that, you know, showing up at any show no matter what show it is that would secure me in a limpier placing. It's just picking, you know, the right show and the right time and, you know, making sure my head is right before I go into it. So I can actually, you know, enjoy the experience somewhat, you know, and go into, you know, leave that and go into the Olympia with a good headspace as well, right? I personally, if I were you, I would do New York and you should win that show. And I'm not trying to run that round, you know, seriously, you have to take four in the games. You have to take two in that show. You should go in there. I don't give a f. I'm in shape. There's nothing I could do this screw myself up. I'm going to go there. I win. One of the great things I love about Jay Cutler and that I admire about him and there's nothing people that I admire in our industry. There's two types of champions I found in our industries. There's the ones like Jay Cutler where you ask him who's going to win the show. He doesn't even think he doesn't even think he has so much confidence in himself. He has no self-doubt in himself. He knows that if he puts his mind anythinGHe puts his mind to. He's going to accomplish that. That's a rarity. IMean, that is just, and then you have like a rarity callman, which is almost like a, it's like an innocent like just naive a today almost like I don't, I just love trening. It doesn't matter. This is not stressful because I just want to, I'm living my dream. I'm just a gummet tren. I don't care nothing bothers him. 14 back surgeries. I get to go to the gym tomorrow. You're not the rarity callman either. We would fit into the Jay Cutler, the intense, intense mindset type of thing. But you got to just change your mindset. But I always found that Jay was so mature, even at a young age, even when he was 19, he had that maturity and I'm like man, how does that come from? I don't know if it's just genetic or environmental, but it is admirable. Now that you look back, IMean, seeing that what you're going through now at that level, there's a lot of data. Jay from a, you know, looking as a champion as IMean, basically, you know, the epitome of what every bodybuilder wants to be. IMean, you know, from a business standpoint to a mindset standpoint, you know, to everythinGHow he's conductinGHimself is career. It's everything we could all hope to be, you know. You know, and I hope that I can get my head spaced, you know, even 20% as good as Jay's was in his career, you know. So, you know, it's, yeah, but IMean, looking at that, it's obviously something that's extremely admirable in that, you know, we could all, you know, aim to shoot for for sure. Well, you know what, look, you look great on stage. And I think people just have such high expectations that, you know, no, in their right mind would say, you didn't look good. You were in shape, you were shredded. IMean, you were a little flat like you said your tan wasn't great, but, you know what? Also, but one thing that I noticed was you could tell you weren't having a good time up there. Yeah, I think sometimes you have to fake it even when you don't look good, you know. Yeah, I know guys, you just look terrible, but fake it so well on stage that they would win. It bounces you, you know. Yeah. IMean, by the night show when I have my tan fix and the pressure was off a bit, you know, and I ate and I looked, you know, significantly better, you know, my mind was a little better going into it. But, you know, the thing is that at that point, like after I looked at the photos, and, you know, for anyone that didn't hear the food at podcasts, to be, and that's why I took my Instagram down for about like four hours. IMean, yeah, I was going to get that. Yeah, I was just, you know, my phone, it's like, IMean, it's easy for someone to say, IMean, I know fucking Trigeli and these people were like, you know, they're talking about and being like, well, why just don't look at your Instagram, it's like, it's fucking easier said that you know, like, all the time, you know, I'm talking to my coach, I'm talking to my wife, you know, I'm talking to my mom, I'm talking to my buddies, you know, to my friend Julien, stuff like that, like, Instagram's just there, you know, and people are DMing me, it's like, you know, it's, it's the only thing from that, my phone was just fucking blown up and it was so much negative to me about, you know, how I looked in these things, and it was just, I needed to just clear my mind for a few hours. I don't blame you, you happen this, can I? You know, yeah, and I do myself, if I had just deleted the app, I have two cell phones, like, I would have just picked up the other phones, so I pulled on that. Okay, it's, IMean, I would have just re-added the app, IMean, I need to just, because if you disconnect your account, it doesn't let you redo it for like six hours or something. You got to pull a chy green in, you have to not pay your cell phone bill, and then when you get to the show, you can't talk, you can't communicate with anyone, and then you have no worries. I'm trying to keep my credit score good. I didn't even know what they're about to say. You should just tell, yeah, I'm elicit, if you're listening, Melissa, if this turn is phone off, call off ATV, turn it off when you get to the show, and then you can turn it back on after this should the night show's over, you know? Yeah. So IMean, that's what that was just where my mind was there. IMean, I was like, I just need, you know, to focus on what I can improve for the night show. First, let's rinse it up my fucking tan fix. Two, I'm flat as a pancake, so me and Patrick, you know, we put it together planned for eating, get some fluid back in, me, that kind of stuff. Then after that, it was three, Kate, you need to get your head back to the game. You're posing like you have absolutely no interest to being there. Yeah. So let's, you know, get your mind and get a little more excited. You look a little better. Let's act like you, you know, you're happy to be there or you're fighting for a title. So, you know, I tried to control what I was trying to control and keep my mind off my phone as much as I could. You know, IMean, it's called what you want to call it. IMean, but you know, that's kind of where what I need to do for those few hours, you know, and it, you know, I look better for the night. I'm for sure. IMean, you know, me looking at it, I still think I was 70% of what I know. I can, can be, especially where my physique is right now. IMean, 70 might even be an overstatement. You know, but it's, which was just the hardest thing to just look at it after the fact. But that's a good thing. I'll tell you why because you know what, you know that if you weren't your best, you probably would have been Hunter. Okay. I, I can say, I'll say it. I'll say it. You would have been, IMean, I don't want to say anything to take that away from Hunter. No, I still, he'd be, I think he's showing up at his best. But I'm saying is I think your best is better than his best right now. I'm not saying for five years now, won't be, but, but, but, but, but right now it is. Okay. Yeah. And that's fair. IMean, and that was, you know, that was the hardest thing for me to see. IMean, the hardest thing for me to see wasn't, you know, that my conditioning was, because I was flat, like you couldn't see my glutes. It was more just to see the flatness and like, you know, the muscularity that I know I have looked nothing compared to what I know it is. You know, and that was the hardest thing when you trened so hard. You know, and for me, like, I'm on a guy that like, you know, is like overly like concerned about like having pretty shape or, you know, that having fancy posing or I just want to be fucking cute. Yeah. I just want to think it's kind on stage. And I want to hit a most muscular and I want to crush people and I want to hit side chests, you know, show my density and, you know, I want to show that from those poses that really show like the thickness and the side of those ones, you know, I want to come in be hard and grainy and big and just that's it. Like I don't even care everyone's pretty. Yeah, I'm going to find fuck, you know, I just want to be big and, and, and huge and that's people that look at me and just do what the fuck is that. And then I saw the photos. I'm like, I look small, you know, like compared to, you know, photos I had from two days out, I know three years out, you know, I was like, this isn't even a shadow of what I am from a size perspective. You know, when you tren so hard to build all that muscle, it's like, that was the biggest thing in the shot in my confidence was just seeing the muscularity. And, you know, I know, particularly for me, IMean, we, I think we've talked about this another interview before. My physique when I'm flat versus full is like two completely different physiques. Absolutely. I know some guys like Bumstedt, I brought Bumstedt into the Olympian, zero grams of carbs to try and make way to, you know, keep as a team of firm as, as kidney issues at minimum. And he looks the exact fucking dead. Yeah, you're right. Look, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like he doesn't look any different when he's flat versus full. It's like a 2% difference. Yeah. We're on like a 300% difference. Right. So when I saw that level of flat and it's been how much it affected my physique, that's really what like after the pre-judging, like just I was like, flop my life. I looked so like, you know, that really hurt from my confidence standpoint. Yeah. But, you know, like after the show when I've got some Bumbec in me and my physique started to, you know, show signs of life again, you know, that definitely, you know, re-ignited it in me, you know, to know that it is there. It's just, you know, it's just timing it all right, right? Here's what you're going to do. Okay. You're going to do this Spain show. You're going to go out two weeks early and you're going to stay with Dory and Yates because he wasn't staying and he's going to watch over you. And he mentally and physically for two weeks, I'm going to give a Dory and a job. I didn't even ask him. And he's going to drive you to the show together and you're going to win the show. That's how you get a Dory. So this year, go contact Dory and he might be somewhere, you know, meditating somewhere and over the ocean or something like that. But you'll find him say, Dory, I need to come out there two weeks before I stay with you. So I keep my head in straight. He'll keep it straight. He lives in Spain. He like Marbellar's something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Repurf. What a great thing. That was the last time I was in Spain. I won that show. That's when I qualify for the United States. That same show in Spain. So, IMean, there's obviously, you know, definitely potential of that being a show for me to do. You know, I'm about a hundred percent sure on what the protocol is for traveling to Europe right now. IMean, I think as Canadians, we have it the best. Yeah, you do have it. Do you be going away? You want? Yeah, you have no pain to our forethought. You want to get one. Yeah. So, IMean, that's definitely a possibility. But yeah, IMean, it's, you know, anything's a strike in this. Maybe we'll do New York. IMean, you know, I've never done New York and it's back in Tampa, which is, you know, familiar territory, which is there. Sure. You know, so that's, you know, something I would feel more comfortable with despite how the last show played out. Yeah. Chicago, I feel like it's probably not going to happen. But IMean, you know, maybe that could be on the docket. But yeah, IMean, if I'm going to do something, it's going to be New Yorker. It's going to be Spain. Okay. Well, good luck. You'll keep us updated. Thank you for being so open and frank with us and having this discussion because I think it's going to be helpful to other people too. And that's really why I wanted to have it. It wasn't just to get, I kind of knew what happened to you. But I wanted to people to understand the mindset and how, you know, you have to go about these things. And sometimes things just don't work out the way you plan. And now you use this information and you make yourself stronger and smarter and wiser and you bring it back to even better than you anticipated, you know, prior. And I think we're going to see you on in the Olympia stage this year. And I think you're going to do real well. I have a good time. I appreciate that. All right. Now, he's that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live With Brought You By Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo for E-invalier. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: IFBB Physique Pro Sabrina Taylor gears up for IFBB Grand Prix Pro Physique show April 14th [MjlwhwbixRI].txt ===

=== I'm a fan of them to wear The golden face I can't you pop my hair I'm a little thought Still being shy, still being shy I'm a little thought I'm a little bit cut and cut I love me, I want to see you being shy Still being shy I'm a little thought I'm a little bit hurt I want to be her I'm a little bit hurt Let the party ride Put your ears on Everybody just dance We can't divide rocks Fashion is like my own heart They call me real food I walk in the front of the bottle Shake it split on the body too The world got the party with me You too, oh I'm gonna get you wet I'm gonna make you sweat I like you all forget She's being shy, still being shy I'm a little bit cut and cut I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt Let the party ride I got so stuck in the room Scab with a breath full and go Get a bottle I got run nights on the note And it's about to be a champagne My soul Baby girl, you look legit Come to my table and take a sip Open wide cause we're sprayin' Fixing bottles ain't paid for seeing it I'm gonna get you wet I'm gonna make you sweat I like you all forget No, I'm gonna get you wet I'm gonna get you wet I got you all forget She's being shy, still being shy I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt She's being shy, still being shy I'm a little bit hurt I'm gonna get you wet I'm a little bit hurt Why do you beat the old? Now I want you to grab your bottle What a bottle Now take a sip Check that bottle, let me make it! Check that bottle, let me make it! Check that bottle, let me make it! Check that bottle, let me make it!

=== FILE: INSANE KEONE PEARSON 10 WEEKS OUT FROM 212 DEBUT! [UO71l7Npt3s].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA PIXX Road, there's 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Tuesday, August 4th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Remember a week or two ago when I was talking about Phil Heath and I said, where there's smoke, there's fire. While ladies and gentlemen, Phil might be trying to throw gasoline on the flames. Late last week Phil released a clip from a shoulder session where he looked a whole lot like someone who might be strongly considering making a run at his eighth Olympia title. Just to be clear, I'm not saying that he is, I'm just saying that it seems like he might be, or maybe I'm completely wrong, and this is just Phil throwing smoke signals. In the pantheon of things you can be, as a pastry pal white guy in the summer, walking around jacked up in tan is right there at the top of the list. That's why I have to take my hat off the Brett Wilkins for being an example to the frail pale young man of America by showing them what they can be when they grow up. What I understand, Brett's gettinGHimself dialed in for a guest posing at the NPC Colorado soon, where I'm told that he'll be joined by none other than Puntula Brater. Right now, I'm not miscleo, but if I look into my crystal ball, tells me that Brett isn't doing all this work just to get himself ready for a guest posing. And since he's already in striking distance, I'd keep an eye out for him to jump into a pro League event at some point within the next month or so. There's so much craziest going on in Chicago right now that it's beyond the scope of what I can cover in this segment. All you need to know is that last week Chicago was one of a handful of cities in the country that had federal officers dispatched to join the local law enforcement to help dwell some of the violence. But if I can figure out a way to get myself on the ballot for the general election, I could save our taxpayers a whole lot of money just by sending Sean Smith out to the Wendy city because this guy looks like a one man army according to reports, Sean and his team are targeting the Chicago pro as his first event of the season where they believe he has a shot to contend for an Olympia qualification as far as the gym pictures go. Sean is in the Victor Richards Hall of Fame because this guy looks like a complete alien when he's at his best in on his own. But the real trick now is getting some of that to trenslate to the stage because that'll be the ticket to the big show. Waiters and gentlemen, I have three words for you here. Here comes Kion last week my phone blew up from facts from everyone and their mother after Kion went on social media to announce that he was officially startinGHis first prep of the 2020 season outside of George Pearson. I don't think there's another athlete in the division who's generated as much hype and interest as Kion has this year and understandably so. The kid made it to the Olympia stage last year in the classic physique division and he was still so wet behind the years it wasn't even funny. There's no doubt that Kion is a pound for pound one of the most genetically gifted young athletes in bodybuilding right now. But at the end of the day this kid still has to deliver. So young man the balls in your court now the world wants to see what you're going to do with it. And that does it yet another edition of muscle in the morning on day polymer reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: INSULIN TALK WITH COLETTE NELSON - PART TWO [ebb0uDrqS_k].txt ===

This is Trevor Gritz and I'm here with I-FB Pro call it Nelson for the second part of our insulin explosive videos series. So in part one we discussed that if you're over a hundred fasting blood glucose, you're going to want to take some mitigation strategies. So the first thing we recommended is you know, try just prioritizing your carbs around your workout, minimize stimulants, try to minimize stress, improve sleep. Luckily if you're a young guy who hasn't been abusing carbs stimulants too long, you'll most likely be able to get your fasted blood glucose under a hundred just by doing some lifestyle changes. However if you make the necessary lifestyle changes you're being smart with your diet if you're being cognizant of your stimulant usage or stress and your fasting blood glucose numbers are still high we recommend getting further blood work testing. So that's where first going to do we're going to talk about what to get tests in the blood work and what all those numbers mean. So the first thing you should get tested is insulin levels. So call that talk just about what exactly that is and what numbers you would want to see. So you're looking at how much insulin in your body is putting out. So those normally range in the United States between two and about one thing right? So in somebody that has this predisposition of this prediabetes you might see those levels high because the body is working too hard because the cells are resistant. So that's a common denominator which sounds counterintuitive. Now if you do see that the insulin levels are really low you could be on your way to type one diabetes. Type two diabetes starts with higher than normal in some levels. Just make sure that's clear and that's the reason why is because the body is working too hard and it's trying to keep the blood sugar down and it can. Okay so the second thing you should be tested for is you should get tested is C peptide. So call that charges with C peptide. C peptide is very important. That is showing the body's ability, the endogenous insulin production. Okay so those two tests kind of correlate some extent. So for example I have no C peptide. Okay so C peptide is usually between 0.8 and 3.85. So minus less than 0.1 sorry for me okay I don't make any insulin. So when you see the C peptide low this can be confusing on some levels too. If you see the C peptide low then the body is not naked much in insulin okay so if the C peptide is in normal range then your body is still producing insulin and you're in a good place. You're in the place where that you know if you're fasting sugar is a runninGHigher and you're making a good C peptide you got hold your beta is still functioning it's looking good. When you got to get concerned is when that C peptide starts to get lower. So if you have a low C peptide and very high in some levels eventually what will happen is you'll have a low C peptide that's not going to change but the insulin levels are going to come down where you don't make any more in some. So the third thing you're wanting to get tested is your hemoglobin A1C so call it tartus above that. So the hemoglobin A1C is if we find one of the gold standards IMean actually used this two diagnosed so this is very important and this is one that you really want to listen to. Pre diabetes is a hemoglobin A1C and what is looking at is the life of the red blood cell. The red blood cell lists for 120 days so what they do is they take a hemoglobin red blood cell A1C and they're looking at how much glucose has collected on top of the red blood cell so it's it's telling a huge story okay 5.7 to 6.4 is pre diabetes again 5.7 to 6.4 we're diagnosing it so if you come up with a 5.6 I'm worried I'm like a person that's like okay red blood okay so that means you're in a situation where the beta cell is starting to fit. Once you get to 6.5 the beta cell usually is only functioning at 50%. So then if you're the higher the A1C the more risk for micro and macro complicated that's a best-ular complication so there's a big A1C scale that will put up so that you'll see what IMade because each of these numbers equate to a three-month average so for example if your A1C is a five year average glucose is about 90 for 90 days which is excellent okay so I would want to have an A1C of 5 I have a 5.3 by the way so I'm not doing too bad but and I'm a type one but yes so that's really important is to check that A1C it is a diagnostic criteria now so it's important and then there's also some specific type one diabetes tests you are getting to answer if your type one diabetic you'd also want to get these tested the first one is the dad 65 antibody right so these are this is what happens in type one diabetes it isn't auto immune disease and it happens at any age that's why we don't call it juvenile diabetes anymore if you have type one in your family and I say that because my body was type one and there is this kind of broadest area component but then I find that people what the hell auto big at that type one diabetes that crazy world of we live in now we're seeing it actually increase in type one diabetes and then we find that 30% of our type two's are actually type ones and we call it type one and a half so if you have any concern and you're on the younger side and you're just after everything you're doing you're doing the things that you're trying to get that fast and sure to down yet it's not happening and you're just something's wrong you know you're getting this kind of the symptoms of diabetes which is extreme thirst, excessive eating and losing weight and losing muscle you're basically body sitting itself okay that's when you want to get these dad antibodies it's again 65 antibody that's the particular antibody that starts attacking the beta stuff and if that's high so for example mine is actually I'm looking at my lab work it's one end up mine's in let's see mine's our 72 they should be less than five guess what I'm a type one there's no question so anything over five okay is it concerned mine's 72 so my antibodies are absolutely firing and attacking my beta cell every single day god help us find a cure for auto databases but that's one you want to test for type one so the second type one diabetic specific blood work bio marker you'd want to test for is your isolate cell antibody screen yes so that one mine for example is 2.9 it should be less than 0.8 so I am testing positive for yet another the isolate cell you guys isolate cells a later hand of the beta cell that's making my insulin so I'm having it come from different angles there are actually people that have different types of type one diabetes that don't actually have the organic antibodies what they have these isolate cell antibodies so either way they're not producing the right amount of insulin to maintain their blood sugar levels me unfortunately I have different antibodies firing so I have in I've a worst case scenario so I don't have any info production some production is better than that so the last type one specific blood work bio marker you want to test for is your isolate i8 to antibody screen so it's interesting I'm actually in the right range for this mine's not high so I guess that's a positive but the other cure cells try I'm gonna I'm not doing so well because I'm not making an insulin but it should be less than 0.4 and mine actually is so I've never tested positive for this particular antibody so if you have all three I guess I would say that you're at a worst stage in auto antibody hormones but that might be another reason why I IMost type ones and autoimmune disease is like to come in three so I never have celiac I didn't get how she motors even how she motors is a thyroid condition the thyroid antibodies are attacking the thyroid so I'm lucky in that nature so those are the three though in particular that you want to have looked at if you have any concern that this might be more sinister than just some auto regulation of your blood sugar so now we're going to get into all the different types of insulin so call it as an talk about the half-life and when you want to take it so the first thing I'm going to talk about is hemologue. So this is the try to true and I think everybody knows hemologue right IMean hemologue you guys these come in pens now this is kind of the preferred way of giving insulin I think is it's just easier they come in these little pen devices and then you just put out a pen needle right here on the top and that you change every day and many times you take it as fun so hemologue now all these insulin like to come concentrated you'll notice that they come in you 100 and you 200 but just concentrated and does demand action so you don't want to pull it out from a syringe anymore because sometimes these insulin are concentrated we'll talk about we'll talk about that when we get into some of the basal insulin um hemologues these when we talk about these rapid acting phones are all very very similar in their action of onset and I want to almost put them not to talk over your children and the long-winded but this one is one of the faster of your rapid acting insulin it starts in about 10 to 15 minutes it peaks in about 60 to 90 minutes and then it's out of the body and about 45 hours so you're really looking at that peak action in the first 90 minutes. Do you want hemologue is the one that everyone's using pre-workout and then taking all the intricate cards and essentially yes that's I would say not very many diet bed XR usinGHemologue but it's all the bodybuilders do these pre-workout case the next one we're going to talk about is a pedra right so a p-drop p-drop is an interesting this is kind of with the Sanofi's second launch to Lantis which is interesting because they have one of the best top-selling basal insulin on the market they couldn't get this one any market action really this doesn't have a lot of so p-drop actually is a faster so really goes in line of a fast action this is actually a little bit faster than hemologue this one has a start time about five to ten minutes and peaking in about 16 to 90 again and out of the body in abouT4 hours so this one is a little bit more rapid I take and this one this is my far-fast as long and what we're trying to do by speed is just mimicking physiology a little bit better by the speed and action of the insulin so there's a p-drop so that two more to go through the next one is going to be novolog so good old novolog okay a lot of people take novolog because novolog is the novonortist version of um hemologue but in an action time you really go a p-drop hemologue and novolog novolog really starts in almost 15 to 20 minutes and it peaked again in about 90 minutes and it's a little bit it has a little bit of a longer tail okay so it's still a rapid action insulin but it's the slowest of the rapid um again still a premium insulin still one that many people use in the body of the world and obviously what a type one would use in for meal time itself and now finally the new kid to the block of present I know this is the one called as super excited about yeah this is before we talk about a fresco though there's bias which came out in response to almost the rapidity of a fresco bias came out Canada first trailer this was uh and everybody in the US was trying to get their hands on it bias starts in two and a half minutes you guys so it's in the body extremely quick okay there's no 10 to 15 minutes waiting IMean 20 and a half minutes and the peaked time in about 60 minutes and it's out of the body abouT4 hours okay so finally you have kind of be what's considered a fresco which is actually the most bio identical of all the rapid action insulin so when you think about injecting insulin you guys it's in a hexomere it's in several molecules and those molecules have to be injected into the substitute which is your fat tissue and has to get into the peripheral there's a keyword peripheral bloodstream right it never really goes to the portal circulation which is the liver and remember when we talked about the liver in the first series the liver is constantly pushing out glucose so this is why Ali Ali IMean I have to get a credit on this one he did a whole thing on on a frozen because he feels that this could be a very landmark rapid action insulin so what you're doing is you're actually putting in a cartridge of insulin on units okay it comes in four eight and 12 units and these little cartridges go inside this little device and then all you're doing is and that's how you take your insulin and now not only is it not an injection it's very convenient it's actually shutting off the alpha cell which makes scoooka down so there's less fat gain within a fresco then there would be with an injected insulin just by the nature of delivery and it's being more bio-identical to the body it's in the body in less than one minute it peaks in 45 minutes and it completely clears from the body in 90 minutes clear it's gone in a four unit cartridge and in a 48 units the 48 units it doesn't last any longer than three hours so you're reducing the risk of hyperboicemia could be it's this is no one's even talking about this IMean is I am I'm using it that's that's the insulin I don't use I don't use injected insulin this is by far the most unique delivery system and probably the best way to deliver insulin just by nature of the way the lungs absorbs it and the blood vessel and how much fat scalary there is in the lungs to the body well pretending that a menolide in a retocobota you guys heard it here for a super say to be delivering this groundbreaking information for you guys now charge us with the basal insulin before you get into all the different types talk about the difference between basal insulin and all the different forms of insulin you just spoke about so what we just spoke about you guys was a rapid acting meal time insulin so in a person with type one diabetes they can't control their insulin and basal alone because a basal insulin is just a flat insulin that sits in the background for 24 hours everybody makes insulin every hour everybody you need insulin every single minute every second of your life but when you eat you need what a call of bolus of insulin these are all bolus insulin do you eat a particular output of insulin for every single thing you eat everything everything so that even includes fats and proteins if people don't oftentimes think about so it's not just your cars protein can convert to glucose and even your fat can be delivered to boost glycerone at some level they raise your total daily dose of insulin so those are all your rapid acting insulin necessary to control glucose meals basal insulin is extremely important to fix the fasting blood sugar and to give you back that homeostasis and in my theories if you can give a basal insulin again it just brings your bottom what your baseline blood sugar down a little bit and gives the blood the pateous cell a little bit of rest because it's working for 24 hours day give it a break and it's giving it a break by giving it a basal nasal insulin so now talk to us about the different types of basal insulin and half-life's peak times things like that so let's start with you know everybody is talking about lances like lances was the number one was not anymore was the number one basal insulin on the market and this can't to market around 1999 2000 okay so this is this rubble in chenized revolutionized type 2 diabetes and it's going to continue to revolutionize as back then they started to realize how you can get insulin to tight teeth they actually thought that you couldn't get insulin to type 2 diabetes now think about where we are now it's like they're giving in to all of them because there's no other way to control their beta cell because their beta cell failed because they were so silly to think that these people could just survive on pills that weren't controlling the blood sugar and they didn't realize that now today's world is beta cell preservation ask any top end odor like we got to preserve the beta cell and how do we do that insulin actually that's how we do that so lances is the tried insurer rantus unfortunately I'm going to tell you guys the truth about lances they say the 24 hour insulin but we know better now the they didn't really change the package insert but it actually starts in about one hour and then it doesn't have a peak but people that know lances and the type one world will know that I'm listening to me you won't notice this of your type 2 you won't notice this even if your body going to take you in but it has a bit of a peak at about six to eight hours it's flat but it about six hours it comes up a little bit and then it comes back down and then it's out of the body and about 16 to 18 hours so I have been one to usually split that and I see a better just the way it stacks on each other gives you a better a few a ladder profile and that's what you want more flat and forget about so it's been you know historically given once a day lances but if you think about it it doesn't really last that full 24 hours as long as you see do you want to talk with any other base of funds or insulin or do you think what I think that lances now has been replaced like no one orders came up with 11 air and 11 air ball short it's about 14 to 16 hour insulin starts in about one to two hours and again that does have a peak and that is suggested to split twice a day so if you're using 11 air out there you should split that in front then after that they realize that we need a 24 hour insulin so fantasy came up with a genius idea of concentrating lances they took lances and they squeezed the molecule they made it smaller so if the depot a depot is like how much you inject this is if this is lances this little circle this is to jail if much less liquid then concentrated to you 300 so one unit on a U 100 syringe is actually three units they basically and they concentrate at the end so let me keep it simple by concentrating and you're injecting less liquid in your body and it dissipates over 36 hours so now we know that we had the drawbacks of lances now to jayoh came out to jayoh is a 36 hour insulin sits much flatter and it's giving you about that 24 hour profile so to jayoh was kind of like wow now we finally sitting with a more predictable basal insulin I like that one much better than lances and much better than 11 air then what I consider basically one of the most innolvative basal insulin by novernortis was tristiva and tristiva took what to jayoh did used it in a U 100 or U 200 which is just a concentration and gave you 42 hours so that doesn't mean you don't sit every other day IMean they tried to do that and they realized we're gonna get this crazy much just the dose is a little bit interesting it's so flat that by stacking it you suit every day once the day 42 hours and by the way that it's stacked by the fifth day you reach steady state and it really has in terms of flat predictability and very low risk of hyperbois senior it has a great profile when you take it so we talk with the takeday basal insulin so same time every day you don't have to with tristiva you could be within an eight hour window so gives you a lot more flexibility and dosing a little bit more difficult to get on and one of the most expensive basal insulin so far away that one goes for like 800 dollars you know obviously I don't know what's going on in the black market but if you didn't have an inch if you didn't have prescription and here in the United States that's a very expensive insulin but by far one of the best and that is getting you that flamm on predictability okay call us let's wrap this up for all of our listeners so if someone is struggling with high-fast blood glucose levels they're not type one diabetic but they're borderline type two what basal insulin would you recommend that they start with and what doses would you recommend that they start with and then also when should they take it right so the basal insulin markets tricky IMean it's listen most people want to get what they want to get and depending on what your insurance is or what you can get your hands on what have you you got to consider basal insulin basal insulin okay so when you break it down we have all these little different nuances of each one which ones my favorite I feel like Tristiva to me is just in terms of risk of hyperbois senior and predictability the best I'm giving you a true 24 hour coverage to the Tujello nest in line been lantess in Leavener and then the final one is the generic basal but get your hands on basal insulin let's try to fix the fasting to ideal your vouchers are struggling you're not able to get it under 126 we need to do something you've tried everything and it's still not working so we want to fix the fasting first so if you're young and that basal hasn't been exposed to all the damage that we speak about that's I see in this industry then I think like you said Trevor let's that's act conservative in the medical profession we look at somebody that's fasting blood sugars are elevated and we start with point two units for kilogram body that might be too much you know the idea is not to feel this stuff you know so if you're on the younger side like you're in your 30s and you're noticing and you've ruled out type one diabetes you're not type one and you're fasting sugars are elevated you know you're yet done a few things in my life that might have predisposed me to this you want to maybe start conservative that's point one unit for your best small amounts okay small amounts so when theologist make clear is that she said kilograms not pound you take your weight and pounds divided by 2.2 and then what I would say is like if you're a very young guy IMean your beta cell probably isn't totally burnt out as quite as tired I would take that number and times it by 0.1 or 0.2 and that would be the amount of units of insulin per day so let's just say we had a 190 pound 30 year old okay and givinGHim the starting dose I just want you guys to please hear me on this that 0.1 is 190 pounds that 0.1 units per kilogram it's 8.8 units of insulin so let's start with 8 units and I know that sounds so small but even in package inserts of lances when we first started lances this is going back 20 years ago we didn't know what we were doing it that's how you got you just set on a package insert just give 10 units that was that was the and they just said start with 10 and tie a trade up to get your fasting sugar where you needed to go so when I say 8 that's conservative but it's not far out of the realm of what we did when we didn't really understand weight based dosing so start small and then test your fasting sugar and do not make immediate changes it takes 3 to 4 days for you to get that stacking of the basal insulin to really see if it's working so don't say the next I'm going to go up and go take your time and go up by 1 to 2 units don't this is not a race okay this is not a race to get to point where you have hyperguys senior so it started eight that's for the 190 pound 30 year old just like you said just a little tired made us up get the fasting sugar down and then you just kind of that dos kind of works you know and then you're like okay I'm going to go up to units now 10 because it's not right needed to be you shouldn't have to go up that high you know you shouldn't and if you do then something else might be going on you don't need a lot IMean I know this you know for sure now that being said if you are a guy when you're 40s 45 I haven't somebody's coming to my mind right now 45 been you know you know kind of a couple rough patches gained a little weight then he's back I'm a you know this is the guy's been working on his whole life you know issues with the fasting blood sugar he needs a bit more so we started at point two units which is the clinical dosing guidelines for patients that have a hot control fast at sugars and then you move up all right and we're movinGHim up we would have up IMean he's now taking a bit more and yeah I was just gonna say this to the to the public I want you to be please I don't even like saying this stuff is I really have to be smart about what you're doing more is never never never better with insulin it's all about your sugar you know that's they're not trying to I don't know what you're trying to do you you don't want to have a board so you're gonna get A-50 pounds you don't know sugar 70 to 120 right you don't want to push it below 70 but the average dose of basal insulin for somebody with diabetes is about 38 units just just to give you guys if for somebody with diabetes so when you don't have diabetes I don't expect you to get that high but you may have diabetes you know I can't tell you how many times I see guys that you know are in that position where their baby cell is no longer functioning as well as a sugar and they need to replace what their baby cells not making at this point I think we've pretty much covered everything the last thing I just want to touch on is that the amount of insulin you're taking if you're type to diabetic or if you're bored or on type to diabetic is not going to be static and I've had really get success with people come they've got high-faccing blood glucose levels we started to make the lifestyle change we spoke about I get them on a load dose of basal insulin and over the course of months we're able to reduce their basal insulin to actually nothing and I really think what Colette said is dead on is that they basically came to me their pancreas was very very tired we're supplying a basal insulin to kind of give the pancreas a break we're being smarter with their diet smart with their lifestyle things like that and then basically the pancreas they're able to heal itself and then you know basically a year or two years down the road they don't need that insulin anymore so don't don't think like okay I did everything Trevor and Colette said my dosage is 15 units per day I'm going to take this every day for an early rest of my life no no no what I would say is you know every month maybe kind of reassess and try a lower dosage if you're at 15 maybe after a month try dropping them 12 maybe try dropping it down to 10 maybe try dropping down to 8 6 and then off so especially if you're type to diabetic especially if you're a younger guy you must like you will be able to recover your pancreas call that do anything else I just want a second once you just said because I have a friend of mine who did just what you just said we started a mine actually had his hands on he got love in there and he was did he did it for and he's like a lot who are believe this all right he just he doesn't IMean it's fast and sugar who he did it for three months abouT3 months maybe two months and um perfect this is this fast and she was 86 85 74 IMean no and so nothing um so it's pretty incredible that this is push-pull idea so don't think forever what we're thinking is like you said beta self preservation give it a rest let that little guy take a second to regroup and get stronger so that it's able to take the load of the life that we live and then just be kind of set up the things that we're talking about IMean from hydration to sleep to what you're eating we're eating two e-cars and I like the idea of you know around your workouts you just do not need to overdose on carbohydrates that's not necessary um and what medications and what stimulants and what things you're putting in your body that are causing insulin resistance and just the idea of more is not better even in terms of working out like we've become addicted to it to the point where we are stressing our entire central nervous system over and over again and we're never getting ourselves a day off and believe me my last thing and I'm gonna tell you this I have to take insulin to workout fasting blood sugar 85 this morning okay I take insulin no food water episode of vinegar lemon no nothing and my sugar will go up a hundred points if I do not take some rapid acting insulin for the workout because I was doing bad I was doing deadlift these these exercises cause a spider flight in your body so this is happening to me I know it because I see it so I don't make insulin but it's happening to you guys too when you do these crazy heavy stress I'm not telling you not to do that but that's just what I'm saying is you do need to give yourself a day off you gotta be got to rest otherwise you're gonna end up in that adrenal fatigue fried up flight and that is affecting your data sales level. Call it I really appreciate you taking the time of your day to this video with me guys give call it a follow on Instagram follow up on social media let's she is a very very smart woman do not take this lately don't just think oh I'm a young guy it's not gonna affect my physique or anything like that high fasting blood glucose lovers are linked to inflammation and inflammation is linked to pretty much every single disease in the body whether it be cardiovascular disease cancer stroke you name it so this is something you guys really want to be doing not just to give you the best physique possible but so the best health possible so for Trevor Kurditsin and high baby pro call it Nelson this has been our insulin exposed video series thank you so much for watching

=== FILE: INSULIN TALK WITH COLETTE NELSON! [NBl1iujdpCY].txt ===

This is Trevor Carritz and coming at you for a special insulin exposed addition. So one thing I've been getting all of my clients to do is test their fasting blood glucose numbers. It's very, very simple to do. Basically, we would have a fasting blood glucose model like this. They're not expensive. IMean, mostly glucose models, you actually get for free if you buy the strips. One thing that is becoming extremely alarming is the amount of body builders who had a healthy body fat. And six percent, seven percent, eight percent. The last people you think would have type 2 diabetes are coming back with super high fasting blood glucose numbers. There's a lot of reasons for that. There's, you know, stimulant usage, stress, lack of sleep, over abundance of carbs in the diet. Anyways, I'm not the expert on that. So I brought back on the show, I a Phoebe Pro call it Nelson because she's the expert when it comes to insulin. So call that the first thing I want to know is should everyone be testing their fasting blood glucose, at least like maybe once per week. The answers to that question by many medical professionals would be like, well, if you don't have a prediscosition, if you're not over 45, if you're not overweight, if you exercise every day, well, then why would you bother? And my concern is that exactly what you said. So I will say yes. And I think it's become almost epidemic proportions. By 2050, one in three people are going to have type 2 diabetes. One in three. So my concern is exactly what you said. So when everybody thinks about type 2 diabetes, and this is your standard medical professional. That's what they're looking at. They're looking at for different classifications. They're looking at age. They're looking at your lifestyle. They're looking at your BMI. They're looking at your diet. And they're looking at behavior like, do you sleep? You know, are you overweight? And so then the doctor, oh, you know, let's take a closer look. You might be predisposed to type 2 diabetes. But I think what's concerning to me and to you and to people in our industry is that we're just taking for granted. We're taking for granted, I hope, a lot of times in this industry. We think we're indispensable. But the problem is that it's something that we really do need to look at. And knowing the numbers and we're going to go through that today is really important because when you get a fasting blood sugar test on, you know, it's your doctor's office, if you come in at 100, they dismiss it. Now they're like, oh, don't worry about something you ate. I believe me. I've seen this because I've worked with people where that was their dismissal. You know, the truth of the matter is somebody that's an athlete that works out the way we do. They're fasting sugar. She'd be below 90. Please, everybody listen to me. That is the truth. Really fast and sugars are ideal at 75 to 85. So I'm saying when the blood sugar is 100, is that bad? No, not really, right? But to adapt to that's like nothing. Forget it. Don't worry about it. It was something you ate the night before, you know, you're stressed out. But I want you to be concerned because every day that your blood sugar is between 100 and 126 every day, that happens. Your beta cell is workinGHarder. Okay, so let's talk about the beta cell, the beta cell makes insulin. That is in the pancreas. That is a very important cell. And I want to clarify that people often, this happens to me today at the gym when I was talking about insulin, they're like, oh, I would never take insulin. You know, it's going to cause diabetes, you know. And I'm like, I really hate to tell you this. That is not true. It's not like a feedback hormone like that. It doesn't work like that. It's like testosterone in the pituitary and it's sending all these different messages. And it's lowering your levels because you're putting an exogenous testosterone. And then you run the risk of these other things happening. This cell, this beta cell, it's a workhorse. All right, this is in working cell. It's working to regulate your blood sugar. It's working very hard. So I want this to be very clear. This cell is working every single day. It never gets a day off this cell. Why are we saying such a pin flux of type 2 diabetes? And now type 3 diabetes in the brain, glucose is going to brain and causing cell signs. So my theory is, this is a workhorse cell that eventually is burning out. And I think, now I'm theorizing this. I'm a diabetes educator. I work in other chronology and aspirations of one day finishing my nurse practitioner. So that I'll be able to actually be a provider. But what I'm saying is that eventually this cell is working less and less and less as we get older as just a theory of aging, my theory of aging. The worst thing you can have in your body is blood glucose. It's like acid going through your your your all your vessels destroying you slowly, but surely slowly but surely so all this sugar that's accumulating over time and it might be so seen so limited like I'm a blood sugar fasting's one 10, one 15. Yeah, this is a problem because that cell is now burning out slowly but surely burning out. So I can tell you let's restrict your diet. Let's reduce your carbohydrates. She got us everybody has in this adrenal fatigue. Hello people out there that I used to be this way. You're working out for three hours. You're not eating enough. You're starving. You're in a stress, fight our flight every second of the day. You guys, a constant and smaller system. It does. An insulin resistant is making the beta cell the cell that makes the insulin work harder. Here what I'm saying, you're driving this car and you're running out of gas. Now imagine this if you give insulin earlier and there's a theorist and I want to read you some of this theory so I won't remember all what he says is 30 reasons why you should take insulin. But if you start noticing your fasting sugar starting to elevate, okay, is that you're preserving the beta cell. I think that exact opposite in fact, there are theorists in Europe right now that believe by giving insulin earlier, you can prevent diabetes from ever happening. Okay, so. So before we jump into insulin all the different types of insulin, who should take insulin? Right. I want to know why is this happened. So this is a perfect example. I had a new client sign up last week. Young, a 30 year old guy, top level national bodybuilder. IMean, very low body fat, lots of muscle exercising regularly. Good diet. I told him, you know, in the initial questionnaire, please test your fasting blood glucose. Any basically email me back is like, dude, why should I spend a hundred bucks on strips when you run low body fat? I have none of the telltale signs of type D diabetes. And I basically said, just hear me out, man, like, like, buy it, distributing the last forever. You're going to use it eventually. Just trust me. It's a really good thing to keep an eye on. He tested his fast blood glucose. It was 130. Wow. I was so surprised. I was so surprised. I was like, somethinGHas to be up, man. Did you? Yeah. Maybe like sleepwalk and eat some rice in the known as like, put it again for me the next day. Next day, it was 127. So I want to know why are these, you know, people who are, they're not what you think a type to diabetic would be. Like when you think type to diabetes, you think overweight. Oh, no. Why are these healthy bodybuilders, you know, who are muscular exercising regularly, not eating fast food or anything like that? Why are they coming back with such bad, fast blood glucose levels and such bad insulin resistance? And this is something that I think everybody watching this series is going to take a step back. They're going to take a step back because I can promise to you. When I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes in 1984, which we didn't know what we know now about the repercussions of blood glucose. So we just thought the type 1s were doing. They could never get the sugar's under control. So they told me my life expectancy was 65 because of blood glucose. They feared that I would never be able to achieve an A1c and we'll talk about that and it'll be something up on the screen that was playing with an A1c is abnormal because that then we had such limited resources, right? So they knew, it kept about that. It's average life expectancy. So now I want everybody listening to this to understand the trouble that you're right on track, but we need to get these people tested their fast and sugar because our behavior as top athletes actually can free To expose us to this type of insulin resistance much, you know, more unusual because it's not presenting in the way diabetes is going to have five different classifications. They're working on changing this because the medical professionals are starting to get aware. There isn't just type 1, there's not just type 1 and a half and there's not just type 2. There's different phases of these these confounds of type 1, type 2, type 1 and a half. There's just different elements of them that make what's going on in their body either more harmful or difficult to control or what I'm finding is this something else. Okay, what is the cause? So here's what we know. I'm just making it very clear that insulin resistant hormones in the body. Okay, we'll cause insulin resistance. I have treated patients. I used to actually work in an HIV clinic and I was like, why am I working in HIV? First it wasn't even on my alley. I was like, you know, I did diabetes lovers because of the drugs. We're causing secondary diabetes. System five grossest. There's a secondary diabetes to the drugs because it causes this insulin resistance and eventually the insulin cannot get through the cells. Insul has to get through the cells and if they're blocked, then basically all you're going to do is keep over producing insulin until the beta cell fails. So why is that happening? You guys, it's going to happen. You're predisposing your body to this biter flight. It's over adrenal fatigue. You're constantly in a state of stress, biter flight. We were talking from a fedsure to caffeine to clumped uterol to the mass of stimulants. And IMean, mass, I can't tell you aromasingle body of your cell for me, probably. That doesn't take a pre-workout. I don't do every pre-workout. I don't recommend them. Like everybody hates it. I thought with pre-worker you're doing nothing. I'm doing apple cider vinegar, lemon, um, calm. I did calm in the morning. I didn't even need to like, want to reduce my muscles. And then I didn't even call it as that. These pre-workouts, a lot of them are containing 300 to 400 milligrams of caffeine per scoop, right? Yep. And eight pounds cup of coffee has roughly 85 grams of caffeine. So that's the equivalent of drinking five cups of coffee in aromasingle scoop. And a lot of people are double scooping it. But like if you would tell that person, would you drink 10 cups of coffee for breakfast? They'd be like, no, of course, I'd be horrible for my health. You're basically doing that before every single workout. Yeah, IMean, that's what IMean, we're saying it. People are listening. So the average people in our world, okay, they're doing that. They're over, IMean, believing you have seen worse. IMean, there's, that people's snoring. They're, they're, they're pre-workout, right? IMean, it's like, it's, whatever they could do to stay stimulated. They're drinking coffee all day long. They're not sleeping. Especially when you're getting ready for a competition. You're actually in the worst state of health when you're getting ready for competition. So you're not sleeping. You're not eating your bodies under a constant state of stress. Then you topple on top of that. You take counter regulatory hormones to insulin like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Sorry, that one is a counter regular, anybody can look that up. It is anti-insulin hormone. Your insulin has to work harder. So people will tell me I get low blood sugar on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. What's happening is your body's over producing insulin. WorkinGHarder, that's thaT4 little beta cell again. That's just ready to, you know, just die on you. You're taking years off your beta cell. And so now you're doing that. Then gap with which you have an injury. Now you're getting a four to zone shot or you're taking a present zone or you don't whatever you need to do to get rid of the pain. So you just tackled yourself into a situation where it's almost like a drug or state-induced type 2 diabetes. And I've treated so many patients like that. Would that were on long terms of present zone? They didn't have diabetes. There's nothing wrong with these people. They were on present zone for a period of time. And their beta cell started failing. IMean, it was putting them on the same typical course, met formant and I was always wanting to advocate insulin. These are blood sugars weren't right. You know, why are you putting something on present zone letting their blood sugar go high and just say, oh, it's because of the pride of this zone. I just love that one. I'm like, do something about it, treat it. Because the blood sugar isn't saying that. The blood sugar is damaging the body and all the cells. So let's give her a listen. Some golden nuggets so they can take away all year. So how often should they be tested and if fasted blood glucose? And then what are the values? Like, what value are they good? There's nothing to worry about. What value is it? Okay, this is something I'm not going to freak out yet. But it's something I want to keep my on. And then what value is it basically? Okay, there's I need to take some mitigation actions right now. Right. Okay. So ideal fasting blood sugar is less than 90. Okay. And ideal in an athlete should be between 75 and 85. When you're running fasting sugars between 100 and 126. That's your cut-off is 126. That is called impaired glucose tolerance. You are beginning the beta cell destruction. And that is the truth. So if that continues for 10 years, we have done epidemiology studies to show that you will get that type 2 diabetes, which is elevated sugars, your fastings are going to be over 130 and you're not going to be able to be able to keep your blood sugars under 180 to hours after eating. So when you're in that 100 to 126 range, we need to get that down. Okay. So we need to take intervention. Now if you're coming up over 126 on two occasions, now let's for your client. I want him to, you know, really get enough sleep. Let's stay hydrated. Hydration is another thing. You stimulate your cell and you get your cells dehydrated. Your insulin can't work well. So now further this dehydration that we put our cells through as athletes, I forgot to mention that Trevor. The more you compete and the more you and people abuse this shit out of dioretics, dioretics is you read on the package insert, cause hyper glycemia, extreme insulin resistance. Let me tell you, when I used to take dioretics when I held on type 1s that have go through a competition, the insulin doesn't work. I would stick your inject insulin on a dioretic. It's at 50, 50 units. It doesn't matter. It doesn't work. When you're dehydrated, your cells do not handle the insulin the same way. So that's a further reason why we're causing this insulin resistance. Okay. So now, if you have two fasting sugars over 126, I am concerned. I would go for further testing. Like I would get a CPAP type. I would get insulin levels and I would get a hemoglobin A1c and that should all be done fasting. And that's, and then if you are in that 30 year old range, type 1 diabetes can happen at absolutely any age. So when I see that to pivotal age, Jason Poston, I hope he doesn't mind me mentioninGHis name, but I'm sure he won. I work with him. God diabetes in his early, like May 20s, early 30s. It's a perfect age and I see it mostly in men to get type 1 diabetes. And not saying that that's the case, but I want to something interesting about type 1 is that it can be very fast on set or very on a slower scale. So he might have the antibodies. So if you're seeing somebody that's lean and shape, it just doesn't even qualify for somebody that has, you know, that looks like a type 2. And they actually could have what we call ladder, latent autoimmune diabetes in your doll. And that, for sure, you should get your antibodies tested. And just, and your doctors will tell you you're crazy. It's expensive tasks. I'm not going to do it. It's a fluke. But I can't tell you how many people I diagnosed. Like, you have no idea. You know, IMean, Jason for one is Jason. You got it, you know, there's something going on. Get your antibodies. Sure enough, he's got the antibodies for type 1 diabetes. What is that? So if someone's over 126, they need to go for further testing because they're most likely diabetic. Yeah, that's. Someone's in between 100 and 126. What should they be doing? So that's when it's that gray area because like you've seen it on your cell. And IMean, you can fix this. IMean, because IMean, you know, we know some intermittent fasting, lowering your couple of hydrogen intake, getting enough sleep staying well hydrated, taking days off. IMean, we take some days off from the different, like, I used to be the worst. You know, I had to have a paper. It doesn't function right. So I guess I could, you know, I was always figuring it out with insulin, but you've got to take some days off. You got to get yourself back to a better homeostasis and reducing your stimulus, trying to become stimulant free, living on your own, like, body's energy, like, figuring out what that feels like. IMean, it's amazing because I'm like fluid throughout the day, you know, like it's hard to do because it's, you know, you're addicted to that stuff and watch your fasting. Now, whichever, what if you do all that? And, you know, I don't cost, I agree. You know, I was speaking about some of the glucose agents that helped to just close the insulin. IMean, I love, IMean, there's a ton of them out there. IMean, there's absolutely some science to these. And they help the cells become more responsive to insulin. I love it. You know, I'm like a big opposite of vinegar for us, because I see, I don't need as much insulin when I, like, I drink that like three times a day. It helps the cells become more insulin sensitive. So, I'll call the public acid, then you greet a um, uh, a banana, uh, chromium for me. Yeah, there's a ton of them. So, and I'm so into this, you know, this, this these are very helpful and it's in the science, but what if you do all that? And it still doesn't do enough or it's not consistent, that's where you have to ask yourself, you can, you can do kind of more radical things. And my opinion, IMean, I'm a little more radical on this, but um, because some people can't do the behavior change or they don't want to. And that's that's the fact of the matter. Like what if I want to compete? I don't really care. People will die for this sport. They will die for this sport. So I have a different theory and it's really radical and some people's mind and they I don't know if they think sometimes I'm being irresponsible but you know, we're getting to a theory of one morEQuestion for you. Met formant. What are your thoughts on met formant? One thing I will say about met formant is that the literature clearly shows that it will mess up your microbiome. So if you are going to use met formant and I'm not actually anti-met formant, I think it does. You're it. You're not want to use it every day. So maybe if you're on like a carb cycling approach, you only want to use it on your high carb days. Maybe only use it on the body parts. You're trying to bring out maybe like two or three times for weeks. I'm like that. But if you're going to use met formant, you do not want to use it every day. So call it, talk to me about met formant and then get into your theory. So met formant is very interesting. It's it is hard to criticize, right? It's been around since the 80s. It's the tried and true. It is the first line in any diatologist. IMean, internal metocenter and epistemology tell you met formant met formant met formant met formant. They're even getting into breast cancer patients. Because and I'll tell you why though, really, one of the reasons why is we know that glucose does predispose the cells that have our cancerists to feeding them. Glucose will feed the cells. You know, it feeds cancer cells. So anything that can help the cells dispose of this extra glucose, which met formant does, it helps the cells become more receptive. Then it makes sense that met formant could have these anti-cancer properties. So met formant has it's really made. It's had its place in bodybuilding and it's absolutely placed in diabetes on a really, almost every person that has type 2 diabetes is done on that formant. The problem is though, I always look at these things and what gets me with met formant is, you know, as much as we see all the value in it, you can't disregard what you're saying. But intestino flora, the beach wild deficiency, the lactic acid doses with it, the GI symptoms that are real. Some people literally just can't tolerate at a patient's body. And it just tore me out. You know, and they got then some people will kind of deal with it and then it does get better. Like anything else your body gets used to it. Getting used to it doesn't always mean a good thing because then the body is figuring out a way to adapt to it. By basically destroying somebody who can just so far. But um, so I think that there's a definite place for it that then Trevor, I can dare I say that I'm just a little different because when you understand what a basil and so on does, they do the same thing. Met formant, it stops the hepatate, it lowers the hepatate out put of glucose from the liver. That's what it's, that's what's made one of its main functions. It lowers the hepatate out put of glucose from the liver, right? And that is exactly if you read a package insert of a basil insulin like my, I hate to even like there's one traciva I guess it's going to come out weird looking out of things. But traciva is a basil insulin in my opinion one of our best basalinsons we have on the market. It is a 42 hour basal insulin it is there is very very very low risk of hypergalicity. IMean like a point I could get you the factors and we'll do that one put it up. It's extremely hard to overdose on a traciva. It's so flat and you know what it says it does? It lowers the hepatate out put of glucose from the liver. Holy wow, is it really doesn't lower your blood sugar when you eat? It doesn't doesn't do it. So then in trouble that's where I go interesting. You know we have two things that almost do the same thing which one has the least amount of side of that. insulin, it's natural, it's a hormone replacement. So I'm always a person that's like I look for the fastest way to get from point A to point B. Metformin's great. But it's going to take you a little bit longer to get to point A to point B. You got to take it every other day or you know anything I really shouldn't. IMean you don't want to be on that so often to your body just pick you know. Or insulin really if people would get it out of their heads but if you took insulin insulin insulin is going to cost me to have diabetes people just don't believe that. People will forever have a fear of insulin because that's what we've been taught. That's what doctors are trying to like avoid it like we'll just take as long as we can before we give you insulin and that's slowly changing, it's slowly changing. When we start to really understand insulin a bit more and we're not so fearful of one of the major major major definitely side effects of insulin if you watch any insulin commercial is hyperguysing it and that's when you watch insulin commercials the best. Okay if you have an insulin and the side effects are hyperguysing yeah and then you could get dizzy, faint, tingling of the mouth and lips and then you could death. So IMean this is why we're always shy away from using insulin because there is the danger. IMean there's a danger but there's a lot less risk of danger and hyperguysing it in a long acting insulin than in a short. A short could be lethal. IMean it's that's sure short acting in insulin is absolutely and if you are not smart person or in the world of bodybuilding there are a little bit goes you know if a little bit's good then hell a lot's got to be better and I promise that is not the case with insulin. In fact less is more. You want to take as little insulin as you need to get you the best results and that's hard to get through somebody's head. There's no need to go more. More isn't going to help you. You don't want to feel insulin you know what IMean like oh I feel it I'm feeling tingling you know I'm getting like low but you don't want to feel insulin. You want it to do what it needs to do. Take the stress off the beta cell and I get me a fasting sugar between 75 and 85. Please get me that fasting sugar on a cassettes of basis. You can do that within insulin. But more yes you can do it and you can do it with glucose-suscoping agents and you can do it and that's great and if you do it that is taking the stress off the beta cell that's for any beta cell failure. So you're doing the same thing it's just a matter of how you want to go about dealing. So, Collin I grew with everything you said my goal with this video series is to get people actually thinking about the fasting blood glucose the carbohydrate intake is like that. I've had really get success if someone is in that 100 to 1206 range just by prioritizing their carbs around their work of window being a little bit smarter about their stimulant usage. There's sleep there's stress a lot of people have been able to get that borderline bad range back into the healthy range but I agree with you if you're doing all those things if you're being smart about your carbohydrate intake if you know we all have stress but if you're managing stress the best your abilities if you're if you're not abusing stimulants I think a baseline insulin is in the bad idea at all and especially you know for body builders who require a very large calorie intake and it helps me a lot of carbs it is beneficial. So in part two of this video series we're going to go through all the different types of insulin the half lives dosages things like that collect the last thing to finish off this video series before we get into part two. I want you to talk about the fact that there's no negative feedback loop because I think a lot of I think a big misconception for people have is that they're there that if they use insulin they're going to become dependent on it kind of like if you abuse steroids you'll eventually become dependent on structural replacement therapy talk just about the fact that there is no negative feedback loop with insulin so that's not something you have to be worried about. Right and and that is just it there isn't it's not that the beta cell is not a negative feedback loop it doesn't just die because you're getting an insulin it's actually the opposite so your body needs to maintain at all cost because believe me the body knows it is slightly off in blood glucose all your counter regular hormones go to hell okay they're all whacked out and the body is in the state of panic and it feels like it's starving so that's when it starts to kick out more glucose and it's actually working against you so it's working it's going to work so hard it's a work it's a workhorse sell this is the beta cell is definitely not involved in any type of negative feedback and fact what's happening is it's one of these cells that over time just ends up burning out and not able to keep up with the demand of the body and if you think about what I'm saying that makes sense because it can't keep up with the demand of the body the heavier you get because there's more cells while these fat cells it's trying to keep up with the demand but it can't so it will do whatever it takes to keep your blood sugar but to really it wants to keep it under a hundred that's what the body wants to do okay that's truly the truth we really want to stand or a hundred so when that doesn't happen that cell will just die off and you will lose beta cells in fact type two diabetes once your diagnosed every year you lose five percent more beta cells you're losing them right now okay everybody listen to me when you give insulin it actually gives the cell rest and what we found is that if you can give the cell rest because it's a workhorse cell it can actually get stronger and I know this sounds like hocus hocus it's not there are people that are doing this now in people in Europe and Japan running these studies so if you actually give insulin earlier in the disease right you provided the body insulin the body will not overproduce insulin which is what happens in type two diabetes now the insulin levels actually come down so now the actually opposite of what you think is going to happen you're getting more insulin when you're giving your body's making more then your own body goes wow I don't need to make so much more insulin so the body's you've got a senior insulin coming from the outside and then the cell is to relax and it's not going to overproduce insulin it's actually going to then just give a little bit of time to just rebuild itself and get actually stronger and this is what you can see when people do intermittent fasting and stuff I had a patient show me their blood work and they they're CPAPTI if you're guys the CPAPTI needs how much insulin your body makes was very low and actually that's actually not a bad thing it's just showing the beta cell isn't having to work hard and I said what kind of diet are you on it's doesn't it fast and it's not a really really low carb diet is getting right for a show and some really stupid doctors go oh my god you could have type one diabetes because the the CPAPTI is so low like I have a very low CPAPTI I see peptides like in non-existent because I don't make any insulin however this can be the case in people that are eating a low carb they're giving their beta cell rest their insulin affinity is really really high he's lean these people are lean these people are like their their bodies are like just motorhouses you know so that's actually why I think people that do be calorie restriction diets they say it's life extension because you're giving your beta cell rest and it's actually getting stronger so insulin can give you that same exactly the same thing because it's giving the beta cell rest and you're actually extending the life of your beta cell to never ever see a fail and end up getting type two diabetes and I truly believe that's this is the case so what call it myself hope to do with part one of this video series just give people cognizant about fasting but glucose numbers are carbohydrate and taking like that so what we're hoping you're doing is after watching part one you go by a blood glucose monitor then not that expensive IMean with the strips and everything is in caution maybe a hundred bucks test your fasting glucose and cheaper than that Trevor of re-lion I don't I don't know this brand I'm not promoting anything but re-lion is $10 and you can get a hundred strips for $17 from Walmart you have to buy it online or if you have a Walmart in your area I would in New York I think they don't that is the absolute cheapest way in the same technology in your one touch or your bear contour and all those if you want the unhealthy is that Trevor $10 I don't think we have the main candidate oh you may not you probably don't my 4 Canadians over there it's okay I got health insurance but again the blood glucose monitor you buy doesn't matter just get the cheapest one they're all the same things all you're gonna get with the more expensive one is you know some fancy bills and what's the more important you're fasting blood glucose for you or it'll send you like a reminder or something like that like just get the cheapest one so we're hoping is after part one you test your fasting blood glucose if you're under a hundred you're good if you're over a hundred twenty six go seek medical help because you're mostly diabetic if you're in between a hundred a hundred and one twenty six try prioritizing your carbohydrate intake just around workouts minimize stress lower your stimulus it's reassess in a couple weeks if you're still in that area part two of this video series and I explain what to do to get further blood work testing what all these hormones call it talk to but what they all are see have all that sort of stuff each one see we're talking about what all those hormones are what they do what values you want and then if you're gonna get into if you're gonna try using a baselines when we're gonna talk about all the different types of insulin dosages to start with when to take it it's gonna be all an o-bremeter so part one was basically this is why you should test your fasting blood glucose go and test it part two is basically the mitigation strategy if you're above a hundred so thank you for watching and make sure to check out part two

=== FILE: IRANIAN SUPER FREAK! Live With Behrooz Tabani [Al8F2-jRq0M].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brokey by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com, I'm Dave Palombo. And today's guest is a very special one. We've been trying to feature and really showcase more Middle Eastern body builders since the town on pool over there is tremendous Iran specifically. We've talked about Heidi Schouppen coming out of Iran not being able to get to the Olympia because of these restrictions in the United States here. But there's so much town over there that I wanted to showcase another one of their great Iranian athletes. Barus Tabani won the World Championships in 2016, earned his pro-card. He's in the serving in the military now and he gets out. He's going to really watch his pro career. But we got him here today and we have a little bit of a trenslator because he doesn't speak English that well. Welcome also, Human, Sapantimer for making this interview happen. Thank you so much. Ask Barus. What is like being a bodybuilder in Iran knowing that you have travel restrictions to a lot of countries around the world? Hi, Dave. Okay, Barus, he's asking, then the Gutierdhanche, GDK, Masalaan, vis-a-vis Zabitz, the United States and the United States. And I think we have to see it. Thank you very much. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So he's saying that he's not a good feeling because he sacrificed a lot of things to get to this level. And it's not a good feeling that he cannot compete unfortunately. So unless he tries to get the residents of another country, so that he can compete at the pro level. Right. Yeah, and probably would be a smart idea. He's only 25 years old. He won the World Championship in our 2020 pounds. We've seen a lot of the Iranian bodybuilders in that 2012 division, Baito, obviously, hotty and a couple other guys. He's going to be an open bodybuilder, obviously, a 220 pounds. And probably by the time he gets back on stage, he'll be a lot more than that. These are exciting times for the Middle Eastern bodybuilders. Give us a little idea of background. How did he get into bodybuilding and what inspired him to want to be a competitive athlete? Where is the president? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Okay. So he's saying growing up in the village. He didn't have a gym nearby. So he used to work out with custom made and handmade barbells and domals. And from very young age, he used to dream about becoming a professional. Even though he was living in a village, we're not having a gym nearby to go to. And by the way, his height is 510 and he's weighing about 265. Right now. Cool. Yeah. That's quite a bit of muscle. Is it true that he's the youngest child of 12 kids? Yes. Wow. Did he grow up poor or was he from middle class family? There was one of the saddest and motorlassity that she did as a mother. After study. Yeah. He's coming from middle class family. Yeah. He's going to say, you can't really have 12 kids in the poor. Yeah. You know, it's funny because, you know, in a lot of the middle eastern countries, the smaller ones, even like in Israel, everyone serves in the military. So he's 25, but he's just, he just started his military service because of the fact that he was in college. So, you know, do a lot of people go to college in Iran. IMean, is that typical for a bodybuilder or is he kind of different? It seems like a lot of the bodybuilders don't go that route. He kind of has a little bit more education in most of them. Well, I'm a dancer to that question. Yes. This is come policy for everybody. But the thing is, if you're to champion in any sports, you get some advantages. It should be a little easier for you to do that. I got you. So he's not really on the battlefield. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Well, that's good. IMean, I think that works out well. They get some respects for whatever they do. Right. Well, in Iran is bodybuilding considered like a big sport. Like I've always been told like in the Middle Eastern countries, bodybuilding is kind of like what football is here in the United States. And today is the right country for every lean soldier to fight for two more states in Constantinats to右 And other people in particular the Tigerinners? Yes. Good. There are five years. It runs half a year, yes. Yes. But also for Jan Jan rings from just only from age to age. But it's impossible to play there in twenty years like since when is the first or the second in the world at the amateur level in bodybuilding and of course bodybuilding is one of the most respected sports in the Iran and but unfortunately we cannot make it to the pro level because of the visa van and most most of the concerts and competitions are in the United States. Yeah of course of course. Now I know in like a lot of like the Egypt and a lot of the Dubai countries like that if you win the amateur world amateur championships you get paid by the countries that the same as in Iran. So he's saying the bodybuilding for the nation and the ministry of physical education does not give anything but the city of his own hometown pay him like a couple hundred dollars. Which is still better than most bodybuilders got. Now I got to ask you because I know a lot of my my listeners and viewers are very detail oriented and I'm watching you look at it shirt and I love the the Dory Nights temple shirt but why is Dory in spelled with an M rather than then. The Russian military military military Maribosa Doryan Yetset, 10th of June. Me get the Dory Nights Pozori Barat. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. And the Russian military TEMPOLGIM. Boshka Dory Nights. Me get the child out of the air. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. He's sayinGHe really appreciates that the admirers feel he's Dory Nights but the special Dory Nights. So that's one of the reasons he's doing the T-shirt. It's still with an M rather than an M. I didn't see that. Okay. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Yeah, this is the mistake that his response and Dory. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. What is he looking to do for his pro debut? Has he picked the show yet? Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. I was actually thinkinGHis deity-sense. He already remembered the change of story. He doesn't want his recommendation from this kind ofiamarts. So he's sayinGHe doesn't have any problem other than getting out of the country and getting the visa to get to any pro competition and his final goal is to get into the Maserolinka But what show what will he be for a show? A lot of people probably wondering where is the pro day you're going to take place? Obviously he can probably won't be in the United States but there's plenty of other places around the world and out that are holding shows all over the place The Russian musave has been very interesting to see the Chinese people in the United States. I get normal these animals and what they both do is to get the money. So he's saying in the current situation he cannot get out of Iran so he cannot have any exact plans for pro competitions But the Federation, the bodybuilding Federation is trying to do something to give him the permission to get out of the country. So it's a tough political situation of that. You know that right now, tensions are very high and obviously that is a lot going on. I'd like to see him up on a pro stage. I think he's got a tremendous physique. I want to just tell Baru's that I think that he's a very special bodybuilder and hopefully we get to see him one day on that Mr. Lippi stage and so that he can realize his dream. By the way, so whatever he is talking about, those who can share his friends. I wonder how Cymania introduced his sight that interests Colombia. IMean he has a prerequisite for qualifying this. I think one of the students who performed him at the bookstore they'décht the most in W reluctant to introduce himself. One that connects with another joy and support of the weakness of Saudi Arabia. They're a great guy. Hello, my name is Kolev. I'm a community officer. I'm from the South of the West. I am a community officer. I'm a community officer. I'm a community officer. I'm a community officer. I'm a community officer. I'm a community officer. He's saying it was an honor to talk to you. And it's going to be a dream to meet you in person. And get some knowledge and information from you towards his goal to be on the Olympia stage. Excellent. Tell them to give us a couple of poses to take us out. You're going to be a volunteer. You're going to be a volunteer. You're going to be a volunteer. Yes, you're a senior. That's Baru's Tabani. Watch out for him in the future. He's going to be a deadly force in the open. You're going to be a senior. Go. Senior, you're going to be a senior. Why? You're going to be a senior. You're going to be a senior. I'll just teach you. You're a fake door ain't your shirt coming off. Person came come right now. Pause and press. Fantastic. What talent? I can only hope that these depursion talent can be showcased in the United States at some point in the future. Looking forward to it, obviously. Tremendous talent. Only 25 years of age. And got a bright future ahead of him. Hey, who am I? Thank you so much for making this thinGHappen because I know you facilitated the whole thing. Thank you for pushing me a little bit to get this done. I think it was a terrific interview. Sure. It was a pleasure. All right. And that's going to take us guys to the end of another episode of Live With. BroadTubey species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumball and we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: IRRESPONSIBLE ACTIONS = HEALTH RISKS! [3D_6XxiHezg].txt ===

Day for Lumbo here with an RX muscle, rant brought to you by RedCon1.1.com. Today's topic, Irresponsible Health Mistakes that Bodybuilders Make. This is going to be one I'm going to really get a little heated over and a little aggravated over because I get so many people contacting me. I would say 50% of the people who contact me now are for health issues reasons and most of them are really avoidable. Now while I enjoy helping to solve people's health issues and keep them healthy and help them overcome obstacles that they think they may not be able to overcome, I would like to prevent them from happening to begin with. So guys I want you to pay attention here. There are some easy things that you can really pay attention to, diagnostic testing wise that can prevent you from running into trouble. Now what am I talking about? Probably the number one problem that people encounter and they don't realize this is a problem until many years later. It's high blood pressure. It sounds stupid but the new actually according to Merrick Harzo's years, the new normals are actually lower than it used to. It used to be 180, it seemed to be 120 over 80 was the normal blood pressure. But blood pressure basically stands for systolic pressure over diastolic. Cystolic is when the heart, the left ventricles contracting. So you're going to have the most pressure and the diastolic pressure is the pressure in the vessels when the left ventricles relaxing. So we always thought that the relaxing blood pressure was more important because that's the pressure you have all the time in your vessels. Turns out both of them are just as important now. They're saying, you want to keep, I believe it's 120 over 70 now they're saying or even 115 over 70 they want to see. I don't think this is a thing about if the older one is planted, it uses that in that range. I'm laughing but I'm not laughing. Now, granted, we don't have to be neurotic about a couple of points to upper down. But the bottom line is that we got to keep blood pressure on the check. Now I was always afraid to check my blood pressure when I was younger because I didn't want to know, so to speak, which was stupid of me. Luckily I didn't really have excessively high blood pressure. If I did, I could have been in a big trouble because as we know, high blood pressure destroys the kidney tubules. Remember the kidneys are the filters, the filter, the blood and if you have constant high pressure and pounding on them, it over time breaks them down and once again, 10 years, 15 years after havinGHigh blood pressure, you can destroy enough kidney tubules that you don't get your kidney function is destroyed and it's no longer good. All of a sudden you start coming back with high B, you went and creating levels on blood work and you don't know why and it's because you have high blood pressure 10 years. What we want to do is we want to take care of it. I was afraid also to take blood pressure medicine, I thought it would inhibit my muscle gains and that was just pure ignorance on my parts. I didn't do enough research. The bottom line is that the ACE inhibitors, ACE inhibitors, which are the drug class inhibitor conversion of angiotensin 1 and 2, which goes eventually into aldosterone, which will make you retain fluids. When you inhibit those that hormonal cascade, you have less aldosterone, you body, less sodium, absorption, less water absorption, blood pressure is lower. It also opens up the kidney tubules, the filtering mechanism vessels so that you filter your blood better. It's actually ACE inhibitors like Ramaproil and Lucina Prol are actually kidney protective because they allow the kidneys to filter better by opening up the vessels and they reduce fluid retention in the body and they reduce the ability of the body to raise blood pressure. So basically your pressure drops when you're on these things. The great thing is they really have no side effects. Some people can notice a dry cough sometimes. I noticed that when I originally started taking a baby for a week or two, then I never never get it anymore. I never happened. Again, I've been taking these things for 15 years now. But I wish I had started the meralias. You almost might think that prophalactically anybody, both of who's over a certain way, should take an ACE inhibitor, assuming their pressure is not ideal. And how do you know if your blood pressure is ideal? You don't wait till you go to the doctor. You don't wait. You go and buy a blood pressure cuff at CVS or wherever a Walmart and you might spend 50-70 bucks. You put it in, make sure you get, if you have a big arm, you have to get the leg cuff to put on your arm. It's interchangeable. Usually, you wrap your arm, you push your butt. You don't have the duet, you push your butt and then it'll give you your blood pressure in your heart rate. And if you're runninGHigh on a consistent ACE, it's not just take it one-to-day, take it all throughout the day to get a good range of what you're doing. On-cycle off-cycle, if you're runninGHigh, get on a blood pressure medication. It's so simple and you'll preserve your kidneys. Steroids are not toxic to the kidneys. High blood pressure is. Unfortunately, a lot of steroids close high blood pressure. So it's not that the kidneys are being toxified by the steroids that they're being subjected to high blood pressure. So trenbolone, it's not everyone says it's kidney toxically. It's really not. It just raises blood pressure really high. And that can make you, that could obviously be damaging to the kidneys. So that's an easy fix. And that's probably the most prevalent health issue that I see among bodybuilders. Another thing that's becoming more and more prevalent. And obviously, you can tell if you have kidney issues by your B.U. and in creating. And it's blood jewelry, nitrogen and creating levels. These are waste products that are found in the blood. If they're high, beyond a certain point, then what that means is your kidneys are not functionally getting rid of these toxins, which means they're not working efficiently. When you get to that point, unfortunately, sometimes it's a little too late. Now, if a normal creat needs about 1.3 to 1.4, that's on the high level. If you're running 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.7, 1.8, that's high. That's when you really aggressively want to start combating that. Using products like kidney stuff that I sell at daypaloma.com. Reducing your protein intake for several weeks to give your kidneys a break. If you ask me once again, I've sent up hundreds and thousands of these things already. My kidney detox, what I should say is my three week detoxing clensing protocol, which is good not only for the kidneys, but for all the digestive organs in the body. I'll send it to you for nothing if you just email me at huge285aawal.com. And I advise you to do that once a year. This will give your organs a rest and a break. But once BUN and createn gets over, say 1.9 up into the 2s, that's a little harder to reverse now. Now you're going to really have to work hard. Liver regenerates really quickly. The kidneys do regenerate, but it takes much longer. It could take years. So once again, you must aggressively attack this. You do not want to lose your kidneys. If you lose your kidneys, you will be very, very upset. Believe me, it's not a good life from that point on. Even if you get a kidney trensplant, you're going to be on anti-rejection drugs at the whole life. You don't want to go there if you can avoid it. So high blood pressure, number one kidney killer. Want to get that on the control. You want to monitor your B1 and createn levels. If they start creeping up over that 1.351.4 level, you have to aggressively treat that. Telling you, these are very avoidable pitfalls, but I see that all too much embodied going. There's a lot of people in kidney failure out there. You don't just hear the ones that are willing to come on to the TV show and talk about it. There's probably five times that amount out there that are not telling you what's going on. There's a lot of guys that are dying because getting a kidney trensplant is not always the fix. Sometimes it's no fix. You die sometimes. So you don't want to lose your kidneys. Another new tren that I'm seeing is high blood sugars. Every person I'm working with now, I'm especially in the UFC, and I'm having them check blood sugars. Once again, I've told you this before, you can get a Walmart for $9 and get a blood sugar monitor, $9, get a test strips, and start testing a blood sugars. The morning fasting, before you eat anything, is the most important. It should be under 90. I don't care what the blood work says from lab core or whatever you're going, Quest, they may sound like $100. It's under 90. That's what the safety net is. Two hours after your biggesT3 meals, they should test your blood sugars. They should be under 130. Usually the post meal blood sugars tend to run normal. It's the fasting that start out getting screwed up. Because overnight, your body is producing glucose in the liver, the egg-luka, and the genesis, and your body has to release insulin to that. A lot of times, when insulin production becomes sluggish in the body, that's when you're see it first. Inability to keep low fasting morning blood sugars, or at least in the normal range. If you're running over an over 90 on a consistent basis, you have to think about maybe doing some insulin replacement. What that means is using a long acting. Not a short acting insulin, like some of the performance enhancing protocols that we put out there. This is a health protocol. A long acting insulin, like a lanthus, or trushiva, which is these are brands of what we call basal lung acting insulin. You take them in a morning, and a night, trushiva, actually, you take one today. What you're doing is you're basically taking the bird enough of your pancreas. You're allowing this long acting insulin to do the job of your pancreas from a long-term perspective of basal insulin, not a short meal perspective. It just takes the bird. It allows the cells, the beta cells of the pancreas to start to heal, to regenerate, rejuvenate. If you do three months, four months of taking a long acting insulin if you're runninGHigh blood sugars, and then you stop it, usually beta cell function resumes, and you can and usually it's pretty good after that. If you're taking a lot of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, that's putting a stren on your pancreas to have to produce more insulin. It normally does that sometimes can burn out those beta cells of the pancreas, and we don't want that to happen. You do not want to become an insulin dependent diabetic, because no matter how good you are managing, you're taking those insulin shots and eating the right foods, you're never going to be perfect. You're going to get side effects. High blood sugar is the number one rising problem that I see, and taking drugs like glucophage or insulin sensitizers is not going to solve the problem. Because yeah, you might lower your blood sugars. The problem is you're in your pancreas is still having to work too hard. We need to give the pancreas a break. That's the best way to do it in insulin replacement. Just like you take testosterone replacement, because because your testicles and I produce an F-ducylicosterone, you take insulin replacement. The good thing about the beta cells is that they can regenerate and start producing more insulin. Assuming you didn't kill them all off, which some people do. If you have an autoimmune disease like a type one diabetic, there's nothing you can do about it. This is self-induced destruction of the pancreas. Go get a blood protester. Okay, blood sugar monitor, it's like I said, for 20 bucks, you've got everything you need. You can test your blood sugars as many times you want it during the day. At least you've got an idea of baseline value of what's going on in your body, and then you can make an informed decision. Now, there are other things that we can talk about. I see people who come to me with liver issues. Now, just because you have a high liver function on blood work, doesn't mean you have liver disease, because a lot of times these liver enzymes go up because they're really metabolic enzymes. And you're breaking that a lot of muscle in the gym, and these are just leaking out of the muscle cells. But a lot of times doctors will send you if you're having pain or you're having weird digestive issues, they'll send you for a liver sonogram, and the liver sonograms come back. I see this whole time. And a lot of people who contact me, and they have cysts on their liver or the liver is a little weird, the architecture of it. It's inswelling. That means you're liver is being stressed. The good news is that your liver has a very, very, very good ability to regenerate itself. However, you have to let it detoxify itself. That means you have to do my detox program. You have to take the stren off that liver, get rid of any animal, chatech, any kind of orals who take the entire animal in the oil, or I'd be profan, just allow your body to clen out a little bit, and let your liver regenerate. IMean, milk fistle is a tremendous product because there's two things that really help the liver to regenerate. Milk fistle, okay, silicon iron, which is the, I guess you could say, the herbal name of it, opens up the liver of docks, the bile docks, and that allows the liver to dump its waste out and get rid of it. A lot of times, the liver is taxed and it gets swell, it pinches those vessels off in the liver can't detoxify itself. Milk fistles hugely important, also the antioxidant, okay, glutathione is super important for liver function and for regeneration. But you can't really take glutathione orally unless you go and you get an injectable form from like Titan Medical Center, that's fine, but not everyone can do that. You can take an acetyl-sistine, which is a precursor to glutathione. That is orally absorbable. I sell a product from Bill Lwellon on my daypalumbad.com website called liverstable. Add that into your regimen, it'll open up your liver tubules, the oxenium, the bile docks, allow your liver to detoxify itself and it also gives you the antioxidant you need to combat any kind of oxidative stress in the liver. Once again, the liver regenerate then regenerates pretty fairly quickly. Don't allow that to become, you don't want to go into liver failure, you don't want to get liver cancer. I've seen a lot of body bowls with cysts, body bowls who have cysts in the liver that developed in the cancer and some of them have died. I don't even want to go into it, but it happens. A lot more than you guys think. Don't want that to happen. The other thing that I really want people to become aware of and I'm just looking at my notes here so I don't forget anything would be your prostate. High DHC levels over extended periods of time, certainly cause the prostate to enlarge. Now, if you're getting up 600 times the night the pain and you can't actually get the pain, the pain is not a big deal. If you're being a lot, that's fine. If you're getting up the pain, you can't actually get the pain out because it feels blocked into some degree and you just always pain and never really emptying your blood. That's a problem. That means you're prostate to enlarge. Go see a urologist and let him look at that and tell you, yeah, your normal or no you're not because prostate cancer is also very, very prevalent in our industry. It's not just our industry. It's all over. Then get prostate cancer, but men who take animal ox steroids, if you have a predisposition for enlargement of your prostate and it can speed it up. We want to make sure that the prostate is taken care. No one wants to die from prostate cancer. No one wants to have to have their prostate removed if it can be avoided. Get that checked out every once in a while as well. These are pretty much the pitfalls I see on a regular basis. Blood pressure number one, certainly on the rise high blood sugars. I think high blood sugars are going to prove to be very, very, very, very detrimental in the future. I think we're going to see a lot of issues, a lot of side effects blindness and fingers and toe extremity, losses and stuff. All the typical, also loss of kidneys, all the typical stuff you see in fat over way people. We're going to start seeing embody bowls because bodybuilders have blood sugar issues because we take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone makes the pancreas have to work harder. You burn your pancreas out. You don't have good blood sugar control. You get diabetes and you get diabetes side effects. You don't want that. Okay? Easy fix. You have a blood sugar monitor if you're high. You take supplements and insulin. All right. I can probably go in for another six hours about this. We'll have to continue this another time. But guys, be smart. Get your health checks. Don't ignore the symptoms that you're hearing or seeing or feeling in your body. Go with check when to doctor. If you're not sure you want to send me some blood work, I'm more than having to look at it. For now though, I'm Dave Palombo with another RX muscle rant.

=== FILE: IS BODYBUILDING 'NATURALLY' A WASTE OF TIME？ [LfClspMeQas].txt ===

It is the hardest sport out there because it's a accumulation of all these variables together. But if you don't have diet and trening and and and sleeping down properly, then then you could take all the gear you want. It's not going to do anything. We all know that. So the gear is just makes things work better, you know. It's kind of like an enhancer. So the problem is that no one gets the other variables down pat and then they take gear and they get Modo, so-so results from it. You know, you take gear and everyone's going to grow from that, okay, to a certain degree. But how much you grow and the benefits you get, okay, from it, are really dependent on the other variables. You know, when I took my first cycle, my diet was perfect, my trening was perfect. I responded so well. You know, I was gaining 25 pounds, you know, 20 to 25 pounds a year of muscle for the for five years in a row. There was a reason because I had all the variables perfect before I ever took gear. Okay, had I taken gear and I didn't have these variables perfect, but I probably went to meet those kind of gates. And that's an important thing to understand. Now having said that, IMade it very good games the first couple years. I the firsT4 or five years that I was trening, okay, without gear, just by learning to eat right and tren right. So if I would have taken gear then I would have been wasting my time because I would have been using the gear to grow. And then when I actually needed the gear, it wouldn't be there. And that's why you got guys like Ronnie Coleman who were natural for many years. They started taking gear and their body is exploded because they had maximized. He had maximized his ability to tren. He trened heavy. He, you know, he ate right. He lived the body building lifestyle. It didn't matter that he was an undrugs. So when he added those in, it just made everything work better. Another person that comes to mind, high green, responded incredibly as well. Same thing, same thing, look at Sean Clarita, look at the, the, the games he's made the besT3 or four years. He was a natural bodybuilder too. So you got to understand that the gear is not that important until you hit a point where you've maximized everything you could have done prior to that. And then you added in and you get that added benefit of a really getting explosive growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone front.

=== FILE: IS NATURAL BODYBUILDING REALLY 'NATURAL'？ [Md_8uqi9nBY].txt ===

There's no such thing as natural bodyability. Are some people 100% natural in the sense that they don't use any illegal performance enhancing drugs absolutely? Are all the people who compete in natural competitions natural now? Because for most of these organizations, they call themselves natural, but they're really just drug tested organizations. You beat the drug test. You beat the drug test. IMean, that's what the Olympics are. You think the Olympics are natural? Come on. It's called beat the drug test. Sometimes you fail the drug test like this runner. We just saw, you know, recently, who's banned for four years. You're rolling the dice. If you pass the drug test, you win the Olympic gold in your hero. If you fail it, you know, you're a criminal. That's how they, that's how you branded this country. OK, and this is unfortunately how it goes. So are there natural competitions out there? They say they are. Is everyone natural? No. Are some people natural? Absolutely. And that's a personal choice you have to make. I just feel that if you're going to use antibiotics, can you get to use drugs that are banned by these organizations? You might as well compete in an organization that doesn't test you. Because why be a fraud? You know what IMean? If you, those organizations should be reserved for people who don't want to take drugs. It's like it's a protected environment. But unfortunately, it just isn't that because people want to be champions. They don't care if they have to cheat. They don't care if they're going to be the big fish and a small pond. It doesn't matter to them. I competed in a natural organization for one or two times when I was natural. And you know what? The second time I competed, people thought I was a natural. So I said, you know what? I'm not going to deal with this stuff. You know what? The truth is I want to be the best. And if I want to be the best, I got to use stuff. So I started using some antibiotics. I never competed in the natural organization again. Because I said, you know what? If I'm going to be the best, I got to compete against the best. I think it's my choice how much I want to use or not use. Just because you compete in an organization that uses drugs. IMean, you have to use the most drugs of anyone out there because the amount of drugs you use is not an alicous to how well you place. As much as some people may think that that's the case, it's not. Okay, taking a threshold amount, eating right, trening right, sleeping enough, having some genetic predisposition. Those are the keys to success in bodybuilding. If you think it's all drugs, you don't know what you're talking about.

=== FILE: IS YOUR STUFF FAKE？ [nf5JbsE8MPU].txt ===

Dave Palombo here for an RX Muscle Supplement and Science review and today we're going to be talking about the old new Roy test. You know, I wish I invented it. I people think they did I did build a well in the invent of these kits and they designed to test your animal accelerates, climbuter all now and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. The new Roy tests, however, have been designed and released just recently. I know a lot of you guys have been asking, why did they come out? How are they going to work? Well, we got them. We got them. We got the new complete testing system here. This is an amazing one. This is got like you could test your 10 tests with this thing. You got multiple ABCD vials. The E-vile is now the climbuter all tester. So the climbuter all testing vial, the calling the Vile E, for those of you who don't know what I'm even talking about, the Vile A and D and C and D are the original vials that we test for anobox. Now all anobox steroids, let's put climbuter all side, are two vial testing systems. So for injectables, you use a D-vile and then an either an A or a B and for the, a, what roles you use a C-vile and then an A or a B as confirmation. So you need these two vials. You can't differentiate between compounds. A lot of times, multiple like injectables will turn purple on the D-vile. Some of them do it in different timeframes, fast or a slow. But to differentiate between different you know, esters, you need to use the A and B-vile and see what they turn color wise to give you the perfect identification. Now in the past, okay, the, originally, this is now called the complete testing system. This was originally called, had a few different iterations. It was a much smaller box. Now it has this huge carrying case. You get your UV light, all your color charts in here, you get 10 vials. And there's also now an F-a-G and an H-vile. So the ABC and D are the test your anobox steroids, E-test, climbuter all, okay, F-NG will test quantitatively what's in the steroids. In other words, if you test testosterone, it comes back positive. Now you can use your F, okay, vile. And it will tell you how much testosterone is in there. If you are testing DACA, you use the G-vile, I believe. So I think I think tren and N-F-A and test, I gotta just take a little look, and use the F-vile, and then DACA uses the G-vile. And the H-vile, okay, it's just the retesting reagent, okay. So it's pretty simple. Now if you look at the charts, we can put them up on the screen. You can see the color reaction for oral products. So you see this, they broke the color charts down into here. You can test for your orals. You use the C-vile, and then either the A or B, depending on which is in the, recommended use chart, okay. And then you can see the different color changes. Obviously, at the B, anytime you use the B-vile, you will expose it to the UV light as well. And in certain circumstances, specifically, if you're testing methyl testosterone, you'll see it'll turn green when you subject it to the UV light. If you look at the next chart up there, if we put the injectable color reaction chart, that's gonna be the one that most people are gonna use the most, because that's the most of the antibodies. They all use the D-vile, and then either the A or B. And you can see it under the B-vile. If you hit it with the UV light, certain compounds like natural and phenyl propinate, which is NPP, test propinate, a trinacitate and trininanthate, we'll all turn a different color when exposed to the UV light. So you want that UV light, which comes in the complete testing kit. If you go to the third chart up on the screen, you'll see this is if you have raw powders. So if you're getting like powders in from China, you want to test them to see for the purity, you would use this chart. Now, it's interesting because a lot of people ask, what if my antibiotics are like, like, they have like water-based, you know, like drugs like winstrol. You have to actually draw, you have to take a couple drops of the winstrol, put it on a piece of paper, leave it overnight, let it dry out, and then the powder that's left on the paper, you can scrape off with like a little razor-brain and that's what you test. You can't put like water-based compounds into the testing reagents. It won't work. You got to use powders. Okay. So you got to powderize this stuff. Now, if you look at the fourth chart, I believe that's the color reaction for the pure raw powders. This is for the injectables. The first one that you won't before this was for oral compound. So you have four different color charts now. It's just broken down and made a little easier. But basically, the new technology that's out, aside from the fact that they've renamed things, is what we call quantitative tests in here. They're all available at dayplumboys.com. Now, you can get the Roy test complete testing system, or if you don't want to get the whole box set, you can buy thEQuantitative. Now, thEQuantitative test, which you tell you how many milligrams of compound is in this stuff, are only for three specific drugs at this point, or four specific drugs. Test and antherate, test-sippingate, decand derival, which is natural and decant await, and tren and antherate, not tren-acetate, tren and antherate, the long-racking tren, the tabloid. Here's the tren test and here's the testosterone test. And if you look in these tests, if you buy these tests, you're going to get two vials. If you're going to test the test-sippingate or antherate, you're going to get the F violin here. And you're going to follow the directions and put your drops of liquid into this, then you're going to add the H-vial, which is the testing reagent, and you're going to make a little chemical reaction. You're going to play chemistry set. And then you're going to read the color chart. It's going to tell you how many milligrams of this. But you first want to test and make sure you have testosterone. And that's another test. So you're going to use the testosterone test. If it is testosterone and antherate, it's going to be going to use this, and it's going to tell you how many milligrams. Same thing with tren, antherate here. You're going to first use the tren-blown testing kit, which is two vials. If it comes back as tren-blown and antherate, then you're going to take this. OK, and you're going to put more substances in here. You're going to follow the directions. Very simple directions. OK, I'll do another video, another dime on that. And you're going to determine how many milligrams of tren-blown in antherate are in your compound. And then there's a deck of one, too. I just don't have it here. But it's all up on daypaloment.com. These are invaluable, because you might be able to tell now, you might be able to tell if you have the real drug, but you never really know what the dosages. So guys, overdose on the stuff, because in a while, it's probably weak when I can tell. You can tell for tren antherate. You can tell for DACA. And you can tell for test-sip in antherate. And I can't wait to all the other ones to done. Likewise for the clem uterol. When you test your clem uterol with the e-vile, not only will you test to see if it's real, but it will also tell you thEQuantity of clem uterol in there. And that's just a one-tester. So that the clem uterol is really super all purpose. And of course, we still have the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone testing kits, which is like a pregnancy test, except the test for GH. You dip your stick in, 20 seconds, put it on the table even for 20 minutes. One line, mean you have real GH, two lines, mean you got fake GH. Super easy. Guys, this is gonna save you so much time, effort and money. And the long run, please, I implore you. Test your drugs before you put them into your body. Unfortunately, there's a lot of fake stuff out there, and there's a lot of stuff that's nothing. So don't waste your time and money. Check out the new Roy test, and please testing system, and all thEQuantitative tests that daypalumma.com. I'm telling you, you will thank me later.

=== FILE: Iain Valliere (270-lbs) Update + Breon Ansley Starts Olympia Prep + Kamal Elgargni Update [9ioE8P0RzTc].txt ===

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. I've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today is Thursday, June 30, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and happy Thursday and happy July. Ladies and gentlemen, today is July 1st and I normally wouldn't go out of my way to say that. But today's the day that Breon Ansley officially starts his Olympia prep. So I figured what to heck. According to Breon, this is the latest that he's ever been. At the start of an Olympia prep, which he believes will be an advantage because he won't have to die as hard as he had to in the past to make way. Now, whether or not that strategy is enough to earn him back the title of remains to be seen. But I do think that approach is interesting. He made a strategic effort to put himself in the best possible position to win this year. And that adds another layer of intrigue to keep up with once we analyze everything else after it's all set and done. At different points in the season, you can see athletes starting to build momentum after they get things figured out. And more often than not, that momentum ends up leading to something down the road. And I think you can make a strong case for Mohamed Shabon being one of those athletes right now. He had a decent start to the season a few weeks ago at the Cal Pro. But he really kicked things into height here with his second place finish at the Puerto Rico Pro last weekend. Now you can feel the momentum starting to pick up as we head into one of the busiest stretches of the season. He's doing all the right things to make sure that he keeps getting better every time out. And I would not be surprised if he ended up sneaking in a win between now and the end of the summer to clinch and the Libya qualification and bring this whole thing whole circle. There are six weeks to go. All gas and no brakes. Those words came directly from Ian Valier on Monday. And in case you couldn't already tell, he's heading into the Tampa Pro next month, looking to play for keeps. A few weeks ago I heard that Ian's weight was floating somewhere around 270. And he was in good condition then, but he's even better now. The man knows how to work and that's been evidence throughout his entire career. Whenever he flips that switch, there is no turning it off, which means that it's pretty much a downhill sprint from now until Tampa. And if you can get out to the lead, I don't see anyone catchinGHim from behind. We've talked a lot about the two 12 division and what the Olympian picture might look like later this year. And some stuff that we've seen so far in the schedule. But all in all, one of the names we haven't talked much about is Kamal Old Gardnae, which means that we haven't been doing our due diligence. Because the former two 12 Olympias champ is ready to take back the spotlight again. Earlier this week Kamal released the first official progress photo from his Olympia prep. And as usual, he looks like he's right on the money. Kamal has finished first second and third in his last real Olympias. So if there's anyone who knows what it takes to compete at the highest level, it's him. The man has been a winner throughout his entire career and he isn't showing any signs of slowing down. And since he's already made history more than once, I damn sure wouldn't be the one to say that he can't do it again. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm a staple of Olympo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Iain Valliere DIALING IN For Tampa + Classic Physique Star Returns + Rafa Brandao Update! [AnKYQ403kKE].txt ===

I'm gonna be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love it as show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Columbo and today is Thursday July 29th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's Thursday, which means that the Tampa Pro is less than 10 days away now. And if you're a classic physique fan, the lineup in this show just became MUST-CTV. Now that Steve Llorious has officially thrown his name into the mix. In case you missed it on Monday, Steve caught everyone by surprise when he announced that he was planning to brinGHis talents to the stage in Tampa, which will be the first time that we've seen him compete since he took third at the Arnold Classic last March. We all know that when Steve is at the top of this game, that he's one of the most dangerous athletes in the division. So if he shows up firing on all cylinders, he can end up running away with this one before anyone even knows what hit them. Since we already talked about comebacks in classic physique, well it feels like this is the perfect time to slip in this brand new update from Robert Tim's. After basically dropping off the radar for the last few months, all of a sudden the former top 10 Olympian appeared in a big way a few days ago. When he posted a new progress photo along with an announcement that he was planning to make a big return, that to the division sometime within the nexT4 weeks. According to Robert the plan is for him to weigh somewhere in the neighborhood of 260 pounds, the next time he steps on stage, which means that he's added at least 30 pounds of muscle since the last time we saw him two years ago. And since the Robert Tim's we saw then was good enough to be a top 10 Olympian. It should be interesting to see how this new and improved version stacks up again some of the other big names in the division. I'm ready to go, I just mentioned that the Tampa Pro is less than 10 days away now. So if you still have the board your tickets, you might want to get on that ASAP because rumor has it that Ian Valier is about to deliver some heat. So far this week we've already seen two new updates coming from Ian's camp, and all the signs seem to be pointing towards him bringing in a bigger and better version of what we saw when he plays second here a year ago. If you can remember back to last year, Tampa was the show that really laid the ground work for the rest of Ian season. And you'd imagine that he's probably looking to do the same thing this time around. That being said, if you can walk out there with a win instead of being forced to settle for second, I think it becomes a huge confidence booster moving forward. And I believe me when I tell you a confident Ian Valier is not a problem people want any part of solving. As of the time we recorded this Brazil had won five medals in the Olympics so far, but depending on who you ask, all five of those Olympic medals somehow feel, well less exciting for our Brazilian fans. Now that they know that Rafa Brande was finally starting to prep for his name this week, Rafa made headlines when he released two new updates including one, re-tag their own Chris Hasito saying that he was, he was, quote, ready to work. All things considered when Rafa's at the top of his game he's shown flashes of being one of the most talented athletes in bodybuilding. Depending on how things play out over the next few months his presence alone could have a major impact on the way the next half of the season plays out. And that does it the other edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palermo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they try to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: If Dave Palumbo Challenged Ronnie Coleman in One Pose... [h32y7XMmDX0].txt ===

Saitrice. Gustavo Badell showed that right off the bat and that was Ronnie's worst pose. That was Gustavo's best pose. I don't think it was my best pose but it was a good pose but I wouldn't want to go against Ronnie in any pose. That's how good Ronnie was but yeah that was Ronnie's worst pose everyone knew it you know. The funny thing was another really bad pose for Ronnie was the front last spread and it wasn't because it was a bad pose because he had a huge lathe and huge lights. He just didn't had to hit the pose. He hit it like a most musco like he was like flexing into it but his side tries to I don't know why he had problems and I think he just Ronnie wasn't the greatest poseer and I don't know if it had anything to do with the fact that he was so big or the fact that maybe he just you know he just didn't have the mind muscle connection because I'm sure he practiced because Ronnie was a consummate professional. He just wasn't that good at hitting the mandatory. I think it's hard to tell someone who's an eight-time Mr. Olympia you don't know how to hit the mandatory poses. I don't think anyone ever really worked with him to the degree that of deconstructing what he was doing and then buildinGHim up again because I think I think a lot of his poses could have been better but he was pretty but he knew at it what the poses he was good at he was so dominant and he didn't even matter you know.

=== FILE: Interview with Pro Strongman Brad Dunn at the 2011 America's Strongest Man [6xvL8946yCs].txt ===

. Brian Hildebrand with RXMuscle.com. I'm here at the 2011 America Strongest Man. I'm with Mr. Brad Wolverine Dunn. I think we know why they call you Wolverine. I really don't have a clue. Okay, maybe. Your hair's a little messy though. It's a little messy though. I switched to a new gel. IMight have to look into that. Yeah, I'll loan you some of my. You had a great day today. A little rough, a little rough. You had your your acts of clen and press looked amazing. You got clen without difficulty. Tell me. Yeah, man. I really, I came in. I, my whole intention was open in around 390. Then we got the the choices and the increments. So I went 393 warmups. We're just a breeze. I opened with 393 and I just flew up. IMean, the clen was easy. I didn't even feel like I had a lot of waste. It don't much just and I pressed it out. And so I felt like a 45 pound jump before it was actually. Conservative, you know, because I was really. I had my, my sights set on 430-ish. Coming in, which I felt like it was fully capable of. And, you know, botched that that first clen on this on the first attempt of 14 second attempt overall. And just, I don't know, I felt like if I had manners at clen, then I wouldn't had a problem with the press. But miss that clen and reclening it and just slowing down and getting a little fatigued. Then come out here and repeat the same mistake on the 30th attempt. Get them off the ground easy. You don't make the trensition and just go to flip that. Well, you know, maybe it's maybe I need to get a bar that doesn't rotate the tren with. I don't know, but either way, I just, I just didn't deliver on that. That was lightweight off the ground. That non-rotating bar is a huge factor trying to get that up to your chest. I felt like I could have clened 450 based on those first clens, but just didn't finish it. Tell me about the wheelbarrow. It was a really tough event today. It was way harder than I thought it was. I really didn't know what to expect. IMean, you'll be able to strap in, you know, I'm thinking, I don't know how hard do this be, but it was. Carl Finnell's wife goes, how did that feel? I said, it was the strengest overall bodily pain I felt in a long time. I felt like seven different things were trying to break all at once. You know, there's hard steps and at one point in time. I just about hyper extended my right knee and I'm like, man, it was just brutal. And I just managed, it sloppy as I felt. IManaged to decent carry on it and I really needed a good finish to the night after some disappointments. And, you know, I think I goT4th on that. But it was brutally hard. I just felt it all through out my body and it was rough. Yeah, it was a, a lot of guys had a really difficult time pulling that up. I was surprised. Some of the guys I, IMean, some of the guys expect to do well did. You know, the guys I expected would do well because I went, I think, second. I'm thinking, well, these guys are going to kill it. Man, there was definitely a struggle out there. It was an interesting event. Yeah, man, Mike, Mike Johnson was telling us about the big dog strong built the apparatus and it held up. But I don't think that the hitch from the, she built by Chevy is going to survive. Hopefully, Alan Tillery, let's just use the truck next year. But after they inspect that one, I don't know, man. Let's see what it looks like when they get it back. You look forward to tomorrow. Yeah, IMean, you know, I'm a little further back than where I wanted to be. I'm really not sure where the overall Sania is or what they look like right now. And, you know, kind of bots to those fellstone after having some good trening, whether it just made a little mistake. And that's all it takes. But yeah, tomorrow, IMean, cake toss is the first thing. You know, not something, I guess, a short guy would really be looking forward to. But I think I can get some pop and, you know, tren has been going well and that had been also. So, you know, hopefully just have a good start to the day. The overhead and deadlift medley, you know, should be decent enough for me and, Stone tren has been going well. So we'll see if I can show up tomorrow and, really dial in, then maybe I can get that top four top five spot. I was looking forward to. Good. Yeah, just good recovery tonight and get some meat. That's it. You'll just get recovery. Take it easy. Good night's rest. Come up tomorrow and, you know, just like the score is zero zero zero. Exactly. Starting all over tomorrow. Exactly. Right, bro. All right. Great. Thanks for your time. Nice job. Today we'll see you tomorrow. One o'clock. We'll be back here in Hot Springs, Arkansas at the San Margarina for the Marcos Strongest Man. 2011 Part Two for events tomorrow. We'll see you then. Absolutely. Brian Hilderbrand with rxmuscle.com.

=== FILE: Interview with Pro Strongman Dave Ostlund on Day 2 of 2011 America's Strongest Man [aKS5m25d1Tc].txt ===

Downey Phrynd Wenter Brian Hook, member with our X muscle.com. We just finished the Atlas Stones winter Mr. Dave Oslin, Dave tell me about that last stone. You know, it actually felt like I got off a little bit of a slow start and then once I got going, I got going a little bit faster. They felt good so I just, you know, didn't hesitate right when I got to it just grabbed and picked it up felt great. You know, I've been doing this 10 years. I've always gone bare arm. Finally, my buddy Brian Shaw convinced me to try his sleeves and they're absolutely awesome. So if you want to get better at stone, Shaw, Shaw strength sleeves, elite tacky, that's the winning combo. And again, I'd shake your hand but I'm smarter than that with all that tacky on the front of you. But more importantly, with your win here, solidifies you second place overall and which gives you Travis will be our winner. But that gives you the invite to the world's strongest man. Yeah, we'll see, you know, if it's a full slaughter and alternate spot, but either way, I'm thrilled to get back there. It'll be seventh year in a row there and, you know, I love doing this. I'm, you know, couldn't be more pleased with that. Yeah, you've had a good strong showing this weekend. Then necessarily at the top, but right up there with everybody, the whole time and certainly giving enough points to the three and a second, pretty soundly. Yeah, IMean, I was kind of, you know, last night on the wheelbarrow seventh, I wasn't really happy with that result, but everything else I think was all top five and most of the top three's. And finally, it was nice to get him to met one to finish the day. You know, that felt good. And yeah, I'm pretty, pretty pleased overall, but I know I've got room to come back to be at 100%. So I'm excited to tren the next month and get ready. Good. All right. Well, congratulations. Good luck in North Carolina. And we will see you then again, congratulations on your win with the Atlas stones. Wrap it up, Brian Hill to brave with rxmuscle.com from the 2011 America strongest man in hot springs are console.

=== FILE: Interview with Pro Strongman Michael Burke at the 2011 America's Strongest Man [S0AuCcyHskY].txt ===

Lol. Brian Hill to Brad with rxmuscle.com. Let's have a fel stone. Mike absolutely tremendous. 400 pounds stone. You had a tremendous pick. Tell me, tell me about it. You know, I did the same event in the Arnold and I picked it like everybody else was picking it and it didn't go very well. And I trened with Brian Shaw. So he changed the way I grabbed it. He showed me how to grab it his way, which is the way you guys saw with one hand underneath and I feel real comfortable with this event and I came here planning on winning this event. This is one of my strong events. So, I'm good. Yeah, you're just a little bit gas right now to Mike's shouting over the top of us, but you had a tremendous performance. 120 sum of feet, way out past everybody. Terrific. You're moving on now, the fourth event tonight, the wheelbarrow, the truck wheelbarrow behind us. And how, what are you thinking about that? You're gotten a gas left? Ah, you know my hamstrings are cramping up. So we'll see what happens. And I haven't trened this event. First of all, I've ever even done this event or even touched it. So we'll see how it goes. I'm hoping to maintain, be middle of the pack. So, and are you guys using straps for this event or no? Right, yes, we are. They're allowing it and I'm using them. Yeah, I don't blame it. But yeah, gotta have them. All right, Mike Burke, the winner of the Hoosefell Stone tonight, the America Strongest Man, will be back shortly with a wheelbarrow. Until then, Brian Hill to Brown with RXMuscle.com.

=== FILE: Interview with Pro Strongman Travis Ortmayer at the 2011 America's Strongest Man [cyrJXKSvdy4].txt ===

Brian Hildebrand with RXMuscle.com. Here with the winner today's second event, the Yoke and Harley Slidpool Travis Orton, the Yoke and Harley Slidpool Travis. 9 out of 50 pound Yoke is a big pain. How much gas did it take to pull that sled? You know, that was really happy with the Yoke first off. I was probably one of the best ones I've ever had with that. So I saved a lot of energy and the sled actually felt pretty good. The secret with that, with the slick floor like this, is to really get a hard start and get the momentum going. And fight to keep the momentum in the matter how bad your legs are burning. Just keep going. I knew you had incredible foot speed on the Yoke and just absolute determination to get through the line. Not let that sled stop, which is really as a key. Yeah, absolutely. I really had to fight the pain in my leg from that ankle break in last year. You suck it up, take the pain and it feels better once you get that first place. First place always feels better, right? All right, well congratulations. And a good start with the axle today too. How heavy did you go? I got 393. It was should have been my second attempt and I wanted at least 15 pounds more than that. But you know, sometimes you got to take what you can get. So it was a strong press. And when it heavy today at the axle, which was really great to see for the Americans. Yeah, there was a lot of over 400 attempts and really strong guys. IMean, 363 pounds took last place. So yeah, that says a lot. All right. I'm here again with Travis Sort and Meyer. America's strongest man, 2011 Brian Hilderbrand for rxmuscle.com.

=== FILE: Interview with Pro Strongman Travis Ortmayer on Day 2 of 2011 America's Strongest Man [GJ_h_Ses-8E].txt ===

Day 2 655 Breing, held in Remember UXMSAL.com. here, the America Strongest Man Day 2 and Hot Springs Arkansas Travis Ord, my winner, not only twice yesterday, but you want to get today the kick toss first event. Hey, I guess it's a good start today too. I, you know, wanted at leasT3 events yesterday, so I'm going to go for all four to make up for it today. You got the push pole medley coming up next. It looks brutal. Yeah, that's five events, you know, clener press than deadlift, so it's an upper body and then a lower body and just that up and down is just going to be absolutely a killer. Good, all right. Well, go get warmed up and hopefully we'll see you here after this next event. It's Bryan Heldibra with ourXMuscle.com.

=== FILE: Interview with Pro Strongman Travis Ortmayer, Overall Winner of the 2011 America's Strongest Man [VHM2yC2tf5Y].txt ===

Brian Helderman, theerxmuscle.com 2011 America Strongest Man. We're working on the first time with our overall winner, the returning champion, Travis Orret Meyer, Travis, huge weekend. And Dianne tells me you've got more planned next weekend. Actually USA vs. Russia is a two-man team competition. So, you know, no rest for the weary. Just go home. I'm home for a day and then I get on a plane go overseas to Russia. So, this is...

=== FILE: Interview with Pro Strongman Vince Urbank After Push Pull Win at the 2011 America's Strongest Man [oyoTILeRDoQ].txt ===

the real run, gedaan with our Brian Helderman with our Exmuscle.com, event number six for the weekend, event number two for today, events are back, our winner of the five event medley press and deadlift. Absolutely brutal. Thank you. Thank you. We're well and trening and I knew that not wearing any straps would be key. So grip strength came in and helped me win this event. Yeah, not too many guys grab the axle without straps today. Yeah, it's definitely helped speed up my tongue. And your tremendous tremendous pressure. So it was I was fully expected to see what you did out there with your presence. Thank you. I appreciate absolutely a look terrific. Go back and rest it and hopefully we'll see you again here in the next one. Good. Brian Helderman with our Exmuscle.com.

=== FILE: Is Dave Palumbo Still Working With ZACK KING KHAN？ [H0j43_yNQj4].txt ===

I am working with Zach and they're working with him over a year now. The guy is an absolute freak. I'll tell you this. I'm telling first of all, I got to tell you he's got a tremendous work ethic. The guy works his bottle off. Anything I tell him to do he does. He's a machine. He's so big right now. I dieted him down. He was going to do shows. But as you know, in the UK, it's almost impossible to compete anywhere. They can't travel. It was a nightmare. He was in shape. I had him in contact a shape for about two months straight. We were looking for a show from the do. He just couldn't do it. I got him working with Chris Cormier on his posing. Him and Chris are like friends now. His posing was terrible. And now he's working on that. His presentations really good. He's going to roll him out in 2021 and he's going to, I think, surprise a lot of people. He made a lot of improvements to his physique. He's been focused. He sends me updates twice a week. IMake sure he's in check. He's like I said, he's very methodically eats his food. He does everythinGHe's supposed to do. And he's getting better and better, which is amazing. It's incredible that guy towards both quads. And had to have him reattach twice because they made him a stake the first time. And his quads look really good still. So IMean, he's like I said, when you have genetics, it's a wonderful thing. He's got a lot of muscle on his body. Once again, his biggest problem was he couldn't control the mussely had. It was almost like a pole to let issue. So I really had him workinGHard with any still working with Chris Cormira on that. Viscipe. So between Chris and I, I think we're going to have him tweaked out in perfect, you know, ready to roll in 2021. And look, you know, he has never done anything on a pro level. You know, he was a very popular amateur. He's probably the most popular guy when you go to the expos and you see him sitting in a booth because he's an absolute freak in nature. But I can't wait to get him on stage because the trick would be we can get him to place, you know, top five, top six at a pro show. I think that would be a huge feather in his cap. So a lot of people thought he was not capable of that. But I'm telling you, when you work hard and you've got genetics, you could accomplish anything.

=== FILE: JACKED White House Chef! Palumbo's Opinion [y1CKLwpBIA4].txt ===

Day of Columbus with another RX muscle rant brought to you by RedCon1. Today's topic is going to be a good one because Andre Rush is the White House chef, for one of the White House chefs that works there. This guy is unbelievable. A lot of people have been reporting on him from news agencies all over the world because it seems to be the story of the week. I know Nick over at Nick's strength and power did a really good description of what's going on over there as well. But I wanted to talk about this guy because I think a lot of people have a lot of doubts about him. First of all, he's 45 years old. He's a retired military guy for many years. I think he was in the service for over 20 years, something like that. He's now cooking. I don't know how he got the job at the White House. Great job. But the guy is huge. He's got 24 inch arms. He's almost 320 pounds, something like that. He's just an enormous guy. He's got tremendous obviously strip. He claims that he can bench press. He does like four sets of like 450 on the bench for like 25 reps. He also claims he's done a 700 pound bench press. And he also claims that he eats ridiculous amounts of food. I think he eats four whole chickens. It doesn't eggs every day. Two protein shakes. And you don't have to find any of these people like always lying. They're sensationalized in the story. I don't believe they are. I've seen guys like this in prison. He prison food and look like this. I've seen guys that die in gym when we did our brothers, brothers, lifting, ridiculous amounts of weights, also with tremendous arms and tremendous strength who have done this. And you got to remember, the guy's been working at his whole life. He's 45 years old. He was in the military. He trened, he eats, he lives the lifestyle. And he just happens to have tremendous genetics. If Ronnie Coleman never went into professional bodybuilding and he ate like this, I guarantee that's what Ronnie would have looked like. Because I saw Ronnie before he's ever taken aromasingle gesteroid. And this guy was enormous. He was leaning. And he was leaning. So, you got to remember, Andre Rush is not ripped. So some of his body weight is body fat, but he's tremendously proportioned. I guess that's the best way. The thing that's impressively is everyone likes arms. Okay, let's face it. Arms and chest is the showing body part, right? That's what impresses people. They don't look at legs. We don't even know what this guy looks like. But his upper body is huge. And he's got the tremendous shoulders, arms and chest. And that's what enables you to bench press. Heavy heavy weights. This guy's made for bench press. I'm sure if you ever had a bench press coach and they taught him some technique. He probably break every raw bench press record. Now he claims he does 700 pounds. I'm sure it's a bounce off the chest. 700, which is still insane. By any means, if you've ever seen anyone even bench press 600, it's the most impressive thing you'll ever see. 700 bends the bar. Okay? I've seen Jimmy Pilechia bench press 800 pounds. For one walk or rep. But who cares if it's sloppy or not? The guy's not trying to say bench press records. He's not doing official meats. He's just telling you how stronGHe is. And I've seen guys do that type of weight. So when you try to say, well, the world raw bench press record is only 700, whatever pounds don't compare it to that. What he does is gymlifting. Okay? Probably someone gives him a lift with the weight. He bounces off his chest a little bit. But that's 700 pounds. If you can bounce 700 pounds with your chest and get that lock out on that, you did 700 pounds. I'm sorry. That's the fact. And once again, I've seen some serious legitimate lifting at these bro's verse pros competitions that I've held over the last five years. And I was astounded by some of the lifts that some of these guys can do. We've seen some big chef over there, Dimonship, I got to give his props. SeeinGHim do 600 pounds. Okay? It wasn't a pretty 600 pounds, but he got that weight up. And I was once again super, and that was after lifting at the event the whole day. So there's guys out there who can lift and who are genetically made to be strong and big. And when you eat that kind of food that this guy is eating to support what he's doing, you can tell the guy's not super ripped. He's just big looking. And I don't know why people are doubtinGHim, but I'm super impressed. I love to get him on my live with Talk Show. We're going to reach out to him, I think. I want to really hear how he got into that job of the White House. But this guy is not only a strong, not only a good person, but he also is a great chef, you know, and that's something that he was able to parlay. Think about it. He was a military guy, Fias, to find another passion that you're good at. Okay? Is something that's unique in our industry. I think a lot of people, they are afraid to recreate themselves. Andre Rush recreated himself three times. Once as a military man, okay? As a bodybuilder, power lifter, and now as a chef, and you know, I'm sure when he leaves, I think he's sayinGHe's going to leave the White House, he's going to start his own like business or something like that outside. I'm sure he'll be successful at that because he's got the work ethic. And that's why he's so successful what he does. That's why he's lifts his own press of, but the guy lives the lifestyle. He eats the food, he puts it down. Your people always doubt him, Vic Richards. Oh, Vic Richards, this Vic Richards that he sensationalized everything. But the guy was enormous. He was over 300 pounds. He was one of the most impressive looking guys in the gym he's ever seen. You know, yeah, all right, he never competed in a pro bodybuilding show, but who cares? He was the most, the most talked about guys of the 80s and 90s. So, you know, it goes back to say, what do you try to accomplish? Everyone has their own niche. Not everyone wants to be Mr. Olympia, not everyone wants to be the strongest guy on a parallel thing stage. Okay, some guys just like to be impressive looking in person. You know, look at the guy from what's his name from the green mile that movie he died recently. But I forget his name. Michael Duncan Clark. Michael Clark Duncan. He was crazy impressive to me. He was a huge dude. And I guarantee he probably never took any drugs. He probably just ate and worked out. You know, and that's just the way his genetics work. Just like some guys are super skinny and super ripped. This genetic variation in the human population. And if you embrace what your genetics are, you'll be great at it. And that's what Michael, that's what Andre Rushes. So guys, you know, it's always great to showcase someone outside of the bodybuilding world who embraces our bodybuilding lifestyle. And now they're on day polonbo with another RX muscle rant.

=== FILE: JEM NAZIM： NEW FREAK ON THE BLOCK! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸7⧸18) [oZdZfdGuzMs].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Tuesday, August 7, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Back in the day, anytime someone would say they wanted to tren with me, I'd always bring them in for a leg audition to see if they were actually built to handle the grind. And I can tell you right now without even going through the process that classic physique rookie, a mid-roy would have passed the bar, no problem. Over the weekend we saw aroyanist team release a clip from one of their last leg workouts heading into the Tampa Pro, where we catch the former North American overall champ, pouring out every last ounce of everything that he's got. Roy is one of those athletes who just sucks you in with his energy and his work ethic to the point that you can't not love them if you're a fan of the sport. So now that he's gotten his first few taste of what it is to compete at this level, I think we can only expect him to keep getting better from here on out. Speaking of classic physique rookies, I like what I've been seeing lately from 20 year olds in session, Jonathan Hamburg. Last week, Hamburg and his team released a few new progress photos that show him looking lean in mean with an alleged 40 pounds of quality muscle since he won his pro-card at the NPC Junior USA's back in June. But that's actually so young right now makes Hamburg a really interesting case study to me because at this point, everything is so new to him that you really don't know what his ceiling is. But if he's in this for the lonGHaul and he can manage to stay consistent, I can see this kid turning into a real force and the pro-lee for some point here in the next few years. Growing up, one of the things I remember loving about the iconic former World Heavyweight boxing champ Joe Fraser was that he really wasn't much of a talker. He just went out there, knocked dudes damn near dead with his left hook, and then went on and got back to business. And I'm not sure what men's physique all start brandinGHendrix's left hook looks like, but I can tell you that this dude is definitely about his business with five weeks to go now before he makes his annual trek back to the Olympia stage, the current number three ranked athlete in the world is looking like he's dangerous as ever. And when this guy's full and didn't shape, I don't think there's anyone else in the division who's got the sort of 3D athletic look that he does. But with this year's Olympia looking like it may be the deepest ever, he better make sure he brings it if he wants to have a real shot at the title. With all the crazy tariff and trade war stuff going on right now, the cost of importing goods in this country is really all over the place. But hopefully, some many out there can make a few calls so we can lift the restrictions for end-fuego bikini import, i.e. a pecini, with three top two finishes and a win at the Pittsburgh pro, or the on a resume this year. The second year pro has been an absolute tariff from the word go all season long. During last year's rookie campaign, pecini came in to the Olympia weekend relatively unknown. But walked out of there with everyone in the building, knowinGHer name after a red-hot night play finish. With the improvement in such he's made and some of the stuff that we've seen in the division already this year, to me, she's one of the more interesting prospects in the lineup. And I wouldn't be entirely shocked that she found a way to work up into the top six range where she'd really established herself as one of the elite talents in the division. Somebody's going to have to check the water for me over there on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean because every time I turn around, I'm saying some new beast of a guy emerge from out of the woodwork. And over the weekend, I caught myself getting sucked into following Fran spanking new IFV pro, Jeznezine. The Zeme one is pro card early this year at the amateur Olympia in Spain where he won the super heavyweight in overall titles with one of the more impressive looks that I've seen all year long at the amateur level. Even right now, Nezeme has a few poses where he looks like he could hold his own against some pretty high level talent. And it'll be interesting to see if he considers hopping into one of those European tour shows after the Olympia, just so we can see how he stacks up against some of the best guys in the pro division. That does it yet another addition of him bustle in the morning. On day below, reminding you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: JIMMY LOSES HIS MIND OVER NEW YORK TRAFFIC! AH Podcast (9⧸1⧸20) [dAzjGjutKgc].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car mock tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love it to show. This is our best place to be in LA. When you're asleep, they're just getting started. John, D's, after hours. Welcome back to After Hours, I'm D. Pulum, though, in John and Monos in Limbo right now, but he'll be joining us later, but I'm here with my good friend Greg Valentino to start the show off. What's up, Greg? And not much, I'm still in shock of a ricochet, because I'm not that he was a good guy and he knew Rick my God, 40-something years. Yeah, you know, it's funny because Rick and I would have this relationship where we would, you know, he would come on my show, I'd go and his show, we would talk like almost every day texting and stuff at that, and then we wouldn't talk for a while, but then he could just call me up out and know where I could call him out and know where we would just talk for like, you know, like 45 minutes an hour. He's just that kind of guy, you didn't have to like, you didn't have to like try to be his friend, if you were his friend, you were his friend, you know, and, uh, absolutely. It's weird because his son did a video on his channel saying that his dad had, you know, Rick had a knee replacement, I guess sometimes what happens is you get these infections and these joint replacements, that's what scares me when I show this. And once they, if you get an infection in that joint, and they got a cake that joint down, the artificial joint, and they got to put like antibiotic beads in there, and they can't put the joint back in right away. They got to go back like six weeks later and do it. So he was in the process of having that happen and he said his dad was doing well. And then like four days later, he was like, so I don't know really what the cause of death was officially. To me, you know, from what Rick was saying, he was having trouble breathing, it almost sounds COVID-ish, you know, I don't know if it was, but, uh, it wasn't. What, what, what, so what was it? John Romano, yeah. Yeah, what he had kidney issues, yeah, stuff was just a little bit. Yeah, he had a kidney. Yeah, but John, IMean, COVID affects all the organs, heart, you know, especially in older people, heart, kidney. That's, specifically on the, on the thing I read online, it had nothing, no COVID involvement at all. Well, they don't, we don't know because there wasn't, you think they were at a COVID test on them? I run a COVID test if you go to the fucking dentist, they run a COVID test everywhere. Yeah. He's right about that. I can take it. I've taken on a how many COVID testaries. I won the Y was reporting that he was having trouble breathing though. That was what, um, was it? He wrote it himself. Have you been followinGHis, yeah, no, he said he was breathing. He had breathing problems though. Right. Right. That's why it was saying, but he said not, but he's, but he said not, but related. Oh, okay. All right. Well, you know, who knows? The fact is that we lost him. IMean, I don't know if maybe at a heart attack, you know, it's part of the world. It's possible, you know, he's 76. He was very, he was very ill. He'd be sick and then not do videos for a while. Then he came back. Oh, he's out. So this is going on. I got to be going on. He's been going on. He's been going on in the hospital all year. I remember back when I was work when I was a man, I had labs and stuff. I could talk with him, you know, I've done videos with Rick. And he, you know, he would be out for a while and come back. Because his health was not so great, you know? He reminds me of like a, well, he was older obviously, but he reminds me of a done to rip a rust, you know, like a hardcore body built into a rude, like, you know, guy for life, you know, type of thing. And I thought he didn't, he designed the joke, the joke, the joke, the gold. The gold, Jim logo in the world. Jim logo in the world. And the world, Jim logo. Yeah. He actually, he drew a gold, you know, the gold, Jim guy. He drew me in like an original like a little drawing of it and signed it for me. I have it up on my wall. I kind of put it up on my video. I should have just a world Jim eighth too, right? Yeah. Yeah. He did, he did all this. Do you know what's funny? He, he, he, he, he, he, he could play piano too. I'm not the piano to put the guitar. He's a good guitarist. He's an artist. All the fuckers. He was a very, he was very artistic. He was like, and, uh, do you read the ball? I can't believe I got on this fucking thing. I'm in the truck. I got to install this and install that. Press this, put your name. Put your, I'm going to the truck over here. You did it. You did it. You pulled it off. But then what happened? Well, hello, what happened to you? What happened to you last week? Press that. I, we all in the show. We just bullshit. We're each other right now. We're always on the show. You're always on the show. I didn't know because you know, I, I fucked up. I'm over here to fuck it on the very work finally over here. I did the Brooklyn, I don't know. You've been done it. Great. What's the next time you're just a Brooklyn bro? Well, I've been, uh, probably about two, three months ago. But let me tell you something. That fucking van Wick when I was in high school. That, the bill parkway, they were working on that. Here we are fucking 40 some years later. It's still working on it. Well, I'm an expressway too. Fucking exit from the Bronx. They bridge. They work on that for 45 fucking years. But there's a lot. And I think it's going to be shit. I was on the fucking bed. There's a classic, there's a classic sign fell down. So where, Elaine has got this guy staying with her. And he wants to get rid of him. And she oversleep, strivinGHim to the airport. And she's like, I'm going to get him here. And he's like, there's no way we're going to make it. We only have 15 minutes. He's like, she's like, oh, make it. I'll make it. And then she hits the van Wick expressway. Because that's the ultimate joke if you are great. Van Wick is like, you can be flying. And then all of a sudden you hit the van Wick. And it's like, bumper to bumper. Nineteen 76, right? I got my license. I was driving on that fucking road. And he would do already do construction. It's scary. It's a scary road. Let me try your memory. I think I look at the van Wick. He's the fucking van Wick right now. I'm going to talk to him. I was just the way, the like, Dave said I was cruising along. I got a load on. I got to do great fucking time. I get off the condo and bam, very weak. And then it says, accident. Three lanes close. The race. It's actually three lanes on the van Wick. Hey, three lanes is a fucking load. What the fuck is that mean? There's only three lanes on his phone. The fucker. The mean's your a bit. It means you're a deep shit. It means you're going to be sitting there for a whole time. I should have got off this car, suck up. I shouldn't have went down the car, though. It's a fucking Springfield. I went through Jamaica. That's what I usually fucking somebody said. I don't mean that's my game. I'm coming down this fucking fuckinGHell. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, look at this. I'm in a parking lot. I'm in a shit. Don't you fucking open. Fucking bullshit. Look at the other side. Look at the other side. It's flying. Look at the other side. I'm in a really slow. When you're on it. But when you're on it, but when you're on it, I think the fuckinGHell I eat. Well, you guys live. I think that's worse. Oh, I didn't get today. Yeah, Greg. Wait. I still got to get on that one. The fucker. That's what I'm going right now. The fuckinGHell I eat. Wait, talk to you. IMean, I'll be at all it costs a fuck. I'm doing aromasingle fucking New York shit. I don't know about you, Greg. I am fucking tired. I absolutely do. You say it. I want to throw up. That's what I'm saying. I'm sick of it. You know what's funny though with the LIE? Does not just you'd stuck it traffic. And then you start moving a little bit. And then they tell you, on exit this, and it's going to be traffic. They warn you. But then there's no, but there's no reason. There's no construction. I just think people float out. I'm not. I was just coming down to God. I'm doing. Clearers are fucking. Clearers have. Right? I'm coming all the sudden. I see all these red lies. I said, should I get off? I said, nah, I'm not. I fucking. I could have got off. I still haven't stayed at God, dude. I stand at God, though, it's pop, but I'm pop, but this is just before. Before I got it in the bear with. I said, all this stuff. I fuckinGHour. What did that all said I got this? Found that shit. And then I always cones. And I'm going to all these cones. It's single-file. I get up there, bro. There's nobody there. That's just... That's just... I'm going to walk it about. That's what you said. You're going to walk it about. Yeah, sure. You're going to walk it about. Yeah, sure. You're going to walk it about. No, but that's what I think. You're going to do it in night. Do it in night. Do it in night. Right, motherfucker. No, motherfucker. I don't understand. Well, the time. Like, that's fine. Remember when Howard Stern ran for the lieutenant governor of New York? Right. You learned that? Yeah, he said he was going to only do construction at night. Right? Yeah, he said he was going to only do construction at night. Oh, holy. It's bad. Don't New York is there for no reason traffic. IMean, the LIE to me, there's no reason. Even tell you, from it's in here to here, it's going to be traffic. For for reason. There can be a fucking guy down the Eastbound Lake. Pull over take a leak. There's fucking traffic. Back to five miles. Because everybody's got to watch this. Cooks like the technical leaks. On the Eastbound Lake. You can't see what's going on in 60 miles. All you must find out is that you got the little. IMean, really come on. Yeah, but you know what my question is. He's going to relance guys. My question. I got a question to you. My question is. Nowadays, you have the GPS. It can tell you where the traffic is. You know exactly how long you're going to be sitting there. You know everything. Is it worse to actually know how bad the traffic is or was it better years ago when you kind of didn't know what you were really in for? That's thEQuestion. Well, I'm going to flip phones. I got a fucking flip phone. So I don't know. Let's take out my girlfriend in the car. You know what they do now? Yeah. We launched the drone out of the sunroof. Yeah. People want to know what the hell's going on. It's just the drone out of the sunroof. They go out. This is going to look five miles ahead and they can see what's wrong. And then they bring the drone back into the sunroof. You know, you don't need to do that. It's on your GPS phone. It's on the iPhone. We'll tell you. Yeah, but you can't see. When you got the drone up in the air, you got the screen. I've got the screen. I've got the screen. But my question is, what do you know? My question is, you really want to know. Wait, go. I wish I could talk to that guy and say, what the fuck's going on back? John, do you really want to know how bad it is? So that's thEQuestion. Of course you want to know. You want to want to draw enough there and see what it is. I don't want to know how bad it is. I want to know. I want to know if should I get out? Should I walk over there and take a week? Should I? Should I go any minute now? Should I freaking smoke another joint? Wait. I don't know. You can't trust that fucking thing. I've found that out. They showed it red line to purple line to pink line. They when you get up there. It's why open. They save people on the way to the channel. Oh, no. Fucking out right there. Can't get on the way to the fucking going on. Bro, you remember the 70s? Back when it would have an old burned-out car. So like on the side of the road. FuckinGHuman. They didn't even fucking throw that shit out of there. And the 70s. And remember, there would be these demolished cars. You're taking like the eggs that you're on. And there'd be like four of them. How do fuck did they get? They're a whole henry Hudson. They were already spent. They're up on cement blocks. There's no beautiful thing in there. Look at what living in there. They're living in there now. No, no. In back then, they were living in those fucking, or they were like holes of car. You don't need to crawl with gets stolen or get fucking broken down. And all along the fucking west side, I would like to, you know, in the Henry Hudson to be all fucking shells of cars. She's at a side of the road. Holy shit, man. I remember the, yeah, homeless would live in there. But you're driving on the van. Where can you find them on the cross island? You fight. You're driving. Leave them there. They're not. No, it's even the one here. There was on the exit to the Pellon Parkway from, I think, 27 or whatever that road is. And you learn of it. Okay. The big, long sweep in turn, right? And it, and, and it's nothing. Nothing in the middle of that thing. It's grass. Except for one tree. How many fucking cars hit that tree? Like 30 of them. They all hit the fucking trees. I seen them a lot of cycle hit that tree. And the guy was dead. I said, I ran over and I was like, oh, fuck. He's done. Is he real? You've watched. Yeah, that as somebody. You know what I'm talking of. You were always going, yeah, because you're going fast around it. And then you look like a co-op city. Right? Right? Right? You go fast. And then you lose it. And you hit the fucking tree. That's what he's the top. It's nothing. It's abandoned for acres. It's nothing. One fucking tree. Oh, my God. You got to see all the fucking cop cars up here. Oh, shit. So anyway, my brother, I told my brother would happen day by Tell him that story, right? Yeah. And I told him that I called you up and you didn't fucking answer like You was you. And I was going off on your voice man, right? Because I could get on the show because it would happen. So my brother goes, he says, well, he goes, people are really getting to know what you're really about because you are not to show your call day. And you're fucking, who are going not to the phone. That's really you. People don't know it. Oh, they know what they do. But they show. They don't know it. I'm like this all the fucking time. I think we know it Jimmy. You know what's worst though? When it got the fucking protestor standing across the road. And you can't go. You got to go. You got to pick a shit or something. You trying to drive and then his all protests on the road. That's the good. I've heard him. You're going to play the voice, Mel. I probably got it. Let me look at it. Put it in first gear. Go about five miles an hour. Just drive right through them. I don't know if they did like animals. The jiffy. You know, beat your car. I'm trying to break the window. Whatever. If they do that, then you're then you're doing self defense. You're doing it over. He did it to me. When they took me out in Mount Sinah hospital. Stop. Don't call. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. You hear me out there, like theส helı 好! Bala defame. It's just a Japanese beginning. You fry ur own coat It beats yours yourself. When he ends in sync People- I'll keep your foot here before I stand there where I'm born. You would think I planned on this project. The actor, the stuntman, a father, a wrestler, a man in Terry, and the fact that Rick is not like that. Rick traces the first one to throw a huge group of girls you've learned in the girls you've bought. Throwing out that they don't know that. So today I have a special guest to be and Rick was also a peatie. Yeah, that's like a fun kid. How's that video? Today I have Captain Mary's brain father here. He's a special guest to be a couple of stories. Here he is. Ah, the one, the only top dead of the record is him. Jesus. Dude, I feel like I want you to tell a band video. Yeah, IMean, I'm wasting the band. Oh, that's George. That's not George. That's George. How is that George? In 1726. Take a easy top. He's just like lives music. I was like a, it was like a child of this all. Yeah. Good. So. That's all about your answer. Maybe you have to do this. I opened, I'll be using picking up on that meditation version of this. God, dude, what are we watching at gong show? Yeah, can we got, where's the gong? Did you get me a gong, Tyler? Come on, come on! Come on, come on! Oh, God, baby, it's all right! Fuse, Dave. What's the name of the host? What's the name of the host? What's the name of the host? I forgot his name. We'll be right back. It's a barris. It's a barris. It's a barris. It's a barris. It's a barris. You remember? We'll be right back for some more stuff. Yeah. And then they had what's the main gene and dancing machine? Oh, no. I always wonder. Can you cut the ball? Tyler, I'm getting a headache. Dave, can you imagine if somehow, if the dog ate this? Look at this crew. They got them zorn by the clandic and another solar system. Yeah. And he examples humanity on earth. This is what they want to come and visit. God, they said that they said on the side that the right lane was blocked. The two right lanes on the bad way, right? Those are the signs. So I would have like to as a truck I could over and over. Oh, because it says that the fucking red lanes blocked, right? Look, I get up and it's got something's in the left lane. I got over here because they said the right lane was blocked. I let them be jailed by the left lane. IMean, it all is the same idea. The back was just fucking motherfucking fucking fucking fucking fucking dead. I got that wrong and it's something to hear over there. You better get up on the altar to laugh. That's the fucking tren, bro. That's all I'm saying. That's what you need. The funny thing is, I don't, John, I don't know if you heard it in that voice or you're not me, he was like, I'm going around dead bodies here. I'm going to run and dead bodies. Don't push you, Dave, that day. That's what that story I was going to tell you about when I called you. Yeah. My ambe blue, a few days prior to that story. And I called my boss. I said, oh, Cliff of ambe blue when my truck I need another ambe. Oh, I'm going to take that ambe. I run and to the storm. I'm going to mention that I said, it's a 96 meter belt. Why are you going to take the ambe out? I'm going to run and to the storm match it up. What do we get? Can you go? Hold up. Tell me, got a 96 meter belt. IMean, fucking it. There's one ambe in the back. No, I don't get the ambe. Three days later. I'm in fucking Brooklyn. The other ambe. Close. Right? I hear it on the fucking on the conduit. I said, oh shit. I said, I'm fucking. I'm going to keep going. All of a sudden, there's always traffic. I got killed and the road is under a tractor trail. Dead. I'm going to now. I was working to traffic. My ass leaking out of there. I get down. I get fired and passed down. It's a car fire on the conduit. I'm finally getting passed down. They're going down at the end of the evening with another car fire. And also they're going to yell at me. And I lose all my air in my brakes. And I'm running down yell at me. All right. I'm all set of tech and easy buddy. All set up everybody's pissing me off. They're fucking waving and beeping and waving and beeping. I'm like, I worry. Everybody's very friendly today. I've ever seen this before. You know, all the sudden, look at my mirrors. I don't see nothing. Let me pull the fuck over. I pull over. I fucking back wheels are on fire. I'm not going to stop everywhere. And I've heard the fire we stay with you. I got two shots out of the motherfuckers. And it dies. Right now I want to burn in. I've got a fucking step back. I said, it's not fire. I'm not going to stop. It's not fire. It's just fire. I just like. That's what I call Dave. I was like, I was like, I was at the day from hell. Just driving. How do you put the fire out? I have a lot of days from hell. The guy we stand under the truck, John, out of fucking white sheet over a brothel. Oh, that's fine. Police, you were alive. He had to put the fire out. I got a couple of squeezes on the fire. I got a couple of squeezes on the fire. And then the fire, the fire, he's there. I got like two three shots out of it. I got a fart on the fire and put it out. Probably. Right once a last time you had to check your blood pressure. I got to check the light. I got to. I got to have the job afraid to check it. I'm worried about you brother. You started to put have like Derek Anthony syndrome. I got to get vein in your neck. You know. Oh, my God. Get help. This is the same day. Shit. Put up with it. You got to do my slide. You must like it secretly. Jimmy, you got to come down here. You know I did that. This is what I'm doing right now. I got the fuck out of it. But you keep saying you're getting it. You never leave. You never leave. You never leave. Come stay with me. Seriously. I'm worried about you. I'm worried about you. I'm worried about you. I'm worried about you. Just can you just come stay with me? It's like a couple weeks. But he's got to leave the truck up in New York. Yeah. Bring your heart. Bring your motorcycle. I'm leaving. John, I'm taking a few days. I'm not driving down the sea. No, I'm not you. I'm not you. I'm not you. I can't fucking tell you. Yeah. Yeah.. Well.. Don't be afraid. You're not even lying that the truck is so smart. I'm sorry. I'm a little confused. You got to give him my motorcycle. You're not into my motorcycle. Keep my motorcycle. You've got to interrogate me. No, IMean, he knows the bad. There's probably a problem. There's tons of stuff. I don't think it's just paid shot. Just paid. Here. Where's the key body? You got to come saw. Ha ha ha ha. What the fuck is that? It's an empty bottle. It's an empty soap bottle. I see there's something I put it down like this. And I'm sitting and talking and guys are... Ha ha ha ha. Dude, I always have fucking, I always have a Polish print bottle. I always have a guy. You're coming. You're gonna tell your funny story about that. You're gonna tell your funny story about that. I forgot that name. Wow. Wait, this is a great story. So I'm in a limo which Steve Blackley one day. Did you notice that you noticed that Greg was kind of... Did you notice that Greg... Greg showed that bottle again, specifically at the top. Yeah, I got this. Okay, see, see the size of that, all right. Now, I'm getting back at a limo from the air, but we're stuck in traffic and Steve Blackley shows me the coke bottle. Daddy, punty. No, coke bottle. What's the whole thing? Dude, I'm driving. And that should be spraying like this. Like a fuckinGHose all over the place. If I didn't, I just picked my dick in there. Yeah. Yeah, all the way to do it. I cut the top of the fucking Polish print bottle. I got a little bit more green there. Yeah, I'm the only way to do it. Yeah, but you know what else I'll do? I know it's the sounds a little fucking crazy. But I would actually throw newspaper in the back seat. And I'll jump that. I'll jump out of the car running back and shit on the floor. Ah! I'm not gonna get the newspaper on the floor. Not on the floor. That's fucking nasty, Greg. Even if I throw it out right at the window. Oh, my God. It's a huge anniversary with me. That's fucking animal. What did you just get? You're not the fucking one, man. The fuckinGHell are you? You even want to hide where you're on right now. I'm talking about on the highway. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The fuckinGHell are you over the door. You should have the fucking door. I can't wait to get off the door. I get that fucking 10 second fucking shit bubble count. Oh, yeah. You get that shit bubble. You feel like, oh, I'm gonna fuck you in here. I got all. And I know what's that. Oh, no. I know what you mean. I thought that that I. IMean, no, let's let's cut to the Mr. G show. Yeah. Yeah. They were. Joe was that live. That was he just doing it now. It's doing it now. It's live. Everyone was alive. IMean, was it recorded? No. That's right. He's in New Jersey. He's still going on over there. That's the funny thing. Yeah. We gotta keep it. You see the whole time. I feel me just. I'm just going to get out of here. Oh, we're still going. You guys ready to sing a song. You know, Harry. I've got any song in that. I've got a fucking way you fucking. Coach, stuck up. You're just stuck on your mouth. Fuck off. You. You fucking. Come out. You idiot. You. Did you call him a Chinese fucking? I said, yeah, yeah. Because we're tiny. I'm sorry. I'm not being purchased. They just fucking can't drive these people. I was fucking turning into my lane with a smile on his face. But I'm stuck on. Don't stick on on me. I guess you're gonna fucking 90 ton truck. What the fuck do you need? IMean, he was just on with these people. You'd maybe it was your, isn't his death as Chinese? I think so. Maybe it was your dentist. A dentist. What the fuck is talking about? I thought you let a Chinese dentist. There's something like that that drove me crazy. That must be a bitch, remember? I thought he would have kissed. I told you that story. And she was just on stop and came. What a ditch. You didn't get me real cut out. She was stopped by. And the ditch was stopped. She was leaning over me. Give me real cut out. Tits were on my face. I couldn't even real. I couldn't even yell for help. There was fucking another in me. You know what? Give me some guys pay for that shit. I can't even get my fucking fucking life. I fucking fuck I can write. I can't even walk in. She saw that little white paper that could be a fucking shit. It was soap. The bitch was living the rude animal. I fucking cool. And she had no navigate in there. You know what the motherfucker told me? No. It's an ovary out there. I don't understand. I'm not a fucking idiot. You don't know the fucker. You don't know the fucker. You don't know the fucking fucking. It might hurt your fucking cock. That's why he's the only react of your scum bag. Get your tits out of my fucking face. No, you're fucking fucking fuck. Fucking unbelievable. You're gonna die. You're gonna die. You're gonna die. He's red. Look how red he is. Yeah. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. He's not my just fucking eye. Look at his fucking eye. He's red. He's red. Oh man. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. Fuck. Fuck. Stop. Stop. I'm gonna blow a fucking old ring. I'm telling you. I'm gonna go to this one. God. I got the fist. If I look, I walked out of the office. I have a roof. I now. The fucking the fuckinGHell. Paul the call me up a week later. Mr. Polet, you're this is Dr. Davis over. I guess you have what you want. I don't do the old twelve hours. I see the one. Stick the twelve hours. You're fucking ass. You're like that. Don't sue you for medical malpractice. You're a hacksucker. I hung up on him. I never heard from them again. You told him to stick in a kiss. Like the fucking like your stripper. Stick it in between our tits. I want to be those tits crack. I'm gonna. I'm gonna steal. You know what the hell is in between those tits. Oh, stick it together. 35 years. You know what the hell is in there. I don't like that shit anyway. I like skinny girls. You. Okay, you gotta give Jimmy a rest. I'm gonna blow a fucking oory. Look how red is he. You could color a role. I'm living right now. I'm all living. God, when IMoved from New York to the Florida, my blood pressure dropped in my 10 points. Just on the move. Jimmy needs to get out of there. It's like a matter of what. I got the whole side of my house. The whole winGHis own bathroom is own bedroom. His own bedroom is own and you're not. You're not. For a strike. I got him. I got him. I'm not gonna fuck the door. I'll be by the me a job. You know what I do. What you can be COVID positive. And I'm letting you in. I'm not going to call me. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. You. You already had the COVID. I've even take you. I've even. He definitely had. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. You already got. I've got. You were and goggles. You and Greg right now. You got goggles on. I've got. I've got. Don't make design. What's the difference? You look at. I got. I'm not gonna day. I'm. Don't if bad hearing no, I got a win next a fucking swimming cap Swimming cap in goggles now and fuck the man fuck this up It's bad is bad here in New York man, I don't know let's cut the Mr. J. What's going on over there Mr. J. I don't want to hear a concert Can you can you make you me the brief version? Alright, you're just a cliff notes He knows región Very good Mysteries guys looking good I think the heroin is kicking in kick it in. I guarantee Mr. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. How am I going to throw him down? You're getting goosebumps. Look at him. You're getting raspubs. You're getting the fuck off the top of the cups. Oh, why choke? And you're getting a strawberry tree. Don't tease me. Don't tease me in here. Don't tease me in here. I'm so miswaped. Don't tease me. Hey, John. John, you see what Mr. G got set up over there? You see that set up he's got? That's going to be the Olympian booth right there. He's going to lie to see the Olympian booth from his house. This is the COVID-19. Yeah, I have a whole show script. And he just hit his head back. He just hit his own sauce. I had the Holy Setup. Oh, for three minutes. It went out of the window. He just said, I know. Running out of time. John, you said, I'm behind you. Who said, go to the guy behind you. What time is guy? We never did. I'm in the under to bridge. You better under. You better under. You play out the front. Stop. You win all the American dark stuff. I figured out how to come on the show. You're going to be a good show. He works for Stop and Shab. No, he plays a lot. He was so young. He plays all the people going to stop and Shab. He makes $400 a day in tips. Holy shit, I got to get him. You're talking about the supermarket? He's a bad man. He's a bad man. He's a bad man. You got the right. You're in the wrong business, Jenny. You ready? There he is. The only thing that's stuck with Shab. We won! Can we just see this day? We've been in the wrong place. You. I'm ready. You're actually a good student that you can say. It's all of my work. And the record of this one could talk. It's very old. I guess I'd be in jail with it. What? You. This is the same job. This is the same job. This is the same job. This is the same job. And that's how you got him. Get the doll, yeah. Dude, that's really bad. I'm just saying. I'm just saying. This is just great. Oh my god. This is such a good thing. I got it all here, man. Can I get over? Thank you. Thank you. You're on a two-shot. If it's a two-shot, that's enough. I think it's more exciting watching Jimmy, Drunken and Van Wick. Yeah, I would watch that too. All right, so this is where Mr. G got this guy. He goes to the stop and shop. This is the guy in the parking lot who's sitting there. On the side of the road, you'll play in the banjo. And helping people put this there, then grossers away. This is the tower talent pool we have here. He's the parking lot in 13. Yeah, it's good. When I was a kid, I used to play in the pool. I got him. Stop it, stop it. You don't know. Yeah, it's a supermarket. We would have done it. Someone would have gone to the Venice Boardwalk. We could have got some serious talent over there. All right, I got it. Now that's the true. Wait, I could do it. What I was younger, I used to put rubber bands across the fuckers to go up on. And it had more tune in that. Right, put them off. Right, you remember in bed. I got to put the drum circle to remember that. The what's on it going? The drum, the drums, the drummer, the drums. Oh yeah, yeah. Yeah, you know, it's the puppy of that shit. It's you. It's like 500 people down. They're all beaten on it. It's in credit sounds like thundering. But that was like a freak show where everybody was trying to get somebody to fucking. Get somebody to fucking get scottle or get discovered. Yep. But you could then you could you could be anybody enjoying it. We're bond those of hunger drum, whatever you can. And then and it's right. It's like here in New York City. I see them play the fucking. I see a play the bucket with the buckets. They've been looking and you have a dude's amazing. Some of that sound. Yeah, yeah, they're good. Venice Beach has great talent. But no, yeah, yeah, yeah, it always did. But that people don't have to discover doing that shit. Yeah, you can't stop and shop parking lot. You're not going to do it very well as you can see. Well, he does pretty well in tips according to Mr. J. Well, you know, Mr. J has a way of exaggerating certain things a little bit. No. IMean, I want to know where to where does this guy live, Mr. J, does he sleep in the parking lot? Over there. I think he's living in Mr. J's. I think he's making cookies and Mr. J now. So you hired him. I think that's what's going to happen. Now, Mr. J's going to come out with a Patreon cookie. Right. But he put that guy on the car and the boy. Yeah, guy. Hey, the guy. Because the guy has a hit for me and no house shot. That should be Mr. Pots is who it's. David's done is no longer. Because the guy has a hit for me and no house, that guy. I don't know what to bullshit you. Hey, Dave's going to no longer be on the tin. Now it's going to be that guy. Yeah. He's a piece of Mr. Pots. It's that a jumbo cookies. It's good to be. Yeah. Yeah. Take a bite. It's a banjo player. You're right. Unbelievable. You're right. Unbelievable. But anyway. Well, what did I want to talk about? What did you want to talk about? I want to talk. It was like. What did I want to talk about? Jimmy, your connection is terrible. Reconnect with us. Keep not come off. A lot of them are freaking out because he sees. We're doing a show. You're breaking up, Jimmy. We have to get rid of the people that don't sound good. Can you just take him from the conference so they can go click back in? All right. I'll reconnect. Why not? They get the link. Oh, because you're like your barym. Oh, yeah. Reconnect. Jimmy, can you reconnect and connect again because your connection is terrible? I don't know. I wanted to talk about it. IMight. Dorna's first birthday party was this past weekend. And that was just one year's old year. She we got her water slide. I was going down the water slide. And then I was thinking, you know, back. Do you have you seen that there's a movie out called class? What is it called? It's called class action park. You remember that the place action park we used to go to? Of course. Yeah. And six flags over in Jersey there. The great adventure. I've been in many times. You know, men. I was always afraid to go on a lot of the crazy rides because I was afraid I was going to fall off or kill myself. And everything was like, ah, you're being crazy. Well, evidently, like action park had so many deaths and lawsuits and people gettinGHurt there that they made a whole movie about this thing. You know, people don't realize these parks are dangerous. You got to be. You know, you could fall off these rides very easily, you know. I was Disney World. One time when my daughters were little and we were on the Mono Rail and there's a point where the Mono Rail was like, where the tracks were two. One going one way and one going the other way really close together. Right. And the guy said last month some kids stuck his head out the window and looking the other way when the other tren was coming. You got no way. You're going to be more like, have like glass on those windows or something. You know, you had him had him made it so that they can't open, but somehow that kid got it open. Whatever. Usually I see Puka Rama with their fucking thing where you go in that bucket and spins around like this. And everybody's like, you know, like, your fucking like stuck to the side of the bucket. You know, everybody gets off Guy Bars and hits a guy next to him and shit. Did you ever see that? Yeah, girlfriend goes on right. I don't know how she does it. She goes on a ride. As soon as she gets off your fuckinGHome room, it's just like, why do you bother going on those rides? Well, why would you bother going on a ride that's going to make you fucking, you. It's just fucking nuts. About Fabio, go almost lost the fucking eye. Would have seen go ahead and Mono way and down in a roller coaster. Would he really? Bobby. Bobby, I'll remember Fabio? Yeah, wait. He got hit in Facebook at aromasingle. I'm like a goose sort of fucking duck or some shit like that. Hit him in the eye on the on the on a roller coaster on a way that is all. Oh, remember that was like why was the little bloody in shit? Oh my god. I heard it wasn't a roll of cuts to John. It was actually the van wick expressway. He stuck his head out the window. But that would be impossible because no one no one moves on the van wicks. So you really couldn't get it. I really couldn't get it. I really couldn't get it. I really couldn't get it. I really couldn't get it. I really couldn't get it. You're not a fucker. Get it. Tyler look you can Tyler look that up. Fabio gets hit with his bird and then you know. Yeah, IMean, you get that up on the TV here. You got it. Because that's Fabio you really got it with the romance novel guy with the big chest with fake pecks. Dude, that's like we're dead. That's like we're dead. That's like dead. Am I not dead? Yeah, you sound better now. You sound better now, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, sound better. Mr. G is desperately trying to say something. Oh, he found it. Okay. Hold on. Put it up on the screen. He's a little diet rooped it right here. There you go. From great value from Sam's clothes. Is that a rigger? Is that your urine that you you you you you you you you you you a your body. I don't do your job. I don't do your job. Yeah. You're not a quick tricks is on your it the piss isn't it. That's probably a whole lot of everybody running through one more time. All that he's running. He's running. He's showing the Fabio. He's on Fabio thing. Hold on. Oh, you found it. Wait wait. We found Fabio. I don't know if you guys can see it. Okay. They can't see it, but he's running it. I'm right. He's actually on the ride going up the roller coaster. Watching. I'll give you the play by play. You think to actually show it? Yeah. Hold on. Let me see. He's going up up up up up. It must happen. Now they're going down. That's going to wake down. He's got blood all over his face. Like his whole face is all blighted up. His hair is perfect though. He didn't know if he cares about the four fuckers. He's going to burn me. That for him that that much. We're out. Come back to me. We lost these guys. All right. I guess we're going to have to end the show. This is a pretty good show actually. Thanks a lot, dude. Yeah. I guess we have to buy the pro version of those. We're very, very frugal over here in our muscle. It was an experiment on a ride, yes. But, you know, look, the bottom. I wanted to talk about, I wanted to talk about rides, but I guess we're not going to have a chance to. Anyway, we want to send our condolences out to Rick and Jason's family. Of course, I know he did a couple videos on it already, but this was a guy who made a huge impact on our industry. You know, he was he drew the logos for the two most famous gyms in all body building, Golgjim, world gym. He also was in the incredible whole TV show. He was a wrestler. He was an artist. He played instruments. He had a very successful YouTube channel. He edited his own videos. It well into his, you know, 70's. He was 76 years old. So here's a guy who did it all and he lived a great life. And he made a lot of positive impressions on a lot of people. And I don't know if anyone who's ever said a bad word about Rick. So Rick, you'll be missed. We send our prayers out to your family. I'm Dave Palombo for John Romado. Greg Valentino. Jimmy the bull, Palatia. Tyler Shaw, producer. And Mr. G. and I don't know who he had over there. Uncle Sam. Till next week, hanging there and have fun.

=== FILE: JIMMY THE BULL'S 'STRONGEST' CYCLE! AH Podcast (8⧸11⧸20) [RHcutSFvT2s].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, stows for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery within fear or sleep. Or do your spinaline mattress today. As we sit here at the last supper, we must thank the Lord and take pause. Jesus, what's the matter? Welcome to another episode of After Hours. I'm Dave Alumbo and I'm back again with John Romano here on this beautiful August 11th, 2020 afternoon here. It's supposed to be nighttime, but you've got to, you've got to record when you can record. You still have to hours. We just have the fun which hours these are. So I have a, I've got to have an Valentino on today. So both the evidence coming up, but I have my Valentino sunglasses on. What do you want to do? I went to the eye doctor. So, you know, I got to tell you, you know, and you probably have the field is more than I did, but it's just 60. I'm only 52. The older I get, the more I become like my father as we all know, that happens. That's inevitable. Now I'm getting all the elements that my father had. Like, um, now I have like a cataract in my left eye. Now my left eye is my bed. I was in first grade. I got hit with a rock. Some kids would throw rocks at the monkey bars, one ricochet off hit me the eye. So I haven't really had good vision in that eye for my whole life. So, and everyone on this show now, teen, everyone has a bed. So, um, IMean, I'm here and I, you're like, open my eyes for bed. Yeah. So, IMean, I have obviously my contact lenses. Now I have, I've, I've now that I've hit 50. I can't read. I can't, so I've my contact lenses. I can see distance now, but I can't see close. I know you can't either you're always popping the glasses on. And used to, when I, you know, when you were 50, you were just holding everything at a distance or even, right? So now I got a can of raccoly. They said, it's not, it's, it's a three out of four. So, they wait till it's a four out of four to do surgery on it. That'll be probably next year. I'll get a can of raccoly. Like, like, I don't have a lot of callboy, like, my phone. I don't have any pressure problems. I don't know how any of these people that I hear have got cataract, like, colomal, any of them, or just the, the LASICs. Any of these procedures where they block your head in this, in this advice. And then, and then they, this machine comes down like into your eyeball. You know, I, there, you have to put me out for that. You know, it's called a kid's John. If you had one kid, I could have a kid. I could fall asleep anywhere. I fell asleep getting a tattoo. That's how tired I am, you know? I'm supposed to get a tattoo. I don't know how anybody can do that. But to get that in your eye, IMean, I think, well, they numb your eyes. So you don't even feel in the mess. Oh, come in. It comes into your eye. Or it's not. I'll see. Let me tell you something. You know, I've been wearing contact lenses for 35, for 30 years or something like that. And you could take your finger and poke might me right through to my brain stem. And I wouldn't even close my eye or blank because you become so desensitized your eye when you wear contact lenses that literally I can grab my eyeball. It wouldn't hurt. So I think I'm not going to have as big a trust for me. It's the idea of what they're doing in my mind. It's just fucking me out there. Right. You know, especially you with the medical doctor. Yeah. So you know what exactly, you know, root compartmental. And you know, be peace by peace. Right. And then you got this robot arm in your eye. Like crazy, right? I'm going to like come on. You move one millimeter to wrong. That's I know. I want to be a mobile. I don't want to be able to move. I don't. I'll be like, look, whatever you got to do, I don't want to be able to move. I don't care what you do to me. Just anchor me that. Look, my dad got through to cataracts. You know, my father, this is how the stubborn he is. He got one done. And we'll only did was complain after that. And you probably heard him because I think you were up there. And then maybe it was complained that he could he looked like he was seeing through a barbed wire fence. He was going, I said, Dad, that's because you haven't had the other eye done. You guys, what are you talking? I'm not going to get it done. And then I'll see, he thought it was going to be like, Double is bad. I said, you're seeing good at it one eye. And then the other one is fuzzy. So I think it's creating this this artificial, you know, artifact. No, you know, you're talking about. So you wait two year and a half, two years. Finally, he goes to the eye doctor. The guy is like, Sal, you cataracts it. You got to get this done the other eye. Right. He's like fine. Because he, what he did was he got the bad eye done first. He wasn't seeing that eye that eye. And he's another one bad eye. I can get another wonderful thing. I don't, I don't even have to inherit it genetically from them. I got hit me. I, to equilibrate my bad eye to his eye, you know. He had double hip replacement. I had double shoulders. You know, both had appendix and 17. You know, it's a total of two. I don't know how tall are same by so you're doing. Yes, genetically, would vulnerable to our genetics. What can I say? So. Yes, I've never had my eyes dilated so much. If I took these sunglasses off, I looked like I just went, I took 14 X to see pills. That's how my eye goes like. Because you know, I get the blue eyes, you know, especially in the Sunlight. Yeah, black. I look like a devil himself, you know. I went into the bank. They were like, they were like, looking at me like, because they seem all the time. They're like, the fuck's wrong with this guy, you know. You know, we take our eyesight so for granted, that's what Rick told that that is. The other day I was out on my motorcycle. I'm riding and I got, you know, face full face helmet. And right out of brick and nowhere, I'm in a turn. I'm committed. I'm like, I'm like, lean and over, you know, In the smaller area, you know, I came back with a and made a mess. All each have a helmet on, that was smart. And that's what I'm thinking. I'm thinking, holy shit. So many guys, right, but just like sunglasses like that, you know, we're no helmet or whatever. And you know, because they want to feel free and whatever, your whole thing went to bike. But that fucking bug, man. If I was not wearing it, if I had just said sunglasses on, it would have gone right through the freaking lens, I'd be, well, you right now. You know, they had that surges bike week. I think it was past this past week. Yep, all my brothers out there, with their, without their helmet. No, no face mask. They're like, no, I guess no helmet. Fuck it. They're peacefully protesting. What's wrong? IMean, the funny thing is surges, it has been like, we're getting a lot. I, they would say, how they, they brought in all this extra medical, something or others, you know. And they brought like, there's only like 5,000 people in the whole town. Yeah, when start, we have it. When the bikers get there, it's 250. Oh, I know. I don't even have any comp. That, I would imagine surges is probably the whole economy there. Oh, it's like, I, it's, and I went a couple of times when I looked at it. Oh, man, road it. Yeah, we actually, one of the times we actually rode all the way out there. That was a trip to remember. Right. Yeah, the next time I went on a trail or that was way better. But man, you want to be, it was more impactful when we rode there because it was a pathway to buy, buy eight of us went, you know, and I'm from LA, we started out at about 12, but only eight made it. Absolutely. How many hours is that? Fuck a lot. And I was three days we took together. There. Did you can't, you can't ride a bike, like you drive a car, man. It's, it's fucking take. It's like riding a motorcycle into wind like that. We're not like a crew, but not like a, like a, a goal wing, but like a, you know, a real motorcycle. Yeah. It's like beinGHung upside on a beaten with a bat for, you know, every hour that you're riding is uncomfortable. And go to sleep, you know. I don't have people doing for that length of time. I have people being across country. I don't know. I'm done it. I wrote some, I went from LA to, to, to, to Daytona one time. Really, really. How long did that take? That, oh, God. That was a memorable experience. It was like 19, it was in 80s. So I had, I had a really cold bike back then. And it was, I think we did it in six, six days. We took a, that's a brutal John. Well, what was more brutal is I was arguing with my girlfriend the whole time. So she was, and every time I step for gas, you know, make a phone back then, we used to, you know, tell me what. And, and actual booths, phone, phone, look at your eyes, don't know what the fuck that is. But it was actually a phone that's hanging outside that you put money in it. Did they even know what money is? I don't know. I don't, I don't think you're hot, you know, the bank even said where we have a change shortage. Yeah. Well, these things call quarters, you know? And you know, I'm gonna have a change. Shortage the bank, John, because then I fucking minting anymore. Oh, great. I found out who the hell uses change. Penis, what the fuck is this up any? Well, you know what, once the penny's gone, the nickel will be gone next. And then the dime and thEQuarter. And then before you know it, the dollar bills will be gone too. The change, I think I didn't get everybody should round up around down in the nearest dollar. Fuck, it's like, excuse me. I'm not, I'm not just a not that. You look, you know what the fuck, you know what I hate. You're panning. You're gonna give up your money. I'm telling you. Here's what happens. Five bucks. The thing is, four, 23. So I'm gonna get, I'm gonna get that pile of change. Those are my pocket. What do I do with that pile of change? It wasn't, it wasn't 420, it was five bucks. Because I'm never gonna see the change. It's gonna come on when I dump it in the ash tray or I'm gonna put it in the jar or whatever. And then, what happens? Some day you're gonna cash that in. It's like, it's such a pain in the ash change. It's, you know what? I can we can go cashless as far as I'm concerned because I use plastic everywhere I go. I never pay. If I remember back in the day when you were doing illegal stuff, you know, for those guys, they're not gonna be happy. I probably got created Bitcoin. You know what? I don't know. They got a roll with the times. You can't always use cash. All right. So whatever, man, I'm fine with them getting rid of cash. But get rid of the change. What it's so, it rounds everything up anyway. You will never spend that, you know, 72 cents. This is never gonna happen. No, you never know. My mother and mobile travel, the 20 miles to save, a penny a gallon of the gas station said, well, that goes with that whole generation. Yeah. Yeah. Part of the generation. Yeah. My uncle, he would drive, he would drive 30 miles out of the way we've played eight months, but we're just saying on, on, on premium, you know, because you got it with that. Yeah. So, I know you like this story. Let me pull this story up to you. Did you see the guy who's suing New York State, Madda Cuomo? Yeah. I'm honored. Yes. All right, I'll pull this. I, the problem is I can't see any John had to do all my texting for me to take because my eyes just will not. We do want a pretty good job. That's good. Yeah. Well, I had, I set it up ahead of the time. The funny thing is that they put so much dilator in my eyes. It's, it's, it's both the last and hour, John. It's like been three hours already. He's still can't see. All right. This is the Jim Mona Charles, a different Chesco. He owns a Jim that he is now. It seemed like every state has one of these guys that's going after the state, the governor's here. He's going to give us guys going after the governor and Jerry and Jersey. You got to Francesco who's got part of a coalition that's suing Cuomo. Good. It's not just him. So, what we do now. We meant the other, I didn't know you meant this lawsuit. I thought you meant the other lawsuit that they're filing against him for the nursinGHome. Now, patience. He's getting sued by them, too. What are they, sir? Cuomo is the one who ordered that they put the COVID patients in the nursinGHome. Oh, wow. I found people fucking more on. So now, yes, so now he's being sued for that. Well, this guy has got a point. He's like, look, the Jim's are places for people to get healthy. And guess what? You've got liquor stores. Look, this liquor store is open. They considered that an essential business. But the Jim's are not open. Well, I can be going to a liquor store and buy fucking wine and beer and hard liquor when you can't go work out. And you can buy weed. How come you can get an abortion? But you can't get a colonizer. But you're going to be more a Walmart, but you can't go to church. That's the problem with this whole freaking thing. There's so much incongruency to how they're handling it. Even the freaking masks leave the whole of the science that shows the masks that work. That not what's standing. The fact that if you look at 10 people wearing masks, 10 random people wearing masks, aid of them having a down here with their nose hanging out, no one's hanging off for a year. No, no, we've got it backwards. And they're not even using them right. So what is even wearing them? They're all touching them. They pull it out of their pocket. You know what I'm just going to do? What are they taking out? If you're going to use that man, and spite of the fact that on the box, it says it doesn't work. But if you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you serve that fact and try to insert your whack logic on a side note. I got to show you this high speed video of a sneeze when a mask on, they slow it down. It's like a fucking crack of toe explosion. How many of these two are thing? It's like, are you going to tell me that that freaking mask is the easiest? What we're doing is mist directing. It's both freaking coming out all over the place. But it's not the point. They're not wearing, they don't even use them right. So so what is the point of forcing people to use my, my favorite, my favorite here is you go to drostanolone. You got to wear the mask, I don't, but they, they suggest it's on the sign. We're going to drostanolone and you got to walk to the table and you get to the table and you can take your mask off. And when you're going to go to the bathroom and put your mask on, walk to the bathroom. Yeah. It is kind of crazy. You're going to go to a place to eat. You're not on aromasingle square of mask while you're eating, so. It's like, it's like mask on mask off, mask on mask off. IMean, it's like the plane and it's the seat and the fucking plane. We're kind of seeing, you're going to die. See you up here, you're going to live. No, no, no, no. Live. I'm not going to live. Masked die. No mask die, lastly. IMean, it's that fucking stupid at this point. I agree with it. It's kind of ludicrous and it's the, you know what the masks remind me of. Remember when we were back, I guess it was in the 80s. Remember the first person came out with this baby on board science on the farm. Yeah. You put it back. You win the, it was like suction cup to the window and you'd see, and then people started making new ones. They started adding like funny stuff like Yoda on board or, you know, jerk off on board, devil on board. Everyone had a different one and said something different. That's like the mask. Now we have all these like masks. They're like the Joker mask. Yeah. A clear one now. I can see the people you get. You drink through it. There's like, it's like a whole business now, you know. My friend, I wish I, I'm not filming in my studio because I, I actually quarantine Tyler because he wanted to trip less. But I have a high and senior sent me the RX muscle mask. I have to have them send you a couple. Oh, really cool. They're really cool. I don't, I wish I burned with me. I'm in the wrong place. So I should. But yeah, he did a really good job of these RX muscle masks and they're really kind of cool. You might even wear a judge's because it's cool. But IMight hang it from my rear view mirror like the other guys really, you know, because it's cool. But I refuse to wear them. And nobody says anything to me. I walk into stores right where I want wear it. Nobody says it weren't to me. Amanda got me this thing. I really like it because you know, I have like, I have like a biGHead someone. The normal masks that they sell don't, they too tight so they, it went to slipping off my ears. Hind seniors have adjustable straps in the West side. I'm not sure if you're a regular one, but I'm an animal up mid to saying it kind of goes over your head. And then it, it's like, go it wraps around completely. And you kind of just lift it up. I look like I'm in the part of the camel crew. I want to get, I want to get these hoses putting, you know, when you have like a nitrous oxide system on a car and like before you get before you get a purge, you know, and then it comes out like the winsio wiper, washers, you know, it's spread. I want to get that and that coming out my nose. So that I can push the button and it goes. Come down to my, you know, all nostril. And then I wear a mask if it doesn't cool. I'm sure you just, you probably gave away a million dollar idea right there to actually, I think your boy Logan would love that show. Yeah, me was like a bull, you know, with your most coming out of the nose. Yeah, tell him my invented. We put a mask on him this, we took them to, for the first time to target. He was going stir crazy. And he wore the mask the whole time. He was really good actually. I can't even believe him. Because that's because he was, if you would have seen him in target ripping toys off the shelf into the cart, I couldn't put him back fast enough. He had everything, all the things this and this. I need to start with this. This is a re-provation from being locked down like God. He thinks he thinks I can get anything you want. He's like, no, no, no, I need this and I need that. And I need this, I need this ammo. That's his new word ammo now. Oh, yeah. So he's got a mask because he carrying a gun, too. Yeah, we don't want him to have a gun mask, but he's, he's obsessed with these like YouTube videos with the Nerf Blast, everything's Nerf Blast is there. Oh, cool. So he's a kind of an ammo. IMean, IMean, I just, I don't know, we don't have to giant water bazookas for the pool. Yeah, yeah, that is allowed to have. But no, he just loses them because he winds him scoring us in the IRC. Do you believe me? He's smart for the IRC. That's why we don't want to let him have the Nerf Blast. So he likes to assassinate you at point point. But he's like, no. He puts it right to you fuckinGHead. And he's like, I don't love that kid. No, no, no. He needs ammo now. But I was thinking about when Max was a kid and he was like, he needed body armor and the halo when he was playing a halo. Oh, really? He had that certain mask. Yeah. I know my son's going to be the same way. I'm really, I'm really, I'm really, I'm really, he's going to need the hologram. You know, can you imagine how advanced that's going to be? Oh, my God. When Logan was, I was, you know, gaming age. Oh, you should. Five years alone in the video games will probably be insane. Awesome. Yeah. Come on. I think I think I still think the robot thing is, is the cool, is the cool. Oh, yeah. Exactly. I'm hoping that by the time John were like, Sabine that like we can have robot-like serving us. Like I'd like to have a whole staff of them. You know, I want to see, you know, you're going to think I'm crazy. But I want the sex robots. I want to see them perfect them. Because I'm going to sit back and watch the women freaking implode. Melt down because, you know, what can happen? Guys, guys, what are you going to put up with this shit for? I'm going to have a cherry 2000 over here, man. And then I'm going to listen to shit. I'm going to keep it in a closet and a bedroom. Hey, babe, come on out. You know, anyway, I want to, and then go back in the closet. And then I have a sitting out of a beer, watch the game, like you can go to a rancings. You know, what's going to bother me? You know, and then, but, and this whole concept of the relationship and the, all of this, give and take, I just going to go right out. It's already happening, but you can't even fuckinGHang out with anyone. Because you have to wear a mask and you'rEQuarantined. You're going to matter even if you're not really cheating. Yeah. But this isn't going to happen to left of the election anyway. So the masks are going to be gone no number fourth. But as this, as this robot technology, because you know, the proverb for gay design to go out for a thought, to get, we get one of these sexual thoughts, you know, perfect. And I, you know, there's teams, a lot goes out there, working on that. And they're going to come through to, you know, Russian, Japanese, whatever. It's going to happen. And we're going to do it. It does. The second they have a viable humanoid crazy maniac, nymphosextol, or perfect. There is going to be a crash crash in our society, like you have never seen before suddenly a giant number of men are going to perceive the fact that real women are superfluous. Right? Right? They're going to put up an air shit for. I get what I want. I'll tell you right there, John, right? Like that. If you population control issues, you're talking. You're not, they don't want kids. They just want an important star, you know, live porn star in the house. What I want people to have to worry about population, they're little bit. And of course, they're not going to get shit done. The productivity is going to go down to Poelik, because they're going to have Menaja Twas, we're talking, you know, bar to fish and porn stars, 40 hours a week. And so no one's going to get a goddamn thing done. And then you're going to, this is going to be an up, it's going to be the most insane. The guy that cures baldness won't even get on the map. Yeah, right. But the problem is they feel the, the, the, the have us chemically castrated by them probably, or oh, there's going to be, you know, there's going to be, this, this will ruin humanity. And it's going to happen. And I, I just, I hope it happens in my lifetime, because I want to watch it. Yeah. I just want servants. That's all. I want some servants that I, like, I don't feel bad telling them what to do. You know what IMean? Because I don't really want humans. I would, I love robot servants that just, I could just, you know, I can make like funny. Like I could have like one guy look like, like, Arnold or Lou Frigno, I could make another one like Ronnie Coleman. Which you love having Ronnie Coleman like, and his Olympia for shape like just like, you know, being the botler. That's the torso. Right. Right. What about the staff of fucking the black movement have? It's also all right. You would, you know, he would just have like, you know, people have busts of like, people. Black movement would have like the glutes, you know, you know, he'd have, you know, a kind actor, all like you'd be getting like like an and Nicole Smith, like, you know, he'd be having like high victor, you know. But it would only be like the waste would be the most of the work you have robots. He said you sex robots. So you can get the map. You know, he's only interested in the glutes. So he would have the Roman around on wheels, you know, and just like, the need to the waste. Thank you. That part with the striations, you know, and then we just send them to catch the couch jerking off. We're like, you know, moving all around, you know, it's like like a maze. That would be like a hundred. We're like a hundred and ten. We'll have like a whole. Every new like USA winner and, you know, yeah, we're gonna get like this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, get me a hunt alabrata. He'll be telling like his grandkids. You want to get me a present? Get me a hunt alabrata. Just the glutes. That we need to the whole robot experience. Oh, my god. So he had Steve, you're a hundred and ten when you can't drive. Oh, no, no, no, no. We'll be driving. This would be the best invention for me anyway. I want a box. You can roll the motorcycle into, shut the door, and then ten minutes later pull it out. It is freaking perfectly clen. Yeah, I was. I told you that for any, it's a little, that thing takes forever to freaking clen. Men is got so many little, you know, areas, first, frustrating. I had to get another shit over here. And when you're going to hunt your miles an hour and you get bugs getting trapped everywhere. I have not gone 100 yet. Not really. I'm 18. 86 was that. Does it feel like you're going faster or slower when you're on that bike? The acceleration, once you get up to speed, it's, you know, one thing after one, you don't even notice it. But the, the acceleration, if you're hard on the acceleration up there, it's the most violent experience I've ever haven't done a wheel here. IMean, like that. Yeah, well, it's kind of inevitable. I was really, wow. Well, IMean, you got to really like lay on it to keep the, to keep the, you know, it's hard. On full blast acceleration, it's really hard to keep the run in down. Right. Yeah. This is when you get the revs up. But when it, when it's, it's exhilarating. I, you know what? The 20 year absence, I know that puts me in a category of most likely to die in a motorcycle accident. But I got to tell you, man, I'm so glad I got back on. It's, yeah, I just, it's just the most best feeling in the entire world. I'm so glad. Yeah. You got to do it. You got to do it. You got to enjoy your life. You know, you're at a good stage now and, yeah, you know, kids are all growing up. And you can do it. You want that. Exactly it. I waited to the kids grew up and now I'm now back. All right. Well, you know what, Chris, John, let's make a quick commercial break. And then when we come back, we'll bring in the Wackback. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsensablements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in this Species Nutrition Lighter Products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results, and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back, guys. We're here with After Hour, and we got the Wackback. Happy birthday, Greg Melanchino. Yeah, happy birthday, Greg. Happy birthday, Greg. Thank you, guys. I appreciate it, man. Thanks, though. You're going to be 60. Wow. It was last Wednesday, August 5th. Well, you guys, 16 out including Mr. Cheese. No, not you, John. Oh, next year. I'm at no, I'm next October. John's in October. I remember that, yeah. Yeah. I got what, 90 days. It's crazy that your guys are all born the same year. Isn't that weird? Right, you know. I think that's the. Yeah, wow. I'm 59. No, you're not. Yeah, I think, that's the first time. No, don't be a dog. I get it. We work. 1959. Yeah, that was your first, 1961, really, that. I'll be 61, November. Oh, all right. But you're 60 right now. Yeah. He made, he meant. He meant he's not 59. He meant he was born in 1959. I was born in 1959. I was born in 1959. It changes. It's not the wilder when you're born in the 50s, then the 60s. Like I'm in the, I'm the 68. You guys are 60. 60s sounds like not as old as, as, as, you 59, right? Well, you can just see by all of this, how age is related to climate, climate, to decline, to build, and we're not going to profit from what you think. Because none of us remember what the fuck we're talking about. I'm so happy you guys losing your memory, too, because it was really concerning me that I was, that I was maybe going see an aisle, like had dementia, but I think it's just all age. I really think that's exactly what it is. We need new tropics. We need new tropics. I think the problem is, people from the tropics is not working. You're working on, I invented, I invented a vape, a vape, and that you have new tropics in, really. Right? Right? So inhale, and then you get new tropics, high, right? Right? So right after I'm getting into the, I got a guy ready to invest in this thing, and then the whole thinGHappened with the kids in the vape, and they got to ban vape, and then the guy said that. We have an advertiser that has a pre-workout vape, who work out vape. I have, I think that once I landed out of the bag, it was only amount of matters. Yeah, I'm not going to put it in a way you will. Dude, I do the vape, I did the vape. I do it. I've never gotten this to you. The stoke, game face, game faces on the level. Yeah. Look at this fucking guy. Mr. J. A. Hey, what's up there? So here's the big thing. Every week I get told you can't do it. It's not way, it's not. Don't do it now. No. No. You see that guy, you saw that guy, my car. I saw that guy. You really, you know what? Can you please? My car is on show. Your friends. I didn't know that. He's not cooking the one. He's a one. Yeah, cooking the one. He's like, can you clen your camera, Mr. J. That's fine. The camera's fuzzy. I think it's because you're in dirty. That's all. Yeah, two hours on it. Hey, Jim, I have to put this wrong. Oh, thank you, Jimmy. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, no. The man in my history. He got cooking. He got cooking. I got the fucking chips. IMean, I got things, big, can. Don't make fun of that. Wow, oh, he's not that scary. I got it all up there. I only did the chips. Mr. Man, so big. Yeah. I'm ready. Yeah, look, right here. See those. Wow. Wow. Let's see no. J, hey, Dave, that's the new warrior. You're getting the Oreo, John. And you're going to get the, get the, believe bar, which is, which is, as those peanut butter cups, protein peanut butter cups. Not come Jimmy. To three hours late to the party, he gets his ore. I'm a little excited. John's a fan of the horrors. We already got that. A man named. He's my judge. I'm a man named one of your cookies. I'm gonna tell you. Who did it? Who did it? Amanda. You got to take it when met for you. How did you get it? I should have taken it in so much. You didn't have to bring a met for me. I'm gonna tell you. I just gave Mr. Dick a great marketing opinion. You just take a little bit of a pack of plastic packs. Would have met for me and pill in there. You stick with further things. I got the. I went a lot. I went a light note the cream. I'm gonna make the cream. I'm gonna tell you. The same thing. This isn't an Oreo. Yeah, I told him. Perfect. So I'll make it a lot less. I'm gonna show you everything is in a so-fi. But you know what the delicious. And I'll tell you one thing. I love the the macadamia not ones are probably my favorite. But I, you know, because I like the white chocolate chips and I like the macadamia. That's an absolutely phenomenal. Yeah, you were in Logan sunglasses. Yeah, yeah, I am. Because I have my eyes dilated. I was at the eye doctor. Hey, look at this. Hey, I want to show you guys one thing. So when you when you. When you cut when you cook. When you cook. You know, the big kitchen. A lot of you you store the fire itself and these big giant bins. You know, so I had it. So the species. I have 50 pounds of species. That I have in this big. Let's take a. Yeah. The drop in. That's 50. 50. 50. 50. Nice. I'm. Unfortunately. I didn't sell it. I don't know where you got it. What's that? Not that I'm just kidding. Hey, I just want to give me a bowl. You need to pull sent me some video from. Where is Jimmy? What are there? Is that a fake? Jimmy, how much were you lifting in that video? Do you remember? Yeah, that was one of my fans sent me that video. I was a. I was about 7.65 or something shit. Wow. I remember spot you reverse benching like 600 or whatever the fuck that was. That was crazy. I was praying to God you didn't fucking did you did not fucking like sell. Because I was not able. I couldn't lift that off yet. I did. I didn't have. I didn't have points with Jimmy. I was I was announced on stage. He's gotten two. Twenty five on the crowbar. You know, going. You're crawling up like a food's head like. You're going. Then he kicks up the 130. I don't know about it. It's like doing shit. You know, I did it. Same shit. I was man in the woman's extravaganza. And he was reverse benching. He had it. Bro, he had a lot of weight on there a lot. I. I pissed the war off because he had four. He was supposed to have four plates. And I said, IMean, he's and he said, it's 405. And I'm like, no, I'm like, no, I'm not truly only 395. And he got the odd stage of front everybody all piss over. I put it on 25. I'm like, I hit the. I hit the. I'm not heavy enough in front of you. Just this video guys. Just the video of 765. Yes. No, that's when he did a thousand. I deserve. Most of them 65 right there. What. I did a double day. It was eight. Five. There's eight 55. This is insane. Watch this. He can't even cheap because the weight so heavy. It just goes right down to his chest. I didn't get him right there. I was right there when that was there. He was doing that. The. The thousand 15 is what's fucking nuts. Yeah. That was. I know you didn't refuse to spot him on that, right? No, no, no, you got it. You got to play that one. The. The. The only. He went out like this. He only did was take the bend out of the bar. No. Everybody said. Everybody said. And if fucking bars going to snap. IMean, 10 God. Stay right there. He goes. He goes. That that bar is going to snap any fucking Jimmy just goes like this in the book. The bend just goes like that. I did a bar. I played. I. I was. I was. I was. I was. I've all done as well. Okay. So. So it's. He did something right. No,當然 they've. Americans, they even said. I looked. You knew you were. Well, you didn't give. Oh, but. After. I'm like, hey, hey, hey, yeah, like I do to my truck. Yeah, this like the one up there and you're seeing it. You know what IMean? I'm like, hey, I'm gonna ask you to tell a quick story. I don't really have like a long time. I just, my brother called me up, he had a bad day. You know, he left me this message that he's struggling with the kid, the college, the pills, the father, the cars, fucked up, his boss, he called up his boss. They're very scrutinized, you know. Every day, I found a very duller and nickel. My brother goes, how many hours have I got over time this week? She says, I got the 22.3.7. You know, they're driving crazy, right? Yeah. So he's, he's all these messages. So I found a full of backers, you know, I didn't answer my way. And I said, get ready. You want to hear what kind of fucking day I had? I'll tell you what day. I said yesterday I worked. I thought, I'm gonna buy a real firecrack in the morning, my team because I had to get the extra for this six fucking time to say, guy, okay, then I fucking wouldn't work. I came back late because I worked late last night and I fucking got it locked, I'm coming to fuck off. I couldn't get the car out of the fucking thing. So I was walking by my car worker. He said, what are you going to do? I said, what do you mean? I'm going to cross you and jump your home. So he jumped, he's fucking off home. Okay? I said, fuck it. I'll take my holiday. I'm super long going to get my lunch and do what I got to do. I did. I jumped, I go, my bike, I go, holy shit. The fuckinGHall, the key is with the james. I don't want to fuck the money, I'm gonna take my money. So I can't go, I'm super big. I bought a hot dog last night. I saw it, I got a fucking dead. I couldn't make it to the fucking supermarket. Right? So now I get up, I'm fucking going, don't want to be on a pick-up in the morning. Four o'clock, it's just pocket, don't be late man. I got to be on the body. I'm gonna get a fuck off. I get up at two thirty. I shit, I shower, I get on my shit ready. I'm waiting to fuck, I'm fucking on the floor five. Four o'clock, I got a cold spot, fuck. I call him up, I'm going to get a no-ass. Where am I going to do now? I got to get the fucking yard. I should fuck it, I got a basic last night. Let me take that one off the fact, jump outside, I've read the place, I go, I stop my fucking bed. You get a fucking wreck, I got a flood tire in the front. I should do this, Christ, I take the fucking bike and I'll hold on to your gave you. Fuck, before they will whump, sweat my bottle. You get to the fucking yard, I'm gonna get to the yard, I'm gonna stay on. Sparky, coffee, go, I'll take my riot. I should win me, where am I? I'm almost at the yard, with the fucking talking back. He goes on at your house, I got my house, I saw a lot of them, it's the fucking yard. He goes on the right there, he's right there, he's right there for one. He goes up and now he's right behind me with the flashes on, right? I still want to get this, go to the police, I have a heart attack. I saw that, I'm just, how do you look? This is gulped from the birds in the vise. I said look at me, I'm fucking, I said look at me. I said look at me, my life's gone back with I'm on a fucking place, it will go on a work with my fucking whole bag. And the fuck is wrong with this picture, right? So I get, I need to talk, he walks the truck, I get out, I'm off my bike, he goes, ah, Jim, could you do me a favor, I just washed my bag, I got to go, it's late, it's the 10th fuck. Right now, he goes, I need an error, my tie. I need an error, the fucking yard, I got to borrow your house, I said, take the fucking thing, I goT3 minutes to give it, I fucking stay on up his house, I fucking get out of, I throw it, throw it, I'm taking it all, I got to the fucking 7-11, because I got to fuck 100 free, I should let me get some fucking water, I pull up 7-11, I've got my goddamn mess gone, I go to 7-11, I'm sorry buddy, so I don't, I don't, I got to fuck a coffee and a whole case of fucking pulsEQueen, I paid already, I walk out, I got to pulsEQueen, I left in, coffee my right, mess got my face, 100 degrees, I'm running to the truck, I'm saying, I'm gonna get fuck out of that, I know it, I can't even breathe with this fucking mess car, right? I finally made it to the job, I finally made it to the job, I get home last night, I got to pay myself on the, I still, I ran for the whole fucking day, because I still got to, I still got to pay the fucking bill, go home, I call them on the fuckers up, press two, press three, press the two, whose your mother's be named, what were you, we were born, we had to, I had to, I had to, I had to, I had to, I just find a pay off, fucking per-bye, no fucker, I, I can't, nobody on the fucking phone, they do this shit, I'm just right, it's like, red the forer, I start hitting, no, no, no, no, I'm just, I'm just gonna like this, and anything, nine to three, five, seven, nine, five, all's an idiot is gonna help you, I should, Jesus, I, it's out with a text, he just somebody on the fucking phone, I just don't fucking piss like, you, you, fuck, IMake me crazy, I can't, this gonna be a bad way, click, I should, wanted to they It's a weird half-body get this motherfucker. You just hung up on me! I'm gonna do it now. I know he's fucking day-filled, better. I know he's fucking day-filled, better. I'm besting is now tonight when I go home. I'm gonna get my bicycle and bicycle to the fucking cheap. I'm fucking covered the yard. What happened to your car in this that in the beginning? Why didn't your car work this? I had a fucking big fix, like fucking six times in this fucking pack of stuff. IMean, time I already fixed the bring-up, down a roll, everything's four and the back of the mirror. She punched my ass in the back of the- I went back, I went back, I took four times, I said, listen brother, you gotta get this shit right. I can't even come back yet, I need my fucking jail bro. All right, I was leavinGHere five and a more and I'm not too care. And you locked the thing up in the fucking yard, can you get it? Oh, it was locked in the yard, I-I-I-I that's what IMissed, okay. Dude, I'm fucking dead, I'm fucking dead, I'm fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking shit. I'm fucking dick, I'm fucking fuckinGHit my house, I'm fuckinGHot, the fuck, it's hot, the fuck, it's hot, the fuck, it's hot, the fuck, it's hot, the fuck, it's hot. But my key is on the fucking je-key. Ah, je-hats! I ended up on a fucking bicycle, sixty fucking one years old! God bless bro. You know, a fucking diagnosed with some incurable disease, you know, I would just call Jimmy up and listen to one of these stories. I wouldn't feel so bad. What was the guy who did that therapy? And IMean, there was a guy who was also, he was like terminally ill and he just surrounded himself with just funny movies and... I can't. What was that? That was a podcast, bro, one, he's the doctor, and that's aromasingle thing. He's sick of himself. He laughed himself. Jimmy did a nursinGHome, you know? Dude, I want to kill, to see. What Dave said when Dave said, like, Miss Gulch, I could just pitch a Jimmy with that. That's the... That's the thing. That's the thing. We call it... We call it... Matthew Cars, beeping at him and he's looking at him like, what? No one knows what we're talking about. When I was a kid, when I watched the Wizard of Oz, I loved it. And because it was only on once a year, I don't remember what holiday it was on. And when she returned into the witch, I was so scared. No, I hope any part of the scary part was when I was bad things came in through the forest. That was happening. I agree with him, there was something about that witch. You're looking around in your room after watching the... Margaret Hamilton was such a good witch. It was unbelievable. She was great, but the scary part was those flying monster. The monkeys, the flying monkeys. Flying monkeys, the little monkeys. They're all things scared to shit out of it. Picture Jimmy on the bike and a big fucking bus. It's like fucking bus. It's like a monster behind it. Don't put it in the eye, man. I want to see Jimmy dry and his Harley down the yellow brick road. Let's watch Jimmy bench press. Yeah, you got 1,000 feet. Oh, good. Let's see Greg, the shit up these stories I'm telling you because my life... I can't help that what happens to me. It's fucked up off. Dude, I'm the same way. Normal shit fucking doesn't happen to me. Let's just say what I want to do. What do you want? That's good. I thought I think it's a different one. Yeah, it worked. What happened? This says 1070, 1015. That's better. This is it. This is everything. Oh, look. Everybody thought that bar was going to snap. About 1,000 pounds. How about 1015? Oh, my. The weight's didn't add up. Here it goes. We're going to be on the side of the cross. You're going to get that right. You didn't get that right. You didn't get that right. The bar has been. Who are those guys holding a spot in your dear Jimmy? Those are two bikers. How are we looking? There's an airic mosaic. There. That's fucking balls right there. It was it was f***ing what? 15 years later before somebody actually did it. That shirt was like it was like an aspen in she had on. You know, it was like a sh**. I like Jimmy's ass and those spandex. We lost Jimmy. This appeared. Yeah. He looked like Hank. You know, you know, I was spotted him. But I was by myself and on a stage. And I kept saying to please, please, please, please, please, Please, please, please get this on your own. Because if he couldn't get it, I don't know, 6,700 pounds per reverse bench reverse. And he got it on his own. You know, I want to just say something, But you guys out there don't know Jimmy. I know you see these spotters on the side. And it looks like they're lifting it with him. They're not prone. They're not. They're just, they're just there in case somethinGHappened. You can't break thosEQuestions. I found it. Here it is. Jimmy. No. No. No. I found this Jimmy. Jimmy on the bike. No. You know what the best is? When Miss Goldschis riding it, the house is up in the air. And she's looking out in the hurry. You know, she's in the... That's when it scared me when she turned into a witch. Yeah. Well, you know, but she was up in the air. When she was up in the air. She goes and Miss Goldschis into the witch on the broom. So, you know, she's looking out in the hurry. She's in the hurry. She's in the hurry. She's in the hurry. She's in the hurry. She's in the hurry. She's in the hurry. So, so do you remember our English grinder? Yeah, of course. Okay. Of course. I'm doing an exhibition. At how I'm speaking an exhibition. It's hard to be on a microphone. Jimmy to bull. You're going to do it. Why do we have someone's actowing? I don't know why we're actowing. I don't know why we're actowing. I don't know why. Jimmy. I don't know why. Come on. All right. So Jimmy to bulls is going to do his strength exhibition. He got on your shredders on the microphone. No, it's wrong. She doesn't know anything about Jimmy. She's at a living fucking in all of them. So, like, I'd say I take all of her. And just while she's talking, Jimmy and Brax thing, he's warming up. All you hear is stuff smashing. He's got golden metal chairs and throwing them. Smash them as they're for a while. He's got, you know, one third. He's got weights on the bar. He's picking me, throwing them down. Smash it. Growling. And on your shredders, I think she's having fun. Like, 15 hundred. He doesn't know what to do. She's like, I found the microphone. And she's like, you know, panic. Jimmy's warming up. And I, you know, I took the mic. I go, I, you know, I just Jimmy's just warming up, you know. And then the freaking audience went nuts when he came out. John, do you remember what Jimmy would do that? Sometimes his girlfriend Rita would fucking spot him. You remember Rita? Yeah. Well, he said she used to stand him. She used to ruin the show from because she'd still the thunder from him. Right. She told me he told me she stole his anodrolls out of his fucking. He had his top draw. Bro, she would stand or she'd be like him. He should, he should married her. Bro, they were fucking. Bro, he's on a fire image. That's not good. Two, two volatile. Oh, you imagine the arguments between you. Oh, I know it. Well, they ruined that counter-scaster, remember? I thought that was Jimmy by himself. He went out. Oh, that was Jimmy and Rita. They punched holes in the wall. I want to go. Good. Good. Yeah. Good. Rita would fight guys like John and Jimmy. Yeah. Speaking of that, Ed contacted me. I guess the people who bought the gold Jim franchise in Germany, reached out for him. They wanted to involve him in the gold Jim franchise. So he's all excited about it. Thank you smart to do that. Yeah. That's great. That's the both work. They went to involve Ed or Ed. Yeah. They went and involved Ed, Conras. Like, yeah, they should bring a little guy all the guy back. We started from the day one. I think Ed was the brains. I don't know how much Pete Grinkowski and Tim Kimber did over there. I think Ed was doing most of the right. Tim Kimber didn't really do much. I was out there. He wasn't doing much. They were just investors. What did Grinkowski do? Grinkowski's brother was a lot more involved. Yeah. He, Grinkowski was an Ed, and we're like random company. Right. Yeah. He, Grinkowski's brother, Paul. Yeah. He, Grinkowski's brother, Paul. Yeah. I actually bought my gold Jim license from him in Mexico. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was, it's just like the will and normed rubbish. You know what I'm saying? Will rubbish with the norm was the genius behind that. I didn't know that. Yeah. So norm was, yeah. How's James came from the two brothers? Will and norm? No, I know them both. They were great. And norm's not with us anymore. But, um. No, I know norm. IMean, I own the powerhouse. I know norm very well. I will. But will was the fucking monster. Where norm was this way. Same thing Paul and Pete Paul used to take Jews. It was a Jack that one time, but not like Pete. Pete. If you saw Pete on Jews, he was a monster. How many of you went off? You wouldn't even know it's the same guy. I heard some crazy stories that the Grim caskey was taking, like, retarded amounts of drugs. I saw him with my own two eyes. So I'm sitting on a bench in the gym. Sitting before his workout. Sitting on a bench. He took a bottle of dianabol out of his gym bag. He's like, well, friend, you with the plastic. He took it off. And he goes like, post the cotton out. He goes like this. Yeah. And now. Oh, God. I've heard that stories that get to. But that was real deep. Well, the blue ones, the blue ones. 500. Oh, that was that one again. See you. Right. 500 mil. He has milligrams. But he's both over. I'm going to leave. I'm going back. Yeah, you're back. Oh, cheers. George, fix your camera. All right. I'm going to give you a phone. I think they did. The phone's here for some reason. Is it Jimmy? Did you give it? Did you used to who took more anadroll? You were Pete Grim caskey. What happened? Who took more anadroll for day? You were Pete Grim caskey. Um, I don't know. I used to take up the leasT3 days. I don't know what Pete was taking at that time. I heard you took eight. The rumor is you took 80 days after. No, I didn't think. I think you're looking at the book and liberal. You're good at it. Yeah. I think you're taking four a day a few times. Really? Yeah. I got up the floor. But I didn't stay on the back enough. I get it for the while. I was taking a human gem. You're huntinGHim. Yeah. Did you get a new shiit on the store? Yeah. You put it on the atonement. That was the Andrea on drugs. Yes. Yeah, you put it on the atonement. It was crazy. What drug made you the strongest, Jimmy? I had a nice combo. I had a spitting. I had a draw out of all. I had a little suspicious. And I was walking for normal man. No, bro, suspension. Oh, my God, dude. You take that. You boners and shit. You know what? I love sten. Get dirty. Drop from Mexico. sten. Yeah. Yeah. And there's something that's right. I'm not living in California. That's just it. I just came out without just that. We got fucking dog. I didn't do the plastic. All right. Yeah. Preload. Preload. Yeah. Preload. I don't know where they have a stupid nose day. So, you know, I took the fucking dead out of the foil. Right. And I just stuck it in my fucking ass. And I was like, oh, he shit. It was like a four new games. You know, it came with it was like a seven gauge needle. You can do it by. I need to get that needle. I know what I would like to do. I put it out. I fucking s skin chicken. IMean, they came with it. Oh, shit. I was like, fuck. I fucking shoot now. I was like, what the fuck? So, my friends is no, me. I was just pulled a punch. You're out of the back and draw it out. Would a regular fucking dog. It's fuckinGHot moon man. What's wrong with you? I just stuck it in the ass. I fucking feel. I wanted to try to do it. I wanted it. It was like a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I love you. I love those big, you know why? Cause you don't sit there and struggle. It's got. Yeah. What was the cheapest you ever got those those ready jacks for when you were buying volume? Uh, trust it on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We were paying like 10, 10, 12 dollars a day. No, you know, he was buying thousands. How many week? About two or three paying. $2. Maybe. Wow. I was like 25 dollars a piece now in the farm. I was bought. See what people realized when I was a drug dealer. I didn't sell to the kid in the gym. I sold to all the drug dealers. You know what IMean? So I would get volume. Sometimes I would I would get a box and I would never even like, here's the box. I would just hand it all, you know, hand it all to I never even looked in there. You know what IMean? I could tell you stories. Woo. You know, I would never. In Mexico for three bucks. Did that. I used to get him $2. You know what the best was when you were buying a Dominican shit. I would go to Washington Heights and the Dominican pharmacies. I would go with a, you know, with a Dominican bodybuilder, wink, wink. And we were going there. Because he he was Dominican. They all know him. He spoke Spanish. I just went. We're going there. And we will come out with fucking Anna Bullock. Dude, I'm telling you, I paid $2. $2. $5. To $2. For that shit boxes. And that was, you know, and I would even get got a boss from this person. Hey, guys. And I should have done a lot of the shield made of a book and a white metal. Yeah, that's it. Yeah, the old. That's real. It goes really 2.5 milligrams of those pills. Yeah, but it was a fucking thing. I did do it a morning and do it night. I got hard as nails and I'm fucking things man. It was unreal. I was doing it. Well, what was he making strong those anecdotal? I was like, I was strong. I was like, Jimmy. I think I used to do curls with like 3.15. I've done it. Yeah. I've been who was Jimmy was saying the Anna Mar though. He would use 4 Anna for a day. You have a different scissors. That shit was real. It's that they show me these deballs and you're 50 milligrams. I'm like, no, man. I'm up John rugby. Up John rugby. Starris. That was all the fucking good shit man. No, my own. Well, Chris and Cito told me that hitting Bob Grush can we get off the bus. And they at the corner store and they go in the pharmacy and Bob had like a connection there and he would pick up a bag of just like real like Anna Mar and this sauce. Really? Yeah. That's not Charlie. Okay. Well, remember, it's the drug. The drug. You used to drug. The box is it goes Jim at the counter. And he's the drop off five more. Different all the body builders who make their orders and the drug reps, which is deliver. Really? It was a story. Like I knew that Arnold used to talk about. Like it was like every, you know, the best is to talk to Leon Brown. Leon Brown's got to, oh, yeah, every Wednesday, they've been getting a delivery, you know, an in for the UPS guy to do. They don't be waiting outside for the UPS. The funny thing is no one abused the stuff. Everyone was like, oh, yeah, give me one bottle of this. So, I don't know if it's true. We don't know what you're doing because I wasn't there. But, you know, we have to say about the deep ball back those who pills years ago. You think they weren't good and fucking things? You know what? I never took those because I can't. I started thinking, I never took it. I have a lot of friends that took the deep ball. I think what I love. Impolish, metanable, which was deep. Oh my God. That shit was fucking. That was deep ball. Like no other deep ball you could imagine. You know, and I did like the Russian deep balls and the Russian substance. I got used to get those, you know, the mnemodied. They were the thousand in a bottle. Yeah, original ones that came over were very good. The original ones. But then after that, they like, I think they were trunk pills. They saved them, yeah, they saved them. Yeah. You bet metanable. They were coming in orange strip like that. Yeah, I remember. Oh my God. How about cheque drops? Remember those? Those who wanted, what's the name used to sell up? cheque drops with a strength. I'm sure Jimmy probably tried them once or twice. Already did. Great. Let's see. Rod. Rodney Woodlearn. Remember to tie on UK stays to you. Oh, God. Oh, I think I could read that. I'll just do it. I'll take it. Because I'm pretty well with it with the solid thing. So I'm gamey above of cheque drops. And I had a sitting in my drawer for probably two, three years. So I'm going to try it if it jim. Because it's supposed to make you super, super strong. They would give it to dogs to keep female dogs to keep man ahead or something like that. And I took, I didn't have a dropper. So I took like a spoon and I poured some in a spoon and I put it onto my tongue. Big mistake. I took probably a hundred times the dose you should. I had ingestion for fucking three days. So bad. I felt so nauseously sick from it. But in the gym, I was, I was so strong. I felt like super man. I was, I was afraid I was going to tear something. I didn't even want to work out. That's, that's how strong there was. I heard a story that you, you got to tell him if it's true. I heard because I used to sell the PTF, you know, I was supposed to go in and lose. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it was Gary had told me. And a little guy. You know, I'm talking about. Yeah. My friend. Yeah. IMean, he said that you took, you tried the little lady and you tried too much. And you had to go to the hospital because the cramping down there was a no no no no. I, I was the first person to get lootaways before anyone did. And why sold it? I think you got it from our guy because we got, I had an in bricks. I would never take that. I think I got it before you because I actually had a script. My doctor friend wrote a script for her. I feel the, but I experimented with the first and it was a 30 C C bottle of your memory. It was, it was a, it was a prostic landing. It was supposed to cause localized muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. He had to right. What it basically did was you took the shot and you had the and you got the flow for two hours. You wanted to shit. You wanted to throw up. You, you felt no ashes. You got a fever. Every sign effect of the flu. You got accept muscle and you got no muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone from it. So I, I couldn't get through, I, I probably did 20 days in a row. But I said, this is ridiculous. I feel like shit. It's not working. And it was all because someone wrote this internet article about it theoretically. It should have caused a low flight muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and yeah, all the, all these, you know, crazy things. So I never even got through the first 30 C Cs. And then I sort of, everyone was using it. I'm like, these guys are fucking nuts. I said, anyone uses this crazy. And I don't think anyone used it like longer than one bottle because no one can take it. Who the fuck wants to feel like they have the flow over time? I showed it to drug dealers. And they, they would come back and tell me, do everybody's taking a shit. They can't, because you're supposed to take like a quarter of like a C C. It's like the craziest amount. Right. And there is no. The minute you take more than that, because it's an abortion medicine. It's, it's for abortion for cattle and you're cramping and everybody couldn't get off the toilet. It's like you're going into labor. That's really, that's what we never, never take a low can six. You should have been taking it. That's going to be the new big thing. That's the new, it's the new big thing into the low can six. No, I don't fuck with any of that shit. That's just a thing. I used to sell it. But I heard such horror stories about it. I never tried it. Because you know, I don't have a lot of money. You'll tell anyone. Remember to help me. Remember to tell me. Remember to help the people who are in the hospital. Remember that? That was before my time, even. Oh my, that's fucking like early mid 80s, maybe. Yeah. Remember the fire, Mue case Ampules. They were like this big that they've glass Ampules, they wouldn't have procured A cream, they called it? Accured a cream. Yeah. Yeah. It has a positive story. So, topical fun. Remember this deposit was the waste? The chemical, the chemical. The chemical deposit, the chemical and pill. Stigmatized, you're not going to do all three together. Yeah. I know that is still working with the with the depositories we're doing. That's stupid. I think that's who's black men consult them. I think that's what I think. That was what I did. Yeah. Hey, listen. All the rubs. IMet the American Olympic coach for Wayne Liffing that before they they put our guy on drugs. All IMean, in the Olympics, the only rushes were beating with the string us. And when I happened to this in the Olympics, he actually worked for Jacqueline as IMet him because it's sort of the one on one and he told me the story that they were all out drinking together at the rushes beat only and beat everyone. Question that's when the guy Alexia did 500 pounds over his head. That's silly. Yeah, and when the rushes that when the rushes, coach got told, we told our American guy, hey, we're doing all this stuff. We're doing a Diana bullet, told all the stuff that we're doing. They weren't through the animal. They didn't have Diana bullet. We invented Diana bullet to combat the will of testosterone. They were never they had testosterone. They were they were doing it. We take it several. But it wasn't illegal. That's the whole thing. They just had found. Right. So then John did then see about right. Then they create the animal. Yeah, 1959. The Germans. Yeah. We did. We did it. We did it in 1995. The Germans invented Diana. They did it. Because they because they lost the what's his name? The track star. Jesse Johnson or whatever his name is. Jesse. Jesse. Jesse. Jesse. Oh, but yeah, because when we're Jesse Owens ran and he bit the fuckinGHitler. And he said, he's in the lead that shit. And after that, Remember to eat German chicks too. They were jy eyes. I thought they were using a testosterone. And then in 1959 they invented Diana bullet in the United States. That's that's the timeline I have. I remember hearing that. Deep. 1959. I heard the first bodybuilder to use it was Larry Scott. Really. I wouldn't be surprised. I don't know. You admitted to that in an interview. It. It was. It wasn't a. No, it there was no negative stigma was like taking amino acids. You know, you were exactly what he said. He said we thought it was like taking vitamins. They all thought that it wasn't till his fucking 90s. But we either know. We don't know, back in the 70s. That's why. And then I get the readers. I went to we either. He's off his son of waitin for him out out. No, in the waiting part. We're the secretaries are. And it's a lump on the wall. in penny, something penny, you can greg with no. But anyway, so on, that was a penny. Is he a money guy? I think that's James Bond. Yeah, no, no. We either had this secretary for ever and forgot her name, but she was really sweet. So I'm on the wall, this is a match of a bunch of vials in the conch out from the whale. No, okay, it's like 12 or 15, and these cars with a rubber band stretched together. And as a piece of paper, an over-water rubber band, it went in, no, on it. And it says, four virtual. And it's up on the bill. And then we come in later and maybe say. That's great. He was an asshole over a whole week. And you know what? He was so thick, but he wasn't real broad. Like, you know, IMean, kind of like, like, a stock-spydom Phil Hill, remember Phil Hill? Is Bertlo Fox still in jail, John? Yeah, he was supposed to get hung, but they could commute it is chronic with telephoto. And you know what the reason was because they never had such a crime there before, so they, they, well, yeah. Because not only did it kill his girlfriend, but he killed his mother too. No, my daughter. My son, where's the girl? Where's the girl? Hey. Same kid. It's crazy, right? That's what a crazy murder that was. Well, how about, how about, a brave, a brave, a meal? A very big meal, a silent, a meal, a shot of a shot gun. In the face on Valentine's Day. Yeah. Did they have an argument? Did with the kids in the house, the crazy guy. I'm in the face. Hey, I've done it. They're all fucking whacked. You know what I'm saying? A lot of crazy people have that. Now that little killed his wife, they killed himself. Have we had killed him? They shot each other in the heart. Right, but I think that was that was, he shot the, he shot the boy because the sun was so pissed off. He's like, my father's a piece of shit. Why did he need to take my mother with him? Did he hate it? Did he hate it? They couldn't make him with someone they got lost. He didn't want to do. She didn't want to do it. He did. Shout out to you. I was that, now there's office. I didn't know that, is that true? Greg is that true that he was at a murder suicide? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I thought it was a half. I thought they both killed them. Said no, no. No, Bob Bonham, Bob Bonham went to the, to even to the, did a, did a mass to funeral on shit because he was really close to it now. And a, now the sun was telling that mother fucker, like you know what IMean on his father because he felt like his father didn't have to take. Look, you're depressed. You want to kill yourself. You got issues. Kill yourself. You shouldn't have took my mother with you. He killed him. That was a very, very successful. I don't know if he was a very good one, but he was a very successful plastic surgeon. He wasn't even more certified, but he was doing a nice job. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then he went into hormone replacement. He just started describing. And I think he got arrested or he lost his license, right? For some. I think he, I thought I think what put him over to Andrew with the suicide was the how they, all the money they lost in the housing. No, but John, but he lost his license. He lost his license to practice medicine. So he was like personal trening people. Yeah, yes. Yes. So I think he's got to have a friend. Yeah. He was so low. Hey, if you start all over again, that's all. If he, if you can't do that, George, it's a little late for that. What about my halecto? My halecto is not done. Is that right? IMean, when it's a, when it's a fucking wife's house, if fun at a kid's, and said, I'm going to give you something you never got to forget. It is. He's a, I love you. I see. I love Steve. I don't know why he did what he did with do some things. My path was his health was really bad. I think I think you needed a kidney trensplant. I was fuckinGHe was also not, you know, the story. He's not, I know him too. He was fucked up. Well, IMean, I look, I can only know go by how he treat you. He helped me. When I wanted to become a pro bodybuilder, I see that he came out and helped me. So IMean, as far as all this stuff he did, I didn't agree, you know, I just, I didn't agree with him. He was crazy. That's all IMean, he did. He was going to extreme person. He was crazy. He would take me to the show. He was showinGHis like, he would be promoting all natural. And he had to be the high school. That's how I do it about. He had a high school. He didn't think about it. Mahal is going to do that. But my, but the way Mahal had lived his life so extreme, there was no way he was going to go down and like be this combless and guy in the nursinGHome. You know, he was going to go out on his own terms. And that's why he did that. I'm sure. What about that show I did? The man who's on his explode and that bullshit, right? He was in there basically calling me a fucking drug addict. I know. You know, and he was there. And he was not true. He was pushing that natural. If he can't do it natural, he should be, through he's the king of fucking clubs. Right. And he was still prescribinGHim. He was still having guys used drugs too. But I would go to the shows. He'd be there. And I wouldn't talk to him because I was so angry with him. You know, IMean, maybe the every people would always natural athletes. They just get the fuck out of you. You fucking, you're natural those guys a lot of other. Not anymore. No, why? You know, was his client Tony Randall from the article. And Tony, Tony, Tony, Tony. All right. Don't, don't, but see his bad publicity. No matter what, Steve, he said, whether it's negative or positive. Okay. It's all good. Can you get him in the radio show, man? He told that story. You're right. Do, can you put your job in the room? IMean, I don't really want to. You'll put your truth as better. How are you? We don't just have a warning. I don't know. Well, guys, we got a rap just thing up. John's got work to do. I got to work for you. I'm sorry, Dave. Good. Good. So after all was said, I guess Jim he only gives us a couple minutes of his day. You know, but after all said, what, what we decide was the most potent drug cocktail, steroid cocktail. What was the best relationship? Suston out in tren blown. I agree with that, John. That's the truth. I don't like. You don't grow. You're not going to. It tren blown is definitely, but I can't take the way, way, man. Power blown. I used to, matter fact, I got a recipe. Same thing. It's tren blown in the air. Power blown. That's kind of a. Power blown. That was the bad. That's just tren blown shit. Now is this fucking, it's bad. It's somebody made it in a bathtub or something. It's a food. It's a food to make it. It's a food to make it strong. I'm a problem. What's that? What's that? What's that, Georgie? He said, what about food? It's a, is it 85% of what are growing food? Well, if you're a, if you're a, if you're a, if you're reading, if the, the cookies, you know what IMean? The drug, the drug, the drug combination that made me the strongest where I actually was able to able to function and eat my foods. I couldn't, or else, killed my appetite. So it wasn't even, it wasn't even, they weren't even good for me. tren blown test the on, thrown and injectable, deanneable. Remember the injectable deanneable? The best. That's the one I stuck in my bicep. A quarter of f**k infection. If you know what I didn't like it. You know what IMean? Like about the ejectable. Reform it be. The injectable. I didn't use that one. It had a device. Oh, my God. But later on, you have like, as it suggests, it, you know, got like that foul vitamin. You know, when you eat a lot of food, over dusting and vitamins with that stuff. Oh, my God. Well, I like the dankel version. Dankel had an injectable deanneable. It was great. I like, I don't know. I like, sourced in on mixed sourced in on, uh, anadrol. I like the anadrol and then I like with ganobal. Like what an EQ. He was, he will EQ would may help you eat better. So that was a good idea. I had a, I had a good EQ and deck of stack. 600 each a week. That was, that was a good idea. So much alike. They compete for the same receptor. I don't know. I don't agree with that. I like the mix those two. You know, I think you need to test the hospital in there. Oh, I'm a great idea. What do you mean? It's good to eat. It's good to eat. How many days a day? 12, 12, some meetings a day. That was a shakes too. So that was my idea. That was a good idea. It was a good idea. Yeah, it was a year after the year. Yeah, it was a year after the year. Yeah, around. I don't remember. Don't remember. When I see, I such pictures you the other day. Don't you ever miss, IMean, IMiss being jacked. No, I'm too scared. Yeah, I want to, I everything's breaking. And now, if I was that big, I'd be dead probably. So it's nice to look back and say, yeah, I used to look like that. That's good. At least I accomplished something that I could have records of. You know, that's the important thing. Well, you got to say, you go. You got new goals, Dave. That's right. That's right. You know what IMean? You know what IMean? Yeah. Are you building a building? I had an idea. Well, once a month, we'll do a show. Oh, yeah. We all together. You know what IMean? Cause I see a little hole bunch of construction on your team. Why don't you build a big new iron door where we can come down there and it's day for where we get and we can show. IMiss it worse. Now you guys want to get any of our mistakes. You know, jesus c jij chanda polama cookies of the jumbo light. You can go to Mr. Pot's protein.net. And they got some great new stuff up there. You can check out whatever the latest and greatest is up on his site. John, if you want to catch your podcast, how do we do that? Just Apple, Apple Podcasts, Apple iTunes, Spotify, YouTube, this type in fitness fame and fortune. Right. What's your next appearance? Are you doing any more generation iron stuff? Yeah, I still do generation iron. I got to get back with Patrick BeddDavid. I blew them off and I, you know. Never. You got to get on that show. You know, his guy there, you know what I'm saying? I got to show you some stuff, but I got to see if they still want me to come back because I blew them off and February because it is a throat. Yeah, I don't believe me. They'll want to get you on that. I'm sure. And, you know, mate, and you know what I do. Get me a whole lot. What about Jimmy the boat? Hey, so Jimmy the boat, what do you do? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? Well, in my head, I know that it's time to wrap this thing up. They know what you're doing. Let me introduce you to Jimmy the truth. Yeah, give me the truth. Give me the truth. I am the truth. I am the truth. I'm the truth. When I say, listen to the black back show. Jimmy, I do. I just want you a trust the world. One, two, here. One, two. See you next week at theorama. Amen.

=== FILE: JIMMY'S CRAZIEST CONSPIRACY THEORIES! AH Podcast (8⧸3⧸21) [UotY8h4641U].txt ===

You can smell the cooked eggs. You're hell, Ian. Get your... Woo! Now you're a man! A man, man, man, man, man, man, man, man, man, man! You are now a man, you're a man! Hello! Anybody new? Stop it, dude! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! I love it, dude! Welcome back to another exciting episode of After hours of day polamo, and today I don't even know whom joined by Toyota. John Romano, Mr. G, and I have a field of looking at him. I'm assuminGHe's by the shape of the lens. It's got to be Jimmy the Bull somewhere in a rural field getting piles of dirt somewhere. Yeah, and he's pissed at me. He's mad because you accused him of having a smoke bomb in his truck last week, and it was actually a very much... It was very much... It looks very controlled. Where is Jimmy? What's going on? By the way, Greg is getting a stress test, I think, right? Yes, he is getting a stress test. He is not stressed. I need the stress test, not him! Right, you do. So now what happened to the truck last week? First of all, I just wanted to say because I'm like the how much I love you guys. You're all my heart, George. I'm wearing everybody. Look at the fucking scenery I give you guys when I get on fucking the phone. Look at that. Look at that truck, cruelty. He's got the spirituality, look at that. He's got the spirituality, look at that. He's got the spirituality, look at that. I'm not kidding that. Man, he's gay. Lance, he doesn't know what Lance is. He doesn't know what that word would be like. Greg, you're askinGHim to fly to Space Shuttle, like, yeah. Yeah, yeah. He doesn't believe that the shuttle goes anywhere though. Good, John, that's feeling problem. It doesn't go. And I got some fucking proof today, some hog proof. I'm gonna shove it down, George. Stoke today. Because he pissed me off. He pissed me off because he's got out of smoke bomb. And I was fucking dead, smoke hit in the air, I had the fly to pop in there. And I had the foam and I had the fire, I was dead. All right, I was broke by death because I dumped out of it. It's broken. And it almost hit the ground. It's fucking fucking, it's fucking, it's fucking fucking fucking, it's fucking fucking, it's fucking fucking, it's fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fuck. What the fuck? What the fuck fire? It's like good, fuck, good shit, John. Oh, he's got a smoke pop in there. What the fuck? That was a good impression. Dude, do you see? Let me conjure it up. It was very, very, very m 변� well. There were times when Baristas went insane, but, we lost our, we lost the fire some time. We lost those love. I ever met Bar erf unfortunately. Yeah, we lost those 80's. BEQuiet and be nice. But I owed ya the first time to things just lit up. Menschen went crazy. Pow, nah, do we lower the day. So he waited we have a small ring in fact Normally Normally when someone's car is or truck is ablaze the first thing they do On a podcast Fire I'm loyal to you guys that's why I tried to get on even I Have put your fires like I got on the fucking podcast See that's why it seemed contrived to me. All right, so what's the contrived what the look at the fuck I was What the fire what the fire The fucking the heart of my fire the GPS plugged in the light and it sparked out in the court I thought let's just a fire John He what the fire. Well, yeah, he caused the fire so I'm saying it looked contrived I'm sayinGHe didn't do a purpose they've been My point is my point is in any reasonable person notice their car or truck is on fire What is the first thing they do? My You lie stream right here Instagram. That's it you do now IMean, I wouldn't you want to put the fire out isn't that the first scene it comes to you And for a stay was she was dead man Dan dirt pull us Hold on, but the fact here we're missing the fact is that he caused the fire by plugginGHis phone into the cigarette lighter Right You guys you you Everything around you fucking piss me off. I You have to pay for the damages because the truck court fire Oh, okay, wait Dave you made a good point This is why this is why I'm not buying okay, there's so many holes in this story He's been complaining about that truck for like oh you're ever Brakes don't work this doesn't work that doesn't suspension doesn't work the real fall I'm So now Jimmy could say I thought plug this fucking thing in over here to trucks gonna burn up and I'll finally get rid of this fucking thing I'll give me into the truck There it is smaller in a way burn it up like a leaf and what does he do he can't so any air with us? He doesn't try to put the fire out One-nine one one my truck is one fire. No Somebody comes and delivers him a new fire extinguisher And in the meantime in the meantime when he could have called 911 and the meantime he's on the phone with us Send a phone like you know when when when the middle of the old show all the family with the Caralcon and the Jesus whatever archie would would argue with me head remember People don't even talk about And he would start talking to the lawyer. Oh, Lord, please tell me with this this this And get him this is like Jimmy right now or called in that we're Fred Samford could say and it's Lissman That they twist everything around when you're telling it truth and you're trying to seek that more lawyers Jimmy yeah You're flatter not you answer to the Because you're so fucking late all right We did rich in Branson go when he went on that flight into orbit Oh The owner right on yeah, not he will both of them yeah, he went to base on up there When they go He like Musk went the first time he had that stupid dummy and his fucking and his fucking glory and fucking flying around He heard that was total bullshit and then this guy here wants to push up this comment They want you to still believe in the space fucking thing right the guy went nowhere He went up in the air He popped this fucking cap and he fucked the power of shooting that he said he was just based and he did a little float back like fuckinGHollywood That was all garbage because the right day round and there was no space out there And I got some proof right here John the kid that I this one and you can't remember the pot I got hot fucking evidence who runs this place and I'm gonna stop this down you thought right now what is okay? Go ahead Go We be Cv evidence I'm gonna give it to you right now Okay, I'm always always. I'm always we shudges shit I'm always look at what it's true For God this or anybody says about me. I'm a not a much experience. I have spoil hot rod. I don't give a fuck All right, I'm not gonna sit down And have somebody tell me with this place is and I'm not gonna do any investigation myself dismiss the three's assholes Put shit on the TV and I have rockets go up. I'm not gonna do that. I'm sorry Is the proof. All right. You got a double bill on your teeth. Do I have a dollar bill on me? Anybody got a dollar bill on me? I got a dollar bill. Hold on. I get the dollar bill out and get it calculated. I probably got to get killed for this. The next fire, I've got to probably be hit it. Okay. Here's my dollar bill. Okay. Put it on the table. Okay. And I want you to look at the pyramid. And I'm not talking about the old sea and I, and all that bullshit in the world order, I'll grab that. Look at the pyramid. Look at the bottom of the pyramid. What do you see? I need my reading glasses. I don't know. What does it say there? Well, you got to, you got, you got, you got, IMean, you got to put glasses on. And I can't, I can't do this whole day by myself. You got to, you got, I got my little magnifying glasses. I look like my dad's free. Get your magnifying glasses. It says, it says, I'll be finished. Let me finish, york. It says, Maudace. No, no, no, no. The Roman numerals on the bottom of the pyramid. Not many people notice. Yeah, it says, MZ, what is that? 40, MZ, C, C, L, D, L, D, L, L, L, what is that? No, let's break this shot. Let's break this idea. M stands for a thousand. I found you. You've made a D, 500, right? D, D, D, C. Let me finish. D, C, C, 17. Stasters, 7, 100. Right. How can you see that? L, X, X. Stasper 70. Right. And then the VI, whatever, whatever, whatever, whatever, whatever. Yeah, it says, yeah. Okay, 17, 76. What year is that, guys? 17 years ago. We've got our independence. Okay, here we've got our independence. Okay, and we're going to find out who gave us our independence. We already know that. So here, now let's take this here. Take the M, which is in the beginning. Right? That's a thousand. Now minus a thousand from 1776. 776. 1776. 1776 minus the thousand. 1776. And minus a hundred. Because that's the next letter, which is seen in the middle. And then minus the, and minus the X on the end. And before the middle, you know, it's goT3 in the right of the cross there. So you got a thousand or hundred and ten. You minus that from 1776. That way, what number you come up with? Well, hold on. Why, why you, why you arbitrarily, did making the ducks and you're not using all the light, all the numbers. So it fits in the other. Because they hide it. They hide it in there. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's in there. But you're not using all the numbers. You're arbitrarily picking all of that. You're all a number. David's hidden it. I like something. I don't do something. IMean, you hide something in a bush. You use all the fucking punches. Oh, you're a little bit like it. I didn't fucking question. But he's talking about, you know, no, no, no, don't get tinned. You're using the numbers. You're going to make your number work. That's not what you're using all the fucking, you're using all the letters. It's, it also, it also, it's been a, yeah, it's all the pushes. He was, it also, it also just, if you're, if you're raised to letters this way, it also says 15% discounted, Dino's car. It made 666 by the way. So you want to get 666? This is why the world's going to help. All right, so now we're going to go here. So 666, you get 666. Listen to me. I haven't dabble now because it's been a while. Slowed up on one side. I finish over here. Okay. This is, this is, this is, this is, this is, let me got, let me got the DC, which isn't, almost in the middle there. Right DC, you got LX, and then you got the VI, or take, they put it right in, you know, right down like they separated, and now I definitely say, right? Yeah, that's, and that's, that's what DC, LX and VI, 666. It's in the fucking numbers, bro. It's in the numbers, right? So what's it? It's like, you're a suitable. My point is that that's who rules this fucking place. The flat right that we live on. Read that every minute, do it. They lie to you, they fucking, they cheat us, they fucking, they do it. Who? If that, they delete, they run this fucking world. That's hard. That's hard. That would have fucking, that's hard. That would have fucking, very well, they, and they're fucking, and they're fucking, and they're called sign is 66. And they fucking, they, they shoot fake rockets in the fuckinGHand, and make it think this place. They'll be the record now. They'll be the record now. They'll be the record now. No, you're out of, if you tell fuck that. Yeah, you take the M, and then you subtract the V, and then, and then, and then, and then, 12, what do you get? Yeah. I don't know, I'll source you saying, I heard it, what do you, what do you get? I was listening to you. I was listening to a Joe Rogan podcast, and he said that the, that Stanley Kubrick, who did, you know, 2001 space out of sync. Remember that movie? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Well, he was directing that at the time that the guys were landing on the moon. They're saying that they hired him to do the moon, you know, just to fake the moon land. Very good, Dave. Very good. Very good. I'm actually, you're impressed. You can kick that in the country. So then, how come then would it tell a scope that gets you to rover driving around on the moon, right? Get the fuck outta here. Come on. Yeah. I can't even get a spot on the same. I'm gonna go over to the rover driver. I get the fuck outta here. Please, who'd I film the fuck a lunar module when it took off the moon? Well, that would have been a blasted off in 69. Okay. What I had fucking gravity is on my fucking TV and the buzz fucker station. It's on my way fucking, somehow they filmed the fucking lunar module that karma fucking's pinned up and just like the bit the fuck outta here. Okay, so I was having you Dave, full shit. So how do you go from, how do you go from that conspiracy theory to the, to you being so sure. Wait a minute. How is the $666 on the dollar bill proved the earth is flat? That's what you were doing. You said he had to, yeah, yeah, I can't get it. Where's the proof? Where's the proof? Where's the proof? Even if you take the M from the D and add the X and take the V and the I out and you get 666. How does that make the earth flat? What I'm trying to show you, John, is that these people you've simply, they use fucking dilute them. These people you've simply put a right in our face. They think that's funny. You want to stand? All that shit. You want to stand? All that shit. You know, you got the fucking thing. He's the freak. Everything is on the wall. It's all tired. We live in a fucked-up system, bro. So it's all in. That's how funny. So explain how there's a correlation between sixes on the dollar bill and the earth being flat. John. Yes. And to thEQuestion. Listen, I'm just talking about, we live in a life. Okay. I'm saying the earth is flat. You can believe whatever you want. I don't believe we're going to spin in poor, flying around the fucking side. I think it's total bullshit. It's all rockets, okay? So look at the here. So let me ask you a question. What do you have here? I'm just trying to let what they did. Jimmy, I'm not alone. I'm just trying to understand here. So you're saying basically that. You're in the moment on the dollar bill. That you're going to get just the vacation from the theory that the earth is flat. John. You have no question. Did you ever hear it, sir? It's a yes or no question. Does it, it's a centonic. You're on the bill. You've just to find it. No, it doesn't directly tell you. In the numbers that the earth is a point. No, it doesn't. Okay, it doesn't. I'm not saying it. That says that. Okay. You're missing the gold. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You said you went proof right here. I'm going to stuff it down. You throw you. You went. You went. You went. You went. You went. Look at the numbers. You went. You're going to hold a normal John. It's got the numbers. I think. What he met is that it's all conspiracy. Yeah. So it was a taboo thing. Well, that's what I think we then that that. That that that that that get the dollar bill and. You know, you know, Georgie. I said not. When I said, when I got under show today, I said, I'm going to stay calm. I'm going to stay calm. I'm going to stay calm. And I'm going to fucking explain this to John because I know how we eat. All right. He's like. The lawyer. I'm going to have it. I think of you. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. John, maybe that's. Maybe they try to kill him with the cigarette light or thing. And it's. Maybe that was it. It's. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. You're going to be. You're going to be. You're going to be. When Robert DeNiro got into the car and the thing blew up. They did. I'm going to. For some reason that one year. Catalic had a metal plate underneath it. And it's. That's true story. By the way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's like Jimmy. They try to fucking blow him up with. I think it's something. I think. I. I state Dave. George. I still want to know. They. Why is getting to all these accidents with the truck because they. They're. They're. These. He's trying to say that he wants a new truck. So he's going to damage the old one. And we already figured that out. He sent it on fire. All right. So he puts the thing in. But I. I want to know what is dollar bill. I don't. I don't. I'm going to get the fuck out of cause I'm. I'm. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. Yeah, they have a certain the particle collider. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Get this. Well, let me ask you question. What is their logo? Please tell me. I don't remember. This is a. He's talking. Okay. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. The particle collider is this thing. A biGHuge tunnel. They dug on the ground. They spin electrons and and all kinds of new trons and they collide. They. They spin back. Okay. So please, Dave. Show me the logo. Please, Tyler. Get it out. Show me the fucking lungs. I'm monkey being dollar side. Difficult facility. Look at the fucking logo. Okay. Think of the kill me tonight. Am I sleeping at a bus by going down in my house? I don't. Sorry. See you. What is it? It's probably. It's probably six. It's probably six. It's probably. It's I'm telling you, George. It's six six six. Pull it up. You. You. IMean, the. The sex is Jimmy's right. Oh, that's. That's not proven. I see a George. I see a. I see. Tyler. Put it on. He's got it on. He's got it on. John. You hear him. Hold on. Please. I see it. Jimmy. What is he? I don't still don't understand the point. He's trying to make. What. What do you. What are you trying to say? Is he. He's. He's. I'm going to tell you what. I'm going to tell you what. Wait. Wait. Wait. You started out today with going to prove the earth is flat. Okay. Then you said you had proof. The proof had something to do with numbers on a dollar bill. And now you're now you're trying to say that the numbers on a dollar bill matched the logo of the collider in France. And somehow that makes the earth flat. It's higher. It looks more like a nine. Four. Six. There's four. Six. There's four. Six. Nine. Look at nine. You got to put it up. You got to put it up. All right. Three. Three. I think it's three. Nine. Actually, the. I got to see. I got to see. Nine. The. Nine. I don't know. They. I don't. I don't. I don't. I. Yeah. Hold on. There he goes. I. You. You. I can't see it. Hold on. Hold on. I. I was not prepared. You got to step up your game, bro. Okay. So what is this? Wait. Where's the. I'm pulling a Chris a Cito. No. Can you see it? So it's not. Nine. That's right. It's. Oh my god. I had. You really got to stay on your head and spin around the get. Yeah. I. I think they just make it look like sexes if they wanted to do something. I. I think it looks like a peach and a stick figure. It looks like a. It looks like a stick figure. What it's had up its ass is what is it look is what it looks like. Tyler. Punch up. What is on the front lawn of. Sir. The front lawn. What you get. Just Google that. What is on the front. What's that you. What's that you. What's that you is on the front lawn of. Sorry. Please. What's that you. Yeah. Yeah. That. That. That. Shiva. Shiva. Okay. Shiva. The. The. Hold a. Shiva. Is this. I. What is she the. I. She's the. God is not the. I got a story about. Very simple because they're the straight. The collider is what destroys. My. It makes. Total sense to me. Oh. You. Tha. But. This man. So that. recover. Came. He's going. Got it got our every. Golf. Guys. street. God What the fuck What is it? What have they destroyed it? They're trying to find the god Paul. He's not a split open space at time. That's what they're trying to do. Oh my god Did he how did he get this infected? Did one of those bugs crawlinGHis ear and eat out like part of his brain? I got a lot of stuff. I got a lot of stuff. I got a lot of stuff. I'm starting to worry about you We gotta set up a goal fund me account for extensive psychological evaluations. I'm getting worried about him, man That is dead You're fucking over there You see what you're up against there's such a thing as a stretch, but not even a lane Brian could come off with something that spring Oh I gotta go man. I gotta go I gotta stop this fucking load and go back to reality now You mean go back to make fry just going about okay burned I love you Jimmy. I love you Jimmy. I love you, too, man. I see good later man. I love you too Jimmy. I gotta stretch love you guys. I guess here's my story I'm gonna straighten you thank you for taking the time to listen to me for a couple of minutes I want to give you my I want to give you my my story of Shiva So I go to India right in 2012 and I'm going shopping Aaron Sigmund and I are going around shopping to all these we have we hired this guy for the day to drive us around And we go in there and I'm like everyone's you know buying little trinkets I'm like I want the goddess Shiva and he's like the guys are good No, maybe he was Vishnu Vishnu, is it which was the one that that's the goddess of death? supposedly Shiva yeah, so I get this picture Beautiful picture someone drew of Shiva and he's like oh I people don't buy these pictures this picture I said well I said my party goes they think bad luck here in India so I said I said his dish isn't she even the goddess of death He says it really it's really the The goddess changed got us to change I said I will I bought the picture and and two hours later in the gym there I tore my quad Change my whole home Because I know my wife remember because the man is it was physical therapist she was helping out She helped me out she called me up and we were talking about you know my physical therapy So how did I turn my quad in India? I never would have my wife which means I wouldn't have my kids which means I probably wouldn't be Florida right now, so You know, you think you were the name the one of your daughters she but after that. Yeah Deadlock I don't know so All right, I'm out of here. That's the beautiful story Dave. I will remember that for the rest of my life I was the best fan of your wedding. Yes, you were the only man in my wedding That's right, I still love all these daily collider logo John I love you. I love you John I will talk to the Assidina this question what about you know they search hold on Jimmy listen You know they show these a lot of these celebrities with the hand in the pocket You don't want to send me those pictures it's like a sign of the the McCree Mason's right Yes, I did yes How it's starting even is a free Mason it seems right those flex wheeler So Jimmy the one eye It Jimmy is a free me Jimmy your free me. He's the right He's the one tell us about all the conspiracy theories. So you know I have to say that yeah, that's what I thought I don't think that's why you're probably the next fire. I'm probably gonna be fucking it John That's what's gonna happen. I'm a post fucking god. What level are you? I can't tell you what level I am He's ground level obviously John Oh my no, I'm fucking so go with my underwear We're supposed to fucking John The fucking game with the fucking nine's You know you guys are like you guys like you take your hair for glass of water you put it on the fucking table I say Dave John what are you? She oh Jimmy get your dollar out. I got to show you something That's what you guys are you guys fuck will be constantly You're gonna be going Jimmy does a K look inside of a circle. That means this is accepted at circle K This means No, you ain't allowed to fucking circle K anymore unless you got a vaccination How about that? What's going on in New York now you can't you can't go to the gym I heard in New York City I think if you don't have a vaccination Yeah, I call them Oklahoma just to the house that we can't go to gyms we can't go to restaurants We can't go to fucking theaters we can't go to the horse unless we have a vaccination god Okay, at that 20 minutes after that he just got it did died is fucking Girl's ass So much while again, she's not getting died What happened? He got charged How about that? He had charged Investigation showed that there was there were women who have come forward to say that he was manhandling them and it's Provoked by John you missed your ball brother. They want him to call and the next phase is they could probably bring charges against him Will they? Probably Then a crowd they get away with everything You know brinGHim up on charges. Let's go back. I gotta go. Thank you. I lost fucking three pounds John Dave George. Thank you very much. I gotta get out of here now. I gotta go I love you man. I hope you we're that shirt good health, please I'm just trying to make you guys aware of things around your world you understand? I'm not trying to convince you or Turn you into a flatter. I'm just trying to share information with everybody because I want them to know Other than what they told that's still like that I love people and I want everybody to know the fucking truth or or maybe possibly No good information that I believe them through or not That's all I'm not trying to turn anybody I'm not saying I'm a fucking brainiac my name a new truck Give me new trial is Jimmy to full. Okay. That's all I'm trying to say Okay, reference That's why the Jimmy new trial is I'm signing out. I'm signing out Jimmy new trial I'm not sure Oh, I got one more thing. I want to say I got one more thing. I want to be dead Somebody mentioned One of my friends said I'm not a scientist He's gonna start talking about the moonland these are that bullshit right because while you you're not a fucking scientist Why I got to be a fucking scientist the fucking investigation on my own? I gotta go to cows you're gonna agree to this I want to think outside with this motherfucker's a tell me or show me our TV No, it's nothing wrong with that Nothing wrong with that Well, it helps if you're educated enough to know off the bat what's fucking Crazy bullshit and what is you see don't waste your time Results call the doctor nation John it's called the doctor when you was a baby when you went to school You will find your own you just thought fucking visiting your pets and you went to kindergarten Okay, the first day they Scott cuts is did they put a fucking roundbol on there And this is done this is that is destiny a teacher that's what they did you grew up Look at that roundbol. It's called a vaccination It's like universal pictures when the movies come on it seems to fit the things fit it with the fucking universe I remember I remember Don't I remember standing for the pledge of allegiance. I don't remember that shit It would seem like it would be that's kind of a good idea easier for them to control us We were on a flatter than on a globe. What do you think to me? When you think oh Because let's let's make believe for a bit fight go. Let's how glad you brought that up So there is a way to win the believe for a minute before we go We've been making you oh You not for me You miss the fucking Mr. Don't all for you not for me. Okay So let's pick believe you not me that we live on a roundbol and we came from monkeys and we came We were a little sperm in some mud hole fucking nine million years ago and somehow we grew up And we got legs in a mind in a consciousness and and we know it's right from wrong and all that other stuff So if you if they make a state that that we come from nothing that means we me we're on nothing We're insignificant we just a little ball a spec it does just flown around and it's endless fucking universe Yeah nothing But if you renew the earth was flat now that's a different story you say wait a minute If the earth is flat why would they lie to us all these fucking years and if the earth is flat and is at home Covered it like the scripture shape well we must have been put here We must have created we must live in a creation because everythinGHas a purpose here That's what I'm saying so everybody really truly believed that they would have no control of us because we would definitely know that We would put here by God if we ate and we live in a creation and those guys would be powerless against us But we're not we're all fucked up. I gotta go love you guys God be a lighter. I think he just described simulation theater You know you don't want to sad about getting old Is that is that you you can't is that you watch your your bros next to your Period, you know and and you watch their mental decline and it's it's very disturbing I feel really bad for Jimmy he makes a compelling story though definitely is pretty compellinGHe wasn't always a flat earther. No, I didn't think it was a flat earther. Oh, breathe only Yeah, I didn't either but but you know the dollar bill has been the subject of more conspiracy theory And I think I anything ever on the face of the earth It's a lot of shit a lot of hidden symbolism and everything that's out there So the symbol this symbol is oh a the symbolism aspect of what he was talking about should have been separate from his flatter A theory because yes, yes, there is symbolism because there is that there is that free mason Whenever you want to call them under you know ground You know type of Because they fraternity that's out there of people that you know Work together obviously that probably run the world that put a lot of symbolic stuff out there to kind of like say hey We're here type of thing, but I don't think I don't think you know and I believe that there is a degree of truth to that Probably more truth than we acknowledge but I can't buy the whole flat earth thing Well, let's go back to the money for a second. Yeah, you I want to explain to you why There is symbolism and stuff in here. They had a cell this shit when it came out They before money paper money came out we had gold and silver coins right that's how you did Business you could be paid with gold and you paid with silver in different size coins and denominations It wasn't it was because the the metal is bulky and in convenient that we went to paper money And the paper money was supposed to represent and you should blow them out of gold and silver It for knocks Guys who who created these notes wanted to make them extremely difficult to counterfeit and and and Make fake ones that would you know Honestly, I'm not a couple of people's money So they had to make it attractive so they put all this symbolism and shit in here They could make stories about and make this thing the most interesting Most interestinGHistory packed Note that you could ever fucking it when make people want it and keep it and save it and not want the money The metal and that's why all of the paper money has characteristics about it That following in these conspiracy theories because when they designed them They wanted to make them popular and attractive and wanted people to want them and so They wanted the one and because it is stuff they want to look at and see if it's true or whatever But they had a so the idea of paper money versus hard money and that's why you have all of these things that Jimmy thinks the world is flat That's a good story to me. No, it you're right. IMean in a sense because You know and I and why not put all that historical US history on the on the bills. IMean that's the role. You know that's how we had to make them attractive If you have if you have gold in your hand silver in your hand and you're gonna What is gonna make you say okay here bank you take my real money and give me paper in exchange for The mindset of the time was you want to change people's minds So that that's why it's like a cell phone John right? Who can make them more attractive cell phone those the most gizmos and gimmicks in there and that's how to get the cell The cell phone exactly exactly Yeah, Jimmy's just trying to quade everything as it's serious Yeah, there are some conspiracies that are probably true It's not every Rockefeller you know the Rockefeller organization which has to do with the banks little people have the money that control everything That's what he's trying to talk about Georgie I'm surprised he's not interested in current events like why is he what what's his position on the vaccine and all in a Conspiracy is surrounded in the COVID numbers and all that that's the shit that people are talking about now They're not looking in fucking six six six six on a dollar bill right now So And flat are old bullshit to be honest with you when he seen is there a bunch of elites in all these countries that want to try and and control everyone It's like world communism Well, that's what they're doinGHere with this stupid fucking virus is they're trying to control right all right And then when they try to like they say Modularize this group that group this group you separate the groups black white right gay You know trensient all these groups this way is the Colleat this no Create division and with the vision Yeah, IMean, IMean, IMean, they'll be so they'll keep going up each everyone will be Dividing tongue. Well, they don't want to eat and they don't want anyone to congregate and they want people to actually it's like you know Keep everyone separate and then you know no one's gonna fight the government or do or say anything Well, it's tribalism as we tried this driving and that's what happens. Yeah, if you look at monkeys And they the one monkey tribal the monkey If they catch another monkey, they'll rip the other one pieces. Yeah, you know there a monkey That's what happens speaking of monkey now Did you see the I just want to switch to the Olympics for a second that Laurel Hubbard girl You know who's the trensgender from Yeah, who made the Olympic teams who I thought we would always a travesty and she was breaking all these records all of a sudden She she couldn't lift anything she fell all the lifts and she didn't even win a medal at the Olympics Yeah, she couldn't present the good snatch I personally think that she I think she threw the Olympics. I think she she purposely missed the the lifts I think she there's no way she couldn't have lifted that way It was a breeze for her. I think she did a purpose. She wanted to get in the Olympics to make a statement But she knew that winning probably would have been who knows people might have like tried to kill her I don't know you know I Said someone someone someone sent me this thing. I don't know if you see it up there you remember that movie metelda Danny DeVito Yeah This trench ball someone from the UK put this up. It's really funny Ms. Trentville has an age of days since his 72 Olympics She looks like the this trench ball character from I'm just a moment Oh that teacher. Yeah, yeah Oh I could feel like with the big ball. Yeah, she was in the 72 Olympics. She did the shop put her something like that right remember So while we're on the Olympics we got to talk about Simone Biles Yes, she somehow mysteriously was able to do the last of her last event Well, I want to take my C-word comment back last week We already eliminated that's the show We're about oh Well, IMean I want better but I want but I want but I want to explain myself other than the fact that I was hanging out with Lee priest And he uses that word every other sentence That I'm telling you he uses that word for more Anybody who is Was it any a day call the word Or their best friend they use a for a Different year He uses it all the time so anyway I was just talking I'm so anyway I was on a tip of my tongue anyway But what I thought what she did at the moment was pretty terrible, you know, and I still think what's going on is pretty terrible And I what and I just now I'm on the fence about this whole situation because it's not technically her fault She's just subject she's just been subjective subjective subjective subjective to this Victim culture where you know everything's got to have a cause and effect where you got to get them up till the fixie Dave when you want to enjoy you when we were kids did you ever here to turn ADD Did you ever hear anybody on Riddle in what you had 20 you had 30 40 kids in the classroom Some of them were smarter than others some of them were caught up someone's a class clown Other's were slower than the word a little bit slow the smart ones help the slow ones the teacher kept there and everybody fucking made it And it's a puzzle Everyone had it fits as a puzzle You're either a or Z right and everyone made it right, but now Read it because he's got a dd or he's got On that was untruth John that the yes, she has a dd but she was able to brinGHer medication there because of course Yeah, of course they actually applied a head of time for her to get a agreement to be able to have She literally just had you know somethinGHappened to her mentally We don't know what the break was we don't know what emotional issues she was having it's a lot of stress No family was allowed to come with you over to Tokyo They they only let in the country while you competing after you got to get out and have to 40 it I was after you done competing they don't want anyone in there I don't know why they allowed us to have they should never have the Olympics and Tokyo they should have changed it Yeah, sure how to explore it and Florida exactly would have been no problem What was happening she was getting disorientated when she was doing the flips didn't know what's happened What George you somewhere along the line somebody told her it's okay to quit That's what happened and if you're a if you're a good your divine for a gold medal in the fucking Olympics to be the number one person the entire world The seven and a half billion people yeah, there's a lot of pressure you got to be able to take it I don't take it and you fold the deserve to lose I would have called the coach I would have told it Regulatory you got to do this to me the what you did if you fall on your face You've got to go through because everyone's watching you It's the message But George it's the it's the it's the mentality that's been right out of them with this Mental culture and Fucking victimhood nonsense. I will take you guys back to 1984 in the Olympics in New York in Los Angeles The LA Times ran an article a question 15 hundred Olympic athletes and they asked all of them the samEQuestion If you could take a substance that guaranteed you a gold medal But would kill you within the next five years would you take it 98% of them said yes So that house that's how important a gold medal in the Olympics was Now now you're at the representing America You're the top of your team you're supposedly the best one ever and But it's time to shine and what do you do? I'm a little bit stressed out today. I got the twisty. I got to talk to you There's much is required you know I tell my athletes all the time I'm like you know I'm you know I'm pretty laid back coach and sense until I see people crying and complaining and bitch I say look Finding the least not easy. That's why there's not a lot of great champions out there Right want to be the best you have to suffer you have to endure you have to go through pain You got to get this comfort you're not gonna like feel good You're not gonna want to like see people and talk to people you're gonna be and I remember the last two weeks before my The USA championship's in 1985 I was so lean that it hurt to sit down on a chair my glutes It was like nothing there was it was it was miserable I was I couldn't sleep and I I just laid in bed I I couldn't I couldn't relax and that's what you need to endure if you don't have that mindset if you don't have that I do or die I'll die for this attitude you're never gonna be the best in what you do and that's the truth And people don't want to get that today anymore too bad tough shit If that makes me a tough ass, you know Maniac coach whatever that's what it takes So you got your just be a guy who goes through a trensformation or girl lose a little bit of weight That's a different story but if you come to me and say I want to be a pro I want to compete on a pro level Then you've got to endure what it takes to be the best and that's good Well, I'm gonna a lot of people don't have inside them. No If you're if you're if you're comfortable if you're comfortable you're doing it wrong Right it's dangerous Jim Nassick's dangerous if you land on your head you could break your neck and die We know that just like the X games events are dangerous Just like professional football is MMA boxing body-building's dangerous too We they take Performance enhancing drugs you're pushing your body and dehydrating yourself You're getting a That's dangerous there's a dangerous there's a danger component to it if you don't want to be in that zone Don't do it. No, we're making you do it exactly a day if you remember Billy Billy Billy IMean that despair I'm a Billy gun sort of is contest yeah, he was freaking out You didn't want to go on there. He started to broke down. Yeah, you had to think you have a pep talk to them Yeah, I said you let it get listen to me it doesn't fucking matter You let it get to fuck out of it because the only thing you remember is to think you didn't do Everyone feels like this this is what you feel like you feel like the way you like you want to die But if you look up this sonGHere's the thinGHere's the thing See if if Simone Biles Performs flawlessly what's her reward millions and millions and millions of dollars and in Thoresmiths and contracts and appearances all kinds of shit named after her A line of gymnastics clothes. She's gonna be a house old name everywhere and if you know how many people get to enjoy that Run the latter of life This fucking many out of seven and a half billion so you know what the price tag for that Lofty hurts is quite high and a few people Exactly you can't afford it if you can't afford it you can only So it's like I want to buy a Ferrari, but I'm 375,000 dollars Responsible cash shot not do I get in any way? No, I don't get it You're gonna have to work your ass off to get it. Yeah, IMean that and whatever I did Whatever I did to get to that point where I could flake off pocket change to buy that thing that is worth a lot of suffering And it's worth a lot of negative. It's like a lot of stress a lot of Performance enhancing drugs mind-all-thering drugs whatever to fucking takes to be number one That's what you got to do yeah, and if you saw it life Just entered as number one in the fucking world the top of your team the top of the US and say to the world I'm a little stressed out. I'm gonna quit that's that is Passed fucked up so it's like it's like these these people you know that they They want you to hold the hands the whole way you think you think in the elite level of gymnastics or any other sport for that matter That the coach is holding the person's hand and saying oh Rubbing their back. Oh, it's all right. No, you you gotta be fucking tough as nails man You know when I coach people at the elite love who people who tell me they want to be now I'm gonna talk about like regular people know about people who want to be pro body I'm tough on them. I'm not your mother. I'm not gonna chase you for your homework If you don't send me your updates, you're not gonna hear from me. This is right this year in adult How bad what this you know the people that want a bad I hear from them every day they give me updates They're always constantly on top of me because they want as much out of me as they can yet They're not waiting for me to come and talk them into bed at night to make sure they get a good night sleep IMean it's it's pathetic when I see that and I don't How how can people if you don't have that killer instinct that you never are gonna succeed at the I don't believe level we're talking about triple late. Remember triple ace trening at you work to midnight and then at midnight When it was getting ready for WrestleMania You be on the bodybuilding diet like in a rain for show and you be trening like a savage you know To get the rain and that's admit that it's Whatever it takes right IMean You didn't want to do this So if it's the reward you know if the reward for all of this shit was a blue ribbon and an afternoon and a park on a Saturday That's one thing when you're talking about the top of the world and most of the world with so many millions of dollars coming your way If you do your job right. I'm sorry, but that's a tough deal and if you get it You don't deserve it Bottom people other things people will go right that's what you got to be What you don't mean it's and it and people who got to the top will tell you this one and then no That and you get only a personal life people dying people things happen people get sick you know you lose your job you know or lose your baby why you're trying to To a copy I lost his audio Yeah, Mr. G you're mute There it is It's something it really depends on you know where you want to go with what you do you know like I said it There's so many different levels you know what you're in when you're at that elite level there's no excuses There's no like Hold my hand there's no like feel sorry for me because you know what those people finish last those people don't finish first Hey, I just sort first-hand Did not the girl who's in the you'll see she just wanted one of the first-round knocked out That's weekend and Vegas yeah, and In the trening She They would just that was destroying the coach Kind of on a back for like 15 minutes straight go That's she was gonna fight it she did that and she was freaking out and then She got mad and the coach had listened. I don't give a fuck This is what you gotta do you gotta listen what I'm telling you and as we saw you She wound up winning in the first round knocked out because she went to that shit being on her back Yeah, you're just like being on your back for 15 minutes straight being choke Get about it Every day It's What's going to Jimmy's girlfriend's you want to go I look I In a marathon right you run marathon. Yeah, like so what happens? You could run you could run 25 miles and you got 1.2 miles left to go and you want to quit Yeah, like like there I That happened to me you hit the wall. Yeah, so my dad was at my first bad Thought my sis dad my dad was listening You don't have to keep running you can walk with your god of finish Yeah, right with my slip by my I've never forget that I had food poisoning joke I'm kicking the day And threw up hip like through what I finished and as a result the finishing that Experience was able to to give me a life going through things that you're gonna It's really simple, Georgie. We are from a different era We're from the era of when Apollo 13 was in trouble They shut the door the flight command. There's the first thinGHe says is locked the doors Nobody leaves failure is not an option You can't consider it you can't do it give me was that was that was stage too bad I was fake well was Jimmy would say the Tom Hanks directed that scene You're out the middle of the ocean and it's only one way back to swim yeah You got to do what you got to do and and this This generation is some own bios generation is loaded with victims Quitters people with shitty work ethic and and and The no concept of what it means to not put yourself first to put your team first to put your quest first and you last I don't know how to do that so it's and it's not her fault She was taught that she was taught somewhere along the line that it's okay to be a victim It's okay to quit. It's okay to put yourself first. It's okay to put your team last She was taught that by someone I think she wasn't but I think once she what happened was with the whole Olympic gymnastics program Because of all the pedophilia that that doctor and I said they got He was you know molesting all the girls and everything like that after that It's because it was it was a rain of terror of a terror You know when when Bella Corollian and the wife ran everything they kicked everyone out and they clened house now Everyone's in charge of themselves now. So you don't happen when the when the you know when the Cats away the mice shall play and I think it law they lost that killer instinct They don't have that they're at all these coaches now are afraid to be tough on these girls Because they're gonna get arrested or they're gonna get brought up on charges They're gonna get fired lose their position So everyone's like well, let the kids run everything. It's like it's like going to school and having to teach And not be able to keep control the kids, you know So yeah, it's you know There's a certain benefit to structure and discipline and toughness Yeah, what? And we teach it any more it's it's it's not loud because everyone's allowed to be cool everyone everyone's a winner John When I was in school in the morning if he could hit him when I was in grammar school in Long Island The teachers could hit us my fifth grade teacher Mr. Lowes used to keep it RELUS stand fully yard status from the lumber yard and he would break him over your ass in the front of the whole class We get put everybody in his circle put the desk in the middle of the room Bend you over it and break the fucking rule across your ass in front of everybody and better time That's how I went to school imagine Today oh my god happened another about it. Yeah, you you really are you you need to be humiliated The toilet lesson, well now you can probably you know many times I had to go through that over a whole year How about you were you acted like a dick when you like 18 19 and you got punched in the face IMean you know and then you realize you know Being a dick I gotta you know I can't act like an asshole you need the boundaries Yeah, we need discipline everyone needs it kids drive off brave new world guys That's a bottom line here. Hopefully hopefully we survived this the whole world of the world Was that girl on drought was she on medication? No, she was on she's been on ADD medication for our whole life Oh my god, because she's needed it. She's a kid to cook in the school. She's been on since she three years old So it doesn't it doesn't matter that's what she's been on she and she didn't they didn't take her off the medicine They tried to start a whole conspiracy thing saying she didn't get her medicine in Tokyo because it's illegal But they weren't they applied ahead of time and they got her the right to be able to use it That's what I'm saying it, but these keep they put these people on all this which which always it actually screws up your own seren toning Of course, you know a cycle top of drugs because Because the very thing is trying to try to stop suicide causes that I Didn't I think George you know my theory on the whole of those drugs is that on people that really need it Because they actually have a deficiency in certain things I think it works well on them. I think it's when you give it to people for the wrong reason who don't need it That's when you get those crazy weird side effects like the guy John Was the best to gain the teller hoot and teller hoot and didn't really have depression He wanted to take steroids to spawn and take a moy from him and then and then he went to depression because he was losing all the muscle He made I think that and so they put him on an ante to press it that he didn't really need And we're just going to Call suicide alleviation and baby dry base right but a lot of what I'm saying is he really was Clinically depressed because of a chemical imbalance Propting that the ante to press it would have helped him it ran in the family his mother was mother was depressed And it's just a tried committing suicide or his mother or vice versa. I believe that diet and And and and a protocol talking to somebody and and having A tool to to lift you out of it naturally is far better than trying to try to introduce and drug It's gonna it's gonna actually alter your your step your mind You're here 100% right with the diet 100% right I've done it look I've done it my whole life with people coming in on on the drugs. I take it off Yep, I Go do you feel like I only has three or four suicides to his dad That's right fact that it's less than five is commendable I have Z it I have a hundred percent success rate What do you buy the way that's me? That's because of you not because of you John you also need you need your soul. You need another thing. No, you're gonna feel you're gonna feel bad You're gonna feel fear everyone feels that you know It's called that anxiety which we're supposed to feel if you lose your job You're supposed to feel fucked like fuck by the way. I'm gonna dope It gets you to go up move up and survive and get another job. Yeah, you know what George you had a friend who was who was I went through a very difficult time What personal loss, okay, and I often Is trash is lost with so severe Multiple family members that that I often asked him how do you possibly cope with this amount of grief and pain and Laws how do you do it and he goes you just have to accept the fact that this is what it feels like to be alive No, you're all your feelings are not gonna be good ones is all it's not gonna all be sunrise sun sets and rainbows You're gonna have you're gonna have difficult times in life and they manifest feelings and those feelings The thing that you don't do is numb them and blunt them and turn them off and take drugs to suppress them You've got to feel them you're gonna feel them and and deal with the feeling and feel terrible and cry and feel It lonely and alone and then get that out and then you'll start getting back in a life and you know things Things pick up and you never lose your memories. You never lose that that grief But you still move on you still find life worth living because you would understand how it feels And it's chose to be a survive It chose to be a surviving just like the people in our shoe with Survite the concentration camps speak to them Speak though what what what could you go for and see your whole family it killed in front of you And then every day That you could be you burn the light or gas gas You know or home I'll leave you I'll leave you with this final words. I got an I got an interview Mr. USA after this Which would probably be a little more interesting this conversation, but maybe not I know for sure Jimmy sent me a street chat of a they found a black hole with a light behind it somehow You know supposedly black holes are have so much gravity that they suck everything including light into the into the hole That's when they said black so I don't know I sent me a picture of it It was yeah no one Jimmy was a reflection of dust in the lens It's already named it it's where it's It's called the Albino black hole. That's what we call you Anyway, I know I I wrapped this thing up guys love you I'm gonna I had a fun today with John in the George and of course Jimmy to bowl is always very entertaining and I love Jimmy Let us know in the comments below who thinks that Jimmy's right? Do we are we living on a flat earth is there a conspiracy going on here or do you think he's out of his mind in the comments below? Let us now And I have six six six is all over your dollar You mean it Jimmy doesn't read the comments. Oh you know George I forgot to show You sent me though you sent me a great box of stuff I had not tried the bagels. He sent me his protein bagels and he sent me all the leaf priest white chocolate stuff My kids are not good He made a white chocolate with with fruity pebbles in it Yeah, oh we're fruity pebbles. Yes He sent me the white chocolate with the fruit in it that was yeah the mango is a good tip But you got it you got to make the fruit you got to find like a keto cereal you could put in the George so it doesn't have as much sugar. Yeah, IMean I could put I could put the Pop-tart I could put that in the crush that and crumbs it and crumb it up in there. Yeah, or We'll just get like a keto cereal that has no carb's in it Oh, this oh that keto cereal. IMean yeah, I'll the cereal school my favorite is the cereal school Or what is it man? The cereal I come go to the health food store. They got a whole variety Yeah, the cereal school that's good because it doesn't have anything to bother you stomach in there It's like zero net carbs. It's pretty amazing. I eat them all the time Five it's a five Yeah, who's putting fiber. Oh, yeah, it's fiber definitely a lot of fiber. It's still not a fiber But they're not digest now they're not if it if it's if fiber is a car But it's bite definition not absorbable so if you have 20 grams of carbs and something But it's only 19 grams of fiber there's only one Gram of carbs that can be absorbed that that's what they call the net carbs That's the most important thing you want low net carbs so Carb is a five Don't you want to absorb Don't you want IMean don't you want to absorb some Carbs IMean not not if you're trying to lose weight You're trying to make a lot you're trying to make a low-carb snack here, right? Isn't that the right? I've been doing that. I've made keto. IMean, you know, it's a balance with flavor Yeah, you know, I'm saying that these are taste really good. Try this cereal school keto Keto cereals you can maybe mix it into your white chocolate mix there a lot of protein too All right, I got to wrap this up day to let go here with the entire whack pack We will see you next week valentine will be back hopefully with a clear heart

=== FILE: JUDGING BODYBUILDING IN THE MODERN ERA! AH Podcast (10⧸6⧸20) [d1Dhqbnc6A0].txt ===

You want to save God your help, maximize your immune system, grow muscle and lose that faster? Over immune is not herbs and spices. It's not a proprietary one, it's patented, it's a one-of-a-kind product, it's backed by science from the University of Wisconsin Man's. Over is approaching an ad about it's different, it's real science, it gets real results. Check us out at Providatcom. Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If you're the hardest trening person at your gym, you are old school. If you hate math, but you can count by forty-fives, you are old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. When you're asleep, there just get a start. John, D's, after hours. Welcome back to After Hours, I'm of course a Pulumbo here with my compatriot and crime. John Romano and what's hanging on over there in South Carolina. You are lucky that you didn't have this show yet planned for yesterday because I was half dead with food poisoning. Oh really, that happened. What do you call it? Hunk. Oh no. Really? Wage it fine that. Oddly, it's publics. They never have it and I'm like, wow, they got concoct. I'm going to make some, you know, whatever. What is that called it? Is that's congilly? No, it's congilly. Same family. It's different. It's congilly. It's congilly's way better, but you can't say that. What's the Italian name for conch? It's a different. It's a big shell. You know, that big shell. I don't even have a name for the Italians. No? I think you guys congilly's like that, but it's different. It's called congilly. But anyway, for 22 hours, I was like dying and now I'm still having eaten yet. John, you know what's funny? I can hear it in your voice. What? I can hear it. You sound, you sound a little bit rasping a little bit like, you know. Adam's dog, and you're sitting there. From copinGHis brains out for, uh, for two days. Were you vomiting? I, well, see that's the thing. I have this condition where I can't bomb. My throat literally snaps shut when it, when it starts. And that nap and shut feels like there's someone dripping my fucking esophagus. Oh, it's just painful thing that I felt. So when I feel like that coming on, I got to like push it down and swah. IMean, I fuckinGHorrible. And then of course, if I would just puke, we'd get Adam, even instead, I got to wait till the travel's all the way through my intestines and, you know, it's fuckinGHurts, man. So it was 22 hours of just fuckinGHell. I'm trying to think of who that Indian woman in your background, that picture on the wall looks like John. It looks like someone we know. Who? The Indian woman behind you. I don't know. Some, after the artist, my wife made friends with. What does that look like, Greg? I can't really tell. I got to shit a Jenny Blackman. I didn't, you know, want to throw out fits. Yeah, lifey. You know, a story about when Blackman came home one night and Jenny had her boyfriend in the bedroom with tied up and handcuffed and she was whipping them. I like her. She's a good, I like her. I love her, man. I kept her in Vegas an extra day one time. There were any Olympians. She was hanging out with my whole crew party and everything. She was a blast. I think it was cool what she was doing. I just think that Blackman's seeinGHer. That was what I was laughing at. That was the thing. What she was doing was not a sight. The fact Blackman walked in and said, No, you're probably walking. He's like, where's the vitamin C? Yeah, I'm thinking for the first time. Yeah, I'm looking for the vitamin C. Like ignoring anything that's going on around there. I wouldn't mind being tied up by her. I'm telling you, I would have been fine. So you know, I found out my cousin, one of my cousins told me that my favorite uncle, my cousin's father, who's no longer with us, my uncle Frankie, who happened to have been on that show. That's incredible twice. That can be a seven. For makinGHim made, he made sculptures out of the sand. He made like a draw, he made a king Kong. And it was so big. And so realistic, they had helicopter's over. Oh, going over. It looked like it was something on the beach. Got beach to watch up on the beach. Anyway, I found out that he actually had a child with like one of his co-workers. He was a hairstylist. He owned hair salons. And I found out I have a new cousin. And ironically, the new cousin is moving like 10 minutes from where I am here. So I have a new first cousin. I never knew I had who was like 48 years old, you know? Which I did a family, mother or father. Bottom, bottom, bottom, bottom, top inside. Yeah. Oh, it was just a plumber. Yeah, well, IMean, yeah, technically a plumber. But obviously she's been remarried. But so I just think it's kind of weird. You know, when you find that, I'm just, you know, everyone finds their lost relatives on answer and sister, you know, because the, you know, if you've been adopted or you don't know your father, you know, you're a father, you know, a lot of times you'll upload your, you're, you know, you're getting a test that send it to the ancestry and they can find matches for you. You know, I'm always petrified that someone's going to contact me and say, I'm your brother, you know, and I found out like my dad. No, worse, I'm your son. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's, that could be worse. Yeah, I don't think that's going to happen. But there's plumber here in the Jersey show. They're going to plumber is plumbing. That's more of a genre monod. You got another daughter. You got another daughter. I thought you were going to tell you. No, IMeant to tell you Dave, I talked to my aunt a couple months ago. She said her cousin is a plumber. Oh, we knew we were related. I, that make, now that makes sense. Because, yeah, I said, well, where? Well, you know, what is she going to, this is Palermo? She's telling me. Yeah, that's, that's around the same area. It's got to be related. We got, I knew we were related somehow. Had too many, too many coincidences. We should, you should upload your stuff to answer. She maybe we're brought out of the, I know now that I know that. I am. You guys just like, John uploads his stuff and it comes back. I get a match. I'm like, look at it. So I'm like, who's this match? I got, you got to broaden the genre monod. I'm like, what? That makes sense. It all makes sense. No, no, no, no, no. He's your twin actually, you know. So anyway, so I, I, I sent you, I don't know Greg. Did you watch the video I sent you? When? Oh my God. I emailed you. You say the like emails. I emailed you a link to a generation iron video about, Yeah, but if it wasn't of some guy getting fucked in the ass, would it's even better show? Yeah, I didn't know. I wondered you said it today? No, I sent it a couple days ago to give you some time to watch it. But I'll play the clip. I'll play the clip. It's, it's generation, I did a, like, a little interview with Steve Weinberger, George Farrah and, and Kai Greene, probably was all, you know, older, and they ran it. It's basically Steve Weinberger who's obviously the head judge at the Olympia, talking about, you know, how they judge and what they pick, and George, the Farrah and Kai are asking questions, you know, and say, you know, questioning things and placing it. It was pretty good. It was more like, blind burger and George were ganging up on, on Kai. Yeah. Kai's like, you know, let's play a couple of little timestamps so you guys can watch it, and then we'll talk about it. Because I want to see what you think about, you know, some people say judging is politics, some people, politics is Kai would say. Some people think it's, you know, it's legitimately judge, some people think that, you know, and Steve has a good explanation as to, you know, basically, you know, we judge what's up there on that particular day. So let's play the first clip. Yeah, let's play the first clip. Well, nation is flawed. All right. Well, let's talk about it. Let's play the clip. We don't care about who look good yesterday or who's going to look good tomorrow. It's who look good that day at that time. Somebody could say, oh my god, you should have said it yesterday. Yesterday he looked great. Well, you know what? You know what I'm staging now with judging you now. This is what you look like in his dining and placed. IMean, it could be a guy that doesn't have the best conditioning, but has the best shape, but because he wasn't in best conditioning, he's not going to win. A guy with the best conditioning will win. It depends on what is in front of me that day. You can't say because feel he be high green. The guy green is not going to come back next year and beat him. It depends what happens on that stage. Not yesterday, not last year, not with, you know, their projection of what they're going to be like. It's what they're like right then and there. Any questions come to mind, George? Not really. It's hard to judge, you know, like a lot of times. And I hate this. I see many times people seem stuff in the pictures. Oh man, Sean Ray, you should have beat you. I don't know. I was there. I see my doorion didn't. They're not going to look better than other people. They're guy in fifth place. Maybe he has the best back double-bice up. And he looks like, it's like, All right, so that's the first club. I think our way to go back to the bice. Well, they're the only other people. So basically what Steve is saying is that, you know, he has to judge what's there on that particular day. And I agree. Because you know what? We see pictures on Instagram all the time. And I, you would swear the guy's going to win the show. And then you see him up on stage and it's not the same effect or you know, they He there's something that they lose is a little something or One guy comes back better at night than he was at the free judging so You know, it's very easy to criticize from looking at pictures and videos online and unfortunately In COVID we really no one can even go see these shows anymore We have to kind of trust the judges opinion now. Do they get it wrong sometimes? Absolutely, but what do you think about what what Steve said John? Tyler's making me dizzy over here Luckily no, that's the only thing But so the thing with the pictures is where I have the issue okay Wine burgers like us he's a dinosaur. Okay. He knows what a black and white TV looks like all right So to say Sergio Arnold and you're looking at the pictures You're looking at the pictures of the technology that was available right today We have 4k high definition super super definite we have all this Technology you can take pictures of competitor A and competitor B and and and Put them next to each other on your computer screen pause for pause for pose and you can dissect them Down to the poor size of their skin because the pictures are that sharp so you can't tell me That today you can't put up a picture of each athlete pose for pose for pose for pose Repose the entire show and they're posing routine where you can stop it along the way and and you can you can Pick this apart Infinite I don't agree because she it's about Spodied building is about comparing two physics and next to each other. I'm staying compare them one One you can't take one and I super pose the next to the other you can't do that You can get a short guy put him next to a tall guy and actually adjust the photo with it I did a same height I don't you can't go by pictures though. You cannot I've been backstage And I think after the great and then I see pictures of money in it and it don't look so good You know, IMean I disagree I see you can put competitor A next to competitor B right on your screen in super high Deaf 4k whatever technology we have and you can you can see everything. It's not that it's it's the presentation It's how the better the better part of that is is that when the judge is sitting there and wearing front of them they only see them at the moment and split second timing this way you can stop you can see you can see Every detail if you want the insta replay John is what you're saying Why burgers right he's right because you could look derogize who you could see a picture of me and then that pose They look phenomenal you understand what I'm saying I'm saying pose pose pose for pose can't all compare what that pictures. It's not a statics for I agree I can do it in videos then you can have the two videos playing side by side How they look next to each other though that's important Another on the screen you don't want to show what do you know Let me give you an example flex wheeler was a master at distracting people from his weaknesses and bringing eyes to a Strength and that's why he was so dominant on stage and also because he had the best physique in the world Yeah, but he they would show is where he wasn't at his best, but you know what you you would have sworn he was at his best because You couldn't take their eyes off the guy and you you almost didn't look at the other guy and look at it Right it's a loop There's definitely there's definitely you know page stage right days right. Oh, they're takinGHe'll take your eye off of you won't even look at the other guys because you look at fucking flex Look I know what Dave saying and he's right and it's kind of wine burgers is right too There are some guys who if you look at photos of him you say fuck man He should have won but it that's only because Deposes and a photos that you say right here What I'm saying is you can have the video Technology why say The way of the two guys next to each other or the comparison you can have the video you can stop it you press the space bar and you Can you can look this is what you want you want to have an instant replay So the Olympia gets judged the guys go upstairs and then the judge has sit down and and and the coach Honey romba says I want an instant replay on on Phil he's and so the judge's got to take another look at Phil Ethan What I'm on I'm not saying what I'm saying Did be no way I'm not saying that I'm not saying it what I'm saying is in in a comment to wine I'm commenting to wine burgers statement that you can't tell anything by photos and I disagree with that because of the technology we have today that makes these images so sharp that it's better than being there Well, what I'm saying to you even though making a mockery of it don't you I'm making a mockery purposefully I'm showing the the how I'm saying it over to Bubba and over the top purposefully because The judges judge what their eyes see at that very moment So if they're bamboozled by the people on stage because they have great presentation if they're you know If the flash of how how the person you know presents themselves is drawing their eyes to that person and not the other person That's what got it that's what made them say first place when I got it if you go back and look at the videos and pictures They've had even realized hey we made a mistake because you know what but that's what judging is about About what the answer is when they see that on stage what the body will the made them feel you know Yes, do right that's what the show is about how many times have you seen a picture of a guy? We used big Grammy before the Olympia couple days before we call my God Did you see the pro? There's no fat it looks great. He shredded he's so in he's right on target dry hard Well, the same you see him on stage. You know like dude that's it a couple days ago I saw pictures of a couple days ago. He looked amazing But now you see him up against the other guys and now you see him right there and Even though he's so biGHe's not like what you said about the flex wheel thing I feel like the stage presence of another guy is taking over Yes, there's could body building that's what body building about that's why Arnold used to win What it Arnold used to say sometimes he knew guys were better than him, but he would get out there and he would he would just hit nothing with double-pice He would hit that post that was his signature and he would just keep going like that You know remember story about him with the background of Sergio will leave it He said we should use a dark background You know, so Sergio will even with Glenn more in with background You remember that? Yeah, yeah, no you're right. IMean, that's a fact It's different things like that Arnold is a master at stage presence. I remember Lee Haney telling me if I was Tom plots He goes I would get up there and do nothing but leg poses because that would freak the judges out there would freak out the audience And he would actually he believes that he would actually score higher because the attention would be on him If I want to say I agree with that for a last century, but but on that on the technology is so good No, I think you're talking about something else. I agree with you in the same Where we are saying John you're saying the technology so good You could actually see the fucking blood flowing through the guys body. I know what you're saying bye by side But you can't let me give you a good example That's a judge when when Kai beat when IMean when Phil beat Kai at that last Olympia or one of the Olympias Phil was really off at the pre-judging and and it almost looked like he was probably losing it after period and then he came back better at night Okay, if you weren't that show You probably couldn't if you wouldn't have caught the nuances of how good Phil looked at the finals versus the pre-judging If you saw the pictures you would swear Kai green one the show. IMean ties bigger He's freakier he's got great conditioninGHis presentations really good But in person at that finals Phil was you know, he was raining mr He was freaky looking but he naturally got better to the night. Yeah. Yeah IMean it really it didn't trenslate well the pictures and pictures It looks way better because Kai's it's a part of you know, I totally agree with that But there've been instances where we are you don't need a replay. Yeah, okay? The year j-beat beat Victor Martinez. Yes. It's good one I'll give you Steve Weinberger's favorite the 1991 missile and right that's the one here So you can't tell me that the judges or I'm judging what's right in front of me right then in there and Why in Berber himself knows that's bullshit because he went through it with his wife in 1991 So yeah, but I think that was pot. I think that was really you know a Joe weater Thing and absolutely one yeah, I that wasn't yeah That wasn't but Steve wasn't judging then that was a different judging panel that was ruled over by Joe weater who you know Don't they call but you but you cannot say that the lineage of FBB judging is based on what you're seeing in front of you that day or hell no All of us can knock on NASA should have be Dorian Leroni should have beat him that there's definitely a year or two showing ratio one So you can't say you cannot convince me that it's all about what the judges see in front of him that day because there's too many Instances throughout history where that just doesn't you can not let go of that on this No, let's segue to the next play the next clip where Kai actually lays it out here. Here we go watch the book People walk away a lot of times I've heard them say hey man politics judges rigged what You know, I always said that okay, you know what IMean when you're friend and family Then they're gonna start telling you the truth then we don't have politics and you know in-worth But now as a coach and I'm telling you this and I'm you know everybody know me I'm not a kiss I say even I'm here you know when we went to When we went to Spain you'll beat you beat Phil Ethan's down But I understand why we couldn't take Phil heat from being this or limpian weekly to take him off It doesn't look good now I disagree with that. I think you beat him you should beat him see that I don't agree with that but we saw it I've had arguments they have a show. Yeah, of course. IMean there's a lot of time Joe and I differ so are you saying that there's an optical illusion that not an optical illusion you just In a living color Different not somebody lies see it the same way you could see it on the internet It's impossible So what do you think about that? Do you think they make a valid statement there first on George George is the biggest kiss Ass of all time which is that that But I love but that was the first thing that I love guys like politics What do you think about George George is a great guy in person George you're great anybody knows George I love George I like the break we break each other's balls, but I I do like George a lot What's on my god? He's got a lineage of Bustable history Now what do you obviously we know that has been politics throughout you know his and I don't blame the judges for that I believe I blame the people who Might have been behind the scenes and I think Joe we'd have for many years pulled a lot of strings You know here and there not a lot, but you know You we saw our couple controversial decisions over the years you know 91 misalipia, yeah, but I disagree with wine burger dare because because in living color I'm and GreGHas sent the and GreGHas sent the the the the high-deft Pictures of various women's assholes in such stunning degree that you become the lines and that's what you know a Greg IMean the the the amount of technology we have at our disposal today for viewing things in high definition is Out of sight and for living in living color you can't make that and I disagree I think it's the opposite I think on video it looks better than it looks in person because and if you have the added Ability to stop and you can stop that video at any given point and you can you can spend two hours But that's not a how a judge judge though John then I'm gonna have That's how it has I'm a fine to look obviously you can't do an instant replay I agree with oh The subt that the settle these arguments over who look better who should a one it's a hands down Guaranteed that the judges can make mistakes and This ability proves it is all I'm saying I think what you're talking about something give it to I understand it Yes, you can see every poor understand the blood going through it about I agree with that but can you use that to be a judge You know what's funny? Look at a picture. You can't see the flaws as much as you can Let's not that's not the point But I think that's what Dave's talking about right Joe Dave or no I think you see the flaws more the way John is talking about I don't think the judges quite see as much Right, but that's not how it shows judge the show is judged by a live IMean a live judging panel that is an emotional there they're not robots in other words So there there are emotional beings that are moved by how people perform on stage How they present their physique what they're bringing to the stage Wait a minute that's like comparing one of these dolls that you get a sex doll Did you have any of that look so fucking good? Got the sex I don't have the sex doll in house That shit Not a pseudo but you can't compare a sex doll with like a real girl you're missing a point Sex doll yeah, you're right you can't compare them to sex doll don't fucking argue I'm saying Okay, no problem, you know, but I'm saying like you can't just go by the video I've to me you have to be there a person like Dave said it before with this flesh wheel thing was a perfect example I she guys backstage with a look phenomenal then on stage the guy who look back in backstage Is she couple guys right maybe this one guy looks great like Dennis wolf you still great to me But then when I see him on stage you need fucking look at good as you gotta you know guys you better than backstage Let's the whole stage presence We're talking about let let let's fire first I think the judging especially in the new era the last 10 you know 15 years since you know Man, you just take an over full force and and and wine burgers been the head judge. I think they they get it right 99% of the time but Is that what percent is the one to two percent times where? Things arEQuestionable when I say questionable it means that like if mr. Olympia is competing and he's a little off They throw him a bone if You know You know We're at a show and and maybe there's like something Reason why they may want to get a guy into the Olympia and he has to qualify They may throw him a bone if it's close and and that's just human nature because I think that there is an aspect of the sport of Which we call market ability so we want our champions to win we want we want you know Certain people in the Olympia okay for a marketing purpose is so I think there there's a fudge is a fudge factor Everyone's in a while will we see are you that? We don't agree with what? Any element steady judging when you think judges should use video now you think that they should actually use video age and asics they go back and review they can appeal they can appeal You know, but that's by performance That's They can But even But Dave what you just said is what wine burger is adamantly denyinGHe has to he's a judge IMean to come on, but I but like I said when he's judging and they're on a hundred They're on most of the time to have a judging that in my mind at least to have a judging Get it have judges get it right 98% of the time that's pretty damn good Look I'm you got it. I don't want I don't want them to take this the wrong way I think and I agree with you is since wine burger has been In his position now The judginGHas been almost inarguable at all ever it's always right on as far as I'm concerned However for that one or two percent of the time where it's not obviously yeah Why can they just say instead of the judging what's in front of him that day? Why can't you say an in the guys of judging what they're judging? What's in front of him that day? Sometimes a guy makes a mistake or human You know Well, you know you gotta remember too if you have a decision Okay, where Five judges think the guy this guy wins and four judges think the other guy wins Okay, and we don't agree with the final decision and maybe I'll need to do any of the fans at home This still with four judges up there that thought the other guy should have won you know, so It's not it's like everyone is on in the conspiracy It's not a conspiracy where everyone's in on it. You know some people like one thing some people like this Look some people like like one Trump some people want Biden It doesn't you know it is what it is There's no right answer you know also You know when you're judging if I'm a judge sometimes you have a relationship you might know Phil Heath you might say hey He's my buddy, man I this guy's a good guy He did enough to win as far as I'm concerned I'm voting for Phil Heath even though maybe Kai Green looked better that day I don't know I'm gonna have you blue yourself if you really know someone like that well They all know everyone knows everyone George you know that small in We all know each other right we all know that's what that was so hard to judge Yeah, IMean IMean I got what's it was like Other personalities like you automatically gravitate to want it. You know Extra fruit you kid you know if you're voting for a bikini girl you're gonna vote for the girl that you think you know You like the best you they try to I like minutes so I'm so if there's all proof it's what it is It's a guy Have you guys well for the girls now Here's a question though. Should you be able to what should you be able to appeal a decision now with all the technology John pointed out that we have The ability to do an instant replay in like three seconds you can play it back the live stream Should you be able to say you know what we want to appeal this decision and IMean obviously Never changing in a million years But um or or even better yet and I'll throw this other one at how about have another another round of judging where they actually go back and judge the video No a confirmation of judging around you know now you take it away taking it away It's the way it is just I'm just throwing down I don't believe it you can't go and stay replay. What are you gonna say no no wait? Let's go back to being to replay Can we? Well Greg why do they do that in football? Yeah, but if for that's performance there's no performance Not it's whether it's whether or not the ball got where they measure for the first down Everything are you gonna go back and say wait a minute I green and more stations and the stars and Philly look at his gloat he's got more gloat Stag we instant replay I want to challenge the call I think what it does I think it does two things God one is it it definitely validates the argument against it because you can have you can have two varying Opinions and the video can prove it. Yes. It's too late. They're not gonna take it away from them again But what it does is is humanizes the judges and says sometimes these guys fuck up and what wine burger says They're judging what they see at that moment In front of them I agree with them. It has a flaw in it is all I'm saying is that statement What a flaw how though they're all those guys are in in a pretty much close to the same condition Okay, one guy's a little more dry or you're split. I'll give you an example Let's say a guy loses five judges to four okay, and now and because it's so close So when we appeal that we appeal so when it appeals the decision they go back They look at the video every all the judges and if they all agree Hey, you know what I'm sticking with my decision. Great, but maybe one of these guys or two of these people will say you know what? I didn't quite see it right I'm gonna change my decision and it gives you an ability to them to say you know IMade a mistake, you know You can't do that you can't you can't but you can't go back it could call like no I'm talking about how they show you break it the same day The way you know what I'm saying is you can't go back at it the Empire misses a Okay, cause of the strike, but it's a little bit off the fucking black which is a really a ball in baseball You can't go back and say you know what that was a strike that was right I think you did all the time I didn't you can't argue balls are strikes. I don't believe that you could okay Kai-Gree and then more striations and styles right what about if they if the guy swung can they go back and and review Whether he actually can't you know when no I yet No, they don't review that an Empire can call ask another Empire His opinion first based on power did it go around? Yes, he went around but they kick out of the video tape on that they go to the bottom football the judges Reps are on the sidelines watching the video right at a football. Okay, but let me use your question What are you actually reviewing it still you are you sayinGHe wasn't hard enough to sky was Let's go to the big what are you arguing? No, but the same thing you say it round one comparison one more look yeah I stand in next I don't see it man. I don't listen to me who's better artists Picasso or fucking Michael Angela me Michael Angela's way better to put up Picasso look like he did a fucking a kids painting and shit Okay, but but there are people who would say for castles, but what I'm saying is body building is a matter of opinion We've seen guys over the years. IMean that that were phenomenal if you put fucking You know like Frank Zane and his prime against fucking Marcus rule Frank Zane would fucking beat him every time because of what we use as a criteria for bodybuilding But realistically Marcus rule has to beat everybody part hardness everything What I'm saying to is you can't just do that you can't go back what are you reviewing? Okay, listen I'm a judge and I stayed you know and I say to you okay, what do you want to go back to the video? Okay, what do you want to review? I do it the chi green at more striations in his thighs than fill he But okay, but Phil he's overall condition was better his structure the all what he did at that moment What Phil he did this is what fucking wine burgers trying to say and wine burgers watch his show is free with men At that moment when they were doing it double by step though whenever they were doing it when it was doing Apposes it just it was something there that may be Phil he tied at that moment over die green You could go by for body property. You can't judge on that you're judging on Basically how he executed the poses the whole the whole ball of wow your right I'm going to try and what you're saying is you can't see that on a video You know, yeah, I don't think you could go back and forget listen But what do you want to review who's hard? All right, yeah, yeah, IMean for us at the first old Greg your 100% right It's it's an impression it's an impression that people You know why I'm trying to say but what I'm what I'm John and I am saying is what if you had a third a third a fourth route What if you want to call whatever number round we we add another round with a the judges each it have a little monitor They're looking in they see the entirecomparisons and they get to look at it from a different perspective what watching it on video Looking at the at the perspective and then they have the ability to either agree with their decision or actually change your decision No, no, no, no, you're wrong. This is before this this is before the final results are submitted No, listen to me though it baseball It's it's the board football whatever it is It's like okay a ball was hit He called it a foul ball, but really hit the white so it's fair Do you understand or hit you know he died beat the other guy the first space but they called him out So it'll re-review that I'm saying is you're giving the judge you're giving the judges and the ability to get a second look so to speak to make sure that their decision that they initially saw Was right But what are you looking at it what are you looking at it what are you looking at it tonight show What are you looking at it to comparisons? It's the same thing if you have an a question your mind is your a judge and you're saying fill he's Kai-green fill he's tiger and I can't make up my fucking mind. I want to leave again video, you know and you look at the video now you can see side chest front though Right, I grab red you can't pose for pose for pose and you could you could watch exactly what you see So watch in 25 times if you want right you have it. I just don't see you're taking out Listen to me in in sports when you get I understand because you get it wrong It baseball it was if it was called a foul ball, but it was really fair He was really safe at first. Okay. He was called out, but he was really safe Okay, safety with football. He made it over the line. It's actually a first down whatever But the difference in bodybuilding what are you actually going to keep telling you you look at you compare You're watching the same thing that you saw so you're getting comparisons What do I want to see I'm the judge? I can't decide between who had a better front double bicep Kai or Phil now I can see it on a video in front of me. I can stop at the video I can count these striations. I can count those striations. Now yeah, I'm going to change my mind I think now that I've seen it again I think that my first impression was off and I think I'm going to give it to Kai. I Understand it but you're still it's the criteria the criteria of what are you looking You're actually going to go back and look at who looks better in a double bicep You look at the first time I just feel that you can't do that But it's not based on performance on stay IMean perform you know the performance What if you were paying attention what if you had a bad day You know you maybe you really didn't take your good look and you and you've forgotten what you really saw Maybe you wanted a second look as what John said I don't know I don't know if you should do that though. I just don't see the difference No one would know anyway would be behind the scenes It would be done but I agree with wine burger though. I do I I understand what he said. Oh, I do too I bet it shows and I've seen people say someone so should have won and I was like no way I was there man. I big difference when you're there I agree with you but sometimes a lot of that shit politics. IMean when I get into it You know what what one burger is got a tough job To in that position. It's a very difficult and a subjective sport like this IMean you get a lot of enemies, okay, so he's got a very tough job What I'm looking at is how could you apply modern technology to make that job a little less difficult and or and a little a little less Problematic in the long run and if you can say if you can have an option as a judge You can have an option say I'm having a really hard time deciding who's in first and who's in second? It's that close. I need a better look. I need a second look. I want to see them again Now you get a chance to do that What they should do John I think is at the judging panel Obviously can't do it all the shows but for the Olympic Arnold you have a little monitor You're able to actually write that in there Replay and watch it yourself So even before you make your decision you can kind of go back and review it and say okay, you know what this is what I'm Especially if it's close right you know what they do They all look at each other. Yeah, I think what do you think because no one knows because they because it's too fast sometimes Well, they don't think I'm thinking about between them But what I'm saying is a lot of times Greg is because they weren't paying attention or they turned away for a second This gives them the option to go back and actually because every single one of those judges No, it's had a judge, okay, but sometimes it happens very quickly or they weren't really paying attention on Maybe they just got distracted by something and this gives them the ability to go back and really take a good look So that when they make their decision they're making a really informed accurate decision and and it mitigates to our Give it after the fact Right you can it it makes it very difficult to say so and so shoot a one when the wine burger can say you know what it was really close But we had the ability to go back and check all the judges You know how to second chance to review them again We hit an in person we did it on video we did it at the night show and after all of that It's the way it is that this guy won hands down you're gonna have to accept right or Let's first of all just a little bit You see the enough for debate with the IP. Are they actually thinking about doing this or no? Who knows we're just thrown it up there. It's the idea You put out there that may get incorporated. Yeah We're giving them a great we're getting it or not and she's like she's already like dude you could argue all you want I'm we're not doing that. I'm not getting rust in place So we're like fucking pissing in a fair great five 10 years ago I said this should be a classic physique division. They told me that would never happen and never never happened 10 years later we got it all right, so we got a pun the idea out there That's bringing money while we're getting incorporated That's bringing one money to the sport if that's different from from doing video shit or not you know You know that technology they said in told Trump had that USFL they didn't have instant replay right It's not when they started doing it when he did that that USFL leave years ago He had cameras and cameras that went along on the lion fog players. I thought they didn't IMean what he's about the axe he's about that. I thought they did instant replay too. Mr. J Oh, they always they had instant replay, but IMean that's no they didn't know they never had that in the NFL They incorporated after I think Trump put it and use it on the sidelines like they do now They use it right on the side. No, I know but John you remember I think Trump had the ability to start at that whole thing with the instant replay and then the NFL adopted it when the USFL went out You know I believe stolen one of our listeners is gonna yeah Correct to some but IMean look at the end of the day at the end of the day I think it's I think that anything in everything possible should be considered to give these guys the best shot the best look the best shake because Getting to the Olympia is FuckinGHell and and for you to get there and Realize that you missed the placing because the judge was looking at a bikini girl when you should have been looking at you Or and it didn't have a chance to make up his mind or whatever What do you question now let me ask you question now now do you go how far how far do you go with this replay? Do you go who placed fifth away? Great top five that's it top five whatever you ever Let me let me give you another example. I'm gonna give you another example. Okay, let's talk Your watch when she first hit the scene and figure I think it was our first pro show in Tanthor IMean she was hands down the best there She blutting me so much better than everyone else. It was the and you know if they put her like fourth and I Talking to a judge after woods. I'm not gonna mention who it is and I said how did you put her fourth? He's like well, she looks so much different than everyone it to she didn't match yeah She looks so much better because she was so IMean she looks so much different because she was so much better than everyone But I think it was it was a shock to them if they would have been ahead of the ability to go back and look and Really analyze a way to minute she's so good We have to give this to her you know, I think it would have given them a second chance to maybe absorb it and And allow it to kind of get it because the next show she did she clened up because everyone realized hey, we made a mistake here, you know I don't know sometimes they gave that decision because the other girls and you know Politics that's what I believe I'm a you never There's not supposed to be that's the whole point of the show that but you're never gonna take that out You're never gonna put it to the whole point of this argument the whole point of this argument Is is that there's no politics and and and you can you got to decide what politics actually means in the scope of this What happens if the end of the day is? where politics to be Used in this situation right the end the end result is the person who should have won did not and That's that's the issue now if you can take that away and you can create an error Man, this is not gonna over like politics if they have a their decision if they have it in my look Don't my that out so many things we talk a shit about the IPB whatever is got IMean dude He's not gonna place it up like I forget to get that and that is yeah But you all you want you know what I totally disagree with that and the reason I do is because of my wife and My wife turned pro her free she turned pro in two weeks She went shot right to the top of the whole time out in in Miami at the nationals I was worried about are they gonna fuck her over because of me and And at that point I was at the height of my disc or their disc content with me That's true. I thought for sure that was gonna happen even told Mel Chansey the whole thing And he goes not in I can do that and they didn't IMean just I don't I don't look I like Well, this guy's up of wine burccadult good. I don't think they did that bad that you know It may be if you were on stage. IMight have been like I think back in the day when we'd or was controlling everything There was a lot more politics involved because we all about marketing ability with the magazines now There's no market ability there's no magazines no one cares if they can get this down to where it's almost always right every decision So accurately because they're getting the ability to review things like this when then what's gonna happen is this the sport We'll be that much more accepted by the fans and it will be that much more popular or devil's advocate What do you do if you're gonna? Just the Olympic we're gonna do this in a book. I borrow a classic well You start look Greg you started the top you started the Olympic in the Arnold and then the technology now is so Available that you can start trickling it down to the bigger pro shows the nationals possibly It's has to start at the top first Look Greg it's like when they come out with a brand new car that has a new technology like I love that technology Like the blind spot indicator in the car you ever see that you get too close So I'm doing a blind spot in Blake it blanks in mirror now that was only for the very high-high end cars It started with now I got it my my on the mini van has it, you know I still draw rock out the window It's my technology See it's gay Jimmy we go this while you don't have a criteria that's all I'm saying I don't know what you can go back to replay looking at I still don't understand I don't know how you gonna understand that it's simple as hell You look at the guy you have a question about if you think competitor number 56 should be over number Competitor 57 and it's a when it's the first there's sense between first or second you can't make up your mind You look you go back and look Look it was happy birthday John your 59 now. Yeah. No Well Jimmy Jimmy but what let's let's chase Tyler is one here anybody He wants to hear you rant what's going on it? It's crit didn't set any videos of pilgrim state mental asylum I don't know why he's doing that is there some kind of like a subliving message there You want to go to the mental hospital well I be one a you know I'm gonna play guy my old age. I didn't want to interrupt you The argument you guys had a good argument go with airs all I kind of lay back a little bit You know I'd have respect for some of the tying and that's what we don't so another worried you're having a good day Yeah, no I'm not having a fucking good day. Okay, so I would I got I got I'm not having I'm back to the other because my fucking bed don't call but I got a load of airs for the back So what I was I got airs for the swirl I'm going to fucking job I'm inside the complex of the fucking pilgrim state right You know have a active head today, you know, and there's only feastree be jee street a E street I street only so the guy saw me yeah, go down east she back to left on H street around 126 to fucking Entry I'm like okay, but I'm like I didn't know I'm like where the fuck did he say to go? I fucking drive it all over the place trying to call somebody all this stuff That this woman jumps out front of me. What a hands in the air. I thought she was with the S for crew Stop it off and she comes over to my drive is not I got a wrongly follow me. There they guy his lost He's follow me because who was best those son of a he goes she comes to my daughter I go it's everything right man. She goes they want me to die They want me to die They want me to kill myself. I just won't take it easy man. Hope He's at the He's at the He's at the Pilgrim state mental institution There's you click bait for Instagram right here Yeah But I she'd have replay on Jimmy yeah, yeah, the woman looks he jumped in his truck He's at Pilgrim state a mental hospital institution there my grandfather built that thing probably 70 years ago And I ironically it looks like it's all run down it looks terrible you said to me video from there It's almost depressing. I don't know why they let the thing run down so much What did your dad work out there, John? He he was a Creedmore Oh, Creedmore, okay. Yeah, what do they name all these these mentalist to these these creepy names like Creedmore and You know we're in my Creedmore is that it he was on the grounds of what the of what was the old windchester rifle Fact ice and then now they got a mental institution I don't believe you I want to see a replay That's easy Just getting We didn't Jimmy go we lost him completely. I don't really like it. He's probably Curse them right now. He always call him after every show. Tell you He didn't want to have me on the show. I said you always call from these terrible connections What do you want me to do for you? He doesn't even he's still talking. He doesn't even know you He doesn't even know What's going on Mr. G where we haven't got any cookies in the mail. What's going on? Got him to come and I just made him right here I never get to see in you. He shows us the bag every week and we don't get anything in the mail We'll get a couple I'm still way back two months ago with the white chocolate peanut butter. I'm right what I want to know is what is he doing all day? He's obviously not baking cookies all day, John. No, he's not Are you falling behind in your order, George? He's thinking of ways how to get around sending out our free code I do about seven orders it. I've fulfilled about seven orders a day Which is about 250 actual cookies in bag. We have to check that. You're not cooking enough. You got to cook more Oh, no There he is. Oh, I Be cut off Yeah, let me just finish guy. I got I got to bet the somebody because I got nobody to fucking I'm right I told the woman to go fucking get the truck behind me. I know I thought I know we never heard the story Like we know we're your left off Jimmy It keeps us lost to me again Hey, can we talk about Jennifer Blackment. I end up guys again I like that I like her. She's nice She was a girl girl. I really I add all of the black men's IMiss her her and then to one and a mom Like I'm a least I like the more Oh I just hate getting stabbed in the back by somebody who used to call me as brother. Yeah, I wouldn't might be a tie-up They have been a back a few times I could do without the stamping part Greg I think Steve and I I think I should have a new show with Steve What do you think supplement talk with Steve Blackman? Yeah, brinGHim up bring mommy show with us now. No, I wanted to do a supplement talk with him every week Yes, me or you want you want to hear our tear now Who you date now not for five years? Why not the why do I have a good testosterone level? I'm over at 500 I feel good Oh Hey, some this it this it that shit in the truck is fucking a real pain in the ass man Well, I could a good spot. I got a big it's a story of my fucking life That's what it that's what it I went to go on the evil my family at a night. I got it on the board And we want to go to a ship place Oh Jimmy you know what I bet you were getting great content here Every I was about to put these together where he's Jimmy starts ran through yes stops And then next one and then do the next every week he calls me after the show and he's crying to me about how you don't love me You could you cut me off My Jimmy can you please go someplace with is actually internet when you when you do the show for 20 freaking minutes It why can't you stop? I don't know I told him to do that. I don't know Just stop for 24 Minutes Jimmy Jimmy Jimmy don't stop to get a hot dog. Let him when he gets stops get his hot dog You need to show have you ever been Jimmy stands still ever now No He could stop he's he don't know what you don't work I'm going to keep going I'm going to be going I used to go over his house back in the 90s I used to go over his house because he's he worked for metrics at the time This is before I worked for them and he would give me the boxes of the of the metrics packets because he never used them So I come over there and I get those and I hang out with him for a couple, you know an hour or two And he'd be in the house and he he was this is what he was digging out the basement He had his x y He was where I don't know if it was y other was y-th yet He was living in our house. She had this tiny little house and he decided he was going to double the size of it by digging out the basement So we did it himself Remember that so I go over there And she had these Persian cats which I love cats, you know, and he hated these cats and these cats He would throw the I would have to yell at him. He would literally throw the cats across the room He hated it And he was digging this basement out and the cats would be in the basement while he's digging out. I'm like Jimmy. What are you doing? Why are you digging this basement? I need more room here So he finally finished his the whole house and it was IMean it was a bit what he did to this house was like what John does to John's house Amazing, you know work it looked like he basically doubled the size of the house and Then he got kicked out right after she finished it I Kick him out sooner, but she waited she waited finish the house. Yeah, yeah He had to pass were very happy about it when they got you Give me a eight eight all the protein and all that stuff because he never really ate right where you would be like no He had dogs George used to give me the protein. I know he would have been he would have been bright Extra- He was good a bin. He not only was strong. He was muscular and lean too. I know he's a freak But we could barely move remember he was extifurse a boy. Yeah, it's so much Remember when he had that little rack tail in the back Yeah, he couldn't put it in himself. He had him somebody else doing They have to take a chisel and chisel is elbows to send it. He can move him He was so stiff. He ever seemed on his cell phone. He's like this Eugene who had to best story to did he ever take his stories about one reader? He's gone for an Easter still establish. Yeah, he always told me I have a little part of that It's roll the bitch would take the whole bottle. They actually, you know, they actually moved the nerve in his arm because his elbows became so like Calcified that the nerve was trapped this and they actually relocated the nerve someplace else, you know, I remember the surgery and it worked it worked They were shot and his strength was just as good. Wow So I just I've seen him do the most insane lips on me. I spotted him bro 600 pounds fucking reverse branch On stage I spotted him and I told him dude if you don't get this I'm fucked. I can't lift that off you but he's like don't worry about it He's already doing reps and shit reverse bench that 600 pounds the greatest to me to bull story that That's the greatest, but one of the really good ones is I I've told the story before we went the metrics booth I figured I think it was 96 and Or 97 and there was that they had a contest beat the bull Who could do the most curls or 225 in the bar, which I didn't even try it and I was 315 pounds at the time and so Everyone the whole day got to go and then you came back and then you know You'd have to Jimmy was the last one to go but before Jimmy went Ronnie Coleman was working at the metrics booth with at the time he was no one he had only he had it really even want to approach Yeah, but you know he still had those like 23 and charms, you know and Ryan he's like yeah, me can I give that a try and everyone's like right? Yeah, all right whatever, you know no one no one knew how strong Ronnie was Ronnie did like 75 reps with 225 strict for all not like you know Jimmy's Jimmy's reps were like Who Ronnie was like full range, you know motion like perfect reps. He's like man. This is easy Oh, yeah, he won he beat no no no one else beat Jimmy, but Ronnie beat Jimmy actually I think for exactly that should be Jimmy but but but Ronnie was unbelievable that's how I knew right then and they I said holy we're looking at something really special in the Future man You saw him doing it he had strength any of the size to go with it. That's what was so amazing, you know I'll tell you who would have given her a run tassie column remember tassie Yeah, yeah tassie target friend of mine It's a start of a get and they'd be crawling out in the whole everybody be counting That was the coolest show remember how it would to have to hold the battery out here like this the When we got it yeah, yeah, yeah, that was that was a cool thing Why did they get rid of that that was all? Everyone died, you know all the people around the show died Well Bob still that by was Bob on him show Yeah, but didn't Kenny Castle a Kenny and Bob ran it together You know they couldn't get the sponsorship anymore for it I think that's what it was it was expensive. Oh no women's physique world with a one-sus font of that whole thing Yeah, they sponsored it but Bob ran it with Kenny cast right But what happened was when the magazine stopped being important anymore because of the internet They weren't making as much money those women's physique guys We're making a fortune selling videos. What's something that so what happened to winter stream Wettish him just was the editor and chief of the magazine. He didn't own the magazine. Yeah. No, no, no, it's Bill Jance Bill Jance Yeah, I Bill Jance is the guy with Bill Jance was uh, when is him was just one of He was the editor and chief. I you know one of his guys there When is this the live when is she my little 120 you kidding me? It's got a lot of evidence. I don't know why they don't bring some of that shit back That was fucking I'll tell you why the women the strength stuff was so popular watching the women Aside from the Shmo's who liked to watch it. It's because the women would actually laid on the line If you ever did a strength competition like that with guys No one would do it because they're all like oh, I don't want to get hurt I don't want to I don't want to I don't want to practice it You know that no one wants to be involved but you can get to top women and tell them hey We're gonna have this strength competition where you're gonna have to do this and lift that and and squat for reps You'll get everyone participating at it. Oh, they used to do it all it's that they'd be fucking up there doing pull-ups Squats, you know fucking curls they it the whole crowd who we've count them 31. Yeah, 30 you know what I'm saying I was thinking that holding a car battery out in front of them on the clock That was freaking nuts. Why didn't one was crazy too? You know I worked backstage Everyone of those shows because Bob bought you know, yeah, I was Bob's best friend so I was always you know It was great. They were fun to watch. They really were They would sell that place out to all you better believe it He did it like they would do it in fancy hotels too, right like the health and stuff like up Yeah, yeah They made it like a like a real like like an event like it was like I won year I forgot with it the year Debbie Dobb and Debbie Dobbans died. I was there She died like a month or so later, you know when she went up a Tommy Marathon house But what happened was uh we would it and Bob Bob had me watch the door on the inside of All the girls were changing they were walking on stark naked front It was great. We know how much you know Yeah, you hated every minute. Well, dude. I was sitting there like oh my like like that like in revenge at an earth Oh Like a pervert yeah, hey Dave that you should be bros versus pros. Well, that's right. That's the idea for it For a judge Remember Tazzy yet Tazzy up here in foam and yeah a lot of times I had a lot of the girls in Up here a big one. What did I do in Bob? Bob? I'm doing now Greg. I just talked to him Saturday. He's retired. He's down in Florida. He's retired pretty much You know Bob's in his seventies, right? No, he's there is 69. Oh, okay 69 fuck What happened to Jim Greg solstice? I believe it or not it's still there It's right now it's in limbo because he was selling it at ice post to take it and then he didn't kind of fuck Bob over a little bit You know I heard because friend of ours might buy that Jim Greg. You know I'm talking about is it a Paul? No I Know just guy Paul's the guys supposed to be by another guy that I did I know that you know too I'll tell you after we have to show's over. I don't know what is he on the property? He must own it He was only there's not on the property. That's part of it Is that just a big problem with all that shit, you know, but it's the same range It's a standard shit happen with me when I saw myself in George did the promise that they want to make condos Guys don't want to fuck you hey guys guys guys get the gym and then they don't want to fucking play every month And you know then you're like oh, I got to take it back now because you know fucking playing Okay after having been in a gym business I can tell you that unless you own the building forget about it. Yeah, I agree it's no good That's the McDonald's that's the McDonald's Business model you have to own the land right right of course Well the McDonald's was not in the hamburger business. It was in the real estate. Yeah, yeah, they proved that But a gym when you got because you need so much space when you got that rent bill You know every month just like 10,000 15,000 25 Well some guys have paid 50,000 dollars a month. Yeah, you know That's a huge not to cry building More you're mortgage would be attentive Yeah, you got it. You got it on the building. Yeah It's kind of original brutal. Today especially here in New York man forget about yeah Yeah, I think I think the gym business is gonna is gonna go by the wayside it already is just Just COVID shit everybody's putting gyms in a house Yeah, you know, IMean there'll be a re-emergence of gyms again after this because it's people like to leave the house and get it to freak out in the house Once this COVID thing passes over people gonna want to go and tren it and someone else's gym It's great to have a gym in your house when you can't go any place else, but it's nice when you have the ability to go to a nice clen new gym Or if you want to go to a hardcore, you know, hold the wall whatever you want It's nice to be able to go there and have the energy of the gym I think that'll never be totally it's not the human beings other people yeah absolutely George your right man I'm basically all these all these great gyms It was all the people that were happy to that's what he went. It was a camaraderie Nobody would have phones and anything like that We would talk to each other right right when you're in your house you go like ff five minutes I'm gonna say fight then you're phone call comes before you know it it's hours later You still haven't gone down there right? It's not the same True, no Well, I love jumping on my motorcycle and riding into gym. It's nothing like Working out you get to park right in front of the front door. It's the best way to go Well We're getting to that point again I'm sorry Jimmy the bowl you got cut off again. You'll have to vent next week Fine to go to that next time. That's the best advice I can give you We can truck for 20 minutes. Also anyone watch you if they want to sign up this to Saturday The date seekers to becoming a die a guru course. I'll be holding that from nine to six PM nine in the morning to six PM all day Saturday. It's online You can sign up at the aprilumma.com and I think you guys will really enjoy it Don't wait too long Make sure you sign up before the end of the week also What else is going on? What do we have coming up this week? There's a show this weekend There's nothing Chicago That's the week a fuck I borrow bill class again. I don't know oh the Aliconti Spain show is this this coming week big ranny-old the on stage Do you guys think big ranny's gonna have a shot do you limp you this year? No? Okay, John You look straight but till it gets on stage and you see that behind we turn around hamstrings MIA The calves don't match the thighs you got giant. I got that. You know huh I'm yelling at Tyler the back is not thick. You know IMean why does it have the density right? You know I'm saying I say he's gonna pull up set. Okay. Yeah He needs a freaking cookie John Yeah, I'm waiting for months. I don't get any cookies. No, IMean what do you think about big ramie? I don't keep it cookies We're talking about cooking sorry about big ramie big ramie. Here's the thing with big ramie Okay big ramie has everythinGHe needs to be mr. Olympia I think more so than any other competitor out there except for maybe honey shoe pad But big ramies problem is I don't know who the hell he's listening to with the end because he always gets to the you know To the five yard line and it falls apart and I don't understand why he It was because I I think it's you know when you go to ten coaches it's got to be you. It can't be the coaches. You know at that point right So why does he do that? IMean it's been it's what five years now quite meant it's called it's called up You know you have it's a heart of a champion you know sometimes people panic, you know at the end I don't think he does really Some people can't deliver on the biggest stage they only get deliver when there's less pressure on them, you know I don't know why he can't pull him he's like five percent away He's so close That as rich piano would say it's all about five percent you know which which five percent of you in that's the problem, you know Yeah, yeah, all right on that note guys. We're gonna wrap things up on Dave Pulumbo for John Romero Greg Valentino Mr. G Jimmy the bull wherever he may be and our producer Tyler Scharvel see you next week Later Get the misuppose protein dot net by your jumbo lights and you guys are all getting samples to wait

=== FILE: JULIANA MALACARNE GOES OUT ON TOP! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸19⧸18) [wk1vOpUG9rg].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Paloando and today is Thursday, July 19th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Back in the day, my sixth grade teacher once told me that the thing D students don't realize about A students is that A students are necessarily smarter. It's just that they're the ones who are willing to sacrifice more. And with lessons three months to go now before he's slated to make his Olympia debut, second year classic physique standout, Carajo Para looks like he's starting to embrace the sacrifice. Oh, para really exploded onto the scene this year when he came from out of nowhere to take third at the Arnold Classic. And then for his on core performance he stepped up and crushed the field in his huge win at the upper Midwest Classic. Don't let that small sample size trick you into thinking anything crazy because it's more than obvious that this guy has a ton of raw talent to work with. But with the margin of our being so thin at the Olympia level, it'll be interesting to see where he stacks up against the truly elite guys in the division. Once you get to the Olympia stage, if there's one bogey man, you absolutely cannot allow to come back and bite you in the butt. It's showing up without superb conditioning. But the way he looks right now, I think even an armchair bodybuilding expert could figure out that conditionings just not going to be an issue for Lukas Osloville. Less than two weeks after his first win of the season at the Vancouver Pro, the Osloville camp released some new updates where we see the longtime veteran showing some throw back 1990s super grainy conditioning nine weeks out from the big dance. According to reports Osloville is still sitting right around the 240 mark, which is exactly where he was back in Vancouver. So if they can manage to stay consistent and keep himself within striking distance, you might have a shot to come in and surprise a few people in the Olympia top 10. The race for the vacant fitness Olympia crown is one of the more underrated storylines of the pre- Olympia season, as far as I'm concerned. Well tell you what, the rena-damping underrated about 2018 Toronto Pro, fitness champ Darian Vorello, more than a month removed from pulling off one of the biggest wins of a career, one of the hottest athletes in the division does it look like she's losing any steam. The latest updates coming from Vorello Entertainment team point to all systems being a go, which is exactly what you'd want by now seeing that we're heading into the third quarter of Olympia prep for everyone in this year's field. After seeing what she did up there in Toronto, there's no denying that Vorello is a dynamic talent who's capable of some amazing things when she's at her best. The only question now is whether or not her best will be good enough to make her the next in line to be crowned, miss fitness Olympia. The older you get, the more you realize that trying to reinvent the wheel is one of those things that only ends up leaving you frustrated in the end. But trying to reinvent yourself, if you're patient, usually turns out pretty good once you're on the other side. This week we saw a rejuvenated and reinvented Aaron Clark pop up looking like he was ready to take on the world once again. I know a lot of bodybuilding fans who were glad to see the former 2012 Olympian back in action this year as he made his first 4-ray into the men's open after a long layoff. So now that he's finally starting to feel like his old self again, hopefully we'll see one of those vintage Aaron Clark out of the park home run style performances again at some point here in the near future. To quote the modern day philosopher and hip hop mogul Drake, my Mount Rushmore is me with four different expressions. And when you've won four straight Olympia titles like Joanna Malacarney has, I think you could probably make a convincing argument about why your face deserves its own mountain. Early this week the champ release footage from one of her latest back day efforts where we see her looking as focused and flawless as ever. Interquested to come the first woman ever to earn five physical Olympia titles. However, she just released some shocking news that has the industry flawed. She's retiring from competition and won't be defendinGHer Olympia title this year. As crazy as this new sound, especially in the last minute, it really is not that shocking. Malacarney is one every major women's physique title the sport has to offer including the Arnold Classic. So at this point in her career, she really has nothing left to prove all of us here at muscle in the morning, but like to wish her a peaceful retirement and Juliana, thanks for the memories. And that does it the yet another edition of muscle in the morning. On day full on bow reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Janet Layug Starts Olympia Prep + Andrea Shaw UPDATE + Ashley Kaltwasser Eyes #4! [hcKr3qsMLl8].txt ===

We're launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs. And we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Friday July 30th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It can't even begin to tell you the last time we let off a show with women's bodybuilding. And since we have this brand new clip of Andrew Shaw trening legs with Sid Gillin to share with you, well today's scene like the perfect time to do it. For the most part we haven't had much of the way of trening or physique updates from the trening and defending Olivia Champ since she won her title back in December. But from the way it looks, she and Sid Gillin have a whole dynamic duo thing going on at this point in their respective Olivia perhaps. And to be honest, seeing two current Olivia Champions trening together is a rare thing nowadays. So more power to them for recognizing the value in having such a high level trening partner. Like we saw last year when Andrew is at the top of her game, she can be damn near untouchable. And with someone like Sid Gillin as your wingman, it's hard to imagine her settling for anything less than her all-time best. Now since we're already on a woman's bodybuilding kick, I figured we might as well keep the ball rolling with this new update courtesy of your 2021 Omaha Pro Champ, the Kayla Acock on Tuesday, Michaela posted her first trening clip since she won her Women's Bodybuilding Day view in spectacular fashion two weeks ago. And as you'd expect, she did what she always does, which is getting there and take care of business. I know that there are a ton of really talented athletes and women's bodybuilding that we just don't give enough coverage to. But even in a group with this level of depth, Michaela stands out as someone who could present this serious challenge to Andrea Shaw at the Olympia this year. She's always been one of the hardest working athletes in the business, and now that she knows what to expect when it comes to competing in this division, it's not hard to imagine a scenario where she eventually finds a way to take over. Outside of bodybuilding, in terms of pure star power, it's hard to match what raining and defending bikini Olympia champ Janet Lyege is bringing to the table right now. Last week, Janet let it be known that not only has she started her Olympia prep, she's doing it with every intention of coming back to defend her title against all comeers. I think if you look at the strategy that she's taken this year with her not competing at all before the Olympia, it presents a really interesting test case in this division. More often than not, we see our bikini champions competing multiple times throughout the year, which can be a huge stren on their body since they're essentially dieting 24-7 with no time off. But if she can make this work, it might set a new load management precedent going forward for how a certain athlete's choose to map out their season, and it will be Janet's blueprint that will serve as the foundation. I want you to take everything I just said about Janet Lyege's strategy and toss it out the window, because three-time bikini Olympia champ, actually call it was her test take in the exact opposite approach this year. Despite the fact that we're only halfway through the season, Ashley's already competed seven times, collected six wins, and we already know that she has plans to compete at least one more time between now and the Olympia, because she's headlining the list of names of this year's bikini international. In fact, they think you can make a pretty solid argument for this being the best regular season stretch and Ashley's entire career, which is crazy considering the fact that we're talking about the greatest athlete in the history of the division. And if there's anyone who makes the wholEQuote, it's not a sprint, it's a marathon thing ring true, it's her, because I don't think it would surprise anyone, but she added another chapter to her already historic legacy by finding a way to add another Olympia title to her trophy case before the year is all set and done. And that does it the added another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Daypal Unbow Reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Jewbacca Debuts in Mens Physique at the 2011 Branch Warren [c9rrrWYXx7U].txt ===

Hi, this is Brian Helderbrand with rxmuscle.com, we're here live in Houston at the Branch Warren Classic, and I'm here with Men's Physicom Better, Erin Singerman, Erin, you've been prepping for the show for a while. How are the other boys? Well, I'm going to say Brian that they look very skinny and comparison to me. I'm looking at some of the guys, and I heard I tell his fiance Trent is the one and beat. And I'm looking at him and I'm looking at me and I'm thinking that he looks very, very skinny. That could be a good thing, or it could be a very bad thing. And you're weighing in three what now? And three twenty seven on the go, that's me, that's me. On the day of the show, I'm hoping to drop down from in the 320s turn on 220 to 18. So, that's a good number. I'm going to drop my water Brian, I usually lose about 100 pounds. Yeah, that's what I've owned. That's what I'm holding right now is 100 pounds of water. Give me a thoughts on tomorrow. Is there, do you know the number of competitors for the class? No, but there are a lot of people here. I would say, look, from the looks of the amount of competitors and athletes meeting, I'd say there's at least 300, they're in 50 competitors. If you want my guess from seeing the other Texas shows, let's say they'll probably be around 40 or 50 men's with e-commetters. So, I've got a lot of competition. So Aaron, tell me about your cardio confessionals. I know these were a biGHit on the side. Everybody thought they were pretty funny. There's some good stuff in there. Overall, tell me about your impressions. Well, you know, the idea behind cardio confessionals comes from when I originally started working with Iron Mag Labs. Please Iron Mag Labs.com. Thank you. Like that? Gabe Brian came back for a second there. Lovely. So, when I started working with them, the idea was to find a vehicle to promote their products and their brand while showing people the journey of me getting ready for a contest. And I used that to show people my progress and to give me a venue to promote them. And I feel like it would be an interesting way to do that by documenting my cardio and documenting the thoughts that went through my head whether it be about life and beinGHappy or whether it be about the difficulty of being on a diet or traveling while being on a diet. So it's just kind of, it was a means for me to do two things, promote and also to kind of, I guess, let people follow me. Now, the men's physique division is really growing. It's interesting to see the total number of sheer volume of guys that are showing up for this. You're height and you're weight. How do you think you're going to fare against some of the smaller guys? Well, Brian, I basically think it's going to one way or another. There's not going to be any middle ground. Either I'm going to win this show or I'm going to do really bad. It's really, I'm going to be at the very top, I'm going to be at the very bottom. So it depends on what they're looking for. If they want somebody, they're allowing, I got a great compliment at Team U from a top industry guy. And that's what they want, IMean, what a compliment. That is what he said that they would like to see this men's physique trensition into. So if that's, if they'll look at that, they'll look at us in that light. And I think I'll do it really well. If they're looking for a hundred and ninety pound Abercrombie model, I'm going to do really bad. My, my, my thought is he actually wanted you to dress up like a gladator for him back in a hotel room. That's more of my guess. And of course I did that. I will be placing first as a result of that dress obsession. And we'll see video that soon. Of course, well, that was a requirement. You know, I think he said it's the private video though, Ryan. I'm hoping it won't be out everywhere. Well, there is a thing called the internet. And somehow another, I think it'll be there. But this is Brian Helderman or Brian Helderman with Aaron Singerman here. The, with, you're making me nervous, sweetie. That the branch won't classic and Houston Texas. I walk. Yeah, show us. Oh, he's a little bit perfect on me. You want to see the walk? Yeah, let's show us the show. Shut the knee you call love. What can fast? He you've been a mess. Where you shouldn't have been a mess in. And now someone else is getting know your best. These boots are made for walking. And that's just what they're doing. One of these days he boots. I've gone all the way.

=== FILE: Jewbacca Proposes to Darielle [iReQ7z6p1ro].txt ===

So we are here back at the doctor's appointment, doctor's appointment number two and it's already over. It's already over. You want to, well, should you show what's on your hand or you want to hold on to a man? Damn girl, where did you get that rock? I got a lot of blame. Got a lot of blame over there. Guys, give it to me. So tell us what happened. Tell me what happened. Tell you what happened. I actually know, but tell everybody else. So I'm laying on the chair and get my ultrasound and you didn't do the vagina when this time, so I could shoot the whole thing. Yes, but never vagina ultrasound. So you know, Erin's doinGHis thing, filming it. And we got a little bit of time because we got the heartbeat again and there's like a whole baby this time. Yeah, we can actually see the baby, see the face. It looks like it's blowing kisses. It's just hard. It's very cute. So it's, yeah, you can see the whole, the baby is three inches now. Yeah. And so it's, you know, got eyes looking. Definitely showing that in me. So, so anyways, so we're laying there and Erin's filming the ultrasound, I guess. And all of a sudden, she starts writing, will you marry? And I'm following along. And okay, in my head, I'm thinking this woman's trying to hint something to him. Like, marry my mother, you know, pregnant her. Yeah. I was like, yeah, you know, they're kind of put the pressure on. So then she finished the sentence and said, will you marry my daddy? And I completely shock and speechless. And I turned around and Erin shut off the camera surprisingly. And set it up and got down on one knee and passed. Then you said? And I said yes. Pretty without hesitation. And the lady said, this is the first time she stood in 11 years. Yeah, first time. And the first time anybody has ever done this. I know that probably meant more to you than me. Although that was very, very little. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. IMean, no one here, but you put a lot of pressure on me. You have to admit, you may not have met you. You know, you're not, you may have made me a jail. You've also joked around a lot. Yeah, you joked around, but I felt like there's like some seriousness in every joke. And you said that I, that I being a creative person that I should probably have something really creative and unique when I proposed to you. And so I can't put the budget ideas and none of them worked. And I really feel gratified that this one was met your expectations. Honestly, anything you would have done, it would have impressed me. And I would have said yes and been just as happy. I thought you were going to just knowing you. I just thought you would have done it in front of a big crowd. So I'm actually very happy that you've kept it intimate and personal. And just with us and the the nurse. So I was very happy. I was very happy and it's awesome surprise. Great proposal. So. How old was your child one day? How daddy proposed to mommy? Yeah. Well, the baby was actually there. The baby was on the screen watching over as I proposed. So he was kind of like watching, or she was kind of watching over. All right, I love you, babe. You You You You You

=== FILE: Jillian Reville Posing Routine at 2012 IFBB Desert Muscle Classic [M-kAMM7tzM8].txt ===

Whyof Iwahney Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah!

=== FILE: Jodi Boam Fitness Routine- 2011 IFBB Ft Lauderdale Cup.mp4 [UTZFy3FonCA].txt ===

ägentes & theăn So powerful on this game. D delightfully Attack! Chill inşn like a ts when we'll never do that Chill

=== FILE: Joel Thomas Trains with Ben Pakulski @ Tampa Powerhouse! [rSit-IMamTs].txt ===

Special time! Yeah, come on. Good. Four. Four, come on. There it is. So that's the ground. Four, you have to have a whistle. Five, you can't put the back. Six. Seven, come on. Eight, go. Yep. Keep it down and lower that. Roll these aside. Close the side. Sit. And right. Get your little butt. Get your little butt. Roll it up. There it is. There it is. There it is. There it is. There it is. There it is. For the back, it is called finish. Track it. Three more. Two easy. Track for momentum. No momentum. That you get 15 at least. Come on now. Come on. Down and lower that. Straight up and down. Come on. Straight up and down. Straight up and down. Two. Four. Five. Let's go. Nine. Eight. To get up man. Seven. Go. Let's go. Six reps. Five. Four stretch more. Three. Two more man. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. One. One. One. One. Two. Then the first exercise. Five. Two. Two. Three. Two. One. Five. Six. Four. cinco. Five. Five. Five. Six. Five. Five. Five. Four. Five. Let's go. Let's go. Mom, let's go. 10 reps. All right, here we go. Thomas, at the Tampa Bay of Powerhouse, Tim Downtown, Timma. Nice to meet you. I actually ran into Joel, but I don't expect him to be here. We do not. We do not. We do not. Yeah, I was wrong. But the two hours were not clear. We were downtown and then the goal was to get for a day or two. He's working with me from my house. Thomas has put the share for the North Americans. So I'm excited about that. I watched you keep working to see some footage before they are. Or we need to talk here. So he's turning you near a very hard. I was impressed with me. I'm tense. He is asleep. The normal workout was this. So this is the everyday trening that we're going to work on. Yeah, every time I'm trying to live with you, Tom's. And they're having some push me. So people work really well together. But you're using tense and it's nice to be trying some part of the next thing. Okay. How did you get into the band when you get into the community when you're helping for a counter-chime? Well, we met a couple of years ago. We were trying to get into the California. I've heard a couple of weeks. Since then, we've done like a chance of being a, we just kind of kept in touch. And now it's down to 10 or so. It's really close to me. He knows I've been some guidance. So it's really a good time in the trening. So he's been awesome. I'm a little bit better. I think you have a lot of stress. The first time I've been in the end. And it's kind of the year when you can surprise everybody. That national is a heavyweight. And you did. You got to get the place. Yeah. I didn't know what to expect. That was obviously, you know, I know what exactly one of the, like, but as far as cutting out on the scene, that was a very impressive name. You'd be the one that seems to be the one that seems to be out on the scene. What is the difference between the last year and the one that seems to be out on the scene? What is the difference between the last year and the one that seems to be out on the scene? I'm not sure. I'm kind of in a hydrating flat knot. I think it's much easier than to show that it is. It seems like I'm watching this year. So, you know, I was making a little flat or something. I was expecting. What a story. We remember the happened with my, I'm a glacier. This year I said, I've got a lot of footwear. I tried to get some little more intense and a little more focused. I was kind of shabby when we get more stuff together. But I was just, this year's news to become a lot more awesome. How did you love taking more of American to why you just said, and this one is that the national is coming. All I'm talking about here is, you know, it's a different show. You know, you know, say, how everything's going to be shown. There's always something in the national's. And I heard that. And I've heard that there's a national message you're ready to become a couple of about football players. Well, for one thing I did, I was just looking at you. It was obviously your biggest last few minutes in around 2012. Yeah, I was in a week, to 14 and my hands and in a state shop. I was like, to what? And what do you think about this? Should I further come forward? I cannot run this command for a film the outdoors again. So, you got a point that you got. That's good. That's one of the good. It's a good, it's a Joel Thomas, Eric Samarx, which was a lot of time to be seen in North American in what? Seven. You know, who was this at the week? Seven weeks? Arturo. Thanks, buddy.

=== FILE: John Meadows Passes Away. Dave Palumbo's Tribute. [tBXgBbm4RPA].txt ===

Day Palombo here with an R.X. Muscle News update. Sad news from the body-building world. John Meadows has passed. We've got word from the Meadows family and from this close friends that he passed in his sleep last night. He never woke up this morning. He's been speculation as to what was the cause of death. I've heard anything from pulmonary embolism to heart attack. I really don't know the Bionicity and the Heism and an official statement released from his wife. But I do know that this is a humongous blow to the body-building world. John was one of the most well-respected and well-liked people in our industry. And I can succeed. I can call him a friend and I'm a little choked up. I called Shelby Starns following after I heard the news. Shelby was pretty tight with him. Shelby was so choked up on the phone that he could almost talk to me because he didn't even know until I told him. That's the kind of effect John had on people. He was a good guy. I didn't talk the most time. I probably spoke them over a couple months. I would get him on the TV show on our X-Muscle. But it was like, he was a guy I would call a friend because I can call him talk to him about anything. It was very intelligent, very analytical the way he analyzed things. He was very passionate about what he did in body-building. We probably, if you guys have watched the interviews I did with him over the year, or you've watched any of his channel, you know that he'd been trening since he's a young kid early teens. He just loved body-building for the very beginning. Then when he had one of the, I guess, hallmarks, I think of John Meadows career was one. He had that terrible, the astral problem with his colon and he had to have his entire colon removed. I don't think he ever thought he would ever body-buildinGHim because the guy has just got his his tough as nails. He just came back from this better than he was before. And he said, hey, I'm not quitting. I'm not giving up. And he eventually won his pro-card after many, many years, which I think my hat off them for because that persistence and never quit attitude is something that very few people have that tenacity that he had. You know, that I don't care what people think about my physique. I'm going to build the best possible physique I can, bringing the knowledge, the best conditioning and give the fans and the judge what they want to see. And I'll keep making improvements until I get what I want. And quite frankly, I think a lot of people had counted them out. They never thought he was going to achieve what he did, which was pro-status and then even placed in a 12-show. But he did it because he had that mindset that you can't teach anyone they have to just have. And I wish more people that I worked with as have mindset. But that's why there's not a lot of John Meadows out there. And last year when we interviewed him after he had the heart attack, and he found out once again, it was another vast dual problem that he had had similar to what he had with the colon, luckily his heart was on the mend. And he had said that it was remodeling itself and improving and it was a great interview with him. And I've been watchinGHis, you know, his Instagram and updates he does all the time. Because I think he's a good fount of knowledge. And I thought, you know what, he was going to beat this as well. And I don't know if the heart was something that got him or something else happened. But obviously he had a genetic weakness for whatever this vascular issue was in his body. And unfortunately, he's no longer with us. And I have to say though, a bowl of the souls that I've encountered, you know, John was probably one of the most passionate about what he did. He lived his life for that passion. And very few people could actually say that they've done the same. And that's what makes John so special. I think, and I think that that's what we have to really remember when we think about them. He was that kind of a guy. He lived what he loved. He didn't care what anyone said. You can't do this. You can't do that. He said, you know what? I'm going to do it anyway. This is what I want to do. I don't care if you think it's not, you know, I have a health issue. And I shouldn't be doing it. I'm going to do it anyway. I'm going to do it the right way too. And I'm going to do it the healthy way. I'm going to do it the most efficient way possible. And that's that rubbed off. And any effect of a lot of other people's lives because of that, you know, because he was able to impart knowledge to people. Not everyone, you know, not all great bodybuilders are great teachers. And not all great teachers are great bodybuilders. He was able to bridge the gap and do both. And I think that that's what made him so special. Very few people can, you know, can be that hardcore guy in the gym on stage. And then also for his clients and for the people he's teaching those methodology soup. Also, a lot of people want to give way to secrets. John didn't care. John was like a guy who was like an information provider. And being in that same kind of line of work myself, I can really respect what he did because I have that same passion inside of me. And so when I see a guy like John no longer be with us, it really, it does bring it here to my eye and it hurts me inside emotionally because after all, IMean, we start all questioning ourselves. We're all not, you know, I'm a little older than him. This guy's in there for years and everyone starts saying, hey, the guy like John Meadows can go down. We're all vulnerable, right? Isn't that what we all fear the most death? But if we live the life that has meaning and imparted meaning to us and gave pleasure to others, then I guess we did our job here. And that's really the take home message. Yes, it's a very sad day in the bodybuilding industry. And it's a very sad day for John's wife and his kids. And I will pray for them and send all my love and healing energy to them. But let's also celebrate the life of John Meadows. And I'll be accomplished and all that he gave us. Let's think about that and take a moment of silence. One day, Pellumbo, with an Rx muscle, news update.

=== FILE: Jordan Hutchinson (2021 NPC USA Overall Winner) Interview! [dLz4mXJVqyw].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. I'm Dave Palombo. Today we have a special guest here. He's our 2021 NPC USA, a men's overall champ. Yes, he is Mr USA and he is an IFBV pro. And he's here today, Jordan Hutchinson, welcome to the show. Hey Dave, it's awesome being on me and I appreciate it very much. You know, you're a great story and I'll tell you why because you're a guy who know and saw a comment. You know, we kind of know who the favorites are, usually going into these shows. And you just want to walk the radar and the reason I found out why I would release off my radar was because you have a competed since 18. And give us that whole story. You know, what would you come from and why do you take so long and get on stage and shoot for that pro card? Yeah, IMean, so I fell in love with bodybuilding about 19 years old. I'm 25 now. So I had a year and a half, two years of trening for my first show. It was sad excuse for the show. But I just was trying to teach myself how to do this thing. I'm just from people that have coast coach me and doing it in the gym. What was some of the mistakes you may tell us some of the funny cooking. Oh gosh, so my first product, 2015, I was carb cycling. Right. But my it was four days low carb within a day and then a high day. But my high day was like eat parable terrible food every fifth day. So it was like I was so extremely regimented in the fifth day. Go good nuts. Right. Like what was going on? Like a good example of like a going nuts. Yeah, it was it was not good. But IMean, it was an experience learning curve. And then after that first show, I just fell in love with that. Got a coach and kind of coached out a little bit and competed my first in PC show in 2017. And then competed again in 2018 because I knew I needed more time off. But I've just always seen myself as needing more improvement. So I saw myself short sometimes, but I think it's a good thing because I've taken that serotonin off. So I think it's why people saw me and didn't know who I was. I kind of flew under the radar because 2018 I was like, right. We're taking 16 months off to grow to fill out my frame. I was 196 on stage. I won the light heavyweight class there, but IMissed the overall. What's that? As the NPC muscle heat in North Carolina, I saw you go up in Western North Carolina in the mountains, middle of nowhere. Again, where no one given this herd of body, but it's not a thing out here. So there's really no networking anyways. There's like a few cool gems, a few cool gems, a bit more fitness as my gym there, home local gym, but there's really nothing around here. But first body, but you guys. Because of that, I have to assume probably the equipment is in probably the best equipment that you can probably find. Well, so built more fitness, why go there is they have all these cool old school pieces. They've got like a hammer strength, pull over, they've got all the old school hammer strength. Presses, not the newer ones, I like the older ones better, but I think. Now there's really no gems with cool pieces. There's like a couple corporate golds and stuff like that. How many people were in your high school graduating class? So that's another funny story. I was home schooled. So I'm 105, my dad worked. He worked, but off you taught me discipline, how to work. And my mom homeschooled us. Once I got to middle school and high school, I started doing these private ties classes that were kind of like private school, but you know, 30 kids would go once a week in the new handle your own workload, the rest of the week. Wow. So since I was 14, 15, I worked at least 30 hours a week on a regular job. Really? Like what kind of job? So 15, I worked at a garden center, loading on loading trucks. And that was one thing that helped me. I guess built some muscle before I hated the gym back then. I didn't want to do aromasingle dumbbell curl. I hated it. Well, you were working all day. That's why we don't want to live anymore. I was lifting stuff all day, but I hated it. Let me ask you this question. Do you have a choice to work? Or would like your mother's like, this is the way it's going to be. You're going to homeschool you're going to work. Well, I wanted to be able to do stuff. And my parents did absolutely everything they could for me. They give me the last bit of everything they have. I got this. And it wasn't enough running around. So you had to have them five kids. And I wanted to do what I wanted to do. I've always just made whatever I wanted to do happen. And so basically, I was like 30 hours a week from age 15. Just to make sure I could do the things that I wanted to do. But once IMoved out at 18 or 19, it was just trying to make ends meet. And pay cash through school. And I was falling asleep in my classes because I was trying to get all my meals in. Get on my food, bread, do school. Go to work 35, 40 hours a week. That's crazy. And that was when I was like, you know what? I'm sick of this. I want to bodybuild. And some people had some negative things to say about that. I'm sure. So your family and you're talking about people? No, mostly family. They at first had a hard time understanding what I did. And still sometimes it's hard when, you know, when there's family events and stuff. And I can't eat or I'm bringing my top where I have to skip out to the prep or whatever. But they are so supportive now. But at first it's like, what is this weird thing you're doing? You know, right? But they've always supported me and everything. It's just hard for them to understand. But yeah, I just couldn't handle bodybuilding and school. But it was more like, ex-girlfriends or friends or whoever that were like, you know, man, you need to go to school. Why would you do that bodybuilding? You're not going to make a money. The chances of you making it big in this. That's a genetic sport. All that kind of stuff, you know. Now, what made you believe in yourself? IMean, aside from the fact that you liked, I am the kind of same guy. I'm kind of person that did everything I liked. I'm not even going to regret it. But what made you believe in yourself that you actually had the ability to go far in the sport? Well, everybody who knows this or knows me knows I've always said genetics is going to be the only thing to limit me. Because I will, I will eat dirt if I have to. I'm extremely disciplined. I'm OCD. So my problem is in my wife. So you want some focus on something. I can't stop thinking about it. I don't stop talking about it. I just live it. And so though at first, I felt like maybe it wasn't something I was going to be really good at. I still gave 110%. I skipped out on fun things that 20 year olds do. I was, I didn't drink a sip of alcohol around that time. You know, obviously, I'm great. But 21, I wasn't drinking. Right. I was prepping my meals. I was skipping out on stuff with friends. I was like, I can't come hang out. I'm trening. You know, so then that again is hard in it. Where there's no bodybuilders. Very lonely road. You know, I can imagine that. You know what? You got to be a marks your own beat. I always tell people. And I was just saying it today on After I was recording. We were talking about the Olympics and some old miles. And I'm like, you know what? People don't understand. If you want to be the best of what you do. You have to be willing to, like you said, eat dirt, die for what you're doing. And it doesn't mean it's healthy. It doesn't mean it's going to be a good for you. But that's not what being the best is about. It's dangerous to be the best. It's dangerous to go out there and do 14 some assaults in the air. And then possibly land in your head and break your neck. It's dangerous. It's always nice. Yeah. To run a football and have 380 pound guys tackling you. IMean, it's life is dangerous if you want to be the best of what you do. And you have to be willing to go where other people are not willing to go. And it seems like that was always your calling. Yeah. And elite mentality. IMean, I would my motivation from day one was Dorian Yates like watchinGHim, Trunks through the snow of the gym. And he always talked about genetics. You know, all these other guys had better genetics than him. And that stuck with me because I know I'm not one of these guys that just grows super easily. And I think maybe now I'm tapping more into what genetics I should do have. But I will say I've had to be one of the more disciplined people. So of all the bodybuilders I'm friends with and network with. To be able to make it in the shape by do or put on the muscle I need to. I have to be very, very rich, men's at your round. IMean, I can talk, I can talk to myself like a like a pro you're round. Though I haven't been a pro and it's still blowing my mind that I am a pro now. But I've always put 110% so. After winning your way class at the USA, which I thought you did a pretty handedly handle that. You had to go up in the overall now in the overall and you didn't know, you weren't that you weren't the super heavy weight. It was a guy bigger than you obviously and then he was guys getting it all the way to the police grade. Did you think you had it? IMean, what give me your mindset going into that overall? What do you think? Well, gosh, getting off stage. So my coach is Chris Tuddle and he is so. So in tune with me, IMean, he was he was constantly there for me. The entire the entire prep and peak week and so of course I text him as soon as I get off stage after I was handed the award. And in my head I'm freaking out emotions are high. I'm about to lose it. And I texted him and I was like, we did it. We did it. We did it. He's like, jobbing over yet. That's all the text said. And I knew exactly what that meant because he's always said just go into it with a. Non mentality. You've got to be focused on stage. You can't let your emotions get too high. Can't get too excited. You've got to hold your closets. And so at once I read that, I was like, okay, I've got to beat this massive super heavy. Somehow based on shape imbalance and conditioning because it's the only things I bring, get some massive. Right. And then I've got to beat this light heavy. You know, as well because this shape was incredible too. So I just went back at it and it was it's still weird looking down at Steve Weinberger like, knowing, you know, he's a hedgehog at the Olympium. Like, is this really real just in pre-judging? And then so the whole time I'm just thinking, I got to impress Steve. He's got to know that I can be a pro one day successful pro. Right. It's not exciting. When they called you name out, did you? I always, because people always asked me to question when you're waiting to hear that final call. And obviously I didn't win my class at the US Air or National. I was second a couple times. And it's the worst. It feels like it feels like it's 20 minutes you waited there. But it's really only like 30 seconds. Oh gosh. It's like forever. Yeah. Before they called you name out as the overall winner, what was going through your mind? Seriously. Well, I knew it was close. And supposedly it was by one point. And Eric Wood, he's an awesome competitor of the guy that took second in my class. He was a class act. I have tons of respect for him and his physique. And I knew he was good. And, you know, they even rejudged my class. I don't know if you know that. Yeah, I know that. Yeah, they brought Sid Ray up. And so of course, I'm feeling really good about how pre-judging went. And then one of the officials backstage is like, oh, you're all class. You're your class getting rejudged. I'm like, oh my gosh, I've got to focus. I don't even. I don't just get to go do my posing. Yeah. Which I hate doing posing routines. He's like, you got to get rejudged. And they worked us Friday morning at pre-judging already. Yeah. So I was like, I've got to absolutely bring it because I know it's like this. But when they called my name and it was just a moment of discipline. If I still, I still just can't even believe it. But you're right times absolutely slowed down. Yeah, because IMean, you know, IMean, you could have gone either way. You know, it was crazy. You know, it was crazy. You know, it was a class. It's a horrible feel. And I feel bad for the guy comes in second place, you know, because. Yeah, IMean, I think that's the only place like, Goots and hands that I really, I really shine there. Yeah. But we both had such similar shape. I remember watching them look back and forth at us like, Where's we have a very similar physique. So it's hard to judge as such a look as each. It's funny because nationals, you know, they get taught to pro cards. You know, I say he's only the top guy in the class. So I'm sure we're going to, he's going to see his pro card this year. So I agree. Well, yeah, I talked to you. Yeah, you'll be. Let me ask you this question. You know, a lot of people probably are thinking, you know, Some guys jump right into pro shows right after winning a big show like this. We've seen it happen with the lunch for 21 the USA. Are you planning to take time off or do you think we might see one stage in 2021? Well, Steve, so I'm absolutely taking the time off. And the thing is for me to have done three total empty stations, 2017, 2018. Right. After 2018, I planned on a 16 month offseason. I changed coaches in the meantime. But originally the plan was 16 months. So changing coaches extended a little bit. Then sure enough, I was like, 20, 20 is my year. I'm focused. I've put on a ton of size. I'm ready to compete in 2020. And then COVID happened. And it threw me off a lot. I was without a job. A few months. I was living with a buddy that IMean, he was letting me live with them without paying rent. Because I was just digging out of my savings for everything. That's alright. It was just a rough time. I work a commission job. And if you're not hustling, making money, you're not making money. It's not a, you get paid time off all that kind of thing. So it was really rough. And Chris Tuddle stuck it out with me through 2020. We started in January. But we wanted to compete like that fall of 2020. So it extended my offseason even further. It started ended up taking a offseason from September 2018. And then we started January this year. So I wasn't planning on taking that much time off. But it did be well because I put on so much stage weight 30 pounds of stage weight. Yeah. So my goal though was top five. I had no expectations going to show other than my goal was to top five at a national show. That's been my goal for three years now. Right. Well, you did that plus a lot more. Let me ask you because you had mentioned to me. I had asked you earlier that if you were married. And you said you had a funny story about that. Oh, yeah. Tell us the story. So my wife and IMet last year. She's the most incredible woman ever. The most supportive for bodybuilding. Yeah. She believed in me since day one. We work in 30 for bodybuilding. Now he's not 100 and Sit down. Well. Okay. So Once, the executive is back. And she says hi. Yeah. So we cruise our competition. Yeah. You should sit down. Think about that that guy that's your husband. Yes. She's keepinGHim. Do you know, are you a roller coaster student? really pretty strict and I like that he is. So we're talking, you know, reef, reefy days are just at some rice, at some cream of rice, at some oats. There's no like go out and have dinner. Go out and have a burger for a reefy after like trening or anything like that. So and we did a 20 week prep into my regional show than six more weeks into USA's. So my wife and I get married in March and I was like begging for me to be able to do something with her. But he's like, all right, look, man, you're gonna have to do a steak and a plain potato, split a dessert and that's it. So we're in Charleston with our top wear on her wedding weekend. You know, so that's what's about to happen now is all the dates I've owed her for the last eight. I was gonna say, whenever I hear a guy always say, oh, my wife's an incredible woman. I said, man, they must have been a real bastard. They're very, very happy. I'm not terrible. She'll tell you I'm not terrible, but there were a couple weeks there was I was super depleted. We in the regional show and now and man, she's stuck it out. I bet if I got her on here, she'd tell me some stories of it. Oh, yes, she would. I don't believe you for a second. Yeah. Well, he's a trooper. Yeah, yeah. Congratulations on the huge win, Jordan. And you know, it's a great, you know, story because, you know, we're so used to seeing people that have been going over and over and over. You're one of the few people who just, you knew what you go, was, you knew what you had to achieve. You took the time to do it. You weren't rush it. You actually got the extra time because of the whole COVID scandal. Right. And you know, you delivered. And I think that it's a great story of success and perseverance. And I really wish you the best. And a future I know you're gonna have a great career as a pro. You're still very young. And what do you see, what would you like to bring your stage weight up to for your next show? Well, yeah. So I know I'm not delusional. I know I'm not a hunger-laborada. I come and straight out of getting my pro-card, going straight into a pro-show. I know I need the time off to grow. I'm very aware of that. So I just need to overall size. So if I could put on 30 pounds of stage weight in a couple years, two and a half years, I can imagine I can put on another 15, 20. Maybe 15, 20 pounds with my waist stank tight. I think I really could be dangerous because I seem to be rewarding shape with guys like Keyon and these other guys, Sean Rodin, I want to bring that kind of shape to open with as much size as I can. And you bring my arms up. So it's kind of like when I'm ready, I'm gonna go for it. I would love for a year or two to go by and be able to do a pro-nive-u. You almost remind me you're physique a little bit, even your actually the way you look is, you're almost like a little branch-worn clone. He started very similar to me. He didn't have that crazy freak as a way to physique when he turned pro. I'm when he won that. But man, he certainly grew into that, into that physique. I don't remember who it was. Somebody recently said the same thing. I was like, wow, that's, that's... You look like a little bit facially, but you're physique also when he first turned pro. People forget when you look like when he first turned pro. Very similar. So hopefully you follow in his footsteps. Yeah, I got, I've got big shoes of phobia in the street, I say, IMean, that was totally, you know, when you're from a small town where nobody bought e-bills and they're all telling you you're great. And then you go here and they actually judge you that way and oh, wow, I beat all these guys. It's a great feeling, but I'm gonna be honest, I went in with new expectations, but I guess it made me work that much harder. I remember it, I think it was 1986, a U.S.A. Ken Brown, people even bought you no way, it was, I've interviewed him before, but he came out, he was a small, from a small town of Pennsylvania, like the matter of fact, the town where I went to college. And no one had heard of him, he kind of crawled out of the woodwork. He won Junior Nationals, he went to USA, won USA, beat a whole field of the people that know whatever, even expected. And he came out of nowhere, it was just a hard work in guy, like, you know, that sometimes when you're isolated, it actually works here at a vantage, because you don't have all the drama around, you know, what you're doing. Oh, for sure. And IMean, you don't have people, IMean, people don't know the sport at all here. It's like I'm part of this strenge cult, obviously, that people don't understand. And so I'm just kind of doing my own thing, but in the work, I'm a home body with my wife, and we just meal prep and get stuff done. And it seems a work for me. So for now, at least until maybe we move somewhere where we can actually network, you know. Yeah, I hear it. Well, luckily with the internet, now you can internet, where you could network anywhere, you can be in Tim Buck 2, and you can take network from people, so. Right. You've got internet connection. Well, congratulations on the huge win. You'll keep us updated, and I wish you the best in the future. Thank you so much. I really appreciate having you all day. All right, and thanks for joining us, and it's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live With. I'm Dave Palombo for Jordan Hodginson. We'll see you next time. Thank you, guys. Good evening, your ma. Thank you so much. Thank you.

=== FILE: Josh Andrews Guest Posing at 2011 NPC Citrus Cup [DSyA2tzr3o0].txt ===

into a puffy costume of an infliction that has to freeze. So... Theetotbunkot problemas Seegooooot Seegooooot. Noble perfect I want to thank you so much, Judge, for cominGHere. You know, the like us with your performance. We wish you a lot of stuff has in your career, and we have a recognition for you in the name of the team, body architect, and please introduce some plastic. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Josh Andrews Interview at 2011 NPC Citrus Cup Classic [1LGKtyfkEcw].txt ===

We're deepening everybody. My name is Carmen LaRille and I'm here at the MBC Jesus Godmium Classic. I'm at full promoter here with Josh Andrus. I'm very impressed with career so far and I would like to talk to him about what are you doing right now in terms of your career and preparation. Right now I'm getting a prep for the I have been North Americans and Cleveland Ohio yesterday five weeks out so that's what I'm currently doing right now. Would you like to talk about another future plant all the then competition? Well I do hope to go and have a very good showing at the North Americans get my pro-bar from there. Take a little bit of time off it's been a long year probably about a month and then get back into it and start competing in the pro-circuit and see for that takes. For people that don't know much about you how did you get into this sport for how lonGHave you been doing this? I got into it when I was in college back in 2003 and I did my first show later in the year 2003 and then organization called the NABF which is no longer existing. I fell in love with a sport immediately after that I stepped up stage who moved down to court and started competing in the NBC in 2005 and I've been here ever since and I love this sport. I love all aspects of it. Awesome. He has a very impressive career I've had before and I will like you to show us a little bit of your routine your moves for tonight at the Gaze concert. Okay. Are you sure you come up closer to sure? Yes. Thank you. Thank you so much for your time and for beinGHere being a guest sponsor. I hope your career is full of something. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening everybody.

=== FILE: Justin Rodriguez Olympia Prep Update + Nathan De Asha 4 Weeks Out？ + Guy Cisternino READY! [bWU9PCLvYMc].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of net carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Monday June 14th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back ladies and gentlemen, happy Monday. We're 17 weeks out from the Olympia and we have a brand new update from Justin Rodriguez to get you started off today. Last week Justin announced that he was starring the first phase of his Olympia prep. And he said that he's excited to see how things progress over the next few weeks, given how solid his starting point is. Considering that he started the year with a win at the Indie Pro in a second place at the New York Pro, I think this goes without saying that this is the best version of Justin that we've seen. So as long as he doubles down on the things that got him here in the first place, he shouldn't have too much trouble dialing it in for the Olympia weekend. In case you missed it a few weeks ago, we reported that Nathan DeAsh said that he was planning to compete sometime within the next six weeks. But at that point the information was still so new that it still felt like things were up in the air. Well, now here we are more than two weeks later with Nathan still looking like he's well trening in that direction, despite the fact that we haven't heard any official word from Nathan or his camp about what his plans are right now. From a logistical perspective, Puerto Rico's probably too close for that to be a realistic target, which means the next big show would fall into that potential window, I guess would be Chicago. Even though that's about six weeks away from where we are now, since Nathan hasn't competed in almost two years, I don't know if he needs to hit the next one out of the park, but a double or triple wouldn't hurt. He's still one of the most talented athletes we have, but it is not in his best. I don't know if talent alone is enough to carry him through some of these new lineups. I'm a big believer in people aiminGHigh, because we only see what we aim for when you start out by setting your bar high. You don't see anything less than that as a possibility. And a bowl Lewis has his sights set on another top 10 Olympia finish. He's doing a damn good job of aiminGHis focus in that direction. After last year's breakout season that saw him win the New York pro and placed 9th at the Olympia, the new and improved about 2.0 is starting to pick up steam, now that his Olympia prep is in full effect. If you look at what he brings to the table, Bo has enough tools to jump a few spots this year if he's made the right improvements. And considerinGHow fluid that top 5 through 9 ranges bent for the last few years, if he shows up on the money, I don't think landing a spot in the first call out is completely out of thEQuestion. As the old saying goes, those who failed to plan planned to fail. And the word on the street is that Guy's sister knew his planning to step on stage for the first time this year, sometime within the next two weeks. Even though he's been trening and dieting for the better part of the last few months, there were some scheduling issues with the shows he was initially targeting, which basically left him stuck in limbo up until recently, even though I don't think he's come out and set it, at least not as of the time I'm recording this right now, that two week window, pretty much puts him right in line with the Puerto Rico pro, which is historically been a great show for the 212. So if he goes out there and nails, it's a pretty good sign that he's on track to have another really strong season. And that does it the yet another addition of muscle in the morning, on day polembo reminding you to always be true to your passion. They should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: KAI GREENE 10 WEEKS OUT？ [oeDcN7gcVbY].txt ===

Dave Palabo here with an RX muscle news update. I don't know if you saw my Instagram or the RX muscle Instagram. I posted a video two videos actually that were sent to me by Kai Green this evening. He texted me and said, I want to send you this video. I wanted to get your opinion. What do you think? Im applying that, you know, what did I think about him? Doing the Olympia. I looked at the video as you could see the video is Kai looks insane. And from what I understand him from what he imparted to me, he is just quote starting. Meaning that, you know, whatever supplementation he's doing is minimal at this point. And that he's only going to get better and better. And look, you know, I told him what I think anyone else out there would have told him had to see this video. Don't wait. Strike now. No regrets. Do the Olympia. When this Olympia solidify your legacy. And this is the only thinGHe has and accomplished that is probably the most important thing to him. Even though he's successful obviously, he's making money. He's a legend in body. But when he's a go-down, there's a whole thing body ball there. But look, at the end of the day, everyone wants it to want to. And he who doesn't want to win the Olympia, you know, who's been out therecompeting. IMean, I would have loved that one of the Olympia. I didn't have to talent to do it. Kai absolutely has the talent to do it. And obviously he's feeling good about himself. He looks great. And why not now? You know, I told him I said, I gave him, you know, he said, well, how do you think it should go about it? I said, look, call up dance, I'll let him in and say, look, I want to do the Olympia. I'll sign the contract. I think that's been the whole impediment. All along is a real Kai signed the contract. You know, I think I think he's right. I really get the impression he's ready. I think he's in the right mental state now. I think with the right people in place running the Olympia, I think he feels very comfortable doing it. And I think he wants to beat the best. And that's, you know, I could revolve in debating why do I do it when, you know, when the Sean Roden, you know, had a big cake a title. But the bottom line is I think Kai's a fierce competitor. He wants to beat the best of the best and who better to beat them big Randy if he can. And I think it would be a great battle. I think it would make the Olympia a, it would raise it up certainly to another level. I know we've been teased by Kai and we think it's he's always pulling a fast one. I was, I don't believe that to be the case this time. I don't think he would have reached out to be personally. Had he really not had serious intentions on doing the Olympia. So take it for what you may. The video says it all and not only just Kai looked great, but he's always the Shelton. I love that about him. Game pull up though, but then our X muscle to use up there.

=== FILE: KAI GREENE Breaks The Internet + Nathan De Asha Is IN + J-Rod at 305 [pZFNZiLPFxY].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. I know sometimes we joke about certain people trying to break the internet. But Monday and Tuesday it actually felt like high-green was actually trying to do it. Now, unless you drop your phone in the toilet or you've been living under a rock for the lasT3 days, you've probably already seen these pictures of a 317-pound high-green looking like something straight out of the Marvel Studios. And not only did Kyre release those photos on Monday, on Tuesday turned around and trolled Philly Heath with photos of the two of them side-by-side because Phil hadn't liked or commented on his photos yet. I have absolutely no desire to go into the whole wheel here really not compete again, narrative that I'm sure people are talking about. But I will say this, nobody's better at selling the art of illusion and body, buildinGHigh. So if he does have something in the works, I'm sure this won't be the last riddle we end up talking about between now and that total. If you guys didn't catch our Wednesday show, we did a segment that featured Justin Rodriguez and Nick Walker, guest-posing, at an event in New Jersey last weekend. And at one point during that segment, I commented on how big Justin was because he made Nick look comparatively small standing next to him. And now I understand why. According to a report from Justin's camp, he was tipping the scales at 305 earlier this week, which has to make this the biggest in the leadest that he's ever been 15 weeks out from a show. I know that Justin has said in the past that he wasn't crazy about having to play the size game. But from the way it looks, he might have changed up his tune. He might not be £340 like Rammy, but he's at that point right now where he has more than enough muscle that he won't be overpowered by anyone. I guess this is what Justin's 3.0 looks like and it'll be interesting to see what the final product looks like when he hits the stage again in October. On Tuesday show, we hit you guys up with a quick preview of next month's Portugal Pro. And even though we covered a lot of ground, we didn't talk about any of the potential to 12 contenders. So I wanted to throw Austin Cars name out there as one for you to think about. From what I've heard, Austin was originally planning to compete at the Puerto Rico Pro last weekend, but there were some travel issues that held things up. But earlier this week, Austin did say that he could possibly be thinking about making a run for Portugal, which is still abouT3 weeks away. There are a lot of people I know who think that Austin is one of the most underrated athletes in the division and that he actually could be a legitimate top 6 Olympia contender right now. So if he can find a way to earn himself a qualification, we might find out if the top 6 is on the table a lot sooner than we all expected. Remember a few weeks ago when Nathan De Escher announced that he was planning to compete at some point this year. And we said we thought that the Arnold UK seemed like a logical landing point. Well, as it turns out, we were right. A few days ago, Nathan announced that he was really in the fact of competing at the inaugural Arnold UK in October. And then he has every intention of winning that show and then turning around and being even better at the Olympia a few weeks later. All the trials and tribulations that Nathan has gone through over the last year or so, had been well documented. So it's nice to see that he's back in a place where he can devote some of his time and energy back to doing what he loves. And if you can deliver one of those vintage performances that we all know, he's capable of hopefully at least to a certain extent. It'll make some of those struggles feel worthwhile. And that does it yet another addition of muscle in the morning on Nathan LeBo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: KAI GREENE DOING 2018 OLYMPIA？ [eIv0suW-oeA].txt ===

What's up, body building fans? Dave Alumbo here and I wanted to just comment real quick on the latest beta beday post on Instagram. Beta obviously the owner of Oxygen Jim Mountain Kuwait. You posted a picture of him and Kai Green and he said 11 weeks to the sand out which got a lot of people excited. He was talking and speculatinGHis Kai Green actually going to do the Olympia. Is he working with the camel crew out in Kuwait? Will he be a last minute entry into the Olympia? And will he go back on his word that he would never do the Olympia again? I had good inside sources to tell me the Kai would never do the Olympia. The amount of fact that he was offered a lot of money by some independent people to do the Olympia and he refused. Now we're seeing beta-di posting this. And beta has been one to drum up publicity in the past. He's made some sensationalistic type of things but he's usually not an over-promiser. He's usually an over-deliver actually. So thEQuestion remains is Kai Green doing this year's Olympia? I was a betting man would say no probably but the excitement and the speculation especially given the fact that Phil Heath is going to tie the record or trying to tie the record this year with eight wins. Probably one of the few men on the planet who could probably unseat him would be Kai Green. Then again we all have to understand the Kai is in his 40s. He's not a young man anymore. You know, does he have what it takes to do it? Is he still as good as he was? You know, Senator Frank Millen pushed him to the limit and theoretically beat him at that on a classic the last show that Kai competed at for a warrant for the posing round. The Kai pulled off would have been a different decision. So thEQuestion remains, will Kai do it and if he does decide to do it, can he win it? And if he does it win it, is it a winner or loss for Kai? It's certainly a win for bodybuilding. That's for sure because the excitement level, the Olympia will be outrageously insane. Kai Green is without a doubt. I don't care if Phil Heath has more followers than Kai. Kai is the most popular bodybuilding on the planet right now. Still, even though he hasn't competed in over two years. So that says a lot. He's got a tremendous following, not just in the United States, but all over the world. So is Bader trying to get a little bit of publicity goinGHere? Or is it really some truth? And this was a little foreshadowing of what's to come. We reached out to Bader and Bader said just wait. So I believe there's more. This is just the smoke before the fire. Stay tuned. Let's see what happens. I'd love nothing more to see Kai Green up on that stage. Day Palombo with an RxMusclEQuick Kit.

=== FILE: KAMAL A 'LOCK' TO REPEAT？ + THE ＂FUTURE＂ OF OPEN CLASS？ + FIGURE BREAKOUT STAR + ETILA FOR THE WIN？ [aoDvP16WCas].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pot tart. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning on day polumbo and today is Thursday October 1st, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. One of the beautiful things about life is that there's always room for improvement. And more often than not, people derive meaning from their pursuit of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Just ask Dwayne Walker. It isn't just the move from the 212 to the open that caught everyone's attention after the restart. It was the way he did it. Dwayne's third place finish at the Tampa Pro was so impressive that he had some people going on record after the show to say that he was the future of the open class, which is a major statement considering the names we have occupying that space right now. But now that he has a sense of what it takes to compete at that level and he's gotten a taste of what it's like to bump elbows with some of the big guys. It'll be fun to see what he does next for an encore. According to Jordan Peterson, the way we present ourselves to the world has a direct impact on where we fall in the dominance hierarchy. But luckily for Nicole Zenovia Graham, presentations of one of her strong suits. Since the restart, Nicole's been the breakout star of the figure division. The performance he put together with the Sivanna Pro was one of the most impressive that I've seen all year. And that makes her one of the more intriguing athletes to watch heading down the stretch. The figure division is so top heavy that sometimes it can feel like there's no room for anyone else to break in. But this is 2020. A year we're literally anything is on the table. So if she shows up righty and completely locked in, who's to say that you can't be the one to upset the balance of power. Some people say that variety is the spice of life, which is funny because I've heard other people say the exact same thing about a T.L.S. Santiago after a dominating win at the New York pro a few weeks ago, T.L. is heading into her second straight Olympia appearance with a ton of momentum behind her. You would think that placing Aetherner Dave U last year would have put her on more pupils radar. But up to this point in the season, we still haven't heard her name mentioned in the same conversation as the rest of the top five group. The top seeds in the bikini division all are so close that judging them feels like you're well splittinGHair sometimes. But if she comes in even 5% better this year, that contrast might be all it takes to bump her up another few slots. If you're a 212 athlete prepping for the Olympia, now might be a good time if you'd click that back button in your corner of the screen because the new updates from Kamal, Elgarni are probably going to ruin your day. Early this week, new photos surface of the raining and defending 212 champ, looking better than I've ever seen him this far out. And here's the thing, it's not just his conditioning, Kamal's bigger than we've ever seen him. Whatever situation he's got going on down there at the dragon's lair with flex Lewis is obviously working because this version of Kamal looks like he's a lock for that repeat. But then again, I can't say that I'm old, that's surprised either. This is what champ he's supposed to do. Greatness is the expectation and I think this year's contest could be a great opportunity for Kamal to come out and reassert his dominance. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: KETO A ＂DISEASE-PROMOTING DISASTER？＂ Palumbo RESPONDS! [3OQcTTWlz10].txt ===

Day Palomo here with an RX muscle rant. Today I'm a little irritated and I'll tell you why. A study came out and I started a new station posted like a study about a report. I studied it was put out. It was appeared originally in the frontiers in nutrition and they basically did a retro practice study and looked back at people's eatinGHabits and the people who were falling a key to genoc die and they made some pretty bold statements. They kind of led the whole thing was led by this one statement by this Lee Crozby who was a registered dietitian which really doesn't get a lot of credibility right off the bat in my book because registered dietitians are so brainwashed in eating certain ways that they don't really even have a very flexible ability to go outside the box, so to speak. I talked to a registered dietitian about how to get in shape or how to lose weight and you'll get the basic dribble you get in health class in high school. I'm not too thrilled about that right off the bat. They went into the study trying to just prove and try to put down the ketogenic diet. What they basically said is that typical ketogenic diet is a disease promoting disaster. That was the comment. Right off the bat. It's pretty ridiculous. I'm like, all right, let me see where all this diseases that they're going to list in this study are. All these people that are getting sick and they don't really show any statistics. They just basically say, well, according to these eatinGHabits, this could lead to this. The way they base it on is that they think that all people who eat ketogenic diets eat red meat, processed meats, and saturated fat only is their fat sources. That's like saying, you know, following a moderate carbohydrate diet of all lollipops, snickers bars, and you know, juju bees is going to cause a lot of disease. Of course, it will. If you ate all sugar, you're going to probably make yourself the type when diabetic. But if you're eating a low carb version of that, that's just a crappy food. So eating a ketogenic diet just means that you're putting your brain in ketosis. What does that mean? The restricting carbohydrates, brain doesn't have a fuel source, switches its fuel source, it's a fat or a ketones, so to speak. White foods you eat to initiate that ketosis has a lot to do with that health of the person who's following the diet. So of course, if you're eating bacon and cream and, you know, pork rines and all the crappiest sources of protein and fatty acids that you can get, of course, you're not going to be healthy. Who would be healthy eating that crap? Would you lose weight? Yeah, because your insulin levels will be low and you'll be in ketosis and assuming you're not overeating, you will lose weight. But like I said, you could lose weight eating poptarts too if you only eat a little bit of them. That's the weight watchers diet approach, right? Just limit your amount of calories. So I think this diet, this, this study is very skewed off the back, because they're probably looking in a lot of people that don't eat right, that are doing these diets for eight weeks, they're fat, they're overweight, they don't know how to eat, they have no education into how to eat properly. So of course, you can make generalized statements like this. Now, there are main three dangerous groups that they point out is it's very dangerous for pregnant women to follow ketogenic diet. Now, first of all, why would a pregnant woman follow a ketogenic? Who diet? It's well, they're pregnant. Okay, no one does that. You might exercise to keep in good shape, but no one is dieting while they're, you pregnant, okay? So that's a ridiculous group right off the bat. The second group they say is, well, it could result in long-term kidney failure for people who have kidney disease, chronic kidney disease. Well, guess what? Anything can, why would a person in chronic kidney disease do anything that's going to, you know, put stren on their kidney, which would be any high protein diet, obviously. So that's an invalid group right off the bat. So it's not like the ketogenic diet is causing kidney disease. If you have kidney disease, a ketogenic diet could put a stren on your kidneys and result in long-term kidney damage. Of course, that's obvious. You don't put people on a high protein diet who have kidney disease. And the third group is, well, the third thing they say is, it could raise LDL cholesterol and lead to heart disease down the road. Now, we know, we know, and the American Heart Association has already admitted this, that eating a diet, even high-encaturated fat doesn't lead to increases in LDL. LDL cholesterol increases way, way more in the presence of high sugar intake in the body. So that's a skewed statement right there. Now, obviously, if you're eating the right kind of fats too, you could actually reduce LDL. So it does not raise LDLs. A good quality fatty acid intake, whether it be through supplementation or foods, or reduce LDLs. It happens. I've seen it happen in my clients over and over, especially as you're losing weight, those tend to go down as well. So those statements are kind of, to me, just like, throw them out the window. They say, you know, in this thing where they list in all the different things that can cause, they say it can cause cancer, increases in cancer, even though we know that a ketogenic diet actually reduces cancer in some of the benefits that give ketogenic diets to people with cancer all the time to starve the cancer. Now, it doesn't work for all cancers, but most cancers work feed off a sugar. You take away the sugar, you feed them, you get them in a state of ketosis. And a lot of patients can reverse the cancer from using a ketogenic diet. They're also saying that it can lead to more Alzheimer's disease and heart disease. That's just not, there's no statistics to prove that. That's just not the case. We know Alzheimer's is actually called type 3 diabetes. It's from an elevation of blood sugar, not being able to control your blood sugar. Your pancreas, not working properly, not producing an advanced insulin. When you're on a ketogenic diet, your insulin requirements are super low. Blood sugar is very stable because your body is not using blood sugar. It's not going up and down. So that these are these are idiotic statements. And they're made because what they did was look at an idea. The idea was that a ketogenic diet is must be all disgusting fatty foods that are mostly fat, no good quality protein in their all saturated fat. And of course, we know that all these bad foods are not good for you. So we'll just say that these foods cause this. And that to me is doing a disservice when you put some of you out there. And then it confuses people. People say, hey, I'm following a ketogenic diet. I'm getting really good results. And I'm not talking to even body builders. So I'm talking about the average person who wants to lose weight, who has trouble following a diet because when they're on a low carb diet, their blood sugars are all over the place. And they do much better on a ketogenic diet. To get the Mr. Olympia who doesn't want to do a ketogenic diet, we don't need that. That's that we're talking about talking about people who are trying to lose weight and be healthier. So studies like this or these reporting on sites like this are just not, and this is not a control. This is something they go back and look. We don't even know what the variables are. We don't know what these people are eating on a regular basis. We don't know how long they follow them. We don't know what their history was before they started following this diet. A lot of misinformation is out there. They dry and irks me because you can prove anything is bad for you. And anything is good for you. I've seen studies where they say Omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil, you know, God said they will cure you of everything. And then I've seen an absolutely opposite study to say they're no good for you. And so you can prove anything if you set the variables of your study as such. And why we play this mental masturbation game in research, nutrition research, I have no idea. We know what the tenants of research of nutrition are. We know what your body requires. Your body requires protein. It's in the amino acid driven organism. And then it needs a fuel source. Whether you choose to use carbohydrates or fats or both as the fuel source is up to you. And if you happen to respond well to a ketogenic diet where your brain is using fat as fuel rather than carbs and glucose essentially, then follow it. It's not going to be unhealthy. If you're eating good quality fatty acids and good quality protein, if you're eating lean chicken breasts and you're eating whole legs and you're eating lean sources of turkey and stuff like that and lean fishes. And you're incorporating nuts and avocados and good oils like extra virgin olive oil and macadamida oil, you're going to be a super healthy person. You're going to get all the health benefits of that, plus you're going to lose weight. So don't allow your mindset to be thrown off when you see studies like this come out because there's no merit to them whatsoever. They just withdrawing out a lot of stuff. When I read the headline article was quoting the lead register dietitian reviewer of the study because there really was no study. There's no researcher than just reviewers. When they see typical ketogenic diets cause disease, as a disease promoting disaster, right off the bat, I see sensationalism, you know, and it's greatest and they're trying to get headlines on this thing. If you have to sell your study by a soup, you know, soup.headline, you had nothing behind it. That's really what it amounts to. So guys, these smart read your articles with a real fine tooth comb, so to speak, and push away all the sensationalism and see if there's any substance there when it's all said and done. This article has no substance. I can promise you if you follow a ketogenic diet with healthy protein, healthy fat choices, you're going to be healthier. Day polonbo with an Rx muscle ram.

=== FILE: Kai Greene Guest Posing 2011 NPC East Coast [CGW1-GZ74jg].txt ===

Stop! Everybody! Was that just a teen sky? Can I just post the 80 things? So we just kind of like... Oh, that's it! How you doing? How you doing? You are not one of us, it's me, you're notIN' lum That's going to come out special! Hang on, hold your hand tight! Ah, I played really well for you Alright, here we go. We're ready! We're ready! We're ready! Can you dance with us? Now, can you dance with us? Wow! Wow! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! It's just amazing! Up there! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Come on! Thank you! So, let's go! Let's go! Congratulations! Thank you very much. Thank you very much.

=== FILE: Kai Greene walking backstage at the 2011 Sheru Classic [VyfYwHz9ONo].txt ===

Ask him, it's completely irrelevant. Now it's one. Mimi? She sent me 5 men up…

=== FILE: Kamal Elgargni on MYSTERY Olympia Training Partner & ＂Unfinished Business＂ [sZbyMMyh2Dw].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Bot, our 30-year-in-a-ro. What we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart, we've goT3 and four brands in that carps and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Live With Brought to You By Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo. It's an A's guest, is our 212 Mr. Olympia champ all the way from the UK, Kamala Gardney, welcome to the show. Hey, thanks. How are you? Thank you for having me. Look at you. Smiling your face, look at huge. I posted a picture of the day you on Instagram that you guys sent to me and you are looking very free To you. This is the biggest I've ever seen here. Well, I don't know what's happened to me. I'm getting older. I'm getting bigger. To see, I'm keeping this in bed. I'm keeping, we've been grooving you wrong because you're still in me. What are you going on, Bruce? So here we go. You could do it as well. I only you could do it. You obviously have genetics that the rest of us don't have because I don't know how you're doing it. You look enormous. I thought you were doing the open for a minute when they sent me the pictures. Why, you never know what's going to happen in the future. I still goT4 or five years. Yeah. How old are you? Are you 49 or 50? I'm going to be 49 this November action. I'm going to have a set up rate this year, too. My birthday and defend in my sights and in Vegas. That's crazy. I can't believe you're 49. People say the Dex Jackson's amazing. I think you're just as insanely genetically freaky as him because like you said, you're actually making improvements at 49. It is. The gun is it's I'm so happy to be like, and now it's been like adex Jackson, which is we know the legend, Dex Jackson is all the time. One of the best bodybuilder ever. And I think he has the most pro-winning show. For me, I have the most amateur winning show. You do that's right. Yeah, there's another similar. How many wins you have as an amateur? I'm a true show as I won about 10 times the ISBV, what will champion? And I won about 11 times Asian champion. I won the European champion. I won African champion. You won so many times you don't even know how many times you won. That's the funny. No, I don't know. I have so many titles, which is I don't think anyone that's got as much as my title as an amateur. Now, which is that's great. I have a theory on why you're still improving. Aside from the fact that you obviously don't have major injuries. But you had a period of time when you kind of were not really competing. You kind of were like, we're in limbo a little bit. When you kind of were on the outs with Rafael Santoba before they split, I think that you've preserved your body because you really didn't go all out for consistently the whole your whole career. Would you say that's the accurate? Well, I think so. Yeah, yeah, because then four years or three and a half, three years, four years, I've still kept trening very light, but I've haven't touched nothing. Nothing whatsoever. I think that's, yes, a clen, old-my system. Yeah. Started refresh again. I think yeah, this is one of the things. I'm blessed to be honest. I blessed with a genetic death, mellum, blessed with a genetic death. Yeah, I would say so. You had to admit it. Last year, a lot of people weren't predicting you to win the Olympia. Chris Asito was, he told me there's no way you lose it. And you proved everyone wrong. You surprised everyone. You showed up at your absolute best. You destroyed the line up. I thought you won pretty, pretty handle-and-land, I didn't even had any doubts that you were the winner there. And you established yourself as the new 12-guided beat. How did that feel coming off that Olympia win? And knowing that you're the number one guy now in the world? To be honest, Dave, to me, yes, the title as the Olympia title, which is the biggest in the mix in the world, as a 12-champion, it is a big title. It does mean a lot to me as I am from the Arab countries like from Libya and from Africa, North Africa, from that kind of side and mid-Lace and everything, it is something big and huge for them. And I see the respect from these people. It's gone so huge. A lot of people like, it gave them the hunger. Kamal is done in this age. So it's, to be honest, it's improved the sport big time, big time, big time. And everybody likes saying, we want to be like Kamal. It's gone really huge. And you hear all these comments and you see messages, people send you all that. It feels great. It feels like, especially with my family, with my kids. And my story is well, which is, I left home, Libya, because of bodybuilding when I was like 20, 20, 21, 22 years old. I had all that problems in my career and struggle to move to different countries. And to finish it with the Olympia title, that's, it means a lot. It means very, very big. Are you like a celebrity when you go home now to Libya? Oh, God, yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. To be honest, I've been treated. The thing is this year, we haven't been, haven't been back home to Libya after the Olympia, but when I went last year, when I come third, when I went the Arnold, I've been treated like a king. I've been really treated more than the president himself. IMean, do they, do they want you to come back there? Are they like trying to like entice you to move back to Libya? Why not should really move back to Libya, but it's like, they proud, they really, really proud. Straight away, as soon as they arrived with the airplane, as soon as they opened the doors, they got me through the VIP, Oh, really? Wow. Yeah, all the media, the vice president over there, the, to know this building. So they know when you're coming into the country, huh, that's crazy, wow. Yeah, I know that they've been waiting for me. It is, it feels great. It is great. It really like, something really, really, really big. You're walking around here in the US, no one knows who you are, but you go home and you're, you're a hero, that's amazing. Now you're living obviously in the UK, it's told us that before. And the UK has some really weird travel restrictions. So a lot of people will concern that you wouldn't be able to make it to the Olympia, but you kind of have a strategy, you're, you're, you're, you're leaving the UK, right? Pretty much, and you're going to be moving over here for a couple of months? Oh, yes, Dave, you know what I've heard, because I do really like the fellow oil, uh, episodes and like, muscle radio with the Chris, and I watch all videos. When you mentioned like the Olympia's going to happen, doesn't matter what, so it's better for all thEQualified athletes, it's better as they come early, you don't know what's going to happen. I've heard that with the, from Dennis James, I've heard, so I spoke to Chris, I think I need to move. I need to go there, because you know what's happening? There is unfinished business for me. Sure, I need to do. As the current Olympia last year, I have them to be honest, this year's been taken from me, all right? I should have been, I should have been really like around, there's a lot of being set up from me, especially around the Middle East, around the Africa. Yeah, there's a lot of towards being supposed to be gone around, but it didn't happen. I suppose to like represent the sports, especially the area, as you know, as the only champion as an Africa, from like Africa, from North Africa, and everybody's proud of me, so everybody wants me to go around, is a lot of things being set up as seminars, or around them areas, but everything stopped. So it's like, we decided, I don't want anything to be in my way, especially this year with all what's happening, and I said, I need to go early, I need to find my way to defend that type of rule. I'm going to do it for me, and I'm going to move to the US for my family, for all my believers, for all my lovers, the people that really believe to me, I'm going to do it again. I'm going to drop that title again. Yeah, I'm not going to let go. Look, the history of the Mr. Olympia title, whether it be the 2012, the open, Mr. Olympia comes back as good or better than he was the year before, he never loses. IMean, it looks like you've hit, how much you weigh right now? I'm to be honest, Dave, I'm the best shape of ever been. I'm the man I'm one of five years about to, to 29, 229, to Terry. Wow. And it's the best shape ever. Condition wise, everything is there. To be honest, we plan this me, we plan this me and Chris earlier. Like we talk all the time, and he sent me a message one day without nothing, send me some pictures. I said, Chris, what are you thinking? He said, this year bigger and leaner. I said, I'm up for it. We stop. And we started them. We started them. We started prep November. Right. Well, we've been. I put a picture up the other day. Well, we'll put it out on the screen. You look like an absolute freak. It was on my Instagram, our muscle Instagram. IMean, you just, um, no, no, you're big, but you're you're shredded here, absolutely. IMean, you look at you can step on stage almost that way. The honest, yes, IMean, within six weeks, eight weeks maximum, I could be on stage. Is that the plan because of the Olympia September, and I could make it. I'd really could make it with my heaviest. We trened hard. We definitely, the good thing is, the good things like in the lockdown as well, because I have my own gym in England. So I've always trened. So like, you know, we live like as really professional food, tren, and sleep. That's what it is. You might even have your own gym during a lockdown that you had to go to. Because anyway, Bobby, when you go in there and tren, sorry, when you go to your gym to tren, do people like try to knock on the door and say, hey, can we come into? Well, to be honest, they buy a lot of friends. They message me. They need to borrow some downpoles. They borrow some rent. I said, four guys, I can't even. IMight do it with the empty. I'm trened myself. Right. Right. It's like, I don't really, I didn't give anything. So they did understand that. I had to really, a lot of friends and members, even they offered me money. So please, we can rent it from you. We can't do this. Varys like, yeah, I had a really good sessions. I trened very well. And during that lockdown, so I think that even made improvement as well. Oh, I'm sure. I'm sure of it, because you know, a lot of you, you got it at the energy over guys who who didn't have access to a gym. So the fact that you never had a stop or anything like that had to be a huge advantage to you. And now you had extra time to prepare for the Olympia, because it's not a September. You actually have to hold December now. So that's obviously an advantage as well. Do you think that we're going to see a full stack to 12 line up at this year's Olympia? What's your speculation of that? Well, I hope so. IMean, as you know, second, third, fourth, they are from US, which is the league there, which is Derek Lansford, Schoen Clarida, and most of the guys, IMean, a four or five of them, they are there. I hope. IMean, I know there are some guys that haven't qualified yet. At the moment, I think what we are about 11, 11, we're going to qualify. Yeah. But again, they need to act quickly, especially the guys that are brought, they're going to, I think it's the best thing they do like what I'm going to do now. Yeah. To make sure they be there. Because last year was 25, competitors in my class, 2012, but this year, I think that is some people they're going to have to, they're going to have struggled. They're going to have problems. Tell me why. Tell me why Kamal O'Garney is going to be Schoen Clarida and Derek Lansford again this year. Why? So, you're going to tell me why you're going to be one's third in Clarida again this year? Because like I said, there is none finished business. I need to finish that. And I was doing taking that year, it's been taken from me. You know, I'm going to support. Yeah. Yeah. I want to support that. That's for. I want to support that. Actually, that class, the 2012, because we have a lot of things set up as well, like a big tour in America, as big tour in Europe for me. I'm branding. Everything is being canceled. So, it's like, yes, we want the title even branding. IMean, we haven't done much for last year, as we know, because of the situation. So, hopefully, we're going to come back and we do again this year. I hope so too. IMean, because you're right. You kind of got your, it's like IMiss America winning the Miss America or Miss Universe title and she can't go on the world tour to kind of showcase that she's the most beautiful girl in the world. So, you know, that's the same, same philosophy. Now, you guys sent us this video. You deadlifting a little earlier today. And you're moving 500 pounds off the floor at almost 50 years old, like it's like a joke. How are you so strong with the adiabno injuries at your age? I'm moving that way because I need to win. I'm going to win that, right? The villain is with the strength as you see my technique, Dave, okay? With that video, that's how I tren all my career. So, I feel that if I feel the way it's going to be heavy, I don't really drop the weights. You ask anywhere I tren. I don't do noise. I don't make a noise whatsoever. I don't do it. I don't. If I don't do that technique, that means the weight is heavy for me. I don't know how the weight is not heavy. If 50 years old you're moving weight, that is 20 or something. 50 years old is my old man. We just started. My body can't do that anymore. Sorry. Yeah, I don't know. I've been blessed and I've always looked after myself very well. I've always eaten healthy. Dave, I've always, I've never liked him crazy with even the other supplement. IMean, my first competition was 1994. Wow. So, yeah, I've been competing since and it's like I've been trening with them, like very, very careful. I've never like gone crazy. I've never like bang in that weight. Crazy heavy. Yeah. So, I don't know if you don't lift recklessly as what you're saying. But no, our strong. So, there's a difference. It's not like you're lifting lightweight. You're liftinGHeavy weights, but you can handle the weights. And I think that there's a difference between that because if you don't move those heavy weights, you don't have muscle like you have. That's for sure. But at the same time what you're saying is you shouldn't be reckless in the gym because that's how you get hurt. Yeah, exactly. Yes, yes, you go right. Yes, you go right. You're, IMean, in the food intake, do you find that as you've gotten older, you need less food or more food? Well, to be honest, I'm the man I'm eating a bit more because of we come to them. We come to the a point which is I started getting really leaner. So, and then we decided to put me nearly double my car. And we were taking about 200, 230 grams per day. As a car, now we eat, we nearly 400. Wow, that's a lot. That's a lot. That's a lot of food. How much protein you? Protein is about between 250 and 300. It's a defense like of days and trening days. It's a lot of food. It is a lot of good. I'm struggling. I'm eating like God, I'm forcing myself at the moment because of the because of the time and these being postponed. We haven't started any car, you yet. We haven't started any fat burn as yet. IMean, still like trening as no. Yeah, you got times. Here in abouT3 thousand calories a day then. That's what you're saying. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. It is, it is, yeah. It's a clen calorie high-click kind of clen, but it's clen. Yeah. IMean, that's not right. Do you cheat me off like on the weekends? Wow, every now and then, defense gives me like burger maybe once in two weeks, which is even the burger to be honest, it's homemade. My wife's make for me is not really a good thing. Oh, really, I wouldn't count it as a cheat for you. Yeah. This is me. I'm really, I don't know. I'm really fussy with my food. Even cheat mail. IMean, if I eat something like really is not in the list, really, I'm, I do really get upset. Do you? I thought, you know, I, I, I think that I, I think that a COVID quarantine like this for someone like you is actually an advantage. And I'm going to tell you why. Because you really can't go anywhere. You have no distractions. You have your own home gym. You got your own food. You're not going out to eat. You're actually more focused. I think because because there's no distractions. There's nothing to do except tren, eat and hang out with your family. I think that for someone like yourself, this is going to, that's why you're so much better because there's not it. If you were traveling all over the world doing your world tour, you know, you would be, you wouldn't be eating right. You wouldn't be necessarily being at the tren the way you wanted to focus. This is probably this littlEQuarantine actually probably worked to someone like your advantage. You completely, right, you'recompletely right. IMean, to be honest, that's why, for me, I do refuse some tours like nearer to the show. This, this is again. IMean, they've really, really been more successful as a finance wise. Because I've always like trying to avoid any trip, anything to take me away from trening, to take me away from my, my day routine as a bodybuilder. I really, I really refuse a lot of things, which it could make me, I have an offer to be like with the, with the, with the, with the president's son to be his personal trener guy. They offered me a lot. When I was in Qatar as well, I refused to be, I refused to be his personal trening with the, with the king's son as well. IMean, it is because I don't want to be out of my routine and that would be really sad. But you know, and if you were aromasingle guy with no family, you probably would have gone because they would have let you tren and do whatever you wanted anyway. It's just just who the hell wants to go all the way over there and then it'd be at their back and call. You have your own gym. I understand. But if you, if you were a young single guy, I'm sure you would have taken that job because you'd be crazy, that's right. IMean, I've done it when I was little, I had a chances with back rooms that before in Libya. I had these chances, but I don't know. It's for me, I've never worried about how much money IMake to be honest. I've never been greedy. I'm happy what I have got. Yes, but it's, I don't know, it's something when you take me away from normal routine as a bodybuilding. I get lost. I really get lost. Are you sponsored by anyone, right now? Yes. I'm sponsored this year by BBI, which is BBI Sports in Florida, I think, which is not far from the way you are. I've got like sponsored with my Libyan Libyan Amel-By-Fone, which is a local Libyan mobile phone. I've got sponsored by what they call it, the powerhouse in Qatar and the supplement housing Qatar. I've got a few sponsor, yeah, I've got few sponsors that I've found, which is not that, this is not that. Yeah, it's good to take as long as you're being taken care of. I'm happy. Well, you know, I'm glad that you were able to chime in and talk to us today. And so, you know, impressed with how you look right now that I have to imagine that everything's going well. And here's thEQuestion I think a lot of people want to know. And you're, your buddy over there was teasing me. Early, you wouldn't tell me. Where are you staying when you come to the US? That's the mystery. That's the history. It's going to be a biGHistory. Here we go. It's going to be just in you, and never never been said before. Anyway, I'm coming to the Dragon Jim. Oh, I predicted that. I said that. I said he's going to be trening a maximum of the decision. Flex brings in all the people. I know I'm flexing Flex. He is a very good friend of mine. We have very close. We speak all the time. I get a lot of advice from him. I know he's a lot younger than me, but IMean, IMet Flex actually when when I was guest-bose here in England, his was first junior show. He was first show in England. I was guest-bose in that show. So that's what IMet Flex. And then since then, we've been, we've been contact and everything. So I went, when I've heard that lockdown happened and everything, I've decided to move. So I spoke to Chris and I said, what do you think? I'm thinking to go, yeah, I said, I said, IMean, check, whatever you feel, I feel like happy and I saw a spoke to Flex and I said to him, Flex, what do you think? He said, come out, shout out, man, come. I always love to you. Love you to come of all the stories. So yes, we decided to tren and stay with Flex, hopefully. Are you staying going down? Sorry, you're living with him, too? No, no, no, no, no, no. IMean, to be honest, he offered and I said, no, I wouldn't be in field comfortable. T'be honest, even his wife, Alice, she's really made me more than welcome. But I would be my sponsor, BBI, actually, they are, they are arranging my accommodation over there. So they have arranged a lot of things for me as well when I would be there. But they're going to take care of everything over there. I think everything is set very well for me and hopefully, we're going to move, make the difference over there, hopefully. Good, maybe we'll get Flex, maybe you and Flex can do a little interview with me. Flex has been promised me and I know he's watching this, so you can call him, he out of Flex. He since he was exclusive with AMI years ago, he's like, as soon as I lose my exclusivity, I'm going to interview with you. They told me one of me to come through his gym, but I had kids and now COVID, so maybe we'll get you guys both on an interview from his gym, direct from the gym, Greg and Vela. IMean, to be honest, when I'm there, I'm going to make the most of it because I know Flex and his social media and who he is and everything is going to be in big. I'm going to take that chance to make the most of it. So, hopefully, to move even there as well, IMean, for me. I thought, you know, when they told me you were coming to the USA, said he's either staying with with Flex. I thought maybe you might say with Chris, but I said, now he'll only held the keyboard to that. He's going to definitely go, stay either with Flex. I thought maybe you were going to surprise me and say you were staying with Lundspir in the tan tan fan. That would have been a shock. You guys were trened. Well, IMean, IMean, probably, IMean, why not if we can a tren do one said, why not? IMean, why not? IMean, I don't mind that. You're spattering with Haiti back in the day, right? They would number one and two. So, exactly. Why not? IMean, we tren together. Listen, we are on mine. IMean, he's, that a client's for his, IMean, he's a young kid. He's, he's 26, 27 years old. He's got a long future in front of him. Right. But if we tren together to be as a good family, this is what we should give to the world to go. That's what we should show. Well, as we, yeah, as fans, we like to see that anyway. That's fun to watch you guys tren and battling it out in the gym. You know, it's something that maybe you can get maybe you get ones for the come down drive down to Boko. You know, and you guys have all trened at Flex's gym one day and film it. That would be fun. I'm sure the fans would love that. Yeah, it is exactly. So, we, we doing as this for the fans, for this photo sport and everything. Why not? IMean, if the fans, they would love to say that to see that. And hopefully that's the end of the day. It's up to Flex. IMean, that's his gym. Well, it'd be fine with it. Yeah. It's more publicity for his gym. But, you know, Flex is a good guy. He likes to help people out. Oh, yes. He's got a very good heart. And, you know, that's very rare and imbodies. You know, he's not, he's very unselfish. And he's, he's about, you know, helping guys that are coming up and giving opportunities. And I think that's what makes them a special champion. So, but come on, you know, it's great to hear that you're going to be out here in the US and that we're going to make sure we see you at that Olympia come December. Good luck with your trening with your travels and keep us updated. Oh, yeah. Thanks, thanks Dave. Thanks for having me as well. I think you're not far from Flex. No, no, no. You might, I'm actually maybe like two hours to an hour. The problem is that, you know, with the COVID thing and thEQuarantine and I have kids and I just don't want to expose myself. It's otherwise I would be at Flex's gym definitely filming over there. But, you know, it's a little, for me, it's, it's too risky. If I didn't have a young kids, I would be doing everything, you know, but, oh, yeah, yeah. IMean, if there's anything we could, when we did, we do anything. Why not? IMean, right. Would be great. So, you guys will take a ride up. Maybe you guys will take a ride for me to my studios. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We'll probably do that. All right. All right, guys. Thank you so much for joining us in. Like I said, best of luck with your travels. Guys, it's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live With Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Karina Nascimento Posing Routine at 2012 IFBB Desert Muscle Classic [4QfKa3lJMKs].txt ===

Still you I'm gonna go Heading there I'm gonna never run Heading there I'm gonna never run I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm sweet You know you wanna see me I'm sweet I ain't gonna miss you I'm just taking my way I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm out you by my side Feeling like you need to see me I'm gonna go Oppo You're gonna be in the frontlight You hold your anger I've seen you Put your feet And let me show you It's for granted Fish backs It never's for granted Yeah Don't get angry Sp cares I'm gonna cover you I'm gonna love you Feeling like you're gonna come up again Feeling like you' need to see me I'm gonna go of YouTube is another year YOU E Runnin' Do The Stars!

=== FILE: Kennita Mays after winning 2011 NPC Oklahoma City Grand Prix Womens Bodybuilding Overall! [gW93OBJAlWE].txt ===

This is Dave Palombo with RXMuscle.com. I'm here at the 2011 NPC Oklahoma State Championships. I am here with Canita Maze, our women's bodybuilding masters and open overall champion here tonight. You switched from figure to bodybuilding. It was obviously a good choice. Yes sir. I like bodybuilding a lot better. When did you first start doing figure? You told me earlier that it was back in 2000. How many shows did you actually accumulate before you said, this is not for me? I actually did two back in 2003 figurecompetitions and then one last year at the West Texas when they told me I was too muscular for figure. What place did you come in at West Texas last year? Oh God, just way off, way way off. I like I want people to know how bad. It was pretty rough. I wasn't even in the top 10. I wasn't even in the top 10. Okay, so that had to be very frustrating for you. Right, yes, yes. IMean, I know a lot of the figurecompetitors don't like that to switch for some reason. When you suggest to them initially, you should do bodybuilding. It's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't want to do that. Yes, but bodybuilding is, it doesn't have to be masculine. It can be really feminine and just look really, really great if you do it right. Now, next year, this is going to have a new women's physique division on the local level. Is that something you might do? Would you seem to like the bodybuilding to enough to stay with that? You know, I've struggled with that decision back and forth about whether to do the Z-C or the women's bodybuilding, but I really like the women's bodybuilding. Enjoy it. Yes, yes. How far do you see yourself taking this? Is this something you want to take to the national level now? Yes, oh, yes. I would love to go all the way with it. I would love to get my pro card in the women's bodybuilding. And would you have a time frame in your mind? IMean, do you want to wait a year or wait till next year? What's the schedule? That's my goal. Right now, I'm going to take a year off to put on size, get a little bit bigger, work on some of my weak points, and then go from there. If you had to be, can you give yourself some constructive criticism? What would you say you need to work on? Legs definitely legs. That is my weakest as much as as much as I try. And as hard as I work on my legs, I can just not get a bigger wider. And is it harder to die for bodybuilding as it then it was for figure? I think it was harder for figure than it is for, yes, for bodybuilding. This year I did something a little different. Last year I did a lot of the chicken and tuna actually toopia. And a spare guest broccoli brings this year. I did a lot of red meat. Four mills of red meat. Are you trying to pack some size, I'd say that? Yes, yes, yes. Because I straight down too fast, too easy. All right, can you name our women's open and master's bodybuilding champion here in Oklahoma City. For now, I'm Dave Palombo, our axmuscle.com.

=== FILE: Keone Pearson WINS Chicago Pro 212 Title! [01mBMLwSHjE].txt ===

Dave, a Lumbo here with an RX muscle news update. The Chicago Pro has led out. The Friday night festivities are over. Tomorrow will be the open today was the 2012 classic physique wellness and a few other categories as well. They did today and what a battle we had in that 212 division. Oh my god. Key on Pearson, the guy everyone was talking about. We wanted to see any skip the Olympia in 2020 after making a big splash in his debut in the 212 class after moving up from classic. Obviously winning that event in 2020. We wanted to see what he was going to look like here. We've been waiting and you know I didn't deliver. The guy made improvements. He's bigger. He's better. Could he have been a little tighter? Absolutely. But he has such a genetic gift between that small ways. The way he moves the way his muscle belly is flow. It's hard to beat someone like that unless they're really off. And he was not off here by any means. He could have been better. And I think he will get improved from now between now and the Olympia. But IMean this is key on Pearson's show to lose and he certainly didn't lose it. But having said that the other 2 guys in this class that play second and third, Muhammad El, the Sonny and second, Karat Badgell and third. So close that you can flip a coin. Really. IMean you can make a case for any one of these guys to win this event. That's how good they all are. El Desani, major improvements from last year as well. Pollished muscle, great hand presentation. The guy has got all the bells and whistles also that you look for it in a module. IMean the conditioning of these guys was amazing and all of them. IMean Karat Badgell might have been the best condition involved in it. IMean he made serious improvements from last year. I know I help him and man he worked his butt off. Literally to make it to this show and make a statement here. And he did. IMean top three of the level of caliber of athlete that was here. These guys are top eight all day long at the Olympia. IMean that's they're going to be in that group. We're going to see these guys battling on Olympia stage. This was a really really good 212 event here in Chicago. And you know what we knew as we started moving close to the event there, we're going to get better and better winters. You know, all the study just needs to maybe dial in in 1% and he's going to be date super dangerous. Karat Badgell another half of percent and he's super dangerous. We're going to see these guys probably in Tampa. I know we're seeing Karat. He's not done by any means. He's getting to that Olympia and he's got a fire inside of him. And I know he was upset that he didn't win and I don't blame him. IMean when you kind of hit your best and you have the old tools, you figure how can I lose right? And I'm sure every one of those three guys and I taughT3 felt the same way because they brought it and it was just that good of a line of it. And any other event we were seeing this year, each one of those guys probably wouldn't want to respect it, you know, there were 212 divisions. So great, great outcome here. Super exciting for the fans. This is what we want to see battles at the top of the 212. If he opened the classic physique division, that's what's making this sport exciting. And we have to congratulate, you know, Kion Pierce, and in doing what he needed to do. He showed up. He brought it. He brought enough to win here. And that's what he had to do. He's qualified for that Olympia. He's going to come in this year. And we're going to see this guy battling it out for an Olympic crown for sure for sure. And I know he's going to come back better. And we're going to see Karat bachelor with that Olympic. And we're going to see Mohammed Al Desanid that Olympia. So hats off to those guys, tremendous tremendous whip. And then if you take a look at the classic physique division and you see Darwin, you read that. IMean, this guy, these classic guys that come in out of nowhere. IMean, I don't think this guy was on many people's radar. He came in here and he delivered. You look at these pictures. This guy's got a beautiful physique. He flows. He's got conditioning. He's got presentation. That's what classic is all about. And that's what we love about classic. That's what I love about classic. And I can't wait to see this guy in Olympia stage. So congratulations to him. Look, a lot of great stuff happening in Chicago. Tomorrow, the open division we've all been waiting for. Really, winkler. MakinGHis day to you, trying to qualify for that Olympia. Until a broader standing in his way. And among other guys as well. So we'll check that out tomorrow. For now, they're on game. Pull them both within our act. Muscle.

=== FILE: Kevin Jordan 9 Weeks Out! + 212 Dark Horse + Yarishna Ayala Turns Up HEAT! [keglec6EIas].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car capped hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Polimbo, and today is Tuesday, June 8th, 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Sometimes I have to tell my clients that instead of guessing the future, they need to shape it. One of the best ways to do that is to create this sort of lifestyle and habits that give you the best chance to succeed instead of leaving things up to chance. So now that there are less than 10 weeks to go before he makes his season debut, now would be the time for Kevin Jordan to start doubling down on some of those old winninGHabits. Even though it's been almosT3 years since the last time he competed, you wouldn't know it just by looking at him. He still has all the size and shape that made him so dangerous only now. He's probably fresher than he's ever been at any point in his career, which definitely works to his advantage. So if you cannot go off the rust and the cobwebs, landing somewhere in the top six feels like a realistic possibility. You are certain extent contest prep is a little like bike riding, in the sense that you forget how hard it is until you're about halfway through. But once you're past the initial phase of discomfort, muscle memory starts to take over. And then before you know it, you're staring at the finish line. Now even though Melissa Valier is back on the proverbial bike for the first time in almost two years, you could already see some of that old muscle memory starting to take over. According to Melissa, right now she's planning to make a return to the Tampa Pro, but she also has every intention of making it back to the Olympia stage this year as well. People might have forgotten this, but two years ago she actually won the Tampa Pro to earn her second straight Olympia qualification. So the path for her to get back there seems pretty clear. Once she takes care of business in Tampa, it'll secure thEQualification and free her up to use the next few months to go all out with her Olympia prep. Because once that first domino falls, it won't take long but for everything else falls into place. I know that we've been talking a lot about the two 12th edition and the Chicago Pro over the last few weeks. But I want to put another name on your radar, Alfred Shirek. Last week and I heard from a source that Alfred was tossing around the idea of makinGHis season debut in Chicago with the hoping that it would put him on the path towards qualifying for the Olympia before it rolls around in October. Believe it or not, he actually qualified for the Olympia last year too because he placed third at the Europa in Spain at his pro debut. And that was the show that gave out qualifications to the top three of a handful of divisions because they ended up having to cancel so many contests in the middle of the season. I've heard people close to Alfred say that they believe he has what it takes to be a top 10 Olympian right now. So if he gets off to a good start in Chicago, those top 10 sentiments might not be as far off as some people think. Earlier today I read an article about something called completion bias, which essentially explains why our brains feel compelled to complete a task after we started. For whatever reason it's something that's hardwired into our DNA and it explains why the act of just going through the motions sometimes is so important. It's because once we start, our wiring drives us to finish. So with that in mind now that your Rishna Iala is starting down this path to become the first ever wellness Olympia champ, the wolf completion bias says that she'll be wired to see this all the way through coming into the season. There was a lot of energy behind your Rishna as someone who could come in and set the standard in this division and that still is true now as it was then. As long as she doesn't stray from the path, there's a very real chance that she ends up bringing this whole thing full circle. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Mornings. On day, Columbus reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on day's book, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Khaled Chikhaoui： VANCOUVER PRO CLASSIC CHAMP! LIVE WITH! [OozXz5MYLzE].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Broughty by Species Nutrition Visit SpeciesDutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and tonight's guest is the Van Cover Pro Classic Men's Champion, Khaled Chikawi. Welcome to the show. Hey, thanks very much for having me Dave. It's an honor to be on your show. It's an honor for me to be able to pronounce your name right for once. I should have just contacted you right off the bat and said, how the hell do you pronounce your name? Now, now I'm an expert. But that stuff doesn't work. Most of the time I tell people how to say my name and then five minutes later they forget it. Now I got it. Khaled Chikawi, I'm never forget that. Now, you have an interesting story because you started embody building. You won the Canadian Nationals in 2016 winning the heavyweight in the overall. And you actually beat Chris Bumston in that show. A lot of people might not realize that. Talk to me a little bit about how you got into body building. Because you're one of these guys that have been all over the world. You were born in Tunisia. You moved to several different countries. How did you get introduced to body building? So when I was a little kid, I was kind of like late. He never really into sports or anything. But my big brother, he was like a lot into sports soccer football. He was always active and he got me off from being like lazy and I took me to the gym. I started and after a few months, you know, my body really reacted well. Some guys in the gym suggested that I do a body building show. I did and I've been hooked ever since. What's your was that that you started? The first competition I did was in Savannah, Georgia. It was in 2009. Wow. Was that when you were living in the United States going to school? Yeah, that's right. Yeah. IMoved to Italy at the age of five. I lived there for nine years and then I went to Egypt. I lived there for five years and then I decided I wanted to learn English. So I was like, what's the best way? I'm going to go and, you know, immerse myself in the culture. And I went to Tennessee of all places for a map for a undergrad. And then IMoved to Savannah, Georgia just for a year. That's where I competed the first time. How did you learn to speak English? CominGHere. Did you have something, Lush, or any of you disposal? IMean, it was very little English that we had to learn in school. Maybe a couple classes, but it was really hard because like I was kind of like drop in the airport and I had no clue how to say anything. And you know, in Tennessee, they don't speak like in New York. I'm shocked you don't have a Southern accent from learning to speak there. I used to have a little bit, but you know, and it was very difficult, but I caught on. I think my my experience of learning languages made it to you. Yeah, you have a an accent. So what language do you speak? So I speak Arabic, if you need some kind, it's like Air Force dialect, the Egyptian flu, Italian, French, English, and some Spanish also. Wow, that's impressive. Now, see, I heard before that the Egyptian has a very noticeable, I guess you could say dialect because the funny story. I don't even want to tell the story. Why is the Egyptian different than the regular Arabic? IMean, I think that, you know, the main route of Arabic is the Arab, kind of like Latin is for all the languages. But the closest one to the real Arabic is Egyptian. Plus there's like a whole movie scene in Egypt, kind of like Bollywood. So all the movies that are Arabic are most likely coming from Egypt. I got you. So you can speak to a big Romney, no problem then, right? Oh yeah, no problem, fluency. But if I speak to Nizha to him, he probably won't understand anything. Really, that's interesting, that's very interesting. I'm fascinated by languages. I have no memory. I have a very terrible memory of memorizing words. I can't learn languages. I can learn the grammatical aspect of it, but I can't remember all the words. How do you remember all the different words from all the different languages? It's very, I don't know. I think, you know when I was born and I was very young, there was three languages going on in the house, right? Wow. It was the Arabic. I was an early, so I had to speak Italian and then I was going to French school. So it's like, yeah. Can you differentiate them? Do you think that you put them all together sometimes, you know? When I was young, I remember speaking Arabic to my Italian teacher a few times, yeah. So when you have someone talking and you understand, if you always recognize what language it is or you just know it in your head, you know actually I'm very strong at actually detecting the language from people's accents. Wow. There's an all over the place in a word and met a lot of people from so yeah, I love languages too a bit. Interesting. Interesting. So when you turn pro in 16 and you beat a really spectacular line of a guy's there and that's when all the young guys were really coming at a candidate, Bumster was in that line up. What were people telling you? Were you like, did you feel like, hey man, I got this. I'm going to be an open guy and I'm going to do some damage in the IFBD and you kind of went right into a pro show, right out of that Canadian national's win. Talk to me a little bit about what you were thinking and what was being told to you after you won that national championships. So you know, ever ever since I started competing in national in 2011, I was already a blessing for me to be in a national stage back then. I felt it was probably the highest I'll ever go. And then in 2014 I won my class for the first time as a light headweight. And then they gave me some pointers, the judges on what they're doing on and I took a year off in 2015 worked on all my lead body parts brought up the map. And I would say I was the most confident that year. And my coach was really really confident for me to the point that he told me, you know, I bet you you're going to win and if we do win we're going to jump into a pro show right away. So, but I didn't know what to step on afterwards because I was a heavyweight. Right. He opened the European team as I liked it all of you before. I was kind of skinny at a young age so it's hard to meet the main thing in a very heavyweight. Right. But through 12 was amazing for me. I love that class. It's just that I was, you know, year after year, shorter people kept showing up. Sure. And I just looked kind of like playing feet on the perfect you couldn't gain any muscle through the right. IMean pretty much. You know what the way we're doing it up exactly. So you did that you do the 2012 in the in the IPB pro ranks. You did the Tampa that year the following year you did what you do to Toronto something like that or Vancouver in 2017. And then you decide for 2018 like a lot of other guys that I've seen do this now you're switching to classic. What prompted that? Who helped make that decision for you and how did you know that was the right decision? So as soon as the class came out a lot of people around me people are like and my friends were telling me you really should do classic that that classes for you. Actually after doing Tampa for the first time as a 2012 one of the judges that I don't remember who he was but he came to me and he told me you should do classic that's what we're looking for. But it still wasn't a feeling to me you know the classic with the lower weight and back then it was even lower I think it was like 190 for my height. Plus the shorts you know it's tough to get out of the trunks and the fact that it was called the classic physique instead of bodybuilding you know right it's a little hard but you know it was always in the back of my mind because I saw Chris Bumsted jumping right into it and he was doing so good so fast so I was like you know they increased the weight and they changed the boxers and and maybe changed the name I would definitely make this way it's but last year they increased the weight to 200 pounds and I was I was convinced enough to do it. You're still out of sucked down 15 pounds to make that way IMean what do you have to do do you basically get down ahead of time but do you have to like basically dehydrate yourself the death to make that way class? It was it was the first experience with my coach right that Toronto was the first time we didn't know we were expecting we always had the same recipe for all the other contests but for this one it was like brand new he had an idea but it was really hard to make a make way. I think I was 210 pounds the night before it went in and we had to do sauna we had to do all kinds of crazy stuff to barely make it actually at the way and I was 2 pounds over and they gave me 30 minutes extra to loop the 2 pounds. Wow that's that's that fun that's not fun. So afterwards I just blew up right because I guess I was so dehydrated and every 8 that blew up and I was bigger on stage so you know it's funny because I was about 2 or 9 on stage as a classic physique and and I was about 2 or 9 on stage as a bodybuilder for 2 to 12. So that you really you really didn't change much so you didn't have to really lose any muscles what you're saying you pretty much had the same physique. Yeah that's what they did to move for me. So you you place second behind Terrence Ruffin who looked amazing obviously that Toronto show then you decide I'm going to do Vancouver. Obviously still in Canada it's not that big of a deal it's on the other coast but yeah I'm going to go do Vancouver. What were you thinking did you think you had a good shot at winning that? Actually I honestly felt like I had a good shot at winning the Toronto Pro not saying that taking away anything from Terrence but after the pre judging there was a lot of high around me I guess people are coming up and saying you look amazing I think you got this Terrence is amazing is an incredible poser and he had a good balance to his physique so it could have gone I guess both ways but when I lost I was still very happy with my placing and again the judge just told me I should go to Vancouver. You just bring the time to physique they gave me some pointers and I worked on that for four weeks in my coach and brought the new package. And you won and we'll see we're going to be seeing you on the Olympia stage in six weeks. Is that a dream come true for you? I think that was like beyond a dream for me I didn't even I never even felt like an ever step on that stage but you know I was kind of like a approach shows as like the humble guy I would I can hopefully talk by but confidence kind of built up and now you know I just hopefully people won't help me out I think I can bring something to the stage. Now knowing that you beat Bum said before and he was second in the world in classic last year do you feel that you have a good shot at making that top three? It was two years ago right that we had to battle and he was incredible on stage at national he was he peak I think he was full round shredded I got second I was happy to beat him and then he went on I think two weeks later to North Americans and you won this class right bro so IMean I think he's the only one I can compare myself to on the Olympia stage right so I beat him before I think anything is possible he made a lot of improvements ever since right ever since he turned broke but I have to so you know anything can happen what's with all this Canadian talent all the sudden we we never had all this Canadian talent all of a sudden the best guys are coming out of Canada what do you guys got in the drinking water up there I don't know we have the maple something secret going on there Southern's going on out of there I gotta find out what it is now you have an interesting background because you have a degree in software engineering you know where you can you learn well you tell us what it is what what do you what do you what is your degree in and what do you skill to doing I guess so in the United States I studied computer science and mathematics because I was always passionate about computers so and the next step was to do software engineering right so you can learn how to build websites and you know apps and stuff like that so that's what's the way I'm doing and I worked as a software engineer for a few years a project manager IT business analyst all the way up to operations lead and at that point I kind of kind of felt tired of working for somebody else because I had a baby in mind but I had like a project in mind and I've always been working on it on the side but I gave it my all since last year in September explained us what fit log is because you told me before the show and I think it's fascinating yeah so fit log is at college we had to create a thesis which was like a basically a product that combines two of your passions and so I created fit log Java simple Java based platform back then and it was just some an application that helped to calculate macros on a diet that that was it and when I showed it to the teachers and you know the judge panel of the masters they really suggested me that I should continue working on it and I did not just stop there right so so that's what I kept doing and I kept adding on features I was also a trener throughout my time as a student just to make ends meet so I was actually experiencing what the trener needed and I kept on adding all the features I was tired of reading diets and workouts on Excel sheets and words I hate it and emails and you know you don't remember who sent you what that sounds like man I wish I could have like a one stop shop for everything you ever need reminders diets workouts supplement protocols even like weekly everything so that's what I'm working on I've been working on it for the pasT4 years that's they intensely anybody can go and try it it's for coaches, gurus and treners or even fitness enthusiasts that just want to follow their diets it's free for the firsT3 clients you put in there yeah and it's free for whatever if you're just using it for yourself right that's awesome that's a great service you're offering so anyone going there sign up for an account it's free download it you put your information all your macros in there and you got it made after your coach and you want to take keep track of all the clients that you're working with which is something I should do except them two ladies and enter all the people's names in there although IMight do and IMight have to hire someone to do it you could put all the names of all your clients in this week as to touch of your phone you can look up your clients see exactly with their eating taking supplements all that great stuff and and you'll seal the macros listed out correct exactly yeah so like I get to meet the client or we have a phone call schedule I just going to check what he's been eating what he's been trening and then I just want to talk about right most of the time you have so many clients you forget to decline the dog on that what he's doing or sure eating so it's a cool way plus you can put reminders whenever like the diet is expiring so it reminds you to that's really what's the most important thing is when when they're coaching is expiring I think what happens is we forget a lot of times you know exactly so that's how I added this feature actually two months ago because I was losing money right as a like how come IMade so much less than the last month and I remember that I forgot to count that clients and I guess since you don't like you seem like you don't care but I'm creating the app to make you seem like you care a lot I'm not just seeing but actually care because on top of things right I'm going to actually download I'm going to put a few clients and I'm going to see how I like it I'm going to test it out I think it's a great idea I love creativity too and it's something that you're passionate about it's something you can constantly make better and I'm sure people can submit suggestions to you and you can add on features to it correct? That's 100% like that's one of my kind of like model is I take all the criticism all the comments into consideration I add them onto my road map so that everybody feels kind of like they're building this right thing and I'll tell you like half of my features this year were from people on Instagram just I wish you could add this I wish you could add that and I'll just do it and all that sits mine right so it's very cool. What's your what is your Instagram account? It's Caled OFT and you have the liberty coming up now in six weeks obviously you're pre-preparing for it by the look at your face it looks like you're already ready are you pretty much in contact shape now? Well basically after doing the two shows it was really hard for me I guess back to pack my coach told me we need to step away so kind of like no like notice friction on diet do whatever you want for two weeks right and that's what I did I travel to Mexico and I came back into itself and I started the prep it's been hard you know because I guess with job with from all the sugar and stuff but actually this week I feel pretty good the energy levels are back and losing most of the water that I gave on the patient. Caled it went to Mexico for a vacation he came back speaking Spanish. That's the five days. And it's the list you'll be like NASA or Alcambotti pretty soon you'll have a language that you disposal. Yeah you want something look like that. And what if his languages was Egyptian too? So that seems to be the universal bonding language that everyone uses. Hey congratulations on the big win in Vancouver and the Lippi qualification and we'll see you in Las Vegas and hopefully we'll see you in that top five Oh that would be a dream come true man for real if you don't mind I wanted to just thank my sponsors ATP it's Montreal based it's like one of the best supplement company here. Basically we joined together last year they saw some talent in me I guess and we wanted to work together I never worked with anybody else but their their work ethic there integrity and honesty is really what brought me to want to work with them and people with that kind of values. Congratulations on the contract that's awesome it seems like everything's going right for you and that's that's the ultimate body of all this dream right to be able to do what you love to do get paid for it and be successful in competition and you got all that lined up pretty well right now. Yeah I'm gonna knock on some wood right after this. Very much for your done in my day. When you put hard work and you don't have to try to knock on wood or hope that things good things will happen to you kind of make it happen and that's what you did and I think a lot of people should take a note of this interview and see that you put a ton of hard work in you went to school you became a software engineer you worked and then you started your own business you know you live in the American or the Canadian dream I should say and you know you're your successful guy and you're doing things that you actually enjoy doing and I think that that's a great like a you you're beinGHeld up as a great role model for a lot of guys that watch the show and and realize that hey you know what if I'm willing to work hard too at what I love I can make it as well. Hey amen to that man I'll keep workinGHard on maintaining that image I appreciate the kind words. All right that's gonna take us to the end of another episode of live with brought to you by species nutrition visit species nutrition dot com. I'm Dave Pellonbeau and we'll see you next time.ck

=== FILE: LACTOSE FREE ICE CREAM： DOES IT EXIST？ [SRZyffz1uw0].txt ===

Day of Logan Blumbo here at the Public Supermarket on a Saturday night everyone else is at the New York Pro. I am here with my wonderful family, not missing at what's of our Logan. We're going to do an ice cream review right? We're going to review some ice creams because I never do this because I'm not really an ice cream here but a little sick of the false advertising and the answer to the seventh of our piece games even though ice cream tastes good. It's the moment you get a stroke rush into the wind. You know, I'm lactose intolerant. I can't eat milk. Any kind of old products because of the lactose in it. My body just doesn't digest it. So I was really kind of caught by a prioris ice cream has a lactose free ice cream. So I'm like holy mac, well this is my all time favorite ice cream that I will be from prior. So I go in and look at being really enlist and you know what the first ingredient is? Skin milk. How do you have skin milk? Can a lactose free ice cream? You know having to find this, they put the lactase enzyme in it that you digest it and enzyme it supposedly digest lactose. That's what they do. They just throw a little lactase in everything. They say lactose free. This is not lactose free, my friends. This has got skin milk in it which is probably the worst offender if you're lactose intolerant. So very disappointed. The most deceptive marketing I've seen in this supermarket. Yeah, I went and I looked at the lactated ice cream. I didn't know lactate made ice cream. They're very notorious for their milk. And once again the first ingredient I see is milk. It's either skin milk. It's regular milk. Once again throw a little lactase in there. This is eating all the customers right? Look, we don't like that. Right? You say no no no. Say bad bad bad. Say that. Say bad bad ice cream. I knew you're good. Say bad ice cream. Bad ice cream. Bad ice cream. Okay. Let's go to the next one. Now, Arctic Zero is this is where the man is buying. Is a also protein ice cream I guess you can say that they use whey protein in here. But they use whey protein concentrate between no has lactose in it way way less than regular milk or skin milk or that they also throw the lactase enzyme in there and say it's lactose free. Which is not what this is way way better. Most of the time protein, the then fryers and lactate because at least it's they're making the tap the boost of the protein and paint the lactose down a little bit. It's not lactose free. Trust me. IMean this double ball there started. Now this is what really is an high-fine interesting. This I've eaten these yogurts before. This so delicious yogurts blow and show off to the yogurt. This is a dairy free product. They use coconut in place of the ice cream to give it that consistency like a coconut cream in there. And this would be the perfect choice if you wanted to go with a lactose free ice cream. But the problem is there is a lot of sugar on here. Not as much as in this other product that I want to show you. Which is the order of cereal or what's my other. Oh, no. Hagenas has a non-and dairy also ice cream. Okay, now this is interesting because Hagenas is very well known for their really good tasting ice games. Long enough to get the ice cream from the camera. The thing about this that I don't like is it's got a ridiculous amount of sugar in it. And of course here we don't like high-fifthus parts. This one's a little better. It's got some sugar but not a ton of sugar in it. So if you're going to go with the healthier choice, you know, for a dairy free ice cream, I would go with the so delicious bread. Now, if you don't give it crap, you just want to eat the best tasting ice cream. Just go for an old pag and that's what I know it. But once again, some of us out there are lactose and pome, we don't want to get a lot of stomach subset. These dairy free options are terrific. I suggest you give it a try. Once again, I would go with the so-to-licious. IMean, near yogurt. It does the bottom ice stomach at all. I don't get that crazy sugar rush app so I know it does never ridiculous the matter sugar. And it tastes pretty damn good. All right, Logan, any final words for the camera? What was your favorite color ice cream? What's your favorite color? What's your favorite color? The general. Is it a purple? Can you say purple? Purple, right? All right, Logan, Logan and Dave Mulan-Bow. Here with the man and Ari and Mulan-Bow as well, public supermarket. On a Saturday night, the night of the New York Pro, hope you guys are enjoying your ice cream and your keybeals. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST GETS MEXICAN GEAR SPONSOR! [sKiyTPWF7Gk].txt ===

Oh, you're fine. Ah, you're fine. So like I said, like I said, like I said, do you like my title? Or for a shoe? Welcome back to a special edition of Iron Rage. I'm joined by Lee Priest as always, and we're going to have a special guest in the studio today. And yes. Yes. Before we get going, too, this is Seedys here. The real lead priest. Did you get suspended from Instagram again? Yes, 30 days, I'm under review because some guy was abused. I said go cliff dive over the rocks. So I guess that's like situating suicide or something. I got a new business suspended by Instagram and Facebook more times than you were by the AFB. So this is, I just started this page for the moment. So if you want to follow me, that's where you're following me until I get suspended again. For how bad this is, how bad it is. Someone on there goes, oh, you've probably got suspended cause you're an asshole. And I wrote back, well, if everyone that's an asshole got suspended, there'd be no one on here. And because I said, and because I said, our cell, we've been 30 seconds. This boy, it late, our second, such and they took my post there. But the guy who wrote our cell, he's post is up. But my post got taken down. You're definitely on a watch list. There's no doubt in my mind that you're on a watch list. Dave, I saw you before we, excuse me, I saw you with Jimmy on the other day. Yeah, I got this, I got this, you got a piece of paper. They're going to be the paper. Yeah, get a bit of paper. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Right this down, right this down. I got a pen to I'll do it with you. Right down 300. Yeah. Plus 200. Right. Plus 60. Mm-hmm. Now, now add six. Plus six. What do you get? What do you get? 666. Unbelievable. Now, now, there's 666 in Congress. Now, let's just say, four more people, four more people came to Congress. What do you got? 670. And let's just say those four people now go out for lunch. What happens Dave? What do you, what do you get? 666. Oh my gosh. Oh, shit. Ah. As incredible isn't it? Ah. Now, let's just say six at those people go for lunch and you back to 660. And then 10 more come in, and we back to 670. And then four people go to the toilet. What do you get? 666. Oh my god. Jesus. It's the same in the face. Ah. Ah. Ah. It's the same in the face. Ah. Ah. Ah. It's the same in the face. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Oh one. I want to be just turned. What do you just turn one of them upside down? This is 69, are wevan extra? Ah! Ah, ah! Ah, ah! Ah! Ah, ah. Ah. Ah. Let me ask you this question. In regards to the suspension of an Instagram, yes? IMean, it almost seems like we don't have freedom of speech anymore. IMean, I don't understand what's with it. What's I don't understand why you can't call someone an asshole. IMean, is that bullying? Is that why they've didn't? I can't even, well, I was even on Nick the polo's finger and he had that, um, what's the name on the comedian that held up the Trump's head? I think I did name it was a what's a name the redhead of the girl Kathy Griffin. Yeah, yeah, female version of character, the character of top six here. It's like when I see her, I just wrote down, oh, God, she looks like a pig. As soon as I put that in, this cannot be posted, even the word pig, you can't say. But who's checking all your posts? IMean, how many employees can they possibly have? How many billions of people on Instagram? It must be set now like algorithms where certain words with me because like I said, that guy said to me in the comments, probably because you're an asshole, you got, you got kicked off. So I wrote, well, that's the case, everyone's an asshole and because I said to her, that's all right. As soon as I hit San 30 seconds, this violates our such and such and this sort of thing, you know, it's, it's very, it's very, you know, that they're monitoring every word that you're writing. It's, it's pretty weird. It's like, if you don't, if you don't, don't follow me. And I want to come up on your thing, you had to save there on the other show, the other day. You got to text me early, Dave, before I, I know, you know, I remember the last of minute, I can't remember anything. And it's true. If you don't hear, we live in democracy, but you don't have to vote, but if you don't vote, you get fined and then it's ex-ADI, it's said, they suspend your license. But now we've got this thing in the mail. See, it's called a census. You got to fill this out next Tuesday and you got to fill out every person in your house, how many people are in the house. It's not to help with healthcare. And what it sort of should, but the thing is to see census data is informed the nation's decisions on local services, funding, healthcare, infrastructure, aged care, blah, blah, blah. So you got to fill it, he's out. And if you don't fill it out, because you're living in a democracy, you get fined $220 a day for not filling it out. And then you don't pay to find, if you have a business, and here we have an AB in, that's like a tax fall, and then you see a business, they'll cancel that, so you can't vote. Oh man. Now, what if you don't get the mail, what if you don't get the mail? You know, what if you don't, like literally you don't get the letter, like you move, then you didn't do a change of address or something like that. I don't know. Well, a lot of people arecomplaining now, because this is like now you just go online and do a lot of old people don't study old people, if they don't know about how they got to find out, I guess, is what's the news. You got to contact them and now send you out the papers, the fill out the papers, and mail the papers back. But then again, like you said, if you don't do whatever, then you're screwed. And here, this is how badly, this is today, they've been breaking news here. Signes in lockdown, we're in lockdown at the end of August, but where I live, we're not in complete lockdown until now, because they're trying to get everyone to get the vaccine. Last night on the news, breaking news, I live in the Hano Valley, COVID has been detected in the Hano Valley. They're checking the wastewater works, and we have discovered COVID in the feces. So now we need people to go out and get tested because people, people are proofing out, COVID is going to be on the London-awaited water works, we're all the series goes, and they're protected, COVID is the series. So now everyone's got to go get tested. You know what happens when people get tested, more cases come out because more people are getting tested. Guess what? We've got to attack the satellite to me, but not so what's going on here? It's the six, six, six, six, and the three days. Guess what? When you have COVID and you poop, the COVID goes into your feces. You flush it down the toilet, it goes through the waste management plan. Of course, this can cover it in the feces. What are they thinking over there? That's what they're doing there, they're testing it to see what areas come from. They're cause the surge plane, that's where all the surge from my area comes from. They're saying, because we're about to COVID in the food now, people in Newcastle have COVID, see if they can get tested. Lee, I just realized with the worst possible job you could probably get is the guy who has to go into that sewage waste and actually test the fucking stuff. A shoddy, a shoddy monkey, the last time dipping the bottle bottle into the water. Oh, you can't wash your hands. I don't care if you wear 25 pads and gloves. You couldn't wash your hands enough to get that stuff. He got the bottle of water anyway. Oh, come on. COVID. Oh, no, it's T-D from 47. Hancock Street. Someone, someone flushed on condoms. Let's, let's, I want to talk about something that's going to bring more joy to our face than COVID and poops and getting fine for nothing. I got our friend. He's been on the show before Felix Gare, all the way from Mexico. And I understand they want to, they want to start a new steroid line of, of Lee pre steroids over there in Mexico. What's up Felix? Hey, Teddy, how is going? Anyway, I'm still alive, bro. You are. Have you had news in the comments from the last video everyone was like, that man's going to get killed. He must have, he's going to be dead. But Carter, take you out, huh? They did not do up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, thank you for 44 having me here, buddy. Oh, and before everything, to all those mother-and-fuckers that say that my English subs, I dare you, mother-and-fuckers, to do an interviewing Spanish. You actually said, I think you're better English than Lee does, actually. You speak much, much more proper than Lee pre-stas. You don't get banned from Instagram, too. Pull-fuckle? All right, give us, I wanted to get you on it because you, you had an update. We both forgot about your interview. So I got you on here with Lee and I, what's the update on the, on the ground steroid scene over there in Mexico now? You always give us kind of like, what the latest and greatest is, what's going on over there is the stuff better now, or worse since COVID, is it harder to get stuff easier? What's going on? Well, it actually, you will be surprised. I don't know what happened, actually, but in the COVID, many people start buying a lot of stuff, many new labs, good things and bad things happening. The thing is that the Ross were much harder to come as you can. There were coming, they were coming from China, obviously, yeah. So it was harder and harder, but right now, I think it's much better. You got morEQuality brands. Right. Roy tests have been a big, big, big, useful key down here to test things. I'm glad everyone's used. Yeah, we saw a lot of things. Let me ask you this question, why doesn't Mexico, since everything's pretty much legal there, why don't they just make the Ross and Mexico? I don't know. There was a guy that actually was, has those intentions to start to doing them, but it was just talk. IMean, I don't know. I think the pharmaceuticals, it's a big mafia, I think, like government, saying that as US, you know, it will be, it won't be a good, I don't know, good market, I guess. You know, Lee, they talk about the cartel in Mexico, but really the American cartel, which is the people that support all the drug companies here are probably way worse. Don't you think? Yeah, yeah. Are they relying on you? Can we lose Lee? Now, here, yeah, I do. Of course, the American governments were sent any cartel. They did a big as criminals. They'd get me signed on the government and the criminals stayed. They'd get me, because you know why? If you get 60 fucking people in government and then you get another 600 of them find the drugs and then six people come in and die. That's 6, 6, 6, and then you're 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, and that, and those drawings on your fingers, I think I do. It's the market. You see Lucifer Tated here. Yeah. On a, on a going riddle, Steve, I just write my father's name on my dad. What? Now, but that is the government big farmer is the biggest criminals out of everyone. And the reason they get upset is when other people do it, because they're like taking business away from them. We kind of have people making money that we can't screw out. It's just like anything that's like as soon as you start making money from something, they've got to come and get their cart as ridiculous as that. I think, and back to Mexico, yes, we need the beef brand of steroids which may on the bottle a little pose like that. I think they should have a wee priest brand that. I think that would be very good. I agree. I agree. Just like Romano, IMean, Bionics was a fuckinGHit for like, when I tried his line, I think he doesn't do it anymore down here. But when it was, it was fire like, yeah, yeah, IMean, for real, I, I blood tested and I was surprised. Yeah, he was making, he was making it himself. That's why it was probably the best. Well, let me ask you this question, what, what is the brand that you should look out for? If you're in Mexico and, you know, you're looking for stuff and what, what are some good brands that are testing out well? I'm, look, there are like, I'm not joking. Like 80, last night I count 80 brands. So much shit in here. There's so much shit still. But I can vouch, like me, I know I'm not muscular and you said, but I've test with my friends and some people that I know that they're buying real Ross, three brands, box elaps, which is, which is, I have a couple of shit here. Oh, we have a lot of money. Yeah, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, hold that up again. I, I like the silver writing on that Lee. Yeah. Very nice. Very nice. Oh, I have a cheater. Oh, they don't know. That's a talk that I want to talk in in, in, in a moment. And make us, that's lead. Now in Mexico, yeah, what they do is, you know, like when in, in, in Australia, the US, if you want to get a sponsorship from like a, a, a, a nutrition company, you get free protein, you get a sponsorship that in Mexico, you get a gear sent to you, too, because the companies that sell the supplements also sell the gear down there. I want, I want, I want a sponsorship from a gear manufacturer. Because people look, they know I'm everything. Like, always tell the truth. So if I say this brand is steroid works, there's 80 of them, whatever, put my name to people are going to buy. We can be the King teams of Mexico. Me, are you going to move to Mexico? Get get out of Australia if he let you out and they are. I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, Mexico Mexico Mexico Mexico Mexico Mexico Mexico, Mexico, Mexico is on a green zone, so I can fly to Mexico and they problem. So, so I'm, I want to contract with a supplement company steroid company in Mexico. I got to put you up in this one, like a castle with a big freaking wall around it, you know, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'm not into that fancy. She just get me in the Donald's in a game and it, you know, they're all you take to, and just, just a couple of thousand every month and a couple of bottles of gear and I'll be happy. There you go. Yeah. All right. Come back. That, that's a, a really new modality. So that the three brands are box elapsed, farm a com and XT laps, but you have to find the real XT laps. He has like 13 years. They are even on the, on a ballics book. So they're, they're the biggest ones. I actually, I'm going to send you some exclusive footage to you. I actually send you to your Skype, but I guess you can, you can put up your Facebook because I can have Tyler put it up for that. Yeah. And, but yeah, surprisingly, the new methods of selling in here is like that, sponsoring like, if you wear a supplement company. So it's, it's very, it's very, I don't know, weird. Maybe because I don't know if in other parts of the world they are making this and, and they actually give your cycle. They give you sometimes if you compete in another country, they pay your flights, they pay absolutely like a supplement company, but they give you steroids. So it's, it's weird. But I, I don't know if you're not speaking to about who do I speak to about these contracts. Yeah. And, and let me tell you, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, you're going to have like 20 people, 20 companies contact you after this show saying, will fly you in, will put you up, will give you a house, will do whatever, you just wear our shirt, you know, absolutely. I'm there, I'm there. All right. There are a few top Olympians that are sponsored by Mexican-Sary Labs. I don't know, it's many names, but you know, heck, heck, heck, they, heck, they have Olympians, but not have the most truthful person in body building. It doesn't talk shit. And I'm only five foot five. If anyone needs to grow four miles, they're like, that excites. Are there any, are there any, are there any, what are everyone? Felix, are there any compounds out there? Any, any drugs like that are kind of unique that we haven't seen in a while that are being produced legitimately by these Mexican labs, you know, like maybe like methange, or diproponate, or injectable, dianabol, stuff that like are like classics, you know, get to the dianabol. Oh, wow. Oh, I think I'm leaving my family and divorcing my family to come down there for that. Look at this stuff. What is it? 50, 50, M L's? Yeah, that's a kill. Does it cut? Can you get it in a bigger bottle? That's what it does. This is A-50, that was just 20 years later, the way you take drugs. It's like, it's like, you're just, how would you set much? You just put on the eye, they have an eye and just like, no, Valentina would use a bottle of that a day, the bleep. He's loaded on one. That's one. That's one. Yeah, that's one by seven each bottle. There's plenty of, I got this from a bed pharmacy, right? Or of, you're not going to believe it, like $50. Oh my god. How many, how many, is that 50, M L's? No, 100, M L's. 25 million grand for Jesus. Oh, that's perfect. I used to use 25 million every other day. That stuff is great. The cheapest, the cheapest I now here in Australia, like, if you just want to get like, Sustanon 250, a 10-millimeter bottle of Sustanon 250, the cheapest you'll get in Australia is like $120 a day. Wow. Wow. That's a lot. You can get in much, much cheaper here. But, um, you know what, you know, guys, what's happeninGHere? Mexicans are now getting the new substances. I have a, I have a friend, who made DMP, like, but he, look, look what he did. He did DMP and he makes them 10 milligrams. So it's, it's like, safe zone. Yeah. But, I don't know. IMean, so, I remember that you said before, Dave, that the problem with DMP is that the, the safe dose is very close to the, for that fake to the little, right? IMean, right. You know what IMean? The, the, yeah, the promise, just when you're taking enough to get good results, you could actually take too much. It's like, GHB, you can kind of go over that line very easily. And I believe that in different people's bodies, they metabolize the DMP differently. So, you know, one guy could use it and it works perfectly. The next guy drops dead from the same dosage, you know. I've never, I've never done DMP. Once I heard about what it does, I think it's stay away from DMP. Yeah. I've done D.P. And don't really think D.P. He's very close to the other guy's penis on his, a bit of affection. But, that's a little bit more scary at the point of being people. You know, sometimes you're scotted to be cast. It's like, it's like a sword fight, the rabbit hole. It's a sword. Just saying, I know that sort of stuff goes on in Mexico too, because they go to the potty drugs down there as well. I'm going to Mexico. We should come and then, oh come. We have come to Mexico. Superdrol too, Dave. It has became so sorry, guys. I'm a little nervous. So I'm trying to don't worry about it. We're enjoying all your information. Don't worry about it. Keep it coming. They like, they like, they like, they let me pop some tennis. Oh, no, just kidding. I twice. But did they do I see a sick, I think? That's a small behind them. No, his beard. His beard is, it's shaped like a sick sleeve. See it? How do I go back to me? Or is that a sword? Or is that a sword that's a sword that's a sword that's a sword that's a D and P bottle. If you turn it upside down, the paint looks like a stick. If you get to end and you're up the other two, you'll be tough. And you draw a little bit on there and then the teeth. Take it away from the thing and connect it. Six, six, six, six. That was fun. I don't feel like sorry. There you say. Yeah, well, I put this thing like they are introducing into the market. These new compounds, which they are not new, but in the Mexican market, they are new, pre-multaps. Oh, really? Have you tested those pre-multaps? I do, but I don't have the fucking video. I was going to buy the right test and I was willing to do it right here. But it didn't come on time. That's one of my favorites pre-multaps. Yeah, it can't get, can you still get, can you still get, can you get, I'm not here in Australia. Can't get really pre-multaps. Yeah, well, I'm not here. I'm not here. I'm not here. I'm not here. For a pharmacy, no, no. They are discontinued for too many years. Then we talk about feel like the fact that pre-multiple powder is really expensive. So, I'm surprised that they're making real pre-multacetate tabs because, yeah, you know, I would imagine, if I was a guessing man and someone told me they had pre-multaps, for me, I say they probably die on a mold. That's what I would say. That's the point about this sponsorship. It's growing. These guys are getting much more money. Yeah. On certain people, making much more marketing in social media. So, they have more money to invest. Right. And they actually are doing the things like right on this spot. And it's crazy. They are doing super-drilled too. But young guys are abusing it from like popping ten a day. Yeah, that's so much. That's very toxic, super-drilled too. But the pre-multacetate tabs. I'll tell you why I like them because women can use them because they only have like a four or five hour half-life in the body. So, it's not like women were being exposed to the drug for the entire day where if you inject pre-mabong injectable, it stays in your system all the time. So, you're going to get a much greater exposure rate. The ass-tate tabs. And for men, if you take like a pill every four hours throughout the day, I always found that the last like six weeks or so, I've got really hard on those things. They really, really harden your physique up. So, it's a good drug if it's real. And, you know, I'm assuming that you, like I said, you verified it. And so, that, IMean, that's pretty amazing. What, how many pills are in a bottle? In this bottle, 50 pills. Yeah. IMean, not a hundred pills just fits. That's all right. That's how the old German ones came. The, the pre-multacetate tabs. Yeah. 25 milagrant. Cool. Yeah. Very good. And yeah, the market has been has been changing in good ways and bad ways, too. There are so many guys. These years, I got like 10 young boys with his cheeks infected with, you know, 30. IMean, and this one, and he just says, that's what happens when you get these guys, you know. All I heard was 10 young boys and they take it in their cheeks. Or, automatically, a boy fucking jade bite. Ah. You're like, too much. Yeah. Yeah. But, so you say there's a lot of dirty steroids out that the people get infections from. Absolutely. As far as they, IMean, they're good, very good stuff. Only those three grants. But the other 70, eight, something like that, they'recompletely bunk. Right. And I actually made a video in my channel, which is a, IMean, it's a very little channel in English too. IMade a video. I thought I took a moon and I did go to each pharmacy. Yeah. And the point of the video was tips to avoid of getting scammed, you know. I'll give us some of those tips. Let me hear it. Well, first of all, if you, IMean, I don't want to advertise my channel. But if you see that video, I record a pharmacy and each, that's a fucking mafia girl. IMean, I don't care about seeing that. But those pharmacies, you gotta stay away from them because all they have is fake. Like the GHS, like the, uh, the, you're talking about the touristy ones in the tourist areas. Yeah. And border, yeah, tourist, everyone, every, every Mexico tourist zones, like beaches, um, in the border, in the border towns, like Chicoana, you know, they are all over Mexico. Like they have to actually avoid those, those pharmacies. They must go to let me tell you two good pharmacies. Pharmacias Benavides is, is not, is one legitimate. Yeah. And let me, let me write that down. How do you spell it? This time is, is it six? Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. And, and the other one is pharmacias, Wada Lajada, just like the city. Oh, that's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. Wada Lajada. Wada Lajada, you can get over there. Wada Lajada. Real or ready, Jack, sauce to know on the free, multi-stombe, but which is testament data. How much of the red Jack's going for nowadays in the pharmacy? There are a lot, right? Yeah, like $30 just once he sees. That's crazy. Well, who's going to pay for that? That's nuts. It would, that's shrink compared to Australia on the first. Yeah. Well, there's plenty of people that really don't trust on some brands and they mostly the new IPB pros from Mexico because I don't know, you have seen that we have much, I have you, pro. Oh, you got some great pros coming out of it, right? Yeah. So I think they are like the guys that are investing in in most arm, arm of products. But yeah, like the underground maps, those three that I told you are, you know, the best ones in the market right now. Well, you know, I appreciate you. Like informing us. I've never been to Mexico, so I'm willing to come and I'm willing, if you know people at these free, good companies, I'll take any sponsorship from you. I think when you decide to do your show, we figure out what you're going to do. We are at, I think you, you know, Randy goes to Dennis James has to make sure he doesn't cheat on his son. I'm going to go to Mexico. You've got a Mexico. Yeah, you're going to Mexico. 12 weeks. I do seminars. I can do seminars in Mexico. I can tren people. I can get stem cell and get drag out and party and party and can't cune and do everything. Just don't get the infected cheeks while you're out of that's all. Dave, Dave, before we go to, I'm sure Felix might want to do these two. And you got a dollar bill. Have you got a dollar bill? I would not do it. No, no, no, get it, get it, get it. I'm getting my dollar bill out of your home on a second. And why are you always carrying a dollar for anyway? That's where I want to open. I'm an American. I got money. I carry cash though. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now fold it in half. Yeah. Yeah. Now fold it in half this way. Yeah. Now fold it in half this way. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Now fold it in half again. Which way? That's right. Anyway, you decide. Yeah. Now fold it in half again. I can't. Now what do you get? What do you get? What do you get? Direct. So fucking fingers. So fingers. I think I got a 666. IMean, a hold on a second. Hold on. There's a 6x. The x in the game. The x in the game. And the c. There's a 6. And you got free dollar bills. And you do iT3 times. You'll get 666. Oh. And I just so happens. I have three dollar bills in my wallet. Only three. Is that a cool one? Oh my god. You're a part of the luminality. Uh oh. Now take the M in the c and the x in the one one. Minus x, add the d and then add the c and then add free go back to the M minus set by three and you get p and what do you get? C3, p o. Star Wars. It's fun. And the universe. C3, p o. All right. This is my room. I'm going to start. Lee priest, Kairin, moving to Mexico together. They're going to roommate together and Lee's going to help Kairin ready for the Olympia. And then Kairin will help Lee for his comeback to the Arnold class in March. That's going to be the he's going to help he's going to help me dance. And then I'm not sure. Because Phil, he put now to these pictures. I think there's a kind of this between Phil and Kai. Yeah. You see, he can drum up the most bullshit. That's right. He's going nowhere. I'm going to say this. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. All right. Phil, I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. You. I. You got to. You got. Yeah. Just me. Just me. I got us commitment on the air right here. Look at this. Look at this. Imagine that arm on a bottle. Yeah. Oh shit. Yeah. That. Oh yeah. Hellwork. That was ugly. Something in. And the good thing is in Mexico, too, there's a lot of short Mexicans like me. Yeah. It's Lee, the T-shirts is a trust your priest, you know, and then put the brand name right in the need that you know. And the T-shirt would be T-shirt would be black with just a little white. That's right. That should be the brand. That's what. That should be the logo. The bottles to look like a little priest. And that and that white bit on the color. I see an even just goes on the Catholic priest. All right. So. Just have a little. Jack can be the. That can be the. That can be the. Peel away. That can be the peel away. That's here. Open the bottle. You peel the little white thing. That might upset a lot of people because there is a lot of religion and Catholics in Mexico. So we don't want to upset some of our customers. Dave. That's right. That's right. That's right. I'm sure you feel it before we before we wrap this thing up. What give us a one more great bit of information that we might not know about the underground scene over there in Mexico. I've got to write it down. Well, you guys with those three brands that I've told you, you can you can get you know good qualities cheap prices. And I think XT lapses is actually sending to the US a lot. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They have a real facility. So that will be convenient for for the guys. IMean, I've been receiving gear. A lot of people sending me free stuff from the US to Mexico. Actually, right, to try it out. And man, uh, it's not that good. Like like the year from the US. It's not that good. That has, has mostly the American people said, you know, I have a lot of friends there. But I started using injectable superdrol and man, my fuck, I was I was so fucking, um, pumped it up like three, four months ago. And then I was at my mom's house. And I was sitting like this. And that the air conditioner was, you know, really swam here. So I started feeling through a very, very, very, very, very scared like like like, uh, so I, I noticed that I was starting fucking losinGHair from that. IMean, I was scared of something. I don't know anyone would use some of the drugs that are really toxic. IMean, I know the superdrol probably injectable form is as in quite as as toxic it is as an oral form. But I, I wouldn't use see the reason why certain drugs were never made by these sub-former, statistical companies legitimately was because they were deemed too toxic. Yeah. So they didn't make them. And a draw was probably the most toxic drug they actually physically made and prescribed. Everything beyond that they said, you know what, this might be a little too dangerous. We're not going to make it. So of course they wouldn't grab all those drugs and they started making those and sell them. So if I'm advising people, I always tell people stay away from the really toxic drugs. There's so many good antibiotics out there that you can use that don't have that level of toxicity that there's no reason that you have to find the the one that is the most toxic and use it. That doesn't mean it's the best. It just means you can have the most side effects from it, you know. That's very good of big pharmacy in America to not put out any poison or toxic drugs to the American people. You know, not like I'll see cocktail coding or that's the thing. They're very, they're very worried about you know, I thought like they're going to sell your cigarettes or anything. That could cause cancer. I'm very happy that the farm of the studio got company in America. It really looks out for the Americans health. Go USA. What's T X T sponsors L T sounds good. Yeah. What's the what's the number one selling animal that would you say right now? So I agree. We're a laboratory. No, I'm saying like drug. Like what drug is the most probably purchased is it testosterone? No, no, I'll try and belong for a sure. No, people are mostly travel on. Why is that? Why is that? It's all a young kids, all the young kids are still on the right way. It's a grain or tren this tren that tren this tren that it's like I used tren probably three times and the very last time was with caffeine would have been around 2000 and not 2000 and four. Get rid for an eye me and I put it in my shoulders. One looser when you put it in. I thought you said because it's skin stuff it may be even if it's based in alcohol as soon as I pushed it my chest got IMean thEQuietest ever. I couldn't even cough it was that time. I'm going to have a heart attack. I'm going to end up on the bathroom floor and leave all in my arm. So I never used it since I thought I didn't get this whole fascination with tren and young kids. I thought I talked about tren this tren that I'm like my god. And everyone that uses a lot of tren when I look at their pictures on Instagram and Facebook. They look shit so I don't know why. They're doing their first cycle with tren. I know that who runs like once he's he a day and I know for fact he's using real tren and real dose. So IMean it's very it people are getting argued you know what there's another compound that are getting so popular which is worse. It's tren below mix. So it's IMean I think it's more toxic. I don't know if the parabolic which is supposedly in there it's real or not. I don't know but people are dumping that shit in five or five that you're in just you know IMean these few are in just and you're getting results but I don't know IMean they're getting acne they're getting all the side effects their peeing doesn't go up. They're getting acne they get acne they're losing their hair but they're not getting any muscle but okay what happened to the old sock was when I started I'd just be deca and then my next sock was deca and doyen about what happened to the good I told the guy I told the guy once he wanted to use trevon it's let me tell you something. I want to use 25 milligrams three times a week just experiment truck he's like I heard you got to use a hundred and five times a week I used 25 if you can handle 25 milligrams three times a week then you can you can raise the dose a little bit this guy was was was getting bar fights this it was he completely changes personality because it really raises your aggression level up tremendously it makes you agitated it definitely raises blood pressure you sweat all the time on it it does make your body look good if you tren hard and you do all the other stuff right but you don't really need as much as people think and I think that's a mistake that people are making I love trens my favorite one of my favorite drugs but you don't really need to use as much as you think 50 milligrams three times a week or every other day of trenbolone estate is more than enough trust me if you do that you won't notice a lot of the negative side effects and you'll get most you just positives that's a guy I don't know if that's true I was going to ask you is that any true that tren really affects your brain cells like your thoughts your like yeah the brain cells I'll tell you something I'm a very mild matter guy always was I never really I'm always very peaceful I'm not really looking to get fights with people I'm not an asshole by any means in the sense that I don't go around starting looking to pick fights when I would take trenbolone I was so angry all the time and I didn't even I didn't even connect the dots what it was being caused but I thought it was so irritable from dieting but the second I stopped the tren like when this one of the show was over and everything like that I completely changed my mood it really does raise your anger irritability it just it and it puts your nervous system on edge which means like you can never relax you can't it's very hard to fall sleep at night and some people get like trying to kick up from it some people get in the gestion because it overstimulates your digestive system as well it's not a great drug to be on for a long period of time if you're going to use it for a short period of time to get ready for competition that's one thing I wouldn't be staying on it for months and months and months though and that tren called me I remember that you said in one episode that you never experienced in the 80s and 90s you never you never you never was parable no only with tren acetate I noticed that yeah I think I heard the soul things right I don't think so I think it's the tren I think the difference was that when we used parable and it was only 76 milligrams you used it twice a week every three or four days so I think you just didn't get it because the dosage is worn high enough in trenbolone the parable and had a very slow slow absorption rate it was a long acting compound so you didn't get this massive amount of energy and release it immediately so I think that's that might have been one of the reasons why but you know who knows what the real reason is you know it could be impurities and I don't know but it's tren alone across the board does cause that cough so I have to imagine it's coming not from the preservative but from the actual drug itself so well that's happening in Mexico guys that's the way we don't see a much more muscular people we are looking we we have much much better drugs much better better quality yeah much serious businesses into the industry here but we don't seem better bodies I think I think they are fought for focusing more on drugs than diet and and trening programs and stuff you know still it's still at the end of the day it's about diet and working and supplementation and taking the right doing the right workouts and you know genetics yeah that's what I was going to say IMean Mexicans we just don't and he's not excused you know but you guys have good genetics though that's the difference you guys do have good genetics I think we have good genetics for men's disease but for open body builders IMean we just don't have not even one we have to 12 guys but you guys are shorter and that's why so IMean you know there's not many 12 Mexicans what what's wrong with being short you say nothing you'll fit right in you'll blend in they'll think you're Mexican don't worry about it they have good day put genetics for God they'll say look it's it's one more kiss hey yes okay leave you have a one up to Mexico and I say go swim how's it goes man yeah he was from New York he was a good bodybuilder how's he going to say come to Mexico and get it go pregnant and started I don't get anyone pregnant I was going to say that Lee you should come to or change the genetics with a Mexican girl is going to yes how about that isn't idea that's an idea bread your seat around we I'm going to come to Mexico I'm going to get sponsored by one of these drug clinics they're going to take my blood I'm going to give a little sample in a bottle and they got to take my DNA they got to sell my DNA from my blood and semen I'm sure I could do it someone can do it and we can have this like lead priest yeah this is your joking but you know what the a couple of people in my neighborhood I have a lot of property here they have cows and they're like I said how do you breed your cows I don't see any male bulls running around here they're like oh bulls are dangerous they buy you could go online you could actually buy vials of semen yeah and they send it to you in the male and I sent you just ejected into the females you know and then right place and you make baby cows that's amazing you don't even need boy and pretty soon they're going to pretty soon that we're doing that with us we'll be obsolete males they'll just be storing all of them they say they say you know because the bulls are dangerous having sex with the cow imagine the job jacking the bull off the they how dangerous that dangerous is that job but that will be a woo you can charge any woman to get them pregnant whatever you want lead imagine having a child of lead I want I want to love a child I'm going to love to have a priest yeah I went out with a porter recon once and this sort of close to the Mexican retirement talent they're crazy and I watched those movies and I like animal kingdom and stuff and all those girls are connected to the cartel so if you don't treat them right now come and talk to people oh yeah yeah one more time this is very I just discovered this 680 right down 680 no I don't want to do it right down this is this proved the illuminati's real and the earth is flat oh shit look at this right down 680 all right 680 minus 10 minus 10 minus 4 what do you get 666 and look I put it on the round piece of paper and when I ride on the piece of paper 666 happened to look what happened the paper became flat oh no it's like the flat earthers to you you're a genius yeah and mark of the devil what do I got on my shirt this must be some kind of a luminati symbol too it looks like it doesn't it look tile on the bottom look on actually on the bottom will be sure look that's a six and a six and a nine at the top on yellow two sixes on the bottom and that one at the top is a six at six zero six six I don't know what the zero is for mark and that would be like that see I just did a blood sacrifice last night right there it is actually they look they black look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look at the blood I fix six six six on the shirt it's a date I can see it Jimmy could see it you think your body I'll do the special symbol right they do this and like this they're like that or you know that's the the illuminati symbol I got it I'm losing my money thank you Felix they put on more than other mission of iron rage don't forget to subscribe to the least new Instagram the real least priest that's a special symbol thank you I want to leave for you here in Mexico yes I want to get sponsored hook it up you're gonna get a sponsor I'm telling you thank you very much I tell you leave 12 weeks before the Olympia you got to go out there in the tren with your new sponsor and your new year let him gear right America I lived in America 18 years and I never been to Mexico that's crazy yeah I think there was nothing this I think there was nothing to see because everyone was coming to America from Mexico so I think it was what should I go to exactly what he did I will make you a party if you come you didn't know you're missing

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST ON BODYBUILDING SACRIFICES! Iron Rage [LoY8eyW39J0].txt ===

Welcome back. We're in the show where John Romato, Lee Priest and I, event our frustrations with the world, John is on a job site, but I got Lee Priest all the way from Australia, and Lee, taste topic. We have actually a topic today, we do. Even though it was a topic, you know. What job should I say on it? I don't know, he said he's working all day. He's got a, you know, earned a living now. Yes, he's a real person. And you believe the where is your dad at home? Deeply picking up the Mexicans? Yeah, either that or he's probably making trenbolone in Mexico, someplace, you know. Chump, chump, chump, chump, chump, chump, chump, chump. Chump, chump, chump, chump. Chump, chump, chump, chump, chump. John didn't work a real job. John didn't work a real job. He's whole life until he got to be like almost 60, and now he's running job sites all the sudden, you know. He's job sites at the Becket College, James with the boot open, fucking job site. So today's topic, Lee, is a topic I wanted to talk about for a while. It's bodybuilders that are so consumed with bodybuilding that they actually sacrifice, they lose everything in their life. They lose all their money, their family, their friends, their relationships, and ultimately their health. So it's good to be consumed with bodybuilding and focus, but if you get to a point where it becomes detrimental, destructive to health, first of all, what do you do, and how do you stop that from happening to begin with? Well, you got to balance, it's like, even in the beginning, it's like, I was always like, it's like, it's not there. It wouldn't be a crow bodybuilder. So I never took a that serious, it's actually getting trouble from the other competitors backstage, because it always would be joking around. So you got to take it seriously, you got to take it seriously, you got to take it seriously, and I'm like, it's not as good. It looked the hard work done, I've died a day on. If I look good, I look good, I look good. If I go on stage, it's up to the judges' why, what backstage is the fucking beyond me, and like I said, as long as you go to the gym, and you take the trening seriously, you go, we need to get your work out done, and stuff like that once you leave the gym, it's okay, you can go out with the family to a movie, you can go out to a park, you can go out and have fun, but you get these guys who once I go to the gym, or fuck now, I've got to go eat, go home and eat, and they sit there. Hey, you want to come out, not come out, go out, go out, IMight fucking burn muscle, so I've got the fucking stay home. I've got to eat again two hours, I've got that, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, let me take a fucking jab in the fucking shoulder, up back to the gym. That's what they fucking do, and then they're like, the whole life's been doing that, then they get ready for a show, and they go in the more detrimental mode, jab and more fucking gear in themselves, not going out at all, getting angry at everyone, I was like, it's not their fault you're diving, you're the one to choose the fucking diet, don't take it out on everybody else, it's like, I didn't get angry when I was diving, people know I just fought there was something wrong, because they'd be like, Lee, you say quite, because I just sit there and think about the show, or what I've got to do next, the cardio session coming up, and I never got angry at anyone, but he had these guys when they got to be so 24, seven, they're going to burn out mad me, because they're just so like, I've got to tren, I've got to eat, I've got to do this, I've got to do that, do you want to come out now, I'm getting ready for a show? Well, fuck it, I'm like, excuse me, you can't go out because you get ready for a show, just like, they just go fucking nuts, and like you said, they're relating ships to break up over it, the family hates them and all these sort of stuff, so, it's like I said, it's good to be serious about your tren, stuff, but you're still going to have that balance side life, because I find that you know, if you've got the outside life, you're making so much easier to focus on a show, but if you're 24, seven trening, dieting, thinking about this, thinking about the competition, thinking about, if I can gear and stuff, that'll simply, you burn out more physically. So, how did you stay so balanced like that, through your career? Because you lived in the environment, you were in Venice, you're going to go. IMean, that's where everyone lived the body going like, so you ate at the firehouse, you know, how did you prevent yourself from going over that edge, sort of speak? I didn't hang out with body builders, that's what, ah, that's good to see that. I don't know, I said, I ain't body builders, friends at the gym and stuff, but I never tren with any other pros, I just tren with normal people, and then when I was outside the gym, I hang out with normal people, I go to the dog park and hang out with fucking elderly people, walking there, don't you? I do the car racing, so when I went to a car racing, now it's a totally different group of people, different sort of things, so I can't stand that, you know, there'd be a couple of people when we go to the firehouse, someone from the gym I say, hey, Lee, can we come along? I think we can, I'm sure, come along. After 10 minutes, I'm reading the fucking shoot myself, because the whole time in the firehouse, so what do you eat after trening? What do you eat before trening? Now, when you get ready for a show, what drugs do you take? Do you take a, is it something you fucking talk about? 24 or 70's fucking body building, dieting drugs? That's what I talk about, so I can't hang out with people like that, they drive me fucking mad. When I, this is true, sir, when I would go out to eat with Greg Colvax in his wife Kim, I don't know if he ever went to eat with them, his wife would be there with a pen and paper. She'd be taking notes. It was like I was being interviewed during the meal. And I was very good friends with him. I love to hang it out with them, but don't get me wrong. But, yes, she was always right now, so they were always looking for the secrets from everyone, you know? That's the thing, people think there's secrets all the time. It's like, I say what I'll live report, do that, we never got to stay here, or it's when I used to hang it, you know, you'd eat with somebody other pros at the firehouse, like flexing it. Not once, do we ever talk about fucking drugs or cycles or trening or anything? We just talk about general stuff cars or this sort of stuff or different types of stuff, what movies are coming out of. It's just general chat, but these young images sadly, the whole life consumed about the drug cycles. And this isn't more so now you go online. You know, before we didn't have, I read the forums back in the day, there was no fucking Facebook crap, and I don't think my space was the big thing when it came out. But the forums, or people talked about it all before, even then the magazine, you go to Jimmy Talk to mates about eating and trening. But now every question is seen on a forum first thing. I think about doing a cycle. What do you guys recommend? Instead of taking advice of dickheads on the internet, they're telling them what they recommend on data taken. Saturdays guys take it, they'll do a show. NothinGHappens, so they think, well, maybe we've got to take more next time, so they take more drugs and more drugs. That's just fucking crazy. No, because you see these guys sadly, who have always said it, you're going to have guys who are going to be to delete the guys that are top just due to genetics and that, they use it a bit of gear, makes them that much better. You got that 1% of guys who will be in the top pros. You'll even be a caliber guys. And you're always going to have the guys who have been a good at state level, national level, but that's as far as you're going to get, but in their mind, they think there's some secret if I do this, a little bit extra if I ask you to sky what are you taking, what combination, maybe if I do that, I'll get to a pro level. Sadly, year after year after year, you'll see them, 10 years down the track, still drawing the breaking of the pro, and just like you said, doing their health in, the friends and family have pissed off because they've got to be a good, it's a straightness never going to happen. So like I said, this could have goals, but you've got to be realistic too, and you've sported it. And IMaybe never got to happen, but you can still tren look good to national level shows. But as far as getting into the pro, it's something that's never going to happen, but yet the whole life is consumed about I'm going to be a pro. I'm going to be a pro, I'm going to be a pro. So like, yeah, I'm going to be a pro, or I'm a pro. Fuck with it. If you don't, Lee, you were such an immature person personality wife, and diet, and so like that. IMean, you know some of your contemporaries, let's take a guy like NASA. NASA's seen like the most coolest cat you'd ever see, and he was probably taking more drugs than everyone. IMean, it looked good. He ultimately destroyed his kidneys and died from it. So, IMean, how did you get, stay out of getting caught up in the race? I call it the arms race. You know, more than hard drugs. He's using a thousand dollars. He's two thousand. He's using three thousand. I'll take four thousand. How did you stay away from that? Because you could have very easily fallen into that, hey, yeah, I call you a money you were making. You could have afforded to take 12 I use in GH today if you wanted to, but you didn't. Why? Believe it or not, Dave. I am sensible. I don't believe it. I don't believe it. I don't believe it. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. No, no, no, no, no. It's like anything. It's like, don't let the looks deciduous. So you're going to look at me and people here in Australia think a fucking biker drug dealer or whatever thing. But I'm not, I'm just pretty laid back. Cool. That didn't know you know guys who dressed well in suits, but a biggest fucking criminals out there and nice clen young people. So he can't let it look, you know, judge on how, you know, that people will. But no, with me, it was like I said that one time Trevor from Nuclear Nutrition, he had me use 800 milligrams of Tesla. Once I felt shit, I was always just went back to what I used. Because I said, the little bit so I used always work for me. So I've never had that mentality from day one where it's like, when I got into the sport, I knew drugs would have involved, but it wasn't like had that mentality where I need them. It's like, okay, if I get that it's legal, I can't really for a show. I have to take him to use him, but then when that shows over, I come off him and say, I'll come to the next contest. There wasn't one of these things where I need him to tren hard without him. I can't get big without him. I can't do this. So I never had that mentality where as people think, you know, you see guys all the time, I can't get with him. I'm not on drugs. I lose sight of him, I'm not on drugs. It's like, there's some kids at the gym. They come up, they're like, I said, I'll tren two times a week, three times most. They don't need properly. They don't tren properly. They're kind of, hey, I'm doing a cycle now. So all of a sudden, they're in the gym five times a week. They're eating six times a day. Right. But I got his gears working great. Look, I put size on my strength score. And I went, if he just counted the gym five six times a day, and thought, okay, they probably, he would've got the same results. Yeah, right. Because they're on the gig. And then they won't come off, but then when they come off, they get it like, I've lost all my size and strength. Four of the times I've done cycles, I've never lost size, never lost strength. I got size now. I haven't been taking anything. As long as you keep eating good and keep trening, you're going to keep what you have. So they said, so just, yo, yo, yo, yo. Just I've got a friend that has been on the gear for six years straight. Never come off. Every time he said, I'm going to do a show, I'm like, okay. Here we die into the four weeks, as soon as his T-shirt gets loose. He's fucking gone mental breakdown and fucking puts the dog. I can go back on, you know, taking more. You're not getting, because he can't handle. I think he gets smaller, sir. I've never had that mentality where I need drugs to do what I do. It's like, okay, yes, I have to use him for certain aspects, but I've never been on a more year round. People like, oh, when you come off him, you're a little bit for PC to, you know, they're not, no, like come off him, like fucking come off him, like, okay, I'm not using smaller amounts of shit like that. I'm off, sir. Right. But like I said, these guys just think they need to be on 24, 7 in the amounts. They take, he's just ridiculous. That's why I've said the guy is, to do take these ridiculous amounts. Come off it all to give us that of a smaller amount, tren hard, eat good. You'll get the same fucking results. I said, the other one is getting the good results from you using the large amounts, he's the guy you buy and lock because you've got a driving a new fucking Mercedes somewhere and live in a Mexican and Florida, like, John Ramano, you know, I'll just say, and, you know, you know, did you, did you ever interact with like, Momo, Ben and Ziza? No, I've never met him. I think he just passed away before I came over. What about Andreas Munzer? Yeah, and he was a nice guy and stuff. So, and then I say, when you have people like that when they come out with, you know, this cycle's and stuff on what they're using. It's like, you know, did the drugs really kill him? Or did they have an underlying problem to begin with? It's going back to before way. That's why I said, it's good for bodybuilders to get checkups and stuff because if you do have underlying problems and there are things that are, I'm sure, taking a views and the large amounts of some people do with morals and stuff, isn't going to really help and that sort of thing. So, it's good to get those check-ups if you are. If I can, a views and the shit which most do and, well, they say, that's what's still a nice bit of seminars. I'm sure you've been seminars where people ask me what are you using. They call me a lie, I didn't want to face my tail and 400 milligrams of this and that, or such two 50, I take two meals, which is 500 milligrams a week. And they're like, oh, we heard you take this. I'm like, oh, fuck off, I'm going to take that too. I feel like I take it up the ass and stuff as well, but I'm the one fucking doing it. I'm like, oh, I'm doing it. I'm not a fucking know, would I? So, rapidly, don't you think it's because you're a genetically gifted individual. Obviously, your body responds better to smaller dosages. You're just, you're a different creature. And there is genetic freaks out there like you. Yeah, I'm sure there is. I'm sure there's guys out there, but you take a little bit more. But when I say a little bit more, I'm like, talking like, you know, when I was in England, you got young kids that look like shit, taken 5,000 milligrams a week. It's like, you know, if 2000 ain't going to work, three or four thousand ain't going to, if I can do you any better. So it's like, you know, your body's going to get to a point where it's just like taking too many vitamins. You're going to piece them out. You take too much steroids. You're body can only, you know, I'm sure it can only take so much in. So, when you just pumping that much in, your body can't use it. That's what I said, it come back to being a realistic again. Is this sport for you? You might never be a pro body, but I see you might be a good amateur in the top level, but some guys might not even be that, but yet they're like, I'm going to turn, I'm going to turn, I'm going to turn pro. And I've always told them, if you're going to be pro, you'll know it. If you've got the exact same to be a pro in anything that God given, talent or whatever, it's just going to come through before you even touch it, but these ones are done at all, but they keep thinking about taking more, it isn't taking more at that. And like the ones that I said, talk about a 24-7, trying to get all these information, actually get too much information. There's like, you know, you seem to the gym. The last one guy, what should I do here? It's like what should I do? They're seeing me over and asking another guy, how should I tren this and what's like what should I take? It's like they get all these fucking bullshit information. They're trying to condone it down and okay, what is guys said, take a fast, this guy said, two, well, I'll go 15, you know, that, okay. This guy said, dude, listen to that, you know, then he end up with someone like, foster Lloyd. So what are you doing? Don't you think Lee though this should almost be like a boot camp? You should have to go through like a certain trening camp, you can get through it and prove that you could actually tren with high intensity using good form, you know, heavy weights and show that you know what you're doing in the gym. Then you should have the privilege of using anabolic steroids because if you can tren right and you can't get your meals incorrectly, okay, then all the steroids in the world we know won't do anything. Let's go. I get in trouble with saying that a lot of online because some guys saying, I'm taking this, I'm taking that and I look at the profile, I said, I said, I said, really, what are you taking it for? You don't need it. Why not? I can take it on, I said, yeah, but to me, it's like, if you're not really going to compete, why use it? Because like, you know what I know, if you tren hard, like you said, and he goes through proper trening, trened, high intensity, eight well, it's not, you can still be in a great physique, she needs genetics, moderate genetics, great genetics. You're still going to build some muscle tone and dieting down, you know, you're going to die down, you always look better. You don't need to drive surfing and metallurgy people thinking they're going to pump and never do enough of a women. They're not going to compete. They just want to do it because I want to walk around looking bigger, do this. So I think get that helmet tell me, it's like, if I never can compete as a pro, I would never have taken steroids in my whole fucking life, I wouldn't have had any need to. So I think that helmet tell you these young kids that just take it because they say, well, I want to look good. When you can do that anyway, we've had the steroids, but they think like I said, they want to get bigger and bigger and sadly, those boot camps that need a good fucking psychiatrist at the end of that fucking. I have a serious thing. Think about it. If you did a six week boot camp, it taught people how to tren and eat properly. And if you wouldn't graduate unless you could actually prove to the instructors that you could tren properly and that you could eat properly. And I guarantee if you brainwashed that proper way to do things and the people's heads and you gave them half the dose. Okay, of what everyone is normally taking nowadays. I guarantee they get better results in every other person out there because I believe that the trening and the eating is really what dictates the results. I've been a lot of the two. And to remember one time this guy at the gym, he's a girl. He's going to go on a cycle. He's like, like, I want to do a cycle. Just kick, fuckinGHassle me. Can you get me? Can you get me some dianabol? I want to try to end of all this. That way. I like to look just tren hard. You don't need it. So we're like, okay, we're getting some dianabol. So we just had dianabol, fucking bottle laying around. I just feel that full of fucking sacrament tablets. I said, he just take fucking five at ease a day. Five at ease a day. Five at in fucking three, three or four weeks. Fuck, my strength's going up. I put so as, because at the same time, I'm told him to eat more and tren. I'll spot him in morning. He's fucking bench. I was going on a bit. So I can't believe. I've got so much bigger and stronger. I said, those tablets, I give you next time you take him. Fuck and chew him. You guys, you guys. Fuck this. Wait, you guys. I said, if I can shove it tell it's you dickhead. Fuck you. Fuck you. I said, I said, there's all in your fuckinGHead. Wasn't it? You thought you were taking dianabol. I said, I said, I have to, he's going to take him to drostanolone. I said, if you were going to give him a shot, even though I say it's three meals in a three. You can tell it's three meals in a three. You can tell it's three meals in a three. You can tell it's three meals in a three-thousand milligrams. You can tell it's three meals in a three-thousand milligrams. I said, I have to have the time it's just all fucking mental. That's the thing. It's like, you can just, you know, if you get a spot or someone, you think they're helping you list the barn. They're not in the fucking push the way up and stuff. So, comes to anything. Is that fucking placebo effect? You've got to put it on dianabol. It's just fucking shook the table. But yeah, he's fucking body white when up by 20 pounds. He's strength went through the roof and fucking goes, only because he put it's taken dianabol. What do you tell the people who come to you that you just see they have the worst genetics of all time. And they want to be bodybuilders. They got the cycles listed out. They got all the drugs in the drawer. And they're like, you just know, this person is completely wasting their time. Do you tell them to square out? Yeah. You do. I do, but I don't know. I get abused even online. I get abused. And then that is one kid once he said anything. Is he in the house he's taken? Yeah, he could be a doctor. You got to get through all these fucking, my mom and dad was a doctor. So now he's in his fourth year of going through the degree to get a doctor. Right. It sounds interesting. You know, I'm thinking of giving it up. I want to be a bodybuilder. And like, do you create a set? Why don't he just be a doctor and still compete as a deacon. Fucking be a doctor with a good physique, you know? Because that won't be professional. So he seems to be these photos. I said, look, honestly, man, I said, he might have a nice physique. Not going to be a pro bodybuilder. So just keep doing the doping. So you kind of the great job. You make lots of money. He wrote, back fuck you cut off. I'm like, oh, well, it's like go ahead then. But you know, he's trying to be honest with people. You get so fucking mad. ThEQuestion is, where is that guy today? Where is that guy? I don't know. That's the thing. I love to fall off in some of these people that have given me a abuse saying, I'll show you sort of stuff because that's like I said, that's good to have a goal. I say, like, you got no chance to begin the body going to live twice as they want to be a bodybuilder. Bodybuilder, bodybuilder, it's like, start small. Maybe start a local share, but they're coming saying, I'm going to be a Mr. Olympia. I'm going to do whatever it takes. I'm going to do to be Mr. Olympia. You know, they're going to be Mr. Fuckin' Pico. Bullonver, to shut the fuck up. It's like, that's like, that's like, that's like, that's like, that's like, that's like, that whole thing we've reality and like I've said it before. For some reason, bodybuilding and that attracts the biggest decades around because like I said, I got made to play the golf on the weekend. They play tennis, but they're not out there playing tennis. Same next week, I'm taking on Dr. Vitch and I'm going to fucking beat that kind of win, win, win, win, win, well to no. I got made to play basketball and like, you know, what, what's we going to use time? I'll be in the fucking NBA, fuckler, bro. And I'll be fucking bed on him. It's like, they do it for some because that's what they do. But everyone gets in the body going to go to the GM things to go to the fucking Mr. Olympia. They take drugs and then get it. And that young boy went on to become a man. Exactly. And then the wrong way. I'm going to be like, well, I'm going to be a fucking... ...a really weak one. I'm going to be fucking... I'm going to be a fucking... I'm going to be a fucking... ...a really weak one. I'm going to be a fucking... Oh, sorry, that's... You know, just, just leave your story. Bob Brushkin told me I went and post for him when I was first... I had just left medical school and I said, I want to be a bodybuilding. He told me you go back to school too. Yeah, I did hear he listen. Now I did, obviously, I didn't listen. He posed a naked foreign to. Yeah, almost. But hey, Lee, you know what? Good to hear from you, thanks for joining us today. You know, I just want to tell you one more thing. That advice you gave me five years ago. Go fuck yourself. That it works. Let me tell you something, Dave. What if the hokey pokey is really what it's all about? Yeah, and then there may be. It's just my big. I think about that. We're as John Romano though. We got to do the investigative... Yeah, he's not a good one in the job site. And that was what we're trying to... Whatever, it's what we're trying to say. He's doinGHis fucking A&L's interview. Yeah, exactly. I've got to ask him to do the same. Thank you. All right, I got one final question for you. Phil Heath, seven-time Mr. Olympia, is no longer on the contract now with AMI. There's no more exclusivity contract with him. So, he interviewed with MD. I'll probably interview him in the next week or two, whatever. Give me onEQuestion that you think I should ask. The more would be a one-good lead-preest question that I can add to the list. You would like to know about Phil Heath. Did he really run up and down that mountain on? Oh, I'm... I'm the movie. I've been listening to the body, though, yeah. No, I didn't really have thEQuestion, but, you know, did you say I got abused a lot by people when I said Mr. Olympia opened, might be on its way out of the classic to see coming in. People are like, oh, fuck you, late. The Mr. Olympia's going to be here forever. He's thinking as far as marketing wise goes, if they're trying to get it mainstream with the rock coming in and stuff like that. I figured they're important to get seen. The Mr. Olympia might be going the way of the Mr. Olympia, so I'm not going to abuse. Fuck you, don't you talk about, Marmar Marmar Marmar. People got excited about the fact that you kind of hinted that you were going to be competing in 2020. I got to tell you. Yes, I saw that. Yes, well, you know, classic physique never seen it. Why I said this? Well, then again, IMissed out on your last episode where you said these trens, Jen, that's fucking bikini. The bikini here I fucking come. You know, I've got to get a nice sequence. Top, some nice, high, some kind of tactic. And IMean, would you do a hair weave like that for the lonGHair? Is everything? Yeah, and the lashes, but I got to know what a star's placing is go. How high up do you have to go to swallow or can you just spit and still get a top five? You know, Lee, when you were 14 years old, I don't think you could have made the classic physique class. I think you still were too heavy. I won my first Charizard third day. You've come on there, give me a little bit of credit. How much did you weigh at 13 years old? I think I was about 50 kilos, 110 pound. Yeah, you could have been classic back then, that's about it. After that it's all over. By the time you were 16, you were huge already. Yeah, so flexy, see that? IMake it. And now it's on about I'm coming back and now it's like we sent flexy's going to retire. Yeah. Well, he's returning to 12. So you can still get him in the open. Maybe flex and I, if I turn into a woman, we can do the couples. You're one of the happy the mixed pairs. Remember that? Someone was asking me that someone's asked me that in the straight because my daughter's going to compete in the armed sports model, part of the world in September. Really? And she was asking about the couples because I did the couples with my mum she goes, if they've brought the couples back, maybe we could do it. I'll be like, oh, you have a fucking old pervert on stage. Yeah, you have to hold that. Does you, does you don't have good genetics? Yeah, yeah, I forgot some pictures up on my Facebook cover. IMean, on my Instagram, it's good to see you follow me Dave. You know, thanks for that. Well, I, yeah, I have no, I don't really look at your Instagram to be honest. I don't look at anyone's Instagram. The tail of the gym. She's in the gym tren as you're not fucking dancing around stage. Like fucking Shaun's daughter and shit. What if like, yeah, what if like Shaun read, what if Shaun read head on your daughter? Would you be pissed off? I'm sure he probably has already. How old is that? That's okay because I like the way he's daughter dancers. I've been sendinGHer messages too. How old is your favorite love and wool? I'm a Catholic priest. I'm allowed to do that. Oh, you don't have to have very good genetics, Lee. Oh, I've just, is this showing your picture? Yeah, I'll take pictures of her. Yeah. Thank you. That's very good to take. Yeah. So there you go. Impressive. There we go. So he's so in September. She must inherit that from your father. What's his name? From last week. Oh, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. You're out of the family. You're out of the family. You're not going to be doing it. You've got a very similar disease to yours. You know, when you were first in playing, you'recomplaining about the daughter already. You're not going to die at seven weeks. And you're already bitching to the hell. What have you done to tell you she wanted to get a tattoo in her face? Would you be alright with that? That doesn't bother me. Oh, you don't care. What harm can it do? That's. You're a big, you're a lazy, fair type of dad. You're not, you don't get too involved. I'm very open, father. I don't care about anything. As long as it's not hurting anybody else and it's not hurting yourself. And, you know, to each their own, I say, Would you like to see it? Would you be okay with your daughter competing like the, you know, the figure, a lip-eal level or maybe women's disease? Yeah, yeah. It's not as long as it did it safely because I wouldn't have our, like, you know, so you wouldn't be. She, but if you had to use, there was, and then she said, look, I've got to use them at this level of, like, you know, I understand that. So, you know, as long as it's done safely, I'm sure she went to doctors and had everything checked up on stuff. So, that's like I said, you can't, you can never really stop them from doing anything. They're going to do it. We can do it. Go on. I don't know what they're doing. They're right. They're right. Because they get some parents who are like, I'll never let them do this. I never let them do that. You know, especially the ones I got friends there that have daughter's growing up. And they're like, my daughter's never going to date. She's never going to do it. She's never going to have sex. I said, you know what? It's kind of fuck up happens. Just remember, when you were a young guy, banging someone's fucking daughter, you know, you're going to touch my daughter like that. I said, you get it to guys. I said, you know, my daughter can't do anything. She was feeling, tell me she had sex. I didn't get mad at her. I said, well, she's open and can tell me about it. And in the back of my mind, I was just thinking, fucking karma. That's it. Just kind of, let's come in. Come in back. You know, please, please, don't get all the same upset. My daughter's not going to date, you know, what's going to happen. So, at least I'd rather everyone, I'd give you the daughter when it can come until you think it's going to be open. We can stuff like that, rather than hide stuff. Here's some of these overpowering dads that just got around. Right, right, right, right. So, you're going to be as a father when you're too close. You're too close with parents, that's the two cool words. Hey, you just got to be like that. I said, like you said, if you get mad, let me tell him not to be otherwise going to. So, we all did it when we were young. You parents just started to get it. You're like, fuck that. I'm going to do it. So, that's how you go to be. They say, dad, I'm going to be gang-bang. So, don't ever gang-bang. So, okay, just go do it in time. So, experience life. Go out. You know, take the numbing cream in case it fucking gets sore and swells up. But, you know, you just go out and enjoy life. Come on, let's do it again, but at least you've experienced it. Get that any system there. So, you're going to do it later on. You know? Why is words of wisdom from leaping? In way of protection? Way of protection. There you go, right. Just say now. That's my, that's going to be my modest my daughter. Just say, no, and on that note, leaping. I can't hear him. I can't hear when he got chloroform died. Sometimes he's like, I don't know. What's that? Just to say, no. From leaping, stay below in Tyler's shore. We'll see you next time. Bye.

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST ON RIDICULOUS FAD DIETS! Iron Rage [bLZpMPjUXkw].txt ===

Welcome back to Iron Rage, the show where John Ramon O'Leapree tonight, event our frustrations with the world, Lee Priest, Colin and obviously from Australia, John Ramon O'Missing an action, but Lee today's show, the topic is about fat dieting. I gotta tell you, I'm so sick. If I get one morEQuestion from people asking me about, what do I think about this diet? What do I think about that diet? What do I think about this diet? This guy said I can eat chocolate cake if I don't throw this in many carbs. This person said I shouldn't be eating fat. This person said that if I eat protein, I should only be eating the egg whites and fish. This person said I should only eat red meat and then I got the guy who's got the carnivore diet, the only eats meat all day long. I can't deal with it anymore. Why can't people just go back to normalcy? Remember in the 80s and 90s, there was a diet that everyone followed. It worked. People got in shape and they did shows, why does everyone have to reinvent the wheel? I don't know, I tell them that they didn't reinvent the wheel, but what I think it is now that there's so many so-called personal treners and experts out there that everyone just trying to make a buck come up with a new diet, put their name on it, give it some fancy little name out of number two and they say this is what you mean to stick to. But like I said in the old days, now I had all these fancy diets. You know what you gotta eat the polka? That's nothing at the point when they say those pictures of me. Lee, were you on a dirty polka? What sort of polka would you do when you're doing that? There is no type of polka and you just fucking eat food and you get heavy. That's what there is. You want to get lean, you cut the fat food out, you cut out the fats in the process foods. You know, eat clen and get on the fucking treadmill and just start trening a bit harder. So, but now everyone's got this thing, like you said, so much protein. I've even got the guys out here now to go and get their blood done because they've got to find out what blood group they are because a blood group can go with the diet. That's another 3 days, right? It's like, I'm blood group A, so I can only eat this type of meat and at this time of day and then they have what you said before about that fasting diet, we only eat so many meals a day. It's just giving me something right. That's the thing. Yeah. And then all the came out was after a show you go and eat, but now that's, do you have a refeed? Do you go refeed your body? It's like a feed my body every time I fucking eat. I don't know what a refeed is. And once a second, what are you going to do with it? I'm going to do a negative day, right? Well, as soon as you talk about it, they said, like, all we're, looses is what everyone's doing. You've got to count your macros. Well, I think your might day, you had like a little calorie count of book and you could work out how many calories was in the piece that you can stuff. But then after a year or so, you pretty much knew it and the more diety you did, you just went by looking at it pretty much knew what the food was and the best way to go was by the mirror, I did some food if I was hungry. If I looked like I wasn't losing weight, I just cut back on a bit of food or just doing more cardio. But now, everyone's got to go to go, come up with these fancy ideas and like you said, don't come and ask you what the gym, I'm eating this, what do you think I should eat? And then I go ask another person, I'll tren it. But as I should do it this way, I can have a guy diet not long ago. Maybe six months and next thing I see with the gym, I ask another person, I'll try it, it comes over here, I'll just speak to think here, because my cards should be done. And then I'll go talk to him and why fucking ask me. That's just stupid. You know, back, I remember when I was reading the Bodybuilding magazine's, when I first got into it, I remember reading Lee Haney's meal plan. And it was so simple, it was in the morning, he had two hall eggs with another like six or eight whites and he had a bowl of oatmeal. For lunch, he had a chicken breast, he had a bowl of rice and he had maybe a tablespoon of olive oil on it. IMean, it was protein fat and carbs. It was basic nutrition 101 that was that as always worked for everyone and then when he got ready for a show, he cut his carbs back. That was it. It was so easy to get it worked and we all did it. And yeah, granted, we've learned a little bit more about supplementation now and essential fats and maybe some vitamins and minerals and something like that. And maybe we know that we have to take vitamin D nowadays. But the basic nutrition is nutrition. I don't get these people with, oh, I could eat it. Don't it once a day on my diet, because it fits my macros or I'm only eating six hours out of the day now, but I eat 4,000 calories in that. Or I got to eat 10,000 calories because otherwise I'm not going to grow. I eat, Lee, it's driving me nuts. I got to be honest. And I do diet to people all day long. It's, I can't believe the ridiculous thing that I see out there. This is like the old days, like when you said the old dieting, like Arnold was milk egg steak, you know, just for protein milk and egg proteins and stuff. Staking potatoes. It's all the way. Like I said, Lee Hayden's diet, we used to talk about then the egg white, two whole eggs egg whites, I don't know, there's pretty much my breakfast when I'm dying. And then I'll have chicken and rice or steak and rice and then later in the day, IMight have steak and vegetables or chicken and rice and chicken and vegetables at night. I said, I've always just stuck in a basement. As I said, it was not broken. That try fix it. Sure, maybe these days, some people, because everyone's got some fucking our mid-carb sensitivity. Well, they said the kind of that, I can't have this or they're a little too much. It's like, so then then you might have to, you know, tweak someone's diet. But generally, majority of population, if they just stuck to the good old basic, it's going to work for them because I live just saying that if you're on Saturday every day, I hate when you give someone a diet at the gym and like, sometimes it's for your mouth's more than me, but I'm not thinking on women here, so they come down on me. But you give them a diet and then you see them doing cardio two hours a day. They come back at the gym and tren at night. And then four months later, how much weight if you're lost? I'm still about the same, because you and I know if you just clen up your diet and just start trening doing cardio, you're going to lose fluid in like a week or two. You're going to drop a couple of kilos just from water. So if you've been on the diet with giving you for three months and nothing's changed, well, you're fucking cheap when you go home or you're eating pizza or something or I love this one. You hear the personal trener, the gym teller clients just so they can keep ripping them off. One way weights to save and the client, the personal trener says, well, what's happened is you've actually lost the fact that you're gained muscle. That's why the scale hasn't changed, but I'll get the calipers out. Oh, yes, look, you've actually put on muscle, but you've lost body fat because your waist is a centimeter smaller. Yeah, I know. Percuss. And the other thing that drives me crazy is that people cannot go more than 10 minutes without putting something into their mouth. They got to be either drinking branch, changing the meat away, restaurants every minute of the day where they got to have an inch of workout car, but they got to have, while they're on the toilet, they got to stick an atom erupt their ass, you know, just hit it to adjust it. Extra couple of grams of a glutamate. I don't get it. Why can't people just let their bodies diet and lose the weight? I see her. So I got a person who was an India. They, this guy, his former coach had him take in so many intro workout, branched Shane Amino as his glutamate, creatine, all day long. The guy couldn't lose any weight. I pulled all that. I didn't change his single thing about his diet. I just pulled all the crap out. All those powders that he was drinking and he got in shape in two weeks. Just from taking that stuff out. People think don't understand this calories and that stuff. You can't lose weight if you're always putting something in your freaking mouth. Stop drinking. Stop taking stuff. You're seeing with the gym. The gym is just drink water but now the other day, the other day, the intro workout, the trip is water. I never knew you were going to have to do that. During the day, the thing is, too, it's like, I forget every fricontas on regiment. If only I come to eat. Every two hours every three hours because you're putting something in. Because it's lean food, you're always hungry. But offseason, people couldn't believe it. Because you know, we've been over before what I say. After you're trened, you've got to go on eat. There's an antibiotic window. I was like, you know, I wish somebody's comes with jump-out. That fucking antibiotic window from 10 floors up. But, you know, it's like, if I ate something as offseason, I think when I'm hungry, IMight have a big meal for breakfast. But then, if I'm doing stuff or going out, doing things, I like not eating for four or five hours. I'm not one of those people like, I've got to eat now. I've got to eat now. Well, at the time, you've been in the shows where guys have popped up. They're not contested, really. But yet, they're carrying their fucking S square around. They're carrying their fucking gallon, four gallon thing of water. They're going to fucking dehydrate. I'm going through the Simpson desert. It's like, bloody hell mate, you can get water anyway. You're not going to die watching a two-hour bodybuild. You're going to show me, you need to chuck a water. I just think, yeah, and like I said, carrying my meals, I'm carrying mainly if I was dying, but offseason. I could go out and ask without eating enough to work out, maybe. IMight have a protein drink, but then IMight not eat for a couple of hours. But these people, I've got to eat now, I've got to put it over. I've got to find food. I was like, fuck off. You look like shit anyway. So something's not working. It's like, I don't know about finding food. You better go find some fucking genetics. That's wood stuff. When you're dieting for a show, the idea is that your body is living off stored body fat. If you're constantly putting something into your body, your body's going to use that as the fuel source. They're not the stored body fat. And then these people wonder why they can't get into shape. You know? And then the best thing is you see these same guys at the show. They're not in shape, and they're eating 4,000 grams of carbs to carb up on. And the water that's still like sweating profusely, you know, you're supposed to be dry as a bone backstage. And these guys are so bloated and sweaty, because they're eating so much freaking food in it. And that in shape, it's disgusting. And then they're like, I think I need to take insulin next time. Because I'm absorbing my food or something. What about the ones that are still fat backstage, sweat and like pigs? And you go back and eat in a chocolate bar. And I said, one young kid wants to eat it. It's going to bring my veins out. I'm like, what's going to take a bite? I'm going to take a fucking one of those wet shop vacuums to bring your veins. You've got a pump, they fucking water out. He has like, smooth as a baby's pump, but he said, oh, I hear you're like your chocolate and bring my veins out. I said, yeah, maybe if you've been there, or pull a rabbit out of your ass too, like a fucking magician. Just like somebody's people just have no idea, but they're always constantly eating those things backstage. Then it was wide backstage. Everyone's got these little tricks to do. Why in your mind? If you're dry, I've always said, if you're dry, and you're in shape, you're in shape. Sure, maybe you might get a little bit of a sugar rush from some of that stuff. But these people that think that, like, a look a certain way, but when I go backstage, what a magic happens and they come on the knee here the next day. Well, you know, I wasn't carved up enough. I had it carved, I was too deeply. It's like, what excuses come out? That's why I've always got ready. I've already two weeks out. That way you can play around with your food, play around with your diet. And see how your body responds. There's these people to think there's a magic pill at the last week, but I said, the whole dieting thing's just like I said, they're over-complicating that. That's like, what does the good people dice? They look at me sometimes and go, oh, he's at it. I'm like, well, what did you expect? There's not rocket size, but you're there expecting some big thing. And then you get the ones that call you up nearly every day who women are the worst against, or either hop on the scale every day. I'm up a key, like, I'm down a key, like, or I'm up two key, like, just like, just a fluid fluctuating. They're obsessed by the scale. It's like, stay off the fucking scale. It doesn't matter. Looking in the mirror. See how you're looking there, but yeah, and then you get the ones I said, they've got to be it after trening, what are you going to, like you said, your body's got to burn the fat first, but they're thinking, you've either eats straight after my workout, my body's going to go straight and fucking eat on my muscle. But it's like, for one, you got no muscle to eat, so IMight start eating your fucking bones before it fucking, if I can scale it and collapse it on the extreme. Yeah, I said, I tell him, you got plenty of body fat, don't worry about your muscle being eaten up. Yeah. Those, those do if you open the day and eat, for fucking months, you'll have a bit of muscle. And I think they're, they're worried about their inobonic windows. Too bad. So I think you, I think you'll survive if you don't miss a meal after you work out. Well, I always say the most dangerous people backstage at a show are not the people that look the biggest and close. It's the skiniest guys that enclosed it, have the Ethiopian life faces like they stay looking to have an eating meal in a week. Those are the guys who've been watching out for them, so when they take their clothes off, they're fucking shredded. Those are the people that went to the house. Well, call me, you know, I said, IMean, because every time I go back to the side of the way, black, black, black, black, black, black, you pay, it's a big black jumper, outstanding in a corner. Now, one paid me attention, I'm like, good, I just face the wife from everyone, but every time I pump up, I don't go into the toilet, put the oil on underneath my clothes, come back, yes, and I'm still sleeping. Have you pumped it up? And every time I took off the Christmas hair, I go, we had a fact in that shit come from. Like I said, you just under the clothes. I remember when, serves you, break back in the day when I was young, come here, guess posing. You had on a black, cool piece, like jumpsuit. Right. You can tell he had shape on him. Like, yeah, he looks like, okay, you can tell he's like, nice, shoulders, more waste. Doesn't look nothing big, but when that fucker walk down on stage, your guess pose and the spotlight hit him, it's where you put 200 pound muscle suit on, he's just massive, you like. Yeah. Was that the same guy that was just in that bloody thing? But you have seen it before, day when you go to his national contest, a band-and-white guy would be on stage or a lightweight, and you're like, fuck, he looks incredible. He walked past you in the audience, you go, wasn't the same guy on just on stage? He looks so small and closed, but when they're undressed, it's like, and then it's the opposite, the guys are in a massive, and their clothes get on stage and look like, he bloated the loons. So crazy. Yeah. Well, what I noticed is it's 6.30 or 7 in the morning there, and it seems to be getting darker rather than lighter. What do you guys have in the clips over there? The sun's coming up, look. That's not a new tattoo, that's not a new tattoo, all my face, that's the Venetian blinds putting sun. I thought you were like, I thought you did a zebra stripe sign your face. Yeah, a commando look, you know? No, it's actually getting lighter, because I think we're coming out of, and September we're coming to Summit here, I think you should go and see the other side of the set. Yeah, absolutely absolutely. Well, I'm in Florida, it's always summer here. Now, Lee, oh, I'm always summer, and always old people. That's right. I'm getting old side, but that's why I belonGHere. Let me just tell you this though. You know, finally, you know, to end the top of what's talking about, all the craziness, if you have a gift like one piece of advice to someone who's like, looking for a coach, or looking for the right, maybe die, to get them in shape for a show, what, what should you look out for, and what should you look for? I don't really just look for, you know, if you get to a gym long enough, you get to see people who might see them have trensformed their body, they don't have to be completely a body, because you might just see a normal person that has started off the gym, they've been overweight in a loss, wait, can I just go ask them what you do, get some ideas from them, because really when you talk to people, it just comes down to sensible leading. That's why here in Australia, we've got the things on TV, they want to be in, you know, co-copop ads, and they want to be in this and that because they say it's causing kids to be a beast, seeinGHaving these sugar cereals and McDonald's is causing the obesity, it's like, no one's forcing you to eat that food, I said, you know, they say we need more education for people, I said, even the general public who doesn't tren, knows what's good and bad, you know, Kentucky McDonald's, you've eaten enough of it, it's not good for you. So we all know what to lose, but it's just, you know, the fact-class foods, you know, I'm more convenient, it's a lot of people eat it, a lot of times, I don't know what it is in America right now, but they always say you've got to have so much fresh fruit and vegetables a day, but here at the moment, the feed you've had a lot of kids, that's more expensive, you know, the chewing cream burgers from McDonald's works that cheapest atly, so, but it's not that good on the education, we all know what's good, but I just tell people stick to the basics and if you look for a coach, like I said, because we know what's is good and bad, you can pretty much do it yourself, because like I said, it's all trial and error, you just gotta see what works for you. You're gonna have someone give you a few pointers, say try this, try that maybe, different foods, do you want time, a day, you want to eat, but that's the main thing too, people with jobs and that just have to try and schedule a meal, just different, because if you are a pro-voidie, you've got more free Time to get those meals, but if you've got to office job, you might be able to have a breakfast, but you gotta go to work and you might be able to sneak a shaking at some point a day, you might only get a quick lunch break, so you can't go and eat steak and this lunch time, so, you know, if you want to do what you can do, you know, there's meal preparation, you always see how many things we see on Facebook or fucking Instagram, meal prep for the weekend, it's got the meals laid out, who gives that fuck? He's my meal prep for the week, I just take a photo to go and purchase a McDonald's, there's my meal prep for the week, I've got personal chefs that make my food every day for me, sometimes they're young kids and they fuck up my order when I leave the dropper, I've got to go back and get my fucking chocolate sundae, but you know, if I'll excuse them because they're young, but even he actually here in McDonald's, they get like $80 an hour. I heard that you get to see him, you know, I didn't know this, when I went to Australia, I went to a restaurant there, and when I finished eating, I left my usual tip, I leave, like what I was in New York, and the waitress was almost ready to like, you know, she was gonna offer to clen my house, and I afterwards I found it, I asked what the house going on. They're like, you don't tip here in Australia, I'm like, you don't? They're like, no, the waitress is making like $25 an hour, because they're like, they're like, they're like, minimum wage for like a teenage, just 16's like, seven, two, and eightying to all the sundae get down, so yeah. So that's, you know what tips in Australia, lead all? Now, sometimes if you went somewhere fancy, fancy, you might, but now one tips at all, but the thing is, you know, sometimes you don't get good service in a lot of places, because they are, they don't have a chance, right? They're like, they'll fill your drink cup up, you won't seem for the rest of the night, like fuck, you have one drink, when I come back, like that and get a shit, so they're through the diamond, so I was like that, and it's like, that ain't key, but when they're working for tips like in America, you get really good service. So if you hang out the stren along enough, go to a store, where I just, you know, clothing store it at, service is pretty hard to get that, go beyond the counter on a telephone, like, yeah, customer, okay, is like, so service isn't the greatest, but the alleyway is pretty good to do, yeah, absolutely. Well, the guys, the more all the story is today is, if you're looking for a coach, if you're looking to do a contest, I, simple is best, because it's not a complicated process, as Leonai have related, when things seem too complicated, and guess what, guys, you might be getting scam. Keep that in mind, for now though, on day polonbo, with Lee Priest for another installment of Iron Rage.

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST REACTS TO CHADWICK BOSEMAN'S PASSING! [m_MXPJqtxC8].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low carb hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm back. That lower again. Uh, you're fine. It's like I say. It's like I say. It's like I say. Do you like my tailbone for a shoe? Welcome back to another installment of Iron Raid. I'm the plubbo joined as always by Lee Priest. Now here you're going to be now that Chadwick Boseman has passed unfortunately. A lot of very sad people. I love them as black Panther. I hear this opening so I hear that you are now in contention for the new roll of black Panther. Is that true? Uh, that's actually cool. Do you have a soda cartoon? Simba the white line? Yeah. That's me. Um, the white line. Simba. What a great cartoon. Yeah. Black Panther. You can't replace black Panther. So what line is coming? I got to. You're going to. What a sad story. IMean, here's a guy. You know, I didn't even realize when I read his obituary. I didn't really see the guy who acted in the Jackie Robinson story. I don't know if you ever saw that movie. It was really good. Very well done. Uh, for those people don't know Jackie Robinson. He was the first black man to play Major League Baseball. And he was so, you know, ostracized. IMean, it was horrendous. What this guy had to go through to break that with a call to color barrier. And, you know, and after him, obviously, a lot of other guys followed. But he was the first, you know, well, imagine could imagine him see in pro sports now in America, where it's probably predominantly black people. Yeah. Like what that, huh? Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy. But you know, the fight with the feet. Well, there's no funny thing really about it. But Chadwick was really good in that. And then he obviously made, you know, his name as black Panther, which is really the first African American or black, if you want to say, superhero. You know, and I thought the movie was great. I'm obviously, I know you are two. We're both Marvel and Avenger fans. So, yeah. IMean, and I think they had planned some future movies. And, and the funny, the weird thing is that he was diagnosed and was being treated for cancer, while he was making all these movies. It's amazing. It was able to get to the satin and never, no one knew, no one knew. Yeah. No, it's funny because I watched him on a figure would have been, could have been when 21 bridges come out or just after that he was doing something else. He's in that there's a movie on Netflix now. He's in that's about the blood to five blood or something. It's about like a Vietnam type thing and they go back to Vietnam to get some gold or treasure or something. It's not Netflix. I think it's called in something blood or something. You'll find that on Netflix. I think it could have been in the last movie. But, you know, so I'm on the Graham North and show it on interview on a set of my wife. I said, God, he looks skinny like he's lost a lot of weight. I just figured maybe, you know, somebody's act is giving that their role like Ray, right. Fripping by him in the mechanic room. He lost the weight. Just being like that. That's interesting. I was thinking maybe maybe just losing this weight because when he's still up he just looks so thin and I think maybe stars are sort of smaller in person when you're soon. But he just looks so thin. I think IMay be his next role because after seeinGHim in black Panther, he had a bit of size on him and stuff like that. He just thought, well, they're going to just go on around helping lots of kids and cancer wars and stuff like that. But nobody knew about sure he was going. And then, you know, I saw a couple of posts. It was a while ago, the head pictures of, you know, a pop-arazzi follows people as he can come in out of places, taking photos of him playing all the young drugs, looking in the look at what he looks like. Oh, when he really does that. Yeah. Those guys must feel pretty bad now. That's for sure. Yeah. Little did they know they had kids. That's what it gets still. It's like the pop-arazzi's like, look, I understand. Look, if you're at a premiere of a movie or your son way of doing something for a movie or stuff like that, okay, he's a picture. But in their private life, like maybe you can walk in down the street at a cafe out there and probably get one. But, you know, when they're with their families or on a holiday and they get photos like that, I think that should just be totally illegal against the law. You know, where someone could have a place to keep caught and they're at the beach or in the front yard and they've got helicopters for and over taking pictures of him sunbaking. If you were right, did that would be fucking arrested for talking and taking photos. Yeah, but different lives for public figures. It really is not fair, like you said. It's because it's a... Well, it's not only the standard, it's like, you know, somebody's had a promotion on their outdoings, I think. But family time when you're with your kids or on a holiday, that's private time. That should be off limits the pop-arazzi because, to me, that's just fucking ridiculous. They need their, you know, better laws for that type of shit. Yes, we might like the one that they do, but, looking. Some of the times they're when they're out. You'll see for top pop-arazzi. IMean, stars that will say, look, okay, I'm out of my family, but he five minutes takes some photos and then leg this alone. You know, that should be respected, do it and then get out of there. But the handle more day and fall on the ran here, you see, he's here, he's there. But he's holdinGHis wife's hand at the end of the day, then not holdinGHands. They must be fighting me. Oh, wow. Or how many people have been taking pictures of your biceps, like you said, at the gym, you know, is that an indesian in your privacy? But I'd say, you like that. You like that. No, it's like anyone comes over at the gym. They're always saying, can I over photo? I say, sure, but a couple of times I did catch people where I'd be trening. I look over and they're like this. That fetus, right? Look at it, he just come ask me, oh, do it. And then one time I was in the firehouse and those these two are so the other side and I was eating with my friend Kurt and I'm a closeer. I never got the video camera sitting on the table. I can see the red line on and they're filming me eating. I'm like, fuck and hell, so I didn't. I just started getting my burger and chips as I'm sure it up on spit it out like, don't go. Like I'm a fucking, like I'm a fucking retard. We're going to, we've got a photo of Lee eatinGHaving a stroke. So, please, oh, be. And that's why he eats like that, right? You know? But they're trying to sneak those pictures like that. The funny is one episode that threw me off of my trening partner when I was squatting at golds. Yeah. And then I went on gym. Please, sometimes the Japanese too. It's always coming that by our people's or world gym. Yeah. You're way, way, way, way, way, way. We're self-established stuff. I don't know what they do. I think they just love it because they're going to go to golds and get bags of golds. Yeah. Clothes and, you know, because I've definitely got it. It would back in their country, but yeah, they, I was still in squats. I was ahead of about six or seven plates going super heavy. I'm psyched up. I walked back. And my friend Marks behind me spotted. I think I got a picture of you on the back of the five six plate mark I'll send it to you. And then just as I went out the squat, these Japanese, I just sort of stand in front of the camera and go, click in the flashgauge. Ah, you like it in the back? Yeah. Ah, fuck. You know, you just focus on doing the squat and all the sudden these camera comes. Yeah. Yeah. You're, you have a watch out. Fuck the old days when those valley out belts, how about the Velcro belts? Yeah. You put one of them on your get for a heavy lift and as you go down down the belt guys. Yeah, break up. Yeah. Yeah. The stupid, it was the stupidest belt of all time. And what they did was they got lead, lead the broadest spot to the, Yeah. It was like the spots and athletes. Everyone figured, well, if Lee's wearing the belt, which I'm sure you never wore the belt in Jim, if Lee wears the belt, then it must be good. But yeah, you put those belts on they look great and they're comfortable. Is everything, but they don't do anything, you know? No, I thought before Lee, that lead was probably, I don't see. I don't know if you're going to pitch Lee squatting five six seven plates. You know, probably around the free plate, Mark free and a half, the belt was good. Just the whole game. But anyway, you got to have a heavy weight. Yeah. And as when it flew over, but then I think everybody started going to Cadillac belts, which are always the best belts for those sort of nerves. Nice, live a bit softer. I remember I think one year was like at the Arnold Classic, you started doing the Superman one and he gave me, I guess Lee, I did this for you. I said, thank you. So I got it, but then he made a lot of them. But I didn't know because I was at the Arnold, and I was coming over to the Superman belts, Lee, and you saw him, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, and God, that's 50, 60 Superman belts. Right. And then I'm coming to the interview, guys, Lee, IMade some Superman belts. Yeah, fuck it, no, I'm sorry, I'm just going to walk down. You know, he made a species belt for me, a species nutrition belt. It was so awesome. And he sent me like five or six of them. And I did some contest and gave him a weight. People were like calling up the office, they wanted them, and they were like, I'll pay anything. I'll give you five of the draws for one of those. I said, I don't have any left, they said I gave more weight. I said, I've been contested, everybody. I'll pay, I said, I don't have them. God of Cardillo, he made them. He's got nothing again in your one. Cardillo, if you're listening, I need a new belt for my comeback. Yeah. But the figure, I just like, is that soft leather, 200's like, it's the perfect sight. I am friends at where those, you know, big, fucking super thick, powerlifting type belt. Oh, I hate those. They dig into your sights. So they're cracking into your ribs. Yeah. And they're trying to put it on this, like, trying to put on that fucking, like, as beating the freaks. What? They're made for fat guys that you have to have a layer of fat on you. If you have no fat protecting your midsection, you're going to break your ribs with those things, you know? I've been there. I've friends with where they're built doing leg press. I'm like, how did you wear a belt? Yeah. You don't even need a belt when you're doing leg press. It's like, my stomach was bad. My legs hit my gut. I was like, well, especially when I was a doctor. I could not use those parallel thing belts. Someone was going to lend it to me. What I couldn't do with set. I was in more pain from my stomach than from the actual set of swaths. All right. So the way things are trying to put a lot of people like trying to put a covering on when you're already having a fucking work. I never thought of that analogy. You know, the thing is also, I think people don't realize you don't need a very thick belt when you're doing, you need it thick around your back, but around the front, it should be narrow. So it doesn't cut into your abdominals. At one point, don't put it on super tight because I think as long as it just felt that tiny bit of pressure was more psychological thinking, okay, I could feel. Yeah. You know what I started squatting, getting it when you're more facts sometimes when I get back my hips would sort of just go like this. Yeah. So it's just a whole minute. So even if someone spotted me, they just put their hands on my side. I didn't believe. But just feeling that secure. Sure. That's like, you know. Sometimes, you know, couple of times, your Steve Blackman spotted me sort of. Ah, the red man. Hey, hugged you. Yeah. He gave it a little bear hug. So very, that's very good. Putting where I was on my sixth breath and you sort of blowing in my ear. And I'm trying to squat. And then I'm like, bro, what's that? I said, what's that Steve engaged? Lee, I'm just going to put this here or keep your back straight. He said he had these special rod that he put inside and he keeps your back straight. He said you can do squats and work. He glitz you like, just squeeze your back. Squeeze, take a little squeeze. Squeeze. I was at a go. I was at a go on for six reps. The fuck am I doing 100? I kept saying, I'm almost there. I'm almost there. Oh, I thought a good picture. You, I thought, I emailed you the other day. If you can look in your email. I was just doing these steady reps like this. It's like, I'm not a soccer player. I kind of got any faster. What? I don't know if he did. Can he see the picture we put up? No, I can't see it. Why? He hasn't put it up yet. I found someone sent me a picture. Let me put up on screen. I'll tell you what it is. You don't need to see it. You see what email? I kind of forwarded it to you probably over the weekend. Not that one from born up. Oh, okay. I got one. You're all these poor hometowns. Yeah. You know, actually, when I'm actually good with this one, it's Lee Priest naked. I think, well, there's no pieces of me naked. But that guy's like his porn site. So actually, I had to subscribe to this porn site for like a month and nine ninety nine to see these pictures. No, wasn't even naked. I was like, I was like, I was in a picture. Yeah. I was like, I was like, I was in a picture. Yeah. Do I think, well, I want to see you in case someone did get you. Well, if you did subscribe for ninety ninety nine, if it would, did you check out anything else? Oh, yes. So I'd say, so someone with great fruit, but I don't know. We're going to put the picture up all on. I think there were pictures of the picture. I'm already built on the end. I was like, we're on the same cloud and there's a few of them. Oh, I'm sure. The picture is, there's a picture of you and there's a picture of NASA playing golf. Do you remember this picture? This photo shoot you did? You look at you way three hundred pounds in this picture. I'd have to say it. I can't see it. Well, no, you are wearing a red shirt with like short shorts. Oh, short shorts. You have a proper polo shirt. Polo shirt. Yeah. I don't know if they were to do that. We did a golf charity tournament. Fub, chicken, and NASA myself. Oh, I got a lot. Cafe, it was a... You don't even look like this on you seriously. You're probably like two three hundred pounds here. My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... Yeah, exactly like that. I've been constantly... You know... But let's get... Let's get... Let's get on a serious subject here. Because Chadwick, Boseman, died of colon cancer. When they discovered it, he was in Sage 3 cancer, ready, which is with past-the-size cancer, with music cancer, spread. Very hard to control that and get over that. And so, the take-home messages, guys, you gotta get your colonoscopies. Now, I have a colonoscopies scheduled for the... I think it's a 25th of this month. It's on a Friday. Are you getting a video? I don't know. I don't think anyone wants to see it. Tyler, see Tyler can find the girl along with this video. In the lead, in the lead cruise, bodybuilders reality. I think that the more interesting part of it is the preparation for it. Because I think like starting like 12 hours before you got to drinking all these... Solutions that make your poopy brains out, you know, to clen yourself out. What's that? Shit, when I went for mine, Colosska, he said, I said, bring the lead, that was an obstacle. What were you drinking? I never had a custom colonoscopy from a... Steve's called me to bring it. From an expert like Steve. Well, Steve said, he just drink these special G's and I drank that. And I fell to a little bit dizzy. I fell to a little bit dizzy. He slipped your roofy, huh? The rest was a blow. I got on back to this video, Tyler can find it. I went to had one of those colonics. You know, what a clen your out? Yeah. And they can't board a water in and stuff. Yeah, I can't even do anything. I had this, this was just for the bodybuilders reality. For something different, the ad, for the sort of fiends could see. So I filmed it all. You can see the stuff going down the tube. Like, see, this is just the show of my fiends. I'm not fully shit. So I just filmed it all. It is the funny story here. And those were pretty funny. It had a good sense of humor. Yeah. And as with filming at my friends filming, and she puts it in like, like that. I said, I said, I said, so you get these options. You guys, oh, yes, I love them. I love them. As I get least two or three a week, I said, oh, so you must like, I ain't not six. And I swear when I said that, she jammed that fucking thing. That's a little bit harder. She perforated as colon after. Yeah. He needed a repair to insert. But it's clear because they just fill you so much water in your. I had one very uncomfortable. Very uncomfortable. Oh, you feel like you've got to go. And then when you go, it all comes out. But then even when you find me done for like four or five hours later, I still sitting down pissing out of my ass because there must have been so much water left up there still. It was funny. They should have, they found out that you really were full of crap. I wanted to actually ask us, I saw like a little fucking matchbox kind of guy. But I'm like, I wonder where that went. Ah, I had a colonic. Did you find it like some weird looking stuff came out of you? Like, you know, strenge looking, you know, poops. Because you know, everyone knows their own poops. You know, might someone stuff came out of me? Wasn't the normal, you know, they put on my poops that I was normal. Probably being wedge stuff there. Better part from GI Joe to matchbox cars, looking for a couple of other little drinks, party food and stuff. A couple of years, rub is on and out of that. You know, I never did fiber when I was doing the colife. This is back in the 90s. So then I discovered fiber and I said, you know what? I don't need to do a colonic. I could do it from the other end. The fiber is a lot easier to use than the colonic. Some people like them. I found the very uncomfortable. I didn't really enjoy it. I did it. Like I said, I'd rather do it the natural way. Like you said, yeah. You know, I've been doing fiber with taking some type of fiber five. You know, supplement that, you know, the good thing that I'm not just taking Meta Mussel, he sometimes and just drink that before I go to bed at night and stuff. But I had friends that take it in the morning. I said, how do you take Meta Mussel in the morning? I said, say you're out shopping and all of a sudden, your stomach starts good. Linging you got to go, you got to go. You got to go. You got to do a Valentina. You got to put the toilet paper rolling your sock and you can't carry that around at all times just in case. I remember that time he talked about the story on the highway. We had to pull over with the toilet paper. Yeah. But I don't know what to say. And then men do need to get checked up more because this is what annoyed me. It's not really an army, but I don't know what's like an American, but here in a stray even with men's sport wherever it be. Rugby here. Yeah. Cricket. Every time there's a cricket on there's like a national pink day. And it's the mayor sports for the way primotis breast cancer and cervical cancer. And what is women's heat is when I'm like, men have just as many cances too. But yet emphasis is always put on the women's cances. And even breast cancer is bad. It is. It's not the number one killing cancer. I get to say number one cancer. It makes women feel bad if they lose a kid or something. But you know, there's other cances out that there's a worse it's like women. Keep your cances for your own sport. It's like even commercials on TV. You know, men get problems down there. But all we got to see is, you know, you know, these bashing earfucking ads third fucking decent shit. Oh, we got to see these ads for, oh, use your lead repats. It has wings. Yeah. You know what they tell men all the men would bring the prostate cancer? Leave it. Don't get it. Anyway, just leave it to slow grown cancer. They don't even, they don't even operate on these guys. But every commercial on TV is about women's problems with their vaginal itches with their periods. You know, what came on to best these ultra-solving pads you can wear. That's like, what about men? Men might have a discharge down there. Have that put some commercials on TV. But even the cancer ads, you know, there's this particular cancer. It's about, let me get found, sir. And stuff like that. But there's always women's cancer because women listen women that. Fuck. That's the thing. The take home messages, whether you're male or female, as you got to get your call and ask me, I'm actually a teacher. I'm 52. I really should have gotten one earlier. I don't have colon cancer. My family, although there are other cancers. But I put it off. And so I'm going to get it done. And it's ironic. I had it scattered already before I even found that about Chad with Boseman. But I highly recommend that everyone, if you're over the age, I think of what's it's A-50-year-old or if you have a family history of it, you should get a bit 40 years old. Go get one with peace of mind. This way, if you got some polyps growing in the ex. A lot of people will have benign polyps. They'll clip them out. They remove them when they go in there. And then you don't have to worry about them turning into cancer. That's what? How do you say that? If I remove my polyps, that's Steve's ripping on the inside. All right. He likes to take out messages from the Vasinkial ads, from the period ads, and all these other things that women have that take out messages. They got a lot of fucking issues down there. That's my HACO message. And they got a lot of issues up to you too. But that's wearing. You're really getting us a lot of trouble bags. All the women are going to hate us now. Luckily, none of the women listen to our show. That's the only thing we need some video goes up on YouTube. We won't have Libra as a sponsoring ad coming on our way through. Yes, that's in nice and yellow. I'd called me up last week. They wanted to do a sponsor the show. And now you blew it for us. So all you can do is, all I like to say is, remember women, do your breast chicks, check for lumps, men do the same down here. Check for lumps, have a squeeze, have a squeeze, and you steal it around. Here, check for lumps. I'm deep in love with another installment of Iron Rage.

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST REACTS TO IAIN VALLIERE POST! [NWd2P_QjBmw].txt ===

I'm here with Lee Preason, Cookie Monster and who else is here? I'm wearing my ride with the devil T-shirt today, ride with the devil. Ride with the devil. Essentially a song. A fan of mine, I'm a fan of he's seen that Mickey made and he's from America. You know he's a rock and roll singer. Yeah, no, remember that song? He said me a whole heap of merchandise. He sent me T-shirts and stuff and stickers and being down as an L-P and C-D-Z. Mickey made them following my Instagram and that is a rock and roll. How can he send you that? We haven't even know about you. He followed me and I saw who he was so I started to follow on him and he said, I'm a cool guy and wonderful guy, so he sent me some stuff. That's very cool. Do you even have an Instagram account anymore? You got the new one? I got a temporary one day. Guess what? I hit 2000 followers. Yeah! Almost back at 510,000. I got banned. I told you I got banned on Facebook. I'm Facebook, being 30 days. You know how I got this banned? Surprise, surprise. I posted a letter and actually letter from the government because someone wrote to the government saying, your PCR test, how does it distinguish between COVID-19 and Delta? And they were at back saying, I can't. Unless you use the super magnifying microscopes. We can't tell just from one of these tests. It just shows you. You need a lot of information. I don't know. I just got the information. Yeah. But these tests show you positive for Corona. But everyone that's still in these tests is saying Delta Delta to this person asked the government, can you test with the Delta on this? They said no. So they got a official letter back. I posted the official letter from the government and they said, you cannot post this because this could spread fear amongst people in that 30 day ban. Wow. You're definitely on the Facebook Instagram ship list for sure. They're definitely keeping an eye on the post. I'm talking. I'll call it a terrorist. Hey, fucking late priest is here on the water. Yeah, you're really high off your bus because every time you do something, they cut you off immediately. I've never seen that. You get banned more than what's this name does? Trump. Trump got, at least you're not completely banned for life. So you have been silent on the right yet that we know of that's for sure. I'm still waiting for my, my grace period. How lonGHave I been off Instagram for two weeks? It's so 30 day suspension. They're looking to it. So then we'll find out the outcome of that. You're like, Mike, we have to put him in time at all the time. You're always in time at. And he always finds a way back out of the time at room. So that's like you. You start another account. I'm surprised they have it like blacklisted your IP address. That's, that's going to be the next thing. I know. Hey, hey, guess what? We could be going into a lot here. Well, Sydney now, I've been in lockdown for seven weeks or the gyms are shut. Right. Stay at home orders. Some of the bad areas have police and the army guarding the areas. Making sure you haven't gone within 10 days of your house. If you go further than that, you're in trouble. And you know what? Just out of your, you saw the, my iron, excuse me, I'm after hours. We, I posted an article that just came out of big study in South Korea where they actually show that exercise. Regular exercise is actually number one, prevent you from getting COVID. And if you do get it, you get it for a much shorter period of time. And if you, and the death rate is like almost non-existent, then something like 750,000 people they, they serve. We had only like 50 people died, you know, who exercise? We had, we had four deaths just that I write two or in their IDs. One was one was in their 90s in Palatins, K, pretty much, quite an impalative care. He dropped out of natural causes, but they figured out he's coppising and put it down. If they didn't, if they didn't, if they didn't mash up, he's peasy would fucking drop dead. But then there's a 30 year old and they're like, oh, this could even kill 30 year olds. But then the doctor come on and said, no, the, the 30 year old already had underlying conditions. So it wasn't like the COVID just got him. And then it showed a few people in the ICU on breathing machines. I tell you, they like when I was bulked up, I was bulked up. But these people had more chains than a fight Chinese phone book. They're laying in hospital, like fucking jabbered a hut on a fucking breathe machine. See COVID is dangerous. I think in fuckinGHandbags at dangerous to that trick is fucking so obese and fat, but they don't talk about that today. Well, good news. I, I did see the bill Phillips. We all know Bill Phillips, me, S, nutrition. He was a relation to the hospital. He really got hit hard. He had gotten COVID for the second time and he was on a ventilator. IMean, I don't know if it's entirely confined to on Facebook. I think it's under Bill Phillips trensformations. His wife took a picture and he's like, he can't even walk yet because he was, he was out so long that he, he had to learn to re-walk. He lost like 50 pounds of muscle. And he was saying that, you know, that God, for the fact that he had that much muscle on his body, that, you know, that's why he believes he beat it. But, David, did he have 50 pounds of muscle around? Yeah, that's right. The bottom line is that he never thought he was going to get hit with it, especially since he had already had COVID. I got there he is. There you found the thing. IMean, and now, but now, now where I live in UCAS, where he been locked down for seven days, you can only go out for, if you want to go out door exercise, you can walk around. Or, you can go to the grocery store and doctors. That's pretty much it. Or you can deem and assess any business or job. But now, because we had 14 new cases yesterday in UCAS, so we're going into another week or lockdown. And Sydney's been in lockdown after seven weeks. And the numbers are going up. Like, they're so restricted down there, but yesterday was 344. Which doesn't sound like much. 344 people out of a couple of million. FuckinGHell. So they're getting worse. They're going to restrict their movements even more. That's like, fuck. I, you know, I think it's absolutely ludicrous. IMean, they don't, I can they didn't do this when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, it's flu season. I can they don't restrict everyone from going out. They're everywhere. It'll flu season. Oh, the restrictions. I believe the restrictions have, have way more control than than was that. So days. But, but it's like you said, if they're worried about it, help us. It's a come on. We're worried about your health and safety. If that was the case, you wouldn't sell fucking cigarettes. Would you because you know how the damage they do, whatever it be, second hand, smoke,uhan. You can't want somebody's drunk. You can't sell alcohol to them anymore because it's illegal It's a legal estate. It's something if they do something then you can be liable and sued and that so Why isn't that the case when I'd be people going to McDonald's don't serve and big-backs and fucking super-sized it I'll give you I'll give you to make salad prick and a guy coat before you too fat That's how it should be if you can't serve I don't remember several years ago They got rid of the super-sized they they they actually pressured McDonald's and then we're doing getting rid of the super-sized Like like okay, you know what I can't get a super-sized fries How about I just ordered two fries instead? IMean what IMean how stupid? IMean the stupidity of the whole of Oh, we're preventing from people are getting down. We're not lettinGHim super-sized that fries Well, you know what he just ordered three more cheese burgers on the dollar menu instead of the super-sized fries I guarantee he's not The person who wants to get the food is getting the food he wants, you know Exactly or what I did was just take the word super-sized off the kept at the same size So now it's just a large the large is large and it was before it's like here's the difference to go in the seven or 11s and get those big fucking big gulp things It's like this like a fucking bucket with a handle on it. Lee like how much fucking So I can do that I bring them in there. I have a school I get a little cup because they get the sugar free a surface now So I'll get a little one. I fill it up. You know I just want to have something to taste good my daughter who's three years off She's got a cup of this big and this white and my son They're running down the the slurpy machine every flavor. It's overflowing on to the floor I'm like a mortar fire I'm like oh my god, but guys, please stop. I'm like you're not gonna drink this whole thing. Why do we need to get us a quadruple extra large fucking star guy the guy the guy in the seven and get sangries like excuse me Do you control you know it? They don't see that they laugh They think they encourage them. They think it's funny. They don't even care And then my son I got a hot dog there and he's You know And they don't even the funny things they don't even eat it. They leave half the slurpy of more than half the slurpy over He takes one bite of the hot dog. It's like he's like my kids just like the bisec You know, IMean, I think that's what it is. You gotta get the cup and then put the dome leaned on I won't let it go Yeah, but if you feel like if you feel up through the dome, we don't want to spill out or just fill up These things they feel everything they keep going until it overflows Oh, that's good. Oh, I used to like going that I Our seven 11 to you sell and all the crispy cream doughnuts, so yeah, they get made done some gifts I think you know I let them do what they want there because I know they don't overeat they they like the whole experience of Serving themselves the food and I I can relate to I like that when I was a kid too I like the whole idea you think you get it over on someone who hot dog and slurpy and a candy thing and and Like I said my kids were like, you know overeating I wouldn't let them do it, but they it's more of the buying experience that they like than than anything That's all like that's all like the taking experience and you're gonna pay for that It's not when you take a girl It's like when you take a girl shopping just get the shoes and hand bags like an old like an old comes from the god of Some way that's amazing. I just grabbed these hand bags and shoes and shit someone pays for it Unbelievable that's right, but that's a 900-year-old purchase a slurpy and a fucking Kidcat is only like three bucks and now In North Stred but seven 11's here have I don't even know if they have several of them but they have No an app where you can actually load Money onto the app and if you pay with the app you geT3 times the rewards points And I go there every day. I have so many rewards points. I'm getting free shit left and right because my kids are always going there So Hey, they make an effort They have fun those things out there when you go into those places and you're just going for petrol and come out for fucking everything Well, you know, I don't they have aromasin in Australia, you know, they don't take coins anymore. Did you know that? 7 11 we should not waste no coins no No, you could use dollars, but they don't want any money anymore Matter of fact they encourage you to use the app where you can kind of store money in a wallet a virtual wallet The your credit card So you don't even have to take anything out which means you'll spend more of course, but you know they try to do away with money You know that right Anyway, I went into a store before it looked down happened I had a hundred dollar bill and the person's like oh, I didn't change for that All right Jesus was like yeah, they always want you to do tapping go and shit like that and yeah As well order get Jimmy honest and you will So what do you think about you know, were you did you have any kind of relationship with John Meadows? No, no, just just from what I saw online never meeting but Seems like he was well liked and that and people please I'm still getting inboxes today on Instagram We might few followers that I have I still get these messages every day. Leave it here John Meadows died I'm in Australia I'm not on fucking food I Use down here Yes, I do know John Meadows died. Yes. Yes. There's been several good years done. I have I am up the speed on the city It is but they still don't really know what it was dude. I said maybe maybe it'll be COVID When you start to see people in our industry, yes, you know And that you were like you know contemporaries with it around the same age you when you start seeing them dying And you know we don't know what even caused John's death, you know, but Does that worry you at all do you start going? I better get health checked or anything like that IMean because I noticed you know I started thinking myself A lot of people that I know and that I kind of came up in this industry with a God and not here anymore It's kind of weird a little bit, you know Yes, I text my doctor and said when did I have my last stress test then I'll just sound on my heart I think it's only like a year ago and I had a Gaussian check probably eight months ago and it was low and stuff like that But even that night Like John was 40 on on 40 don as you like in bed you can even you can feel and you can feel your heart And then as I'm listening this like boom boom boom boom Boom boom boom boom What was that what was that tools? And then because you stopped worried about it against worse boom boom Boom boom boom boom Oh, like fuck now I've got to read me I've talked myself and don't with me And I got news to you and anxiety attack perfectly mimics a hard attack because I have had one of those before and Man you think you you're you're going into cardiac arrest when you have one of those and then it makes that even worse Because just because you start stressing and panicking a little bit. I tell people here's the test Did you think you have in a heart attack? Don't go to the emergency room immediately drink in the last of wine Okay, if the wine takes the heart attack away then it wasn't a heart attack If you still feel the state of the glass of wine get get to the hospital who's fastest you can So that's my it always worry bad it but I know it's the body building. I never abuse steroids never thing you'll think we might be on it to abuse them if you Pre this position to something even a small amount good. Yeah, do something so like I said it's you never know But then I think I I sometimes look at other people and I went there And I tried sometimes go well fuck I know what he takes and he's still alive and I know he's doing Party drugs every weekend so I should be okay with it You figure maybe he's got better genetics he can handle or that shit like when you see Keep wretches and she think that fuck would have been dead Yeah, he's got it and the drug sees done and some of those rock and roll as you think She wasn't there a time they caught hasn't you know ticked it's last ticket I but you know what John was a very young man still he was under 50 years old So it's it's a big loss, you know for him and his family obviously but if I'm like 85 or even 90 years old and I don't wake up one day That's the right way to go. IMean there's no You just don't wake up. IMean you wake up someplace else. I don't know wherever wherever you go I think I've always said that's the best way to go like you know I've always said I like to go I like to go in my sleep like my grandfather, you know I like to go in my sleep like my grandfather Not the other three people in the car screaming their heads off But the other thing is I wouldn't be nice in your sleep if you're old but when you younger I said to my wife if you just ever there said I'd hate it because like say we're talking I want to jinx myself. I say okay Dave talked to you tomorrow Well you've made planes and all of a sudden you're actually up your count. Do it whereas I said I wouldn't want to have a Terminal illness but if they said hey, you've got six months You've got that plany you can see you could buy. You could have a party. I could maybe go out Commit a few murders on people I don't like you know really really leave a lasting impression on the world before I go But that way you can actually say you could buy as you get things in order I hate like those like it said someone like just go to work get killed in the car accident or If you're police officer you go to work and don't come home Those sort of things at a sudden. I think that's like a shock even though you know someone's gonna die Still a shock. But Lee is it worse to know that you're gonna die or is it worse to not not know you're gonna die and then just die. IMean You know I'd rather I'd rather have a no because What does this have to say because like I said that when I guess that's why they say every day you should tell people you love them We should tell people when you can never do it. I'm gonna say all you know when you always go on now I'll call him tomorrow. I'll speak to him tomorrow and then like I said somethinGHappened Like I'll fuck I should have called him all is just say he called Julie like I can't be Boblast and cruiseall on him I'll give him a call tomorrow. They're not the son that did you like my fuck I should have called him back when That's cheating. So there is shit like that. So it is that is pretty sad if I can do haven't you still haven't gone kids Didn't he said that's always sad as well so there's a there's a go-funny campaign at how you can put it up on the screen again For John and his family and they they read someone's $200,000 already. It's pretty amazing that just goes to say how likely was you know Well everyone that's done a video on it. Me up put even before then I never heard anyone say a bad word about him. He was always down to work. He never said a bad word about anyone else So it's not gonna be like when I pass on David in this video. It's going that fucking Three six Yeah, he got what he deserved It wasn't awesome. Yeah, I don't even I try to think about like I don't even want to know what would happen When I die hopefully I don't want any go-funbies or anything like that. My wife's like shut up He'll be down Lee Lee's funny down then out playing cows with the devil that I saw You know we're making we're making light of a book. We're trying to you know But John was one of the really liked guys in the industry and we've talked about some little shows already I think I'm talking about a lot because it bothers me a lot that there'll be he's not with us anymore And we lost him so suddenly like we didn't expect it, you know I yes he was he had a heart attack last year, but he theoretically recovered from it. He said he was doing well. So I don't think anyone expected that we were gonna see this happen so suddenly, but You know you never know and that's That's the thing and that's the thing too. It's like all set. It's always no matter one bitch We've been the movie so in life in general But so it's the good and nice ones that seem to go early Yeah, and then like I said you could you can know an asshole that treats people bad no matter what industry it's in and have you fucking multIMillion years Live into their 80s and being fucking grumpy and shit and and from for like 20 years you've been saying why doesn't that fucking just die? And I never do maybe someone maybe being on earth is is punishment in itself We just don't know it until we actually are in there. I've always said that. I've always said you know People say you go to heaven heavens up there and hell's down here. Well if you're in heaven Hell would be earth because you say in down there. So if heaven's just such a wonderful thing Right now on earth we think it's nice and listen that yeah good and bad days and shit, but But if you finally get up there you'd be like fuck that earth was fuckinGHell Here is a tough yeah, it was a tough hey with just worked out the meaning of life and I wonder if you and heaven and you look down Is the earth round or flat Jimmy will fight out once and for all yeah, right? I did I did like that post you put up because I did comment on it on buys and tries I think I've had over 500 likes because I got pissed off when people werecomplaining that Ian's gonna do it in that show I'm like is a pro body builder I said I spent the make money. That's what he does Yeah, people are saying is stopping someonEQualifying I'm like what if that person's good enough to be deemed They'll qualify if you can't beat Ian at this show you're not gonna beat him at the Olympia So what are you complaining about the Olympia is the best that a best to get there You've got to beat someone to best and if you can't get in it wait for next year, but what other sport Does someone sit out to say you know what I've won a few tennis tournaments you go ahead or the Patriots the Patriots I've won a few super bowls. We're gonna play shit this year and give another team give another team a chance That's what you do back in that when we'recompetinGHate the saber here we go back back when in the 90s and shit many guys did show us I'd go to show you thinking oh fuck there's Kevin this flex there's Chris that's a top three So it didn't bother me there you still can be it because you still would make money, but then on the odd chance like San Francisco I came in a bit harder Chris for second decks the third set of our shows where if you come in on you can still beat him and that's the name of the game Well also too if you're that good that you're you're missing by one spot and you're coming in second Behind you and well if you do three shows and in B2 a three shows and you're second ThaT3 shows you'll qualify on points for the Olympia so That's exactly that's why you do multiple shows That's why the point system was enacted to get more guys to compete more often Right, IMean isn't that the reason I just couldn't believe the mentality of people getting mad Lim down on each stop another people going to the Olympia I'm like really just like oh well hold on hold on Hamilton Lewis your 117 champion He's up on the accelerator Yeah, a few of these other guys the chance get them a chance on the podium Some of those poor bastards have been racing cars for 15 years and they've been on the podium There's some baseball teams that have never won bro, you know the world series in baseball how about you fucking good teams Just ease up a bit give somebody's other teams a chance or he's who same bolt Hold on I'll just slide out Yeah, I've won this I've won this before Well, you have these bikini competitors have made it Ashley call waspser because she's been doing every I think she won 10 shows this year already and she's done like 15 You know shows you might have come in second a couple times and I'm like you know why does she can peak that many times and win that many shows and be that dominant She's better you know It's actually and let's just say okay These people get upset of her doing that. She has okay. I won through the show. I'll just swipe to the Olympia The good at wins that show gets to Olympia guess what you're not going to beat her at the Olympia It's a tough luck. It's like this isn't this is the this is almost that everyone gets a trophy I need a first place. I want to be solidified in this no, if you're not good enough Maybe you shouldn't have got your pro card to begin with the hand the thing back and go play that's your prick How do you think me? I think me last did like a hundred shows right or something like that over a hundred shows in this career Eat it look at texture eating do two shows a year Yeah, obviously was doing ten shows a year or 15 shows a year. That's how we did it But I think I was even listening to arm when Ian's on that show for what and that he was saying Doing this because he's got these two shows and I think then the Arnold is the good practice for like I think when the Olympia comes around and stuff I don't know but think before now he's got this one in that one I think that similarly said so when he does the Arnold which is getting close to Olympia He can like see how he's starting goes and experiment with these two leading up to the other big two Which is what you do it's like you don't just not To mention you know if you have stage fright and you have a lot of nervousness about doing this Which Ian has admittedly said that he he does get stressed out before a show doing multiple shows Kind of almost makes you numb to the whole equation and it becomes just second nature the best thing that I ever did was when I started doing a lot of gas bosings When I was going stage at these big shows I wasn't getting nervous anymore because I was so used to getting on stage It became like almost like second nature for me and that and that and they don't have gas bosings anymore No one gas poses so for Ian to do multiple shows I think it is a smart move someone he gets to the Olympia He's not gonna be as nervous. He's gonna kind of be comfortable with the process I'm like I said doing that I'm sure like okay to show you just one I think you look great, but I think that wasn't his best so You know, you can take whatever you learn from that show into this next show in Texas and Do things up because imagine if that was the Arnold where it came and looked like that don't be like a even though We look good at the Arnold that would be like a big mistake and you could slip quite a few placing so if you're gonna make a mistake Do it into smaller shows learn from that so now when you get to the Arnold and the Olympia You can pretty much hit at 100% which you're gonna need to be in those two shows for that People to get mad at him and just pitch and complain how he's stopping people is like Fuck up not to mention that he gets to go against a really good competitor and Steve Kuklow So if he beats Kuklow there that also raises his stock up if Kuklow beats him That's gonna raise Kuklow stock. It makes the show way more exciting too Exactly and to me like back in the day when you have people like that you knew if you knew flex was in the show Chris was in the show you knew you had to come in that show at your best So I'm sure Steve now going into that no one E and Z Ian's qualified Ian's gonna come in looking good. That's gonna make Steve probably coming in at his best So you know having come petition like that only makes the other people better if you're going into that show of the attitude Well, he's taken a spotty taking a spot away You shouldn't even fucking go because mentally it's a theater to yourself to begin with that you're fucking attitude That's what I say I agree 100% and I've led you set it because I didn't even think about bringing that topic up But it is it is important topic and I think that people have to understand that you know in today's state first of all There's nothing wrong making money to why not if you have your ability to win a show and put a few bucks into your pocket You know contest prep is not cheap So it's true It's his job. Let him he's in shape. He's gonna do the oral anyway He's not shutting it down for the Olympia so Do another show why not it's one more way he doesn't have to it probably is super easy for him at this point You know What is the thing look at look what you got to go through it again in shape if there's a couple of shows That's why we did it like in the old days with the Iron Man the Arnold the San Francisco those three were back to back then we said the European tours If you're in shape you've gone through all that hell you're suffered your family's probably suffered the freezer suffered If you've got shows back to back and you can make rabbits tangerine and 15 grand whatever But also get your name out there more that's what you do your professional you can beat that's your job That's like come on people and these same people are the probably complaining Probably the same little bitches are must be foregoing but he's pros dang competing I'll slide that any do one shot Here's your do more shows what the fuck is doing to fuckinGHe's got to stop my man He's got to stop my man get thEQualification How the least no no one's ever happy there's oh everyone's always complaining about everything If you know if you didn't compete it they're gonna say you didn't compete enough If you compete they're gonna say you're taking away a place you can't from someone you know You got to do your own thing and you know what if you can pick multiple times and look you're a bastard when shows and brinGHome prize money Then I say go for it and I know Exactly, especially And especially a bodybuilding because you know most sports when you're putting your body through this you've only got at Unless you're someone generally great like decks that who can you know have that longevity But not many people have super longevity. We're seeing a lot of people like Ian around his age Come and go within five or six years, but hopefully he's gonna be around longer than that So you're gonna make that money while you can put away for a rainy day because Have them for bed you can be young whatever hope I'm not disturbing you day from your phone there You can be a grander on a board I'm born I got my political show later today with Romano Yes, yes Real real leap reached on YouTube you can watch John Romano and either last we had a guest on weird Craig Valentino But you could get his camera to work so we just had a photo a photo of Craig were talking to But as I was saying you got it what was I saying that first of all Tyler how long you think that that show will be up on YouTube before they remove it from YouTube John Romano political show You're making a week and tell hey we're up to four episodes just what we haven't had one fun stand and order comments are being positive said John What are we doing wronGHere? How many views you guys? They're just into the fowls and areas So that's how many good That's like once like that's because the other side did hate you haven't seen the show yet It's only the fans and then the show that it seems here Well, I I never I never I've only got like probably six fowls of followers on my YouTube Because I never used it. I guess yeah never used it and now I can't really publicize like I don't think that's a Video of a fan you yeah On Instagram ago and so but I had another topic I was gonna bring up it now it slipped my mind what was it Oh yeah, that's it. Yes. Thank you very much. I want to say thank you very much I am now proudly sponsored by XT Labs Mexico. Oh you did get this fun ship congratulations. Yes. Yes That has thEQuestion how did they get you your your your stuff you know If I'm Are they digging a tunnel under the ocean to get you? Hey, if I'm not here next week on we're in jail They're digging it from Mexico to Australia they're digging a tunnel just for later Yeah, they're gonna send me to T-shirts. I can do some photos. Yeah, and he says we'll send you some stuff to us No, it was the same He showed me the package has been packing stuff so it's like If I'm not here next week Well normally I know some people have got stuff sent you get a warning first you get a warning But they are really quite tell me pick you up Lee for questioning, you know As you guys are like they get some fancy Mexican olive oil bottles And just feel feel the virgin olive with suss two feet Yeah, I feel this olive oil bottle with Deca yeah, and you're good to go you don't need anything else And just put cooking supplies Imported oils from you guys you know, even way you're your whole game plan out to the government right now Okay, what about fire oils or I'm my side your oils That's all you could be Yeah, poppin balcels you could be sniffing them all day I'm five so congratulations You do firecels you're uh hopefully yeah Let me live in Mexico now I tell him sooner than we thought so They get a counterbatta more straight down There's a pro show when he makes a car when I'm told but I wanted me to come over for it But right now I think um USA it's not allowed in flights from Australia still I think there's one flight to Mexico but it went from here You can go to Australia in Mexico that's a green zone isn't it a green It can't date but you go to go this way so it's like almost Germany for inch you're coming around and the tickets the cheapest ticket cheapest tickets 15 thousand from 15 to 30 well the cartel flying you over so what are you care you know paying for it? That's it out there I jack All right, I got to wrap this up I got I got work to do late love you man Good show and congratulations and you knew sponsorship hopefully your lockdown won't be affecting you in any way whatsoever Luckily you got the home gym going on so I got that's funny Dave. Oh, I was generally trened by myself and that but now The gyms are shut guess what ladies got friends again. They come to my house and trade Don't tell me what that's loud. I think that you can be fine. I don't get you. I found this too when I was in clening out look Did he tell us in our last show? Yeah, come on. I'll have to show you the photo is next time But I found photos are when I was 19 younger family photos everything but this would be me this would be me next week when I get an order from Mexico We out there health We out the house Put your dumbbells down You know what the sad part is I have the same thick in the horn as he does like the same But next week I'll get a whole show through our horns I always wanted to get one of them when I went to summer camp in the over the summers as a kid the guy who ran the director The camp always had that the re always make the announcements on that loudspeaker thing Like I said

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST RIPS CANCEL CULTURE! [u4HNZ-H-vO8].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our third year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastries from the Low Car Poptart. We've goT3 and four brands in that carps, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. One day full of both, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your apps, you'll be best joined the evolution. You look proud to be your new friend. Welcome back to Iron Age on Daypalum. I'm joined by Lee. I think it's Lee Priest in this week. You look relatively normal. You know yesterday, I was at the day before. I was doing cardio and I had to sit there and listen to you fucking ramble on about a fucking dentist appointment. I write you, because you're going to know the number of times. I'll be in the next couple of minutes. I get up at 5.5 or 3rd of duty, show it six and they have to go, you give me 20 minutes. You've done this head gut full of because you're always fucking late. Yes, he gave me the wrong, he gave me the wrong mouth guard though. You know, look, I thought it was you didn't show up to get fit in the same. I'm sick of gross negligence on the part of everyone. No one has any value to their working more. People just didn't say, you know what the problem is, let me tell you. When I went to the dentist's back in the studio, you had a problem. When I went, you could confirm this. Remember when you went to the dentist's back in the 80s when you were a kid, the dentist did everything. Matter of fact, my first dentist clen my teeth too. Nowadays, you go to the dentist's dentist doesn't do anything. You got these, my dentist used to give me that gas and put me on the and touch me. Yeah, I'm sure he did. I know you liked it too, that's what I heard. I know. I know. No, but you read the doctors and the dentist did everything. Now I go to the dermatologist. I have a, you know, something on my face. I think it might be, you know, skin cancer that got nothing was. But, and I don't even see that the dermatologist, I see that the physician is system. They do everything. They cut and things off. They're spraying and this and that. I want to see the doctor. I want to see the dentist. When you start giving your, the people who have less education, the job to do what you should be doing yourself, you get less than spectacular results. And I think that's why the workmanship out there is terrible because I went, I went to the doctor because I wanted to see it. I went to the doctor said, all I see is spots, you know, how to go to the doctor. I said, all I see is he spots. He says, have you seen a doctor? I said, no, it just spots. Now I said, doctor, I feel like a dog. Because we just sit down. I said, I'm not allowed on the 30th. Very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very. I've got actually two big things I want to talk about. Two big things I want to talk about. I'm glad. Why, why is Tyler like, oh, like, so I'm dressed. We let Tyler out of the asylum this week. That's why he's walking back from Goetown and Mobile. Yeah, I'm going to move back. Now, I got two big things I want to talk about, really. Okay. The elephants and giraffes. What do you want to know about them? Nothing. Nothing. They're just big things. I just want to talk about it. I thought, do you know, you actually, actually, if I think about it, if you had a giraff, that would be a good friend because they'd always stick their neck out for you. Wow. You selling Bob Chickerillo now with all the corn balls. So you're throwing at me here. Oh, let me put on the purple fucking glittery jacket, then. Oh, welcome. Welcome, little. There's a lot of corn balls you throw at at me. You don't find since, since you weren't impressed by that. I'm not going to mention my other big thing I want to talk about to Hindenburg or to Spruce Goose. Yeah, yeah. Let me, let me ask you this question. If you had the opportunity to live like on a big acreage type of house, would you, and you had the opportunity to have like a pet elephant? Would you, would you, would you do it? Would that be something that you'd be interested in doing? I don't know because a pet elephant. I guess because I am very, I guess you haven't from a young age. Yeah. elephants are that very sort of maternally and they do like bond and shit. So if you're a bit laden, you're fucking snakes. It do. Oh, absolutely. I would trade all my shit for elephant. Really? Yeah. What about even a pig? There are even pigs of very good food. Yeah. I bet in dogs. What's wrong with a pig? I heard you've been married to a few pig. I was typically like that. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I thought I was fucking, you know, oh, those people are Dealer and then we're just watching you. I wasn't talking about them. They were, but they were class A citizens. I'm talking about the ones we don't know about. But everyone knows about my marriages. Those are Harry, I was carrying pigs, you know, from the farm. You're a kid. You call him Kathy a pig now, Jesus Christ. We could go back and look at some of your life. Yeah, that's shit. That's what's dropping. She was a man, baby. That's a man. That's dropping. That's dropping. That's dropping. Oh, what's wrong with? Let's go. We always bring my skeletons in our closet, Mr. Ruff. Now I always bring my skeletons in our closet. I told you that way, now I can put nothing on. That's right. No, I do too. Let's talk. The topic today is the cancel culture. I didn't know what the term really meant, but evidently, everything you've ever said in your life can be held against you. And it seems like that's what they're doing. What do you feel about this whole show television shows being canceled? You know, all popular celebrities being slammed now. What should take on this? That's ridiculous. It's like when they cancel those old movies, blazing saddles and everything else. You know, within the old days, people actually had a sense of humor. Well, you could put shit on your mate. You could put shit on other people. You could make fun of stereotypes. You could make fun of retard. Can you say retard? It's fuck. I just got canceled. There goes monetarization. But you know what? He's a good point. I want to demonetize these shows because when I watch him, the fucking ads annoy me. So, can't fuck a fucking fucking fucking fucking. Yeah. Yeah, but that's a chance. Actually, it's kind of you think it. If I got this morning and turned the news on while I was waiting for you or late. Yeah. There's his cartoon. He could blue-y something or something or something. It's about a cartoon about dogs on it. One of the dogs is blue. So, but now there's two episodes that canceling because of a certain words that they use in the cartoon a deem does they could be racist or could be. How is that show with, you know, Cartman? You know, the, how is that show? Oh, that's great. That's great, isn't it? That's so, that's so on PC. That's so on. I love it. But they're not politically correct. But who doesn't laugh at that? That's just so funny. Right, but it's like the old, all the family. Remember the Archie bunker. He was the biggest racist around. But what if that, then you had the Jefferson's. I would just as bad. Oh, I know. It was great, but it was that. But humor. It wasn't people laughed at it. No one took it personally. That's what I didn't get. It's like, if you go watch day of shabell, he puts shit on black people. Women, men. People should on white people. Kevin Hart does the same thing. It's comedy. You take it as comedy. There's some jokes you might like. Some, you don't like me. Should IMake fun of black swites or Spanish? Chinese. IMake fun of women. IMake fun of kids. IMake fun of kids. IMake fun of kids dying. Because it's like this humor and everything day. If you just got to look for it. Yeah, but certainly, of course, that's what that's. That's what gets really nice. And how many comedians haven't done that. But now, like you said, they're going back through. Well, it's what's in that documentary I'm Kevin Hart. And he made that what home of phobic little joke about his life. He was gay 10 years ago. Yeah. And they brought it up now. And they want him to apologize. But in his documentary, I think it's on Netflix. I was like a six-part series where he still does ground for it. Ever seen why should I apologize? I'm not home of phobic. I got nothing against gay people. So why should I apologize for something that isn't me. People know who I am. If they don't like it. So anyone can take anything these days and miss construit. That's why I'm straightforward. If I say you're a count, you're a count. It's like, do he mean that I'm a count? Yeah, I did your count. So I was like, but the way they go back, IMean, they go back. I think one comedian, they even went back almost bloody 15 years. We got this comedian here. His name's the Buttsman. He's been doing comedy forever. But he makes fun of the vegans. He's almost like a Kevin Hart, not all Jim Jeffery's. Nothing's off limits. Just that raw franny everyone laughed at it. And he told this joke, where he first talked about how it was sad. And that member when Christ Church had that shooting, the white guy went into the mosque and killed 47 people. And he was talking about that sayinGHow bad it was. Isn't that he goes, but then he's going on saying, you know, the worst thing about that was he goes, the very worst thing about that mosque shooting was that, you know, when people in, you know, Christ Church come out of the night clubs at night. No one could get home because what a cab driver's would be. And IMean, like the fucking crowd was laughing their heads off. The cancel culture come out. They got his show kids. He showed all his inboxes. He had probably thousands of different. I'm going to rape you, rape your wife, rape your daughter, cut your head off. It's like 30s people who are offended by a joke of putting out different. I know. I know. Oh, I'm fuckinGHell. But yeah, the TV show now gets canceled or they got to go through these review boards to say, well, that could offend this person and that could offend that person. Half the time, you actually asked the people, IMentioned this before when it comes Christmas time, they want to cancel Christmas carols because they say it might offend the Muslim people, people of different faith, they don't celebrate Christmas. This report, once went out to a predominantly Muslim air in Asked them, does this offend you to like, no, we don't care. If you want to celebrate Christmas, that's your holiday celebrated. Doesn't bother us, but you'll get some fucking white cracker head fuck with politicians, they go, well, I think we should stop this because this upsets the Muslims. They never asked the Muslims, but because his politicians come to the end and says it, the general public goes, fuck them Muslims, they don't want us, but it's not them, it's the fucking dickhead. Right. Like you said, someone that's running these sort of canes or culture that's causing all the fucking problems. Yeah. What do you think about what came out about Ellen, you know, degeneracy, you know, she was like the America sweetheart. Now they're saying she's like the most evil person of all time, you know. Well, I was funded because I saw, I just sort of been a couple of years ago, they had this show and here in Australia just interviewed on different people and two of the people they interviewed on their one was a, what actress it was and one was one of those Hollywood reporters and they were talking about movies you've done with people, people you've met and the Hollywood reporter who the interviewed and they asked them both, who's the worst person you've ever met and Hollywood in the bad, then they both said, well, I don't know if we should say and they both said Ellen there can, oh, she was a bitch and they were yelling, but she's she's so nice. This was a couple of years ago, so I'm surprised it's taken this long to come up and they said, oh, yeah, behind the scenes, she's totally different. Wow. That's true. But generally people, I like that. The ones that protest the most and try and be, oh, hi, everybody, I love everybody. Yeah. Let's look at that, not job Oprah. She's just as fucking bad. Well, it's like, you ever go to like a restaurant like a diner or you go to eat with someone and there's a couple there and they're holdinGHands and they're giving each other kisses, but then they have to go to the bathroom, they're going to miss you. Yeah. Those are the most miserable people. You know, they're all fucking active. Can they go, can they go to the home and punches are in the mouth? Yeah. Right. You found out he knocked her unconscious in the elevator, you know, and, you know, I know, it's just like, but, you know, I was talking about the whole and games that makes you sick. These are what I love. I'm sure you've seen this day. I was talking about the other day. There'll be a girl in the gym right. The gym trening, there'll be a school in the gym real pretty. She'll be over there trening. Two, like she's by herself and some of the guys are looking over at her. Add the blue comes this guy, strap in the crust of gym. You walk so about, puts his arm around the pattern on the ass. Gives her a kiss and then he looks around. Almost like almost like his Mark and his terror threat. Right. Mine. Yes. And then, if seeing this having you seeing this happen, they're all over and that. Okay, babe. Everybody know your mind and then he'll walk away and have the feet. There's a box and bag in the gym. Boom, boom, kick kick. I'm just letting you out the fuck is no two. I know how to fight. You're looking at my girl. That's really all the time. Give her a kiss, pattern on the ass and then they walk after the bag. Boom, boom, see that. I'm going to talk about insecure. Right. Did you used to do that when you were dating all the girls? No. I always went with one girl if they want to leave. Fucking leave. You're pretty more girls. I think you should. It saved me money every time I go back to my fucking broke up with a girl. I'll get my paycheck from weed or whatever. And I'll go out and do stuff again and then I'm like, fuck. Why have I got so much more money? Let's talk about. Why does your item singled? Fuck. There you go. You know the whole cancel culture thing to me is such a weird weird. You have to worry about what you say. And it's like we're living like in this like this like almost like we all live in this like walking egg shells. Like you can't say what you really feel. You can't crack and joke. No one has a sense of humor. Everyone takes everything the wrong way. And it's more, it's especially when you're on the top. If you're at the top of the wrong, you're at those big celebrity. You're an athlete. Those are the people that go and after they're scrutinizing everything these guys are saying. And you can go from being the most popular person inside of being the worst overnight. Like that. You know, it's what's in, I'm, what's Jay Rogan, well, I'm doing the treadmill. I was what should he had Rob Blow on and he had Robert Danny Jr. And he ran off in a bad, because he was actually talking to Robert Danny Jr when he did traffic thunder in that and how you know getting done up as that. And you're saying, I hate having they say black face because he wasn't black face. He was done up as a black person. It wasn't just these face. It was his whole body. It's a big difference. But he was saying that, you know, the way it was done, he never done it in the thing way. And you know, a lot of people still love it till he stayed. But he was saying on the Joe Robbins, so he's still waiting for that call. What's the thinGHe's going to come in when they're going to go away, way back and look for stuff. But how miserable is your life? Well, you're going to go through and watch what, you know, let's pull up someone's Twitter account. Okay, let's go back to when he first started Twitter in fucking 1788. I look at that on the cave wall. We made a joke about something. Fucking that fucking Noah back in the day of Jesus. I think how far do you want to go back and destroy people's lives when look, I understand if someone is totally racist. You can tell the difference between if someone's a member of a fucking KKK or someone's just making a joke. That's a joke. Move on. You can't, why destroy someone's life? It's like they're whole thing. I can watch him kein to saw when she had Rosen bar on. And you know, Rosen bar, sure she's crazy, but she never met nothing by what she's doing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. They trashed her as being racist. And this one, the thing she said she goes, I couldn't believe the other people on the show didn't stand up to me. People that have known me for 20 years or more. Right. Now I'm not right. Yeah, why didn't John Goodman stand up for her? Because he has no wife and he was, he needed a job. That's really what it was. Exactly. And she's like, I've done so much for like racial problems. She's done so much for women in shelters. Like she goes for all the stuff and charity she's helped and stuff. And I just said pretty much, you know, let's just, that sort of left this type of Hollywood these days. Is he dead? I want you in there. They'll kick you out. Yeah. That's just fucking crazy. It's just, you know, who is blacklisted? Who he's always talked to, talk about it? The, the, the, the, the, the, the. Very important. Yeah, but actually, I'm surprised the kein. So Cole, she hasn't got rid of that word. Blacklisted. Yeah, they, they, they, they, they, very, very, very fucking the rocket to you. So our beer, and brothers, David and Peter who you know and you were close friends with. They, they were difficult to work with supposedly on the set. They told me and they blacklisted them. I don't know what they said. They said something about. And then Peter was going around calling, you know, the, the like the Spielbergs and all the people who run Hollywood. The bad news Jews. He was calling them. So, look at. They, they, they couldn't get on a movie. Maybe they were hot for a while. They, they were, they, they, they, a lot of movies. That did the barbarians, that baby sit us one, they did a couple of them. That's one called something big, but look at even look back at his crazy as when Mel Gibson gets drunk. Yeah, Mel Gibson used, Mel Gibson used and used it, got used to talk about the Hollywood elite and the pedophilia or that sort of shit. Right. Anything that Mel did, they wanted to get rid of fucking nuts. Absolutely. It's like he hasn't had a tie rate when they drunk about something, but... Yeah. There's a, there's a, the whole thing too, is you're having to get someone on a joke that was done, you know, there's times of change. Back years and years ago, Blacks couldn't marry white, she had to go to a separate public. You know, things have changed over the years. So back 20 years ago, joke that was accepted, what end? Because people had a sense of humor, hacking your, getting me trouble for it now. And it's like, somebody jokes back down to steal funding now. I watch blazing saddles and some of the monkey Python stuff that's crazy. That's crazy. They're all brought to life. But, you know, you knew what the world was going crazy when shallow how come out. Yep. I love it. And all those fucking obese women were fucking boycotting the movie. But the movie was about him seeing a girl and she looked as hurt. Wait, but then he found out it doesn't matter how they look, but they took it the wrong way out of making fun of fat people. Yeah. And I'm fuckinGHell really. Go fucking do some cardio bitch. Just like, why get upset? Look, I understand they people some have a thyroid problem. Yes, some take medications and they get fat. They have a 90% of just fucking fat lazy cunts. That's it. So don't get upset and put on your fucking bikini and take a third of it. You're so fucking brave. You're not brave. You're fat. And you just want people to say, oh, she's so wonderful, isn't she? Put on her bikini. Look at her. How? You're a fat fucker mole in a bikini. You're not brave. A firefighter policeman. Some of the go-to-ath gannesty and that's brave. You're just eating fucking twinkies in your fucking bikini rolling around the floor girl. And look at me. I'm a woman of the fucking 2020 millennial fucking white. Free priests, free priests, you're canceled. Cancel body. I was like, hey, the off-beat baby cancel me. Yes, I got remorse. Well, you know, I think the point we're making is that we got to stop taking ourselves so goddamn seriously. I think that the political machine and which is runs Hollywood too in a sense are purposely doing this because they want to control it. They want everyone to be the same. They want to be the sort of what time it is that only do what we're told, we wear masks, we walk around separate from each other so that they can watch us over the overhead and see our facial recognition a little better. It's true. And they're trying to make us all the same. And you know what? That's freaking boring. That's not what it is. It's true. What you said there because everyone, as soon as they put on the Facebook for instance, people read that and go, oh, I can't do that anymore. Or I can't say that anymore. But this is how you know, my joke is this is, you know, how I fucking racist joke first starts, this is how it starts. Did I turn or want to be? Yeah, yeah. Well, let me just check over my shoulder. But it's like people need to just laugh at shit and don't get so offended. Jokes are jokes, you know, there's a big difference between someone being malicious against somebody and stuff like that. It's like, where did our sense of humor go to these days? Anything you do or say, I just don't believe these groups sit there and go through. Everything is like, this whole thing about being offended is what offend you might not offend me because they got to get offended. IMight get annoyed like if someone's disrespect for the old people. It doesn't offend me, but I just think that's disrespectful. It makes me angry, but I don't get offended. People can say what they want to be what I have for years. IMean, I get messages a little time on banging your daughter. I'm banging your mother. I'm doing this. I'm doing that. I say, yeah, I know I'm filming. Remember so I just fucking, I've heard it all before. So I just let it go and, he's a thinGHere. Right now, at least I don't know the cancer culture, but Australia, we're leading the way for the vaccine day if you do notice. I thought they were, I thought, Wuhan is already all vaccinated over there in China. Oh, that big, that big poop party didn't they? Did you see it? Yeah, yeah. It's a thousand people. Give it all a prime minister to day and a half, the guy said it was going to be mandatory. But now he's backtracked and said, no, we're not going to really make it mandatory. But now to put at least on the news today, if you don't get the jab, you don't get you go the payments. You don't get the go to school. You can't travel on planes and out, or if you do travel in the lead to country, you can't come back if you don't get the vaccine. So we're not making that mandatory, but if you don't get it, well, you guys are the original penal colony. So you know, you're in jail. They're already. They don't let you in and have that country anyway. You can't bring anything. You can't take anything. You can't take anything. You're dirty in jail. That's too far to travel anyway from Australia. You should know, come and he takes forever. If you look at set five, you had the virus when you left America. You won't have it by the time you fucking get you. No, you don't. You don't have the virus. I don't have the jab. I can't come home, but get. If you're a terrorist and you go fight for ISIS, we'd let you back in the country. No problem. What's the worst you could do? Speaking of viruses, I want you to know the lead priest power grip is selling really well. Liquid hand chalk. Oh, look at that. 99.99% alcohol sanitizer. Oh, so you sanitize your hand while you're increasing your grip. I like it. Yes, yes, it's two in one. Where could people buy that lead? On my Instagram page, you click the link in the bio. This is just the temporary one, but we're coming out with nice blue tubes of it. Cool. And this is no mess. You put on your hands and there's no mess and it sanitizes. You get this sanitizing film on your hands. That's a very good idea. You know what? It's the gym. Brilliant. Brilliant marketing, Mr. Priest. If you want to buy it in bulk, just email them. But I think in a dead bee in American dollars, it'd be like five, six dollars. Oh, that's nothing. But that's good. For your safety and you put a lot on, look, I'll demonstrate it quickly. Let me say. You got to shake it. Someone's just tuned in right now. Oh, you dirty bastard. Stop thinking. Look, you put a little bit in your hand like this. Oh, you have a good load there. I need a good, good. Thank you. IMentioned that a beta size of a five cent PCR or a dime in America, or if you're from England, if I can toothed it just fell out. Yeah. You're wiping on your hands like this. Woo. Alcohol in it. I can get drunk just smelling it. They wait like 10 seconds doing this. I do do do pushpoint, apple shake the treat. Right. That's a song for people back in the early 80s or 90s. I'm just letting the dry. It's drying now. Leave very alert. You must have a few cups of coffee. I only had one. Look, I'm still drinking the one. And it's drying. Look, see how it's going. Oh, I see. It comes like over a second. Choc. Yeah. Look, it turns into a side to sleep with the light. No, I can see it. I see it. That's awesome. I love it. I think it's a great idea. And you can put it in your little gym bag backpack. Yeah. So you got this chalk on your hands. So you don't need to use straps all the time. If you ever say how to get big forearms, leave, use a new grip. So you get this chalk on your hand. Right. Look, look, least being racist. He's doing fucking white hands. My, my, my, my. Hands well, my, my, my. Hold on, hold on. I got to open the window. As I'll say in Dave, once your hands go white, you've got this film on your hands. And if this chalk, the little bit, look, no mess. Look, there's no chalk on the gym floor. I like it. There you go. So go to the gym floor. Any of these, if any of these chalk gets in the nailing on the bar, a little bit, those come off. That sanitizes the bar. There you go. It's brilliant. Look at that. Really, it's, I think, really. Send me a bite. I'm, I'm, white hands. I'll send you some. When the new bottle comes out into two weeks, I'll send you some of the new bottle. And I'll also got the lead priest muscle and joint spray. Woo. Somewhere. I'm just becoming an entrepreneur. I know. I, I'm, I'm proud of you, man. I, I, pretty good. Look at this. He must want to buy a new car. What's the new car you're trying to buy? Oh, maybe. Audi, I write the camera. I have to mount it. I knew we was looking at a new car. But every once in new car, he always works harder. Look at that. Look there you go, people. Liquid chalk, hands in it. And it's 99.9. Apple hole, so it kills everything. Look at that. It looks like a, my son would say, my son would say, He's a zombie. He's a zombie. I just, I don't know. He's a, I'm just, I'm just, I'm just. He's a, I don't know, Michael Jackson. But is that, is that, Michael Jackson might be a racial joke? I don't know. Is that, or is that unacceptable? That's politically, it's just, let's just, let's just keep it at through cocky with steep black men's. All right. And on that note, we're out of time. I'm day polonbo for Lee Priest. If you want to get that Lee Priest chalky stuff, sanitize or go to his Instagram page. You can buy it there. The Lee Priest power grip. Yes. All right. Thank you. I'm turning, I'm turning wider as we speak. I noticed.

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST TO FLEX LEWIS： I'LL FOLLOW YOU TO OPEN BODYBUILDING! [fe9Ne5-aamA].txt ===

Welcome back to Iron Rage, the show where John Romano, Lee, Priest and I, vent off frustrations with the world, and luckily for me today we have all three of us here today on Lee Priest 46th birthday. Happy birthday my friend. Thank you. Happy birthday, Lee. Happy birthday, Lee. My buddy, Chuck's working. Look at that. It's fucking beautiful. This show proves that Ashley Lee is in Australia because you know, they're in the midst of winter there. We have summer here and it's very early in the morning. They're very late in the afternoon here and there's the mood. There is. I was a little disappointed of Lee's telescopic, you know, depicting of it. My Hubble, my Hubble, my Hubble spicy can't stand at the moment. And if I pay this way, look, see that, that's the start of it of sudden coming up behind me. Wow, how beautiful. See that? Yeah. And that. The lead. Get out. As you get older, you get up early. The land down there. You always were in early rising early, right? Yeah. Oh, I see. Always get up early. It's the best part of the morning. Getting up early. The time of the day, you just can't beat it. The problem is I can't get the sleep till four o'clock, they can't get on my work time. Otherwise you got kids, that's your fault. I know. I'm your right. I see that idea. It's the same thing. I think IMet you when you were 18. You're Gold's Jim. Wow. Yeah, 19. I was 19. Yeah, I was 40 then, still. I was 40. Yeah. I was 40. Yeah. I think in the 1940s, when you actually think back, you think, where the fuck is that time go? I know. I know. When you're younger, your parents will tell you as you get older, time goes quicker. And you just like, oh fuck off a dozen. That's a pretty like shit. Where is it going? Sure. Sure. Well, we have a bunch of topics to talk about on today's show. One of them is, you know, for the last probably a couple of years has been this picture going around of this bodybuilding competitor in the UK by the name of Bernie Cooper, who everyone plays. My dad is Lee Priest-Dad. And they say, at the time the article first came out, they said he's 71 years old, which would make him possibly, he could be your dad, I guess he was 71. Lee, first of all, I'm clear. I'm glad you're following. And that you're following. Now, we're just really good friends. I'm at Bernie, back in when I was with VPX, when I went to the Arnolded Classic Over there in Spain one year. So I'm heading there. We just became really good friends. We got on really good stuff. I just started callinGHim my dad. And then I just stuck. So people think he's my dad. And then this guy did a thing once because Bernie was competing over season. He got busted with a little bit of gear on him. He got thrown in jail for a day. So this guy comes on this, I think at his name, he's on some radio shows. Like, for himself, Dr. P. H. D. He's like, of inside breaking news at Lee Priest, could be like his father. His father is a well-known drug dealer. And was jailed. And was jailed. You'll only hear his hear first also. This is father. Is a homosexual as well. So this is breaking news. This guy's gone off his big fucking. I don't know who, I think at his name, is that something that old podcast he goes on. So he wrote the news of my dad. He was a drug dealer and home, a sexual and in jail and all this stuff. But Bernie and I get on really good. Really great guy. He's actually around 72. I saw a post yesterday, playing in here was 96. Yeah. And what that's the thing. They say he's now, he's the oldest body on the world. 96 is us. It isn't that Bernie Cooper who was fully 71. A couple years ago. He's got, he had just in doggy. He's every birthplace. Yeah. I don't like my height. I go from five foot one to five foot to four foot nine to five fooT4. But I'm really five foot five and a half. I always add that half. Stop because I'm thinking I want to add a half. But when the doctor mentioned me against the wall, he said five foot five and a half. So really theoretically, you're body building terms on five seven. Yes. This way when you do questions, when leaves rough down for classic physique, you can make the week better. That's why. You know, people always say if they're out on 18 and a half, they're always say 20. They always say that extra inch and a half. And then you got to add the exact amount of body weight too. No. Oh yeah. You never get to true body weight. John and an extra axe to the sweatshirt. The axe. I get mine from China. Five ex hits me. Well, lining teapower, he says that every all body bulls lie about their weight. Oh, the old. Well, remember, Lonnie was always all for having the scale before they walked on. So he got a answer. I had no problems with that. If they want to hop on this scale before we walk on. The two kids, because really like I said, on stage it's an illusion. He cares a lot of people weigh so I don't know why. There's such a big thing. People say, oh, this is not like in case. He could be a hundred, you know, two hundred eighty pounds. But look like a bag is shit when someone like LeBron looks fantastic at 186 pounds. True. Weights are relevant. Yep. Now, John, I don't know if you've heard a flex Lewis announced this week that he was this Olympia. This 2018 Olympia would be his last as a two 12 competitor. Do you think it's anything to do with Lee Priest come back? I think so. I would have to absolutely consider. That's it. You make one little video having fun with a friend saying you come back and he's fucking now. He's fucking the bait's going to go on forever. Who was the best physique? He's taken off now. I just say I'm coming back and there he's retired. I'm used to doing the open. So if you go on there, I'll follow you. That was awesome. That is so good. That's two, that's two, twelve was a little bit hard for him to get down to. But now you go on in the open. Welcome to my world friend. He lays down the bottom. There was a 20 problem. You said that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He lays down the bottom. There was a 20 problem. Yeah. And he said it was going to probably do it in 2020. So that's good. That gives me a little bit more time still. We've got a date flex. I'll see you in 2020. What is next bet? Are you getting surgery in that net? I've been given a few more things. There's a place that they said there's a place in Florida. I think at the name of the CEO of hood of it. They do some pro bodybuilders are gone there and they do stem cell stuff and that they're in Florida. It's like a big trening center. They tell me about. IMet him when I was in Brazil and they said they might be able to do something like come down there for a week. They said they might be able to get it back to almost. We've had having to do this. You're so I'm looking at options before I think it cutting to the neck again. Yeah. I know a guy who went there and got the stem cells injected in his knee. Yeah. And new cartilage grew back. He didn't need the. He didn't need the replacement. Well, what the the research I tried my shoulders. They were too far gone. I did stem cells twice on him. But what they say is that the articulating surfaces will get a very, very thin layer of cartilage on him. But it's just enough to lubricate it a little bit. So you're not really getting a lot of cartilage growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. But you're getting a little lubrication back there. I think is what it's going to do. Well, it was my we're just going to try and get that little nerve. I'm crushed if it's a stimulation goes back to those things. So anything they can do they say they can try different things to try. Get those muscles firing again. So we'll see what happens. Unfortunately. You know, I think in on a secret. They probably even was one arm I can take in. They're telling. They're telling. Why I'm tied behind my back again. Like currently, I'm bringing in. Well, well, well, well, IMean, now with this arm, what is it? They're these by gender or by binary. I don't associate with whatever class or person, human female. Because one side looks pretty good. The other side's smaller. I can maybe do the main soap and body building and fucking bikini on the other side. They count the night because I'm, you know, I don't associate with my little female. So I'm going to do both. Let me ask you this question. Is your other arm really that much smaller than the good arm? Uh, has had to look at trying. No one's ever seen it, but I'll try to show you. Okay. Oh, no. If I phone will stand up. Here you look. This is good arm. All right. All you muscle worship is that that. It's take note. It's posing. Look at that. That looks fucking good. That's fucking good. It's a problem. This is good arm. This is good arm, right? Okay. Bad arm. It's still looking pretty good. I think the bad one looks better. Bad one doesn't look better. That's the bad arm. That's the bad arm. That by-sips of tiny bit small, but I think the triceps bigger. Yeah. It's actually the triceps that's actually lost the size here. See, if you look, if you look, if you look at the triceps, look, you just arm. There's some. Yeah, a little bit. Yeah. Well, you know it's four arm ones. Four arm ones, there's arms bigger, there's four arms bigger. Look. I think it's looking pretty good. Look at this fucking preview for 2000. 20. Wow. Not bad. Not bad. Not bad. Oh, I'm just too tired. What are you waiting for? Well. I just told 30. 20. Oh, I think I got a cramp. What are you waiting for? Oh, is he listening to us John? He goes up listening. Good plan. I didn't hear him. I can't hear him. You guys, it's too much talking. Oh, yeah. This is like the old amateur out. Hey, John. John, I'm 230, mate. It's just letting me know. I heard you the first time, but. What's that? What do you think about what's what's what happened with Don Long? You see, here that he got sentenced to a year and a half in prison. That's pretty good. IMean, that's why no time for what he was doing. Come on. That's nothing. Yeah. You know. Hey, look, you got to look at it this way. If you're going to go out and take that risk. All right. You know, there's a potential downside to your whole thing. That is an equation that you weigh. It's called risk versus benefit ratio. And you have to assess, okay, if IMake $10 million in drug sales over here, and I end up getting caught, spend a million bucks on lawyers and end up with year and a half in jail. And I get to keep seven and a half million. Is that worth it? Yeah. Okay. So. You know, I am. I am. Are you speaking from experience, Dr. I'm. Maybe. So. So, so IMean, you know, if you're always going to make it, I don't know how Don feels about it. I haven't talked about it, but you know, I paid attention to what he was doing, what the reports were of course they're exaggerated whatever. But look, he wasn't in a for-chomp change. Yeah. So, if he was smart and he put any away and he has some work in forum and he's, you know, got in got his, you know, back. His end game put together a year and a half of vacation and clubbed is not bad. Yeah. So, you know, if you if you get to keep your shit. Yeah. So, you know, if you got to pay back $250,000 in restitution, I think, or fines or whatever. That's a shame. That's a shame. That's a shame. That's a shame. Why don't you rest it? It's fine. He was fine. Okay. Like, here's a good bodybuilder back in his day, you know, good physique. And that's really, really, really. You know, it's a shame that somebody built us have to turn that isn't it? Because you're not really here at that in any other pro sports, even the lowest paid in other sports would never have to turn the probably selling drugs on the side to make it fucking loose. Well, you know what the thing was? I'm sure done and his wife are making very good money coaching people. I think what happens is it becomes too easy, you know, you fall into it and you get away with it for so long that you just think, well, it's never going to get quite. Is what would happen? Well, I had friends like that. I just get greedy. I just ran into California like that selling to everybody. He got bigger and bigger used to talk loud about a lot of time. He had 50,000 wards of cash on him at one point. And I'm like, you know, make your friend the moment. I'm going to kick you over to head one day and kick you. I can catch out of your fucking big out of your bum bag. But, you know, he just got too big about it. So, I started talking so loud about it. And then I did it on five years. So it's like, you know, it's like, you got to get to a point where you just got to be satisfied. Then get too big and too greedy and too loud about it. Because there's always someone out there who's going to get the shit. And the friend here who's got turned in once. But this has before steroids were like a big thing. Actually, he had to go to the job. Look, Joe, with the court, the judge, I think he's going to do it again. He said now, and the judge gave his shit back to him. But he got turned in just because some guy wanted it. And he didn't like this guy. So he said, look, I'm looking to sell it to you. So he's Mrs. Scott, the shit's and fucking caught up. Made it complaint so they come out and bust. So he's just sayinGHe's from the lap set person. Yeah, speaking from experience. When you don't sell anymore, it's a great feeling that you never have to feel paranoid about anything. Well, you know, some of us have never, I feel left out. Some of us have never sold. You were smart, that's why we, we always made a legitimate money. That's great. IMoved in the manufacturing. I got so sick of this. John stole the one. Right, somebody's not going to do it. I didn't even, I didn't even get to do a guy for pay. I'm fucking right. I'm not going to do it. Everybody else says. I don't know. I wish I did. I wish I didn't want to pay. I heard that you and Bernie Cooper, your dad would do it. And you're doing gay for pay together. Tax driver and son. Far in the father and son. Hey, if you can't have someone, if you can have someone touch your mouth, we'll be your dad. Keep it in the family. You know, you know, my father, when I found out my real father was gay, this was back when I was probably. No, my mom told me to later on, IMade a joke to him. I had to get him to find it too. I think he was one of those just having dinner one night. I said, you know what dad, come to think about it. If you never met mom when you did because you know he's to go to church and mom knew he was sort of gay, but you fought the law of them, her could change him, but that didn't work out too well. Did it? He's been with his, he's been with his same partner now over 35 years, but I said to him one day, I said, if you didn't make mom when you did, I said, I could have been wasted on the blow job or up somebody's bum. Woo. He didn't, he didn't find that too. I didn't, you know. It's true. That's true. Imagine if he didn't meet mom when he did, I could be like, please, please go to the state of head on the floor. Okay, now. Or what? What? I could have been up the house. You're the only way, somebody. There you go. What a, what a revelation to make on your birthday, right? Right? Yeah. 46 years. 46 years ago, he found the right hole for once. Oh, I can't, I can't remember man should bEQuiet back there. We can hear you. Lee, Lee, I just want to wish you a very happy birthday. Have a peaceful day, man. Look, the sun's the sun's almost coming up now. Try to find the right hole when you walk in the front door of the gym, right? It's just a, I think, there it is. Well, gym, the, well, gym. Go in the right, don't go in the window. Go in the, don't go in the back door. Go in the front door. Is that where you go to go? Don't hit mad. That's what I say. You don't want to hit mad. Nope. You always want to come out clen. You don't want to, you don't want to pull out an ever-cooling cone or stuck in the idea. Lee, any final words on your birthday to flex Lewis? No, I've already said enough. I still are giving a bit of way in there. Now he's seen the arms. He's got two years to, you know, keep ahead of me. But like I said, the open doesn't scare me. Yeah. You're coming. You're walking in the my domain. See, that's the point. See, the, the boy was the tell him I'm going to the two, 12, they're making Do the open. He's self-respect. Are you attractive? You're probably all the, uh, negative, uh, double negative items, sort of steep. Look at that. Lee doesn't know anything but the open. That's right. True. He's going to be swimming with the sharks now. See, I'll be 48 then too. So, you know, I hope you start to upset the null guy. It's going to fucking take him now. Hey. That was awesome. I used, I used Galen did it limpier by the way. Someone else asked me that. I, I don't have any answer yet. I'm not sure. To be honest. Like, I'm probably going to flex. I'm probably going to flex. Scallor, so you should. Oh, I'll see if I can do it. We'll see. I gotta see if we get a sponsor. So how flex goes send me out there? That'd be cool. You're telling me I stole the sponsor. I coverage. Have a bet. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's best coverage. It was still flex Lewis. Yeah. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Are you free, Frarté? Well, just, well, just, well, just getting up. Well, I'm ravellum a bit. I'll turn up with 10 on this one. Just stuck with him. Yeah. Do it diaretic. We should pull a dentist Newman and run up on that. That's a really helpful look. We pull a dentist Newman and run up on stage and pull it down again. So right on the Olympia stage. There you go. Yes. No one dentist Newman did that. I don't want to get too much away yet. Oh, yeah. We don't want to give away all these secrets. Oh, I've already showed the arms in the abs this morning. That's a bit much. That is. You're in a good mood. It's your birthday and to new dawn. It's a new day over there in Australia. And enjoy your day. It's getting lighter. Yeah. It is. If you look at your window now, the sun's probably setting off set. That's the same sun that is now appearing over here. If you go ahead and look at it and I look at my sun, we'll be looking at the same sun from different sides of the world. Isn't that beautiful? It is. There we go. The food. Leave a little bit of time. He's like on an airplane flying now. That's not right. I'm fucking super man. You do it. Hold your arm out. Hold your arm out. Like your plane. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. This is what I'm going to get through to that thing. Oh, she's on the ground. Leave. Enjoy your day. That'll take us to the end of another episode of Iron Rage. We'll see you next week. Leave will be a week older. Yeah. But not us. No.

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST'S HILARIOUS ADVICE FOR MASSIVE CALVES! [S5aWXr411hA].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. You're fine. So if I sit, like I sit, like I sit, be like my tail, or from shit. Welcome back to Iron Ray. I'm Dave Palombo and I'm here with our newest astronaut who's heading to the planet Mars. Come January, he's just trying on his suit that he received in the mail from our 3D printer guy. Lee, when do you guys leave for the planet? I'm complaining on July, July 2nd. So that way we can hope to be in our space and celebrate the 4th of July from our space. We space here allowed the travel as there's no code that in our space so we're allowed to go ahead. Oh, mask, you don't need to wear a mask in other words. I'm just a helmet. Just a helmet when I go on my space walks in case I have to fix up any panels on the SpaceX. But yeah, so I'm just trying it on. You've got to get a feel for it. How it goes. There you go. But yeah. That's what you like, too. Have you tried out any of those anti-gravity, you know, those zero gravity machines with either to the you take it up. They take us up in that plane. Notice known as the vomit comet. What a pity. Yeah, why? Then they drop it down really fast and we float around. Yeah. I just didn't make sure here. And what I got, I got one of these things here. Oh, you got one too, massage it. There you go. Yeah, my friend, can you see how a vibe rates like that? Yeah. I screwed on it. I see it on it. Yeah. And then I got a kiss. It's just like, it's just like simulating title. Right. That's right. You're trying to see if you can handle the vibrations of takeoff. Oh, sorry. Now when you get to the red, IMeant the red plant. I said the blue plant. But when you get to the red plant, how are you guys going to survive? Do they have any plans for in terms of setting up like, you know, colonies and domes or anything like that? I'm glad you asked. I'm glad you asked. I'm with had extensive phone calls and talks with Matt Damon. And he's told us to precisely how to use our poop. The, um, make plants and inhabitant. And the food, the food, we've been speaking to, um, cabbries and cabbries just given us thousands and thousands of miles bars. So we're going to, we're going to actually between the miles bars and the milky ways. Yeah. Yeah. Now I understand also that you have to in order to go into space. You have to have perfect vision. So I understand you went underwent your cornea surgery yesterday. It seems like you're doing pretty well one day after surgery. Well, where are you? Where are you? Where are you? Yes. Yes. It's just a little bit. I've got a contact in at the moment. Yeah. They had to do that. But what was that episode of final destination? That's what I was thinking about when I did that. I showed you a final destination. And the labor went straight through their head and their head exploded. Yeah. You know, once I put that metal clip and they wind your eye open and then the laser comes down, you're like, no, don't move your head and you can smell it burn, which is cool. But then I was getting this like anything in my eye when I get tattooed and make something be twitched. So I'm trying to, I'm trying to sneeze like this. Oh, the laser's got to pick it up. If I sneeze, okay, breathe. Right. I have to imagine that it's a, it's a little nerve wracking to have like, a laser blasting your eye. And you have to sit there and kind of say, I hope these guys know what they're doing. I hope they know what they're doing. You know, you know, you're helpful with some of us, you know. Yeah. Well, they're always telling you, you know, they've got a sign that I bet it was that small chain something that could go wrong. He could go blind. Yeah. I think for myself, what are the odds that would happen to me? They're pretty fuckinGHard. Because I have a cataract in one eye. I have one bad eye because I got hit with a rock when I was a young kid. So I have a cataract luckily it's in the bad eye. It's not in the good eye. But if I had to have the good eye operated on, I would be a little nervous because, you know, I kind of see mostly from the good eye, you know. So, you're basically going to go sailing with your head. You got that in your eye. Did you say, did you say you had a cataract in your eye? I have a cataract in your eye. Yes, I have a cataract. And luckily I have a blue eye. So it's like, you know, I go sailing in the sea. Yeah, the blue sea. So. I spent on having a book about back a wrecking your eye. That's right. Hey, now, so instead, one of our fans said to picture of you to me. And they said, I don't know if you've ever seen this, but it's hanging in my gym. I texted you the picture to be a Facebook. I don't know if you've seen it, but let's put the picture up the Tyler. I don't know. It looks like you got to be about 18 years old here. Do you see the picture? No. It's like you working. You look like a blacksmith almost. I don't know. Let me, let me look at my good eye. You don't see nothing. Is it like a photo shoot picture? It was a photo shoot picture. You have looks of dirt on your face and on your chest. It almost looks like a David Paul, but I don't, it's not a David Paul picture. No, that was from my friend Carl Hintzel. Hands on your hands. The master of muscle photography on his Instagram page. If you check him out, he's got tons of, but that was actually 19. That was over if the doc yards were, what doctorates in Australia and Calcutta. Yeah, Newcastle here with the doc yards where the ships coming in. IMean, that's a great picture of you. It looks like I got a job, doesn't it? Yeah, almost, almost as you got a job. You're really young, but this gives it people an idea of how, IMean, you had a really well-developed physique at 19 years old. It's crazy how much muscle maturity you had at such a young age. No one has that. No, I was ahead of my time. I was from the future. That's why I've spaced out now and gone back to my home planet. Once we get to Mars, we'll hope and see if we can make it the crypt on just a bit further out. There you go, I got you. Also, another fan sent me a picture of you with Paul DeLat, which if you look at that picture, do you know that picture? Put that one up the tile. Is that with my tight zone? Let me see, hold on. I got a little like, yes, yeah, you were tight. You look like you're about 12 years old in that picture. Yes, I would have been 20, that's when I first got to Gold's roughly. That's where Paul's sitting down, he's got his hand there around me. Yeah, yeah. That's when I had him moving off that Adam became the lovers. Ah, I see. Now those, those, those, those, those, those, Pete Taita, those like high skins or what, what were those? That's been. And I would have been hot skin jet and the bum bag. Yeah, bum bag on. You got all the, all the, all the 90s, uh, paraphernalia on there. And my wearing a gold, it's Jim Toppa, who's never totally awesome, shit, similar. I think I got gold. That's the gold, Jim showed private ad currency, you're right. It's got pink riding. See how I'm color-court and they didn't really call it. Yeah. And you notice too, when you wear those tights, you can bum bags that aside, you got a tuck. You got a tuck, you don't have, you don't have this plug. You don't have to go into the side, if you lay in the benches and go, it's saying you don't have to people walking past go. Ooh. Right. I told you that story once did I want to steal the leg curls and I had white tights on you know, probably the worst color to weigh, white so I still have the leg curls and I did. Oh, Lee, stop it, stop it, Lee. I'm like, what? I still have the leg curls in that second room. Yeah. Oh, you turn it on me, I'm late, turn the round. That's Chris, they can, Mister Olympia, more than so. I got hit on by Mr Olympia. Yeah, he's a jack on a rabbit. Yeah, Chris is getting a Chris's game, we have what knows that. But, that's funny. You never wore white tights again after that again. Oh, never, it's not a never got gay for the party, but I got hit on the bit. Oh, that's funny. That's funny. That was just trying to take the band, you got my thinking. We're getting some free out of this going. Was he feeling out, like to see if, you know, You know, testing the waters there. Yeah. Oh, actually, is actually really good seniors in a Chris Dickinson. Great. Very good senior. Actually, I think he said something to me once when I was visiting Gold 2. And I didn't, I didn't get it. But then someone else told me afterwards and he was getting out. Yeah, we're ready on my head. Yeah, I was very nice. I had done the use day when he walked up and said, Dave, I like the fuck you in the house. What did he say? I thought he said, I want to spot you in the, I don't know. I don't know. All right, let's, I want to get your opinion on some things. We had some bodybuilding actually occurring this past week and which is amazing because the season has been so pathetic because of this COVID thing. Nick Walker won the North American Championships at 5 foot 70. It was about 247 pounds on stage. The guys in absolute free. What is your assessment of this video? Do you like this physique? Do you think this guy's going to go far? I know you predicted that Huddle or Brad, IMight win the Olympia. Where do you think Nick Walker fits into the scheme of things that 26 years old? I think you look straight. Hey, you look, I said muscle mass wise. You look straight. You still got the good symmetry. You hasn't got that stomach bloated or anything at the moment. So the main thing, the main thing with him, well, I can see is if he just does it smart and doesn't try and push the envelope too fast too quick. He should go far because sadly we've seen a couple of young kids come in looking like that and after a couple of years trying to go too hard to crazy and over a fuck up or die. So I think it does it smart. He's got the great genetics there and everything else in place. So he didn't keep his head on straight and have a few smart people around him and they don't go crazy. He should do well. He's still like, that's sort of different. It's when I think when I was 25, I think I've probably been trening since 13. My muscle had a bit more mature look. So once it gets that muscle maturity, I talk about it. Now he's big and freaky but he still doesn't have that real. You know, you get a hold of that mature look to you and a good density mature look. So I think that will come with time. But yeah, I see him, you know, instead of you stays the course and does it the smart way. You know, in a couple of years time there's no reason why he keeps progressing. Why he couldn't be up there in the top freaky Olympia. Yeah, he reminds you almost of a Mike France, why type physique? IMean, just a powerful physique and you know it, the guy lifts low volume heavy weight. He was telling me he can show the press behind the net for 15, a four or five for reps, like six reps or eight reps. I think I could do that. I said, that one is your arm. That's the two four plates behind the net. Did you really? Wow. And now she had I tried it. Oh, this has before my neck operation. I just tried one plate behind the net. Because you know, we always just do everything behind the net. Like crashes behind the net. Who dance behind the net? Yeah. Now he was trying to do a foot heavy behind the net. You can't even, you can't even flex your body into that position. Any hard to get there. He's been to back at the head. Don't. But I never had because people always said I'll do it at the behind. They're doing presses behind you get shoulder problems. I never had a shoulder problem. As soon as I started doing everything to the front, I had fucking shoulder problems. Yeah. You know, it is, I told, I would Nick Walker and I was talking about this. Everyone's body is biomechanically a little different. So for one person, what might be the greatest exercise of all time. For the next person might be the worst exercise. They don't feel it. It hurt. They get injured doing it. I never understood how guys can do front squats. IMean, I had really powerful legs. But when I would put that bar across my shoulders, it just, I had been, it was just two, my shoulders hurt more than my legs hurt. So I couldn't do it. I didn't run any Coleman do 600 pounds, you know, front squats. I got up to five plates front squat. And you had to put on my head with that. Well, as well as doing five plates was more like the breathing. Because because the weights pushinGHere, it's almost like, yeah. Right. That's what I'm saying to say, I think, to go idea the date, the gym about body mechanics. Because I was doing some legs and there's on the leg, which is like, where should I have my legs, should I have them up and be the whole A here? Here I said, look, as long as you can feel your chords work and put them ways comfortable for you. I said, me, because I'm sure that minor bit lower. You might need your super higher. I said, look, everyone's going to have an opinion like up here. Out here in close to out right. I said, just put them where you feel as long as you're doing the exercise. Correctly, and you feel it in the chords. That's how you do it. It's like, oh, so you see treners when someone's doing leg curls. Sometimes people, because of their natural body mechanics, like you said, if they're doing leg curls, they'll back my just come up a little bit. They're still working their hands. Right, right, right, right, right. But then I'll see this personal trener's push down on the back. Yeah, I'm doing down. I think just that sort of compression why they're trying to, because I just, if you're not cheating and you're doing the exercise properly, just let your body go in. It's natural range of motion, you know? So you're 100% right. You've got to find your own groove essentially is what you're saying. Because if you don't, like, you know, I always said that, you know, it's good to switch up exercises and foot positions and something like that. But if you squat on a normal regular basis, 500 pounds for say, and you put your feet wide and you squat normally. And then some guy comes to the gym and says, oh, you should really go an hour or a hour. And then you're going to get more sweep or whatever. And then you try to do the same weight. You're going to hurt yourself because your body's not used to that groove. You've changed the groove. You've got to lighten the weight and build up to that again. So don't, you know, it's good to vary your exercise form and something that, but if you're used to doing things one way and then you decide you're going to change it. Don't go and try to do the same thing that you've been doing for the last six or six. So it's like you said if someone's doing like the squats in there or or stays in some guys all go wide, not they go wide. They're the same weight all of a sudden. They're the fucking order fucking inner part of the thighs and fuckinGHomies get. Yeah, we want to want to. Yeah, absolutely. Now, let's, let's take a step over to the New York pro, which took place in Tampa, Florida. Also this past week in Ian Valier, redeemed himself from the Tampa, lost to Huntel Abrauder and went here. Did you like the, thEQuality made on Ian winning that show? And what's the take of the other rest of the top five? Uh, in look bed, let me did it the other show. Ian, I'll give him that, but he's 10, he's 10 still looks shitty to me. I don't know what he's using for 10, he needs to switch it up with every second. Yeah, I agree. But then, um, even better than he did before, but still I don't know. I think maybe a year ago, seeinGHim look better. But I think that Rodriguez and Max Charles got heavily overlooked or something. And it was, yeah, I'm just going by photos and from the comparison photos. Rodriguez was second, wasn't he? Yes. I would have probably had him first. And I know some people come at you, but look at thEQuads. Look at thEQuads on Rodriguez. Okay, they're not maybe. Ian's have that bit more flare on the outside, but then when you look down at their foot position, they both stand different, their feet. Ian's a bit more outside, they look more flied, but you know, Rodriguez doesn't have shitty quads. Okay, Ian's might be a little bigger. Well, you know what I've seen guys with bigger quads get second and third. Ian doesn't really have any fucking calves. Rodriguez has a bit of a calf. So he's got one up on him, but when you put all the other poses together, I just think Rodriguez looked better overall and morecompletely in the lat's spread. Okay, Ian's wide in the lat's spread. But when he's doing it, it's like his chest is very flat and stuff like that, whereas Rodriguez just seen morecomplete and full and better conditions. So and then Max Charles, I think he looked definitely. He looked like he got over. Look, they would have had. Look at how it have easily had Max up in the top three. Well, I'm going to say, I'm going by third, and see, I'm not there. So I can't see what's happening and stuff. Well, me and I have a meltdown over this because me and I did his diet and I guess in me and I have this stuff about, you know, Max being overlooked and everything, which is, you know, IMean, you can make a case for it. I wasn't there, so it's hard for me to make a ball. Yeah, I'm going to say, well, it does every day, but just going by the photos and I've read a couple of comments from people that were there, you know, all consensus was, look, he and did look great. He looked at that and before, but a lot of people didn't seem to even have Ian winning even though he, okay, he looked good, but yeah, I just think the other guys just look morecomplete, more polished, just seeing from his previous show, yeah, who's 100% better, but still, I don't think he was at his best. Like, you know, as far as that grainy hardness super, super riploc were as Max Charles, you know, he, he looked really good and stuff and, well, then I don't know what happened to, I saw the photos of, what's his name? What do you think of his name? What's Arthur? He looked good, he looked good, but I think he needs to be a little bit harder. Yeah, he could be a tailor for sure. But what's his name? Oh, every time I look at him, he reminds me of a fucking bulk drop, a muscular line or richie. Patrick Moore, that's him. Patrick Moore, that's where he is. Yeah, you're right. He's like a line or richie, look at him. He's like, he's got muscular. Yeah, but the funny thing was, he looked great, you know, I guess, on Instagram or Facebook, a couple of weeks out, everyone looks fantastic, but I think he looked better a couple of weeks a week or so out, there's an on stage, he looked good, but he just seen the, I don't know, he just looked like he got water, it was the lighting too or not, but he just looked watery from the pictures I saw. He just didn't have that dryness. He had like that picture. What's their picture of him with Chris Cicita? Well, someone would have been the long way where he had his arm out like this. Yeah. And it was all great and fucking, looked fucking messy, even then the day to show you like, whatever. What can fucking do? Right. Chris, what'd you do? It's like, however he looked on that day, fucking puttinGHim in the show like that, don't change shit. That's what I don't understand what his people were going to do this or drop you water or add these things like, don't do fucking shit. Yeah, you're fucking fucking awesome stage. So you got to fucking do some people, you got it, you can dehydrate the hell out of Lee and they just get better and better. And then other guys, if you dehydrate them too much, they lose all that wow, you know. So you got to stay around with work. I think he's really hard, I think he's just a little smaller than these other guys. He's still needs more size. Probably, but he probably should have taken the whole year off and just grown, you know. Yeah, but even if you're smaller, it doesn't matter. I know, I saw some comments too, where people like, well, we've got Regus. You know, he's not as big as Ian, well, yeah, you know, this never think it, but that means shit, if you're in shape and you look great, you know, you should win the best man on the day should win. And I don't want to hear well, some people are probably looking at him thinking, next week or the week after he's going to be a lot better. Well, guess what, this eight, the week after, it's not too weak slater. That's fucking today. JudginGHarry looks today and OK, Broderie, this was a little small. I think that means shit, I was one 99 when I won the scene for Ian and Chris was 260, that second, wait, doesn't matter. If someone's in fucking shape, they should win the fucking show. Right. Because I remember even once before when Flex wanted to show, then Lonnie was talking some of the judges and I was listening, they're like, oh, yes, but you know, he'll look better next week. OK, he might look better next week, but fucking today's the eye. Me, he touched him. OK. Not like I'm looking into my crystal ball next week. Oh, he has starations next week and that's OK. We're givinGHim first today because next week he's going to look good. Right. It's like, but I have next week. And we're ever saying today on the day, it looks the best. Fucking, that's how it should be playing and simple. No, you're right. Yeah, you have to, you have these guidelines, OK, maths, OK. They're like, what are judging for maths? OK, what that is, one of the judging criteria is, and so it's fucking conditioning, so symmetry and all this other shit. You've got to judge on all those things combined. And sadly, it seems like, you know, people say, all glutes, glutes, glutes, and this, and that, and look at their hammies. You ever even noticed, they got, well, look at thEQuads on him, look at the hammies on him. Have you ever heard anyone say, look at the fucking calves? What's happened to calves? You come to me as well, just fucking city wheelchairs and parks. It's like, you just come out on your knees, stand on your fucking knees. Because now, when's looking from the lower leg down? Look, I don't care if someone had massivEQuads, like, plats and massive hamstrings, like plats and beautiful up a body, if the guy beside him has a bit smaller quads and hamstrings, a bit of a body, but the guy beside him has got calves. I'm going to give it to him because that's the fucking complete pussy. He got a judge from the calf, sort of way up. If you would mind, I think my theory on the calves, Lee, is that because of COVID, and everyone's been trening at the house, no one has a calf machine at the house. So, that unit calf machine, all my best exercises for calves, is on the back step, body weight, hundreds and hundreds of reps. That's the best. I've seen these guys put the fucking weights on the machine. They go, dance, dance, dance, dance, dance. They're not calves like this. I've seen guys who play Chris, eight plates aside, and when they do calves, they do 10 plates, I'm like, oh, you're fucking quads and his feet. Yeah, yeah. And you're a little fucking shins of moving all that way. One of my friends, he never used to weigh it all. He's calves, major 22 inches. They always look like matter arasos in that much else, but he had big calves. And all he ever did was just body weight on a stick. He do a 100 reps, they start burning, shake him, keep going. Because you look back to, when my sister didbolet, there's like, you're a lot of young guys that went to ballet. And all day, what they do on the ball of the toes, on the ball of the toes, just with their body weight, they have funny calves like this, these male ballet dancers, they're not using weight, they're just using their body weight. So, that how excuse to stay, even with COVID, you know, I don't think they got COVID, but I think they got fucking cancer in the calves. Was eating a muscle away, fucking. People are lazy, you know what happens? If I had wings, yeah, it screwed up. Because a lot of guys are lazy because they put so much in thEQuads, when the time they finish quads to get our calves, what they do, sandwiching thEQuads, hamstrings, that's why sometimes do your fucking calves first. Do your hammy's right. Do those areas that you need to fucking bring up first, give them a 100% of attention, you know, it's just like, but how hard is it to do it on time, fucking five sets of 100 reps of calves every day and a half. These guys are doing this as pros and they have weak calves. I'd buy a freaking calf machine and put it in my living room. Watch TV and do calves all day long. IMean, if that's what you like, IMean, if that's what you're passionate, you want to be the best bodybuilder, and you have weak calves, put a calf in your living room, you know? Get out, get out, get out, get out the back and get your muscles on your back and do the donkeys on the back. You're the old Arnold, you're the old Arnold Donkey calves. You can do the donkey white with your muscles on the back if you got a fat muscles, even better, extra white. And then you can be standing, standing calves, and then you can do those ones. Remember, plats and everyone used to do what you sort of squat there, like you're sitting and holding on to a pole and you just sort of... I didn't even thought about that. I'm going to try to do those. I forgot that he used to do those. Yeah, so I'm going to bring it back, guys. Bring it back. You squat down just for people who don't know. You pull the pole, like you're doing like a pole dance, and then you just kind of... Yeah. Go up on your toes. Yeah, it's almost like a seated calf just holding onto a pole. Yeah. Yeah, so it's three top exercises I've just given you to do it. Yeah, you got no excuses. No excuses for having shitty calves now. That's a name to just go. The name of this episode is Lees. Calf secrets. Turn your calves into bulls by Lee Prey. Yeah, sure. So you think Ian will do it with the Olympia? Well, we got Phil. We got Brandon. We got Flex. Give me another one. Ruin, buddy. Bonak. And they got a deed in that really embounet. I would imagine they were going to get here. Yeah, this is real. If we got Phil and we got Flex Lewis and we got Ruin, we got Bonak and we got Hunter. This five guys that are going to place ahead of him. Bonak. Yeah, what is six guys that will place ahead of him? If not, we're talking about everyone in top shape. You know, this isn't saying Ian. Dad. Dad. Dad. Dad. Dad. Dad. Dad. Yeah, absolutely just a small place for a day. What's up these days? Yeah, Sarito? So before the statistics they were colleagues and colleagues, Our퍼textered. It says in shate, yes, there is another one. Like I said, there isn't say, Ian's. Not a good bodybuilder, he is. He is, but I just think these guys in the Moss storms and the I have and the experience in the mature Moss arch has and they are all in shape. Körpery and you know, he might crack top 10. still looks like he's in that learning stage of this and that. I think we put it all together however he's going to be very dangerous. If I took it all together he's got the frame, he's got the muscle, it's just a matter of like I said before at the first show he just looked like he flattened out, this show he looks a bit full but then he's not as that hard crisp gravy looks like. You know body burning is all trial and error you know. He's just got to get it right but it just hope he doesn't think this being the Mr. Olympia. He's got to play some crazy size game and coming bigger and bigger and right. Fuck up coming in too big again so it's like you just got to find that balance and have faith in whoever's helping you and go by that mirror and just be the best you can be. Look you're your main competition who gives a shit how anyone else you stand a look on that day. You can't go by what feels going to look this way. Really is going to look this way. Just look at yourself and be your best and have someone who is honest with you and say hey Ian you look fucking great don't change anything. If you guys well what about it? Feel this and we'll be good. Fuck everyone else just go in the best you can be and just trust in that because I said if you gotta keep comparing yourself that I was in trying to you know twins your body that are trying to feed in somewhere with the other people you got to fuck it up so just be the best you can be in the satisfied. We never satisfied but whoever's helping you just say hey hey you look now don't fucking touch your being just let's stick to how you look now and don't do that like I said that last day or two hocus fucking poke us let's fucking try this and try that and I don't know what it do that it's like you know what it's like they've been dieting 16, 14 weeks your body's used to certain foods the amount of foods whatever drugs you're taking blah blah blah and now all of a sudden you think these last five days I'm going to suddenly switch on my carbs around switch on my salts around I'm going to add in these different drugs and maybe some diarrhea whole body just goes murder yeah and it just fucked up that's why I always think I always do that yeah almost but one of those photos you took David for Chris Lund because I always died at 16 weeks minimum so generally the 12 13 week mark I was in content shape I just had to hold it so any little thing I wanted to do wherever it be the chocolates and see how I look IMight sort of cut my water back for the photoshoot a bit and use that photo to prove as the experiment it's like if the unexperiment doing that type of shit getting shaped early and then do it a week or two before see now how it looks because if you're been dieting 16 weeks and you think okay let's try this experiment to see how I look the last day or two before it's shown you fuck it up you'll just fuck that product preparation so try to head at time get ready early and then do it or even if you want if you do the show see how you look even if you could persevere for an extra week and fucking the pleat down a bit after the show and then try something different the week after and see how you look it's just like why you're in shape just try different things but please don't do it in the day or two before because we've seen it over and over when they post-rev pictures and you're like this guy's gonna blow everyone out the park and then zoom on stage you're like the company even blow out a fucking candle right now whatever it looks like to shit you're right very wise words from me very wise man this fucking that's a sense of how can you sound like a fucking guru scientist I was gonna say you're giving so much advice I had nothing to say I'm speechless yeah I've never heard of you give this much advice people ask you all the time what to do when you tell me I just whatever you want and now we'll see you give me a good time I'm gonna start a trening program called Nessa Body Building there you go right the programs around it is world well he keeps updated hopefully you'll be able to choose the text message or maybe zoom us from Mars next week and be safe out there and when you take a shit make sure you're making sure you're attached to the toilet apparatus so it doesn't you don't send your poops into space you know if what is comes the worst day but I don't get to Mars oh cool Steve and he said we'll come to your highness okay so whatever whatever works we'll get somewhere okay that's right at least you always have your highness that's a good one I know we've got to bring in Steve people say why do you keep bringing it up because that's funny yeah and if I hit your highness might not see that black hole we're going in and I know that's wise words I'm day full of love for with lead priests for another installment of iron rage

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST'S RAGE AGAINST THE MACHINE! [JpqYK9srfNU].txt ===

After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. The rush begins once pre-workout vape. I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Spices Nutrition. I created Spices Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensoplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Spices Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Spices Nutrition products. If you want to be in your apps, you'll best join the evolution. Oh, you're funny. Oh, it's like I say, like I say, like I say, do you like my tailbone for a shoe? Welcome back to Iron Raid. I'm Dave Polumbau here with Lee Priest with his new flat top haircut. What's all that all of that? Well, it's almost a flat top day. When you go in, why is I hate this fucking thing? I'm looking at, I'm crooked or something. Go on the opposite way. That's called old age. I like that. I'm a totally sorry. I can come back out of quarantine. I'm looking this way. Yeah, I went to the bar with a, what I try something different. Again, I'll go back to the old 1998 staff flat top. So I did. You go in there. You have a photo even. I even took a photo. I like, look, I want like this. And this is how you know when you're in trouble in the bar, but has this little bit of smell of alcohol on him? Any, any looks of it like this. Oh, shit. So if he's partly cross side and smells of alcohol, I'm like, oh, this ain't going to turn out good. So he starts cutting and I'm like, no, no, no, no, you got to do a bit more here. I'm glad you teach me. I'm like, you want to come barber and then he's doing this. So he finally get the something. I'm like, why didn't you stop him? I said no, because at this point, and now what I've told him what I wanted and I showed him, I want to see how he's interpreted it. So I want to see what I've said. I want to flat top. He's the photo. I want it like this. Now I want to see what I've told him. I want to see what he heard in his head. So I'm just watching what he's doing. And I'm like, you're really not crooked. Maybe it's your hair that's crooked. Maybe that's the problem. But I think, you know, what is hair grows back in two weeks. I'll go see my normal guy and he'll be like, you'll straighten it all up for me. But I didn't turn it out too, man. Yes, we're doing good. You know, it's funny because you have such a good head of hair. It's such a, you know, an advanced age. I'm kind of a little jealous to be honest with you. But what do I do, sky was going. I was losing it pretty quick. Yeah. I'm looking at the fucking new. I'm like, oh, so when I was done, when I was done, he's like, you have to I'm like, yeah, that's good job, mate. Thank you. So I was like, did your pay him? Yeah, because I didn't pay him. He can't. And what are they charged for? Heck, I know I truly these days. Uh, the place I got out of any charge me 20, but normally it's 30, 35. But oh, really that much. Wow. Yeah, but yeah, but yeah, but in some places, it's always like a tattoo party. Go up in the one barber and one guy will cut it one day. I'll do the same thing. You're saying 20 bucks on the here go. I can go to the same barber if he's not there. I see another barber there. 30 bucks. Oh, but they need to make their own prices these guys. I think so. I think they just like a tattoo. Paula, how much is that? And do you have to tip them? Do you don't tip it on a show? That's why. So I'll get a $15 a heck about. I'll give them $25. So, you know, it comes out. It's the same thing. Well, look, look at your hair now. I got more hair on my balls. But yeah, you know what I have to. When you have no hair, and you have to, you have to make it look good. That's I think way harder than when you have a lot of hair. You can't really go wrong with your hair. I can do your hair for, let's say, 699. I just go to the auto shopping. It's on fucking spray paint. I prefer that actually. I'll just tape your face off with a tape and tape up. 699 out of the door, though. There you go. I'll even cut holes in the paper so I can do your eyebrows. I appreciate it. That was a nice dimension. There you go. I've got a new job on my hand dresser. That's right. That's right. You know, in prison, they got these, the prison here. It kind of guys. The buzz. Yeah, everything's a buzzer there. And it's funny because there's like all the buzzer guys do all the, the guys who, you know, black guys who have like, like the shades and all the different things. And then you got like one white guy cuttinGHere who does all like the white guys. And for just the one. Just the one. Well, actually, as a sit, he actually is allowed to have a scissors. I was going to, I was going to put the white guys. He's just a simple number two. That's it. No, no, no. He actually given the scissors, you know, for the white people here. Oh, the black people get the nasty. Yeah, they got a great. They have a big, they have that look better than they are when they're, when they're out of jail. No, no one did a keep going back for the hate cuts. Exactly. We don't use when you're in jail. There's not much you can do so. Everyone, like, perfect. They're craft. These guys, they got the microwave cookers. You know, they get the kids. They can cook a gourmet meal in the microwave. It's unbelievable. They saw a, they, IMean, you can't get near the, unsadder as you can't get near the microwave. Oh, maybe that's a good case. I want to put that down as a case for more women should go to prison in the learned a fucking cook. Ah, there you go. And then you have the guys who cut hair and then you have the lawn guys, then you have the guys who fix things. I, I can't even believe laundry. What about laundry when they got to do the laundry and follow them? No, laundry, you got to do your, oh, yeah, they do have a laundry mechanism to your right. They do all the uniforms and stuff like that. They're better going to shower and it's so shut. Ah, the name is Stevie B. Oh, he's a special guy. He's a special guy. He's a special guy. Yeah, that was right. But if you haven't, speaking to the cooking women not being able to cook, this is what it may Is, as me, when I watch these TV shows on, you know, get those homes in Beverly Hills and this and that. But every time they walk into house, generally the guy, he's like, isn't this a beautiful house? And she's like, oh, now we need to change that. Always the woman, bitch. Oh, we need to do a renolvation on them, covered to this and that. And as soon as they walk into the kitchen, out of the kitchen, to what I go into one kitchen, oh, and it's his beard if a look at the cook tops. Look at the bench. Look at the bench in the middle. I think it's shadow, bitch. You never got a fucking use it. Just look at the fucking microwave. This is fucking microwave. You got to get the fucking microwave. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, and then you want to create ashes. They got like these like 30 million hours. You know, they never used the kitchen unless they have a chef. Maybe it comes in. And if you're seeing the fridge is perfectly packed with order. I'll just be safe. Yeah, and all the day cogs and all the other stuff. I've been doing this for a minute. I've got this fridge in American. I can remember the fridge just came out. What was it? Oh, a couple of years ago. I had the touch screen on the fridge so you can have an iPad. I wanted day one in my wife when we got one. She's like, it's way easier for her. Thank God. She's got someone's got sense in the kitchen. Yeah, it doesn't look cool. But I'm like, why don't you go and do a look at the Facebook. I eat in the kitchen. Yeah. Yeah. But then it's got that fridge too. When you put stuff in it and notify you on your phone. You're getting low on milk or you get us like, what? People become that lazy we can't. But they're absolutely. We can't open the fucking door and look in there. I just saw this add on TV. Now we've got this new fridge here. You're touch it. And the door becomes trensparent. So you can see into the fridge. I love it. That's the one I wanted. That's exactly the one I wanted. Why? Because it's still hard to open the door between you and you. No, it's just cool. What do you have in iPhone? Yeah. Why do you have an iPhone? Because it's got to make in the other ones. It's not cool. I'd rather go back to a phone. This is what everyone should do. You want a blackberry? Now just yeah, blackberry. Just where you can text and call and check your emails. Everybody else can go back to computers. Because imagine how good the world would be if people are out walking around smiling and talking to everyone. We're having an all-face book, Instagram. We're not allowed to anywhere. That's the problem. What you can't have it on your computer. That's the only time you can check it on your computer on your phone. Just relax. Yeah. But how hard is it to undo your fridge door now? Look in there. You just got to touch it and see what's in there. Oh, my God. Let me see if I can find this thing. I got it. I'm going to get one for you. I'll wait for something. Watch the world coming to you. Let's see if I can get this thing. What was the thing about that? Watch this. Yes, that refrigerator. I think this is the refrigerator. You were talking about it once. Probably. You've just touched the door and it comes trensparent. It's the LG signature. This guy looks like he's never used a fridge. Yeah, I'm not. Yeah. They always get these weird glasses. What's that? Was that a cat? Was that a cat on the floor? They always have these weird people that sell these appliances. You haven't noticed that? I've never met a normal appliance person. Like the vacuum salesman that comes to the door and right-share wife and kills her. That's so nice. Yeah, well, you know, actually in the movies. There it is. You can see it goes. It dims. Yeah. I think the same technology is like, you know, like, this is the first house. There it goes. Here it goes. It's going to touch it. Nice. Oh, look at that. I need to undo the door now. Oh, I can look inside. I think the technology is so much of what, you know, how like when you're looking in your rear view mirror now, it'll dim itself. If you get hit with like someone blasher with the bright minder. What about what about those places? Those fancy clubs that have the toilets when you go in and the glass goes frosted. Oh, they are. That's even cooler. But actually there's a woman sewing one of them because she was actually now doinGHer business and that I'm thrusted and everyone's standing outside. Look at this. Look at this. The refrigerator opens by itself. Oh, no. I've got a foot pedal to undo the door. No. No, it's not a foot pedal. It's just it automatically sees what your, your foot just has to pass by it. And then that's fine. Well, I got six cats. My fucking fridge will be getting closed. I'm going to make them go to the milk and whatever they want. They're full treats and they're whatever they want. What's it, come with your hold on. The fridge doors do have you to open. Let me just put my foot there. Can you come get the milk out the leaders full. It's very heavy for me to. My, my Mercedes I had before I, I got kids used to be able to just kick your foot underneath the the fender just run, run your foot and the the trunk would open, which is kind of cool if you're a package. I've seen those ones. Oh, yeah. That's another thing to do to the noise. Look, I understand technology, but all these cars with lane guidance and shit. Whatever happened to fucking drive in the car yourself. I'm too lazy now. I don't want to stay in my league pretty soon. There's not going to be any more driving. You're going to have a, you're going to get a chance to car. See, all my life, I can honestly say, I've had how many too many cars. But never once have I used cruise control. Never. No, I don't do it. Even when I drive from like telephone, you're the Texas, I prefer to feel my foot on the extreme. You fall asleep when you put it in cruise control. You don't have to do anything. That's the thing. But now they got these new cars. I saw one, what model was it the other day when you turned the indicator on could have been that key a K 900 or something. You're turned the indicator on and you know where your gauges are on the dash. Yeah. It comes on there a screen so you can see what's beside you because I like that. I don't have a big day if you got it. Oh, my net. I do like the link. I like when it tells you to someone in the blind spot. Do you like that one? Yeah, I still look. It's like he got a look. You can't look anyway, but I'm just saying, at least you sometimes you want to just you think there's no one in the lane, you're bad to turn off. You're cross over and then opposite of the little B. B. Or do you have a thing or something like it? Sometimes I've had different cars. You know, like the A frame pillars or whatever that come down. Sometimes they're so thick when you go look now and say, and it's just blocking a car. Oh yeah. That's why I like that thing never because it kind of, it's like AI also like the one now where if you're getting too close to someone in front of you, like you're not you're not looking at the yeah, if you're not looking straight ahead, you can get too close on someone it'll it'll like it'll hit you would such a loud siren that you own your own. Yeah, I'm a hard attack and don't say you crash. Yeah, you crash anyway. But what is crazy? Like it's just a whole. And remember that video that won't go in the test last. Yeah. As a striper down there. Yeah, yeah, that was good. That was a good. That was a good. All right, so this is why I wanted this is the Ranc today. I know that you're you've mentioned this before, but there's a Jim owner now in New York state who is suing as part of a coalition he's suing. Governor Cuomo in New York state. His name is Charles de Francesco and he's suing because he wants them to open up his gym. I'm an open to gym up. It's a whole coalition of people. Jim owners. What do you think about this? You know, his his argument is hey, look, liquor stores are open. That was a considered essential, but but the one the one institution, the one business that actually people get healthier at working out in the gym is not open. Well, is that just you off? Well, I've mentioned before the so cool got up. There's the exor at you. And the so called government doesn't want people healthy with the scusses because there's much easier to get rid of sick people. And the thing is, it's like here in Australia, same thinGHappened to Jim's. We're almost the last thing to reopen. We had bars open restaurants open. Yeah. Okay, supermarkets are essential, but how many people go through it, even a shopping mall? How many people go through a mall each day and shopping centers, touching everything? Whereas I know here at the gyms, we have a martial like what they call them. And they're like, covered martial that wears a bright orange vest around. Oh, yeah, and as you walk into Jim, everywhere they got, they got wipes, as you walk into Jim, there's a huge table. And there's probably 50 spray bottles with a whole pack of like wipes. So everyone can take a spray bottle with him and go around. So when you finish spray to bench in that and then someone just goes around to make sure you're not too close to people or you just make sure they clen up. But in our audience, after have that in our and they're open. So why not? Like I said, someone hops on the public trensport bus. How many of you hop on the bus? Sit there, pick those, why but on the seat? You get on the bus next and someone's been farting on the seat during whatever. Even those like overweight people or skinny people don't want to fat shame, but people sit on the bus. They sweat on the seat. They don't have someone on the bus wiping down the seat every time. Someone gets on and off. So if a Jim, like I said, you could have it, where you could do this up a schedule, call up what else do you want to tren? There's 50 people at these hours and then you get an hour at least if you get an hour's been enough. And you could regulate it, but at least you got somebody there going around clening. So I don't see how it could be a bad thing. I've always said that like you said bottle shops are open, but here in Australia bars were open. Clubs are open restaurants are open that Jim's, oh no, you can't go to the gym because that might spread some disease. I'm about to discuss. I just want to run my business. I wanted to just pay my bills. You're putting me out of business. You're putting us all these Jim owners out of business. Think about it. New York State has not opened since the shutdown. You know, that's a lot. That's a long time now. A carrier business and have to raise it. You just don't even have restaurants open. You know what? Well, I'm in Florida. So Florida has everything's open Florida. I think New York restaurants, I think, they believe are open because they consider them essential, but you know, there's limited seating. The best thing ever for their arguments when they go to court, you just pull up videos of the people. The thousands of people, the people, the people, the people, the children of the shoulder. So you're coming to arrest me and close my business down. You want to arrest them. Yeah, and just letting them go have it just shoulder the shoulder, running around, painting, sheet on the roads, doing this, doing that and you do nothing. You just stay in back and let them go. But yes, I open up a business where I can control people coming in and out and sanitize shit. And I'm the fucking bad guy. Look, what I got to do is just get them to put on for your lamb shirts and tea for shirts, whatever. And just as they start coming in to the gym each day, just start yelling like that. Yeah, right. You can be discriminated against. Yeah. What are you trying to do today? Fuck Trump. Fuck Trump. Just tren like that every set. Yeah, Trump. Fuck Trump. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. You're racially profiling me. Yeah, yeah. And just throw out fucking whatever the protest is yelling out. Just fucking start throwing it out. That you're squattinGHeavy. I can't breathe. I can't breathe. So what's going on in here? Oh, you know, they're just protesting. Let them go. And I say go do it. So you just go do the gym and that's what doesn't protest. I'm sorry. I fixed the problem. Now on another note, changing gears a little bit. I saw that Vince Taylor posted on his Instagram. He's doing a good bench. He looks great. He's for 60 years old. It's right. But Vince posted on his Instagram a picture of him in Robby Robinson on stage. The other. Yeah. And he basically was thanking Robby because he said when he was 14 years old, he wrote his first letter ever to a bodybuilder. It was to Robby Robinson and Robby answered a back in game. Some like motivating words of advice. He sent him a bicycle because he wanted to see how to get big arms because I wanted to have arms like Robby Robinson. And Robby wrote them back in work. What you, what you, was that picture of? That was at the 90s. It wasn't early 90s. Yeah. That's kind of be like when Vince was at the moment. Was that the moment? Oh, maybe it was. Mass is a limp of your right. I think you're right. Still look good. Well, we still look good now. No, he's still. Robby's still. It's good right here. I'm even now for what he's 72. He's 72. He's 72. He was 70. He was 70. He was 70. He was 70. He was 70. He was 70. You're all that's for sure. If only we can get this every day. Even though it's in your young, when I was in my 20s, I'm like, I'm going to die young. But then you're like, I don't care. You get the 30 odd. I'm going to die. I don't care. They get you late 40s 50s. You're like, I want to get the 55. I want to get the 60s. It's almost like a challenge now to keep getting. Yeah. Yeah. He changed. That's why when they always people say, oh, I'm in a deal with the devil. You know, I got to give my soul five years. He's like, yeah, I have a five years forever. You know, but obviously. Obviously. We'll just end up like the picture of Dory and Gray. There you go. Let's keep we will have to hide our age. So back back to your story. He wrote a letter and he gave him an autograph. So yeah, and he's he wanted to thank him. He was just givinGHim a thank you, you know, for after all these years. For everything you did, you know, kind of motivate him and he's a young body. But that was nice. I think that, you know, not a lot of people. You know, people like to pick on everything that's, you know, wrong with with society. And so people pick on Robbie because Robby's, you know, he's always been a bit of a rebel. You know, he says what's on his mind. You know, he's an old, he's an older guy, you know, and old people complain a lot. IMean, I could just think of my dad. We think I alone. He did a lot of good for the sport, you know, IMean, so why do he, he's a little grumpy old man when he's a little old. Oh, no. Well, I know we got Peter when we used to use buss to not without my even start. IMean, it's that of course you got to get Peter when someone's plastered, you know, your famous like this everywhere and put it to where you just head on it. Yeah, yeah, that's true. IMean, that's really going to get upset. But now when I when I was with Black Skull, Robby come to Brazil once or twice and we've got on great. We got on great at the boost together, Robby and when I see me, we always get on good. Yeah, so yeah, I get along really, really wrong. But some people have a problem. I don't know. I don't know how Robby does business, but you know, people, people want everything for nothing. Well, I think it's like you said, Robby's just one of those people where someone can come up. I know I had a guy, yeah, I'm sure you get it too. Sometimes people say to me, this guy got mad at me once because just given out these nice shakers, you know, there's like shaker, you put your drink in it, shake up. It's really pretty like gold, one ahead or the stuff on leek and I send you on I said, sure, you can send me one no problem, think it's send it to me. And I got it. I got it. I got it. I'm actually in thank you very much. It's a nice shake or you just, oh, can you do a video using it and take some photos? We're better than that. Many of the ads we don't want to do. I said, look, I really appreciate your sending it to me. So, but now you want me to advertise it for you. Now, and true well if I do that, you're going to sell it. So, I get this six dollar shake and they're going to make money. I said, look, it's much as I appreciate it. I can't do that for free. I was like, oh, mate, if I can help us like all week, I'm just starting the new business out. Of course, is it T-shirt? Can you wear it for me and post it for me now? I've had people to just send me shirts, they've got a new shirt. Right, and it's up to you. If you want to go with these shirts. Yeah, look, look, I don't expect anything if you, if they do that approach, I'll generally have it on wear it and take a photo. I do it. Yeah, but as soon as they say, can you do this? Oh, I see right back when I get this, when they say, can you wear it for me? I'm going to say, look, I'm busy right now, but you know, what if you send one to Michael Jordan, he might, he might do it for you. That's like, don't try someone like that. Yeah. Which I understand if you're starting, but still come on, don't just, well, I gave you a free T-shirt. It cost me $5, come on. Everyone wants something for nothing, you know that. But like I said, there's even like we don't do one stuff in one line. So, like give me a shout out, I just ignore it. But if someone says, hello, you know, I see the name I'm like, hi, my hide is, but as soon as you are, it's like, no. That's something I don't blame you. Now, Iris Kyle is coming back officially, you know, she'll be doing this on the screen. That's, that's Kai, that's right. That's right. That's right. Don't try trick. I'm going to say I wrote a morning. I asked, I've been talking about a lot about this on the TV shows. Do you think that they should keep women's physique and bodybuilding separately? If you think they should combine it. I think they should combine it because women's physique, to me is what, almost like classic, if we go back, classic, what bodybuilding used to be a long time ago before they all got the big stomachs and that. And women's physique is pretty much how it used to be before they went into a really big type, you know, bodybuilders. Because remember when I was with Kathy back then I've mentioned that before when the women were getting too big, the judges actually said to them, he's musselose 20% of your muscle. And a lot of the girls did, they conformed to what the judges wanted, but come data show guess what? They gave it to the big girls. So they're like, you've asked us to lose this extra muscle. So we look more feminine again, but now you still reward in the big people. So, you know, again, it came to the judges data ones that ruined women's bodybuilding and ruined the men's bodybuilding. They just didn't stick to the guidelines. Remember, even the men they said if you stomach sticks out, you're going to be deducted. Now, we've got deducted. No. I put it in force. It was what happens. They enforce it like one or two times and then they just say just forget about it. Or they force it on one person and that person. That's right. Or it's like, is barely stuck out a little bit, but yours was just a little bit more, okay. I didn't know that it was a fucking weird to measure. But yeah, I think they should combine it because, you know, women's physique and women's body is borderline because, like I said, Dave, the women's body physique is how body women's bodybuilding should be. But if it's here, if it went back to what, if it went back to the earlier days and you're laying the time, you're not with Dave because he could. They were the easily because they gave it to you. Yeah. Yeah. They all would have been. It wasn't till like maybe Kim and then started getting like really big and big and bigger. I was never before. I was around the physique range. So, I think it'll be good as long as, like I said, I give respect to anyone that gets up there and trens or our soft and stuff. And then who will we because it's like, man, if you're trening, you want to get big, you want to get big. So I get to the same with the women when they see their body growing, you know, you can't get to a point and go, when I'm satisfied with that, I'm just going to stop here. Of course you want to get as good as you can. Sure, we know some probably go a little bit too far with not their trening, but maybe a supplement side of things. Yeah. You know, when that's someone comes up behind the goes, I think it's Bob and I turn around and I turn around and it's, you know, it's Sherry. You know, just oh, Jesus Christ, you know, it's like a... When you... When you... When you went to Iris Kyle or... She knew Grant. Yeah, I know we got him as part. Well, back in the day, you know, you had separate toilets, but that is the Junior Six toilets. Time to be surprised if a lady staying in the beside you, you're an aiding at the ear and all. Kai does come back to you, live the end of the women's vision. I should have not just skirmit in against me. Would you support male men crossing over into the women's vision and vice versa? Just make a new division. You can't, how many divisions can you have? Why can't the men call? People can't swim in. And why can't they work in the next 10 minutes? How many can we have? Why can't we stop there? Just say, go on. You need pretty soon. It's going to be a week long. Every show is going to be a week long. Because I'm going to be any like... This is what you've been to. What do you... What do you... What do you associate as today's division? Yeah, exactly. Or we're just called at the confused division. Exactly. Now, I think I don't know. Her shapes are really good, you know, which is stains. She reminds me of what you're standing for on on and stuff. She reminds me of the old... You know, because Linda Murray used to say, because Linda Murray, you're for sure, is massive. And in person, she was so small. Now, she's a small girl, yeah. But on stage, just with adults and the way she's tiny waste, the illusion was like, and I think that Shanik's the same as that. You know, when you look at her, just standing there, everything flows so well, so... Who wins? Who wins? Yeah. Look at her. Would you like to see him compete, Valagansi, tell that? I think it would be great. Me personally, as much as I like, ours and what she's done, I think I would go for Shanik's type body and the balance and stuff over ours. Yeah, well, we'll see. But ours can... Our skin dishening's always good. So the show's Shanik's. Yeah. I think we would be a great battle between the two of them. I think people with the fans would love to see it, maybe the less. Maybe the less. Maybe the less. And they would be like, we said, if you're very kind, the mix. Wow. I think those in the mix can be the main division. Where is division? What is that thing about? Climb's a price, he hasn't just started teasing again. There feels coming back. Well, I think it would be a great move on his part to come back and try to win that title. You know, away from Branden Curry, while battling Phil Heath on stage, come on then, that would be a classic classic footage we've got. You know, there would be a fight on stage. Is there still any confirmation of it? Because you know, we've got the list out and it says, We found out Ken Romney and all of these, or whoever. Well, someone told me that Randy may be other come here, because Kuwait is not banned from flying. Only the European countries. So Bonnec would be banned then, would he? Yeah, it would be hard from the other thing. Even now. Let's see, came early. I don't know. Can he go to Kuwait for a couple of weeks and then come to Kuwait? It's a good question. Ken, there's always loopholes way. Can he incubate in Kuwait and then come? Or maybe be better could fly him on a private jet or something like that. No, I don't know. Psycho trening, Mexico to wait. Yes. Nice get us some tin and then put him up. You know, a week before the Olympia either jumped the wall or find the tunnel. Yeah, there you go. Put it up. Put it up. Put it backpacks on your back. Come and become a drug meal and just come across. Get out of the get over in the States. Have a baby and tonight. Yeah. Yeah. And I had to very see the note. No pun intended of course. So we're going to wrap this thing up on day polumbar with Lee priest. Let us know your opinion. Would you like to see Iris and Sheneet compete in that same division up on stage and call the winner. Miss Olympia. Let us know in the comments below. I'm day polumbar for Lee priest. We'll see you next week. Thank you.

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST'S TOUGHEST MR. OLYMPIA？ Iron Rage [8ovql6cyllo].txt ===

Welcome back to Iron Rage, the show where John Romano, Lee Precenae, event of frustrations with the world. John is off today. God damn, how's the air he ever real job, Lee? Huh? No, it's near a sun hood off. I guess he's sort of somebody in the body building fraternity, having a real job. It's fucking like it beyond the joke. Especially from John Romano, who never had a real job. Oh, it's crazy. It's like the Virgin Mary having a baby without sex. I can't. I can't. I only beat on thirty seconds. I'll just upset the Christians. Huh, you know. Now, Lee, you just had another treatment on your tattoo on your face. How does that feel? You were feeling a little sore today? That look, it's good, isn't it? Look at that eye. You look like Rocky, you got pounding in the face a little bit. Yeah. Now, I'm convinced that you're taking this tattoo off because you've actually run out of space on your body to tattoo and you need more a new canvas, is that true? Well, I've actually got rid of this. Been 13 years on board. I was like, you can do cover up here. Like I said, I thought it was a do like Darth Vader. Like you mentioned the term in A to the. But once it goes, there'll be a little bit less there and a little bit less there. So maybe I'll make something smaller. Maybe like a fucking blown range of masks. I like that. You know what, it's me. You might recognize me because now I'm recognized as the lone range of when he's got that mask on. People like fuck where it's lead. But it's lead. Oh, there is no, no, no, no. Yeah, it's fake myself in the eye. Here's a question for you. Will you a little bit lower lone range of your fan? Did you watch all the shows? Yes. What is, what is chemisabIMe? Chemisabi isn't like friends or something. Something like that. I don't know. I thought you'd know. I thought I'd probably probably mean fucking white man took out a link. You can't, that's probably what it means. What did you, did you find I considered? That's racist that show, is it? I heard it was racist, you know. You can't play cowboys in the end of school anymore because, you know, whatever. Everything's politically incorrect. Now, did you see the new lone range of movie that came out a couple years ago with Johnny Depp? Is this time, though? Yeah, and what's his name? I think a few of them and whatever. Yeah, did you like it? Did you think it was good? Well, I wasn't bad. You had a bit of slapstick comedy in it. Johnny Depp sort of had the funny party. That wasn't bad. Yeah. You know. That was pretty good. Yeah. Let's get to today's topic. Today's topic is, who was the toughest Mr. Olympia to be? Okay, that's different than who do we think is the greatest Mr. Olympia. Because I think the greatest Mr. Olympia of all time was Ronnie Coleman. But I wonder who was the toughest to be? And we're going to go back from from Lee Haney to Dorian Yates to Ronnie Coleman to Phil Heath. Now Phil seems like he's the most difficult to me. But who do you think you've competed against the A to and Coleman? Who in your mind was the toughest guy to beat and why? I think Lee Haney probably is six, five, seven times Mr. Olympia. Yeah, so it's like, you know, it's hard to say because we're seeing a few shows where I think Lee Haney probably maybe one show he maybe didn't look like he should have won it. But nearly every other show Haney does no doubt he should have won. I think the one way, didn't they drug test that won the year in Chicago? Yeah, he didn't look at it. It is best. But when he came back for his final show in Florida, he just blew it one away when that stage turned around and he was standing there. So he was a clear winner. So then he had V8, so he just is sheer mass and definition and he's drawing as he was always hard to beat. But then when that last year come up when he tore his bars, if any was a bit bloatling, the stomach and that's there in 1997. And look like he should have got V8. So he's always hard to beat, where he would be because you got that aura of being Mr. Olympia. You're going to come in so much bed, let them the really blow the chair away, which has happened before. But like you said, it's hard to do some time. You know, dexter's coming in and one again and you know, J coming and took it off for already so it can be done. So you know, the ones that probably haven't been beat would be the hardest. So you got Yates and you got Colman dig at beat that one year with Fing and then J was a great mission. But J, he did you get beat by Phil. So a couple of him have been beat. So to say the hardest to beat would probably be Yates and Hayne because they never did get beat. Right. Right. When Hayne was competing, he was so much bigger than everyone else. And the funny thing was he wasn't even really that big with today's comparisons. You know, but I think they like to 35 or something. Yeah. He looked gigantic compared to everyone else back in the day though. They were all like middle way to like heavyweight competing against him. There were no real big freaky guys until Yates came along. And a lot of people thought Yates was going to win that that 19, what was it, 91 Olympia. And Hayne came unbelievable, which I'm sure he knew Yates was going to be there. You know, I think Yates that you just looked a little bit, you know, looked a little flat. Like he was really drawn into face like he was never kidding before. But then what about the trensformation from that year to the following year when you come back. Yeah. Yeah. Like, remember, those black and white pictures that Chris Lugge, from before, that it ended Jim with the socks on, it's like, the difference is like, now one was going to beat him. And there he had a feel to it's like, you know, there's played that one when Kai was there. You know, people thought it could have gotten either way with Kai and Phil, but it's like, you know, it's like we've said, unless you can come in so spectacular, you've got to really have, it's got to be like, clear cup when you walk out on stage. You can't, I'm an R. I'm just going to be solid, Mr. Olympia. It has to be, oh, he's got a beating because if you just got maybe, maybe he can maybe kind of close and I'm going to happen so, Jim, he always goes to the champ. My belief is that it was Yates was the hardest to beat. And I'll tell you why. Because when he was competing in the night, you had Flex Wheeler, you had NASA, you had Cormear, you had Sean Ray, you had Lee Priest, you had NASA. NASA, NASA, NASA, NASA, NASA, NASA, NASA, NASA, thank you. Yes, yes. No, but I'm saying, you guys were all so good. And, you know, every year people were saying, I live Roni, everyone's saying, that's Yates is never going to win again. And this guy was so mentally tough. He was just blocked everything out and he would come in, like, peeled beyond imagination and he would beat these guys. Guys that genetically probably should have beat him. That's why he was so, he was, he was, and if you ask Yates himself, he said no one can tren harder or prepare more for a show than I could. So, I knew that there's no way these guys weren't a beat me. And even Flex Wheeler admitted to saying that he goes, I, I saw Yates is undetable in my mind. So, how do you beat a guy with who, who you, you believe you can't beat, even though you have better tools than he does? That to me is the most difficult guy to beat. The guy who never, ever, ever, you know, comes and off. And the thing is, too, it's like, all I showed is, with Yates, it wasn't like anyone, you know, deserve the real life in that top six or even the top ten because, you know, not taking enough in away from today's guys, but today you might have maybe the top five or even great condition. And you have a lot of people a little bit off a little bit smooth, but back then, it was like, from the top six, even the top eight. Everyone was at their best. It wasn't anyone that looked like he's a bit off. He's not going to do it. Everyone, like I said, came in trying to beat the champ. It wasn't like I said, some days, they might have just the top four in the best condition. And the others are his little bit smooth here, a bit smooth there. But everyone coming to ask them, they're the best condition that try to beat Yates. IMean, they got there was a normal classic back then because at least that was a show where people were like, all right, let's see, it was going to win this year because it's not a foregone conclusion, but the Olympia, those couple years that Yates was just, you know, it was untouchable. And even when he got injured, he was unbeatable because he still would find a way to come in at his absolute best and beat these guys, both physically and mentally. And IMean, that's just to me, that's a guy who's just unbeatable. You know, really COVID-19. A lot of shows because he was just so big and great, but I don't necessarily think that Ronnie was a great poser. I think that Ronnie, you know, made a lot of mistakes, but he despite the mistakes he won because he was so big. But Yates just did leave any detail unturned. Well, I think the good thing of Yates was, too, because he lived overseas. Nobody would see him. Get everybody in America. If on you see it's gold, Jim or Jim somewhere else, but he stayed overseas. When they even see a picture of it, or if your duty was covered up in his jumper and pants, that he's trimming the dungeon. And then maybe we want to week or so or two, we come out and go to bed and, you know, Jim up there and once he's there, they might take a photo and put on line. He's during getting ready and he'll just be still covered up with a big jumper on. So you can never see what he looked like to the day to show. So I think that's fucked with a lot of people's minds too, because it's like, well, how's he really looking, but back then, you knew he was in shape, because back then he's face would be an extra one in and another. He's doing a face. So you're like, change your sort of cheek range like, oh well, we're going to be fucked again, I guess. Now, Phil, he's very difficult to be, too, which is, which is weird, because you see us physique, and you're like, well, here's a guy who's not the biggest guy on stage. He's usually one of the hardest, yeah, I'll give him that. But he's not the widest. He doesn't have the craziest structure. And you're like, but get the guy camping beaten. He's going for eight wins this year. He'll probably get eight, maybe he'll go for nine and ten. You know, it's hard to say, but here's a guy who knows how to win shows. But there's no real specific reason why he's winning the shows, but he just shows up better than everyone else. So that makes the tough guy, too, to be. When you have to evaluate who's the toughest to be, Phil's got to be right up there. But I think you feel his, too, like he said, well, if he's seen Phil look better, and then people say, well, maybe last year, he's been, you know, you're going to be good enough feeling the other people to win it. And they've said things like, when Kai was there and there's a few people there, like, road and all these people there, I feel you guys here with great physics, who if they came in at their best could really push feel and maybe go for the win. But to me, it just seems like, I don't know, some of these guys, but I try to play the size, and come in two big, and then when they come in two big, the sacrificing that condition, and then when you stand beside Phil, if he's in condition, you're going to look a bit off. So, you know, there are some guys there, I think, could really push feel and go for the win, if they came in there best, you know, to me, Mr. Consistency Dexter Jackson, you can never count him out, but then it's where, you know, he has got the size feel, has but to me, he's always looked so consistent and looks, comes in great condition, and a little bit of muscle he makes is, you know, a big change on his frame. So, you know, you can never count somebody like Dexter, and that, like I always said, if Kai could have come in with that conditioning and that the door in the eights, he would have been right up there, though, easily take a win. Well, you know what the funny thing is, Phil might be the blockiest, Mr. Olympia, of all time, because he just is always at the right place to the right time, and has just enough to beat these guys. He's lucky Kai comes in off at the Olympia every single time he was doing it. This one isn't at his best on the year that Phil was, there was a couple of years Phil was off a little bit, but the guys just, they just couldn't step up to the plate and take it away from him. And I really, I don't think there was anyone here that he really didn't squeak by these guys, pulled off at the night show, whatever. So, he might, I don't know if he's the most difficult to beat, I think he's the luckiest guy in the sense that he just never shows up when he's at his most vulnerable. You know? Well, like, it feels a great mystery Olympia, but when he walks out on stage, like when he's to come out next to Kai, and that you'd be like, okay, we've away here and here, but like you said, with Yates when he walked out on stage, you're like, yep, he's won, okay, let's just walk on that next people and see if he's going to get second-third of all because, sometimes it's like, it's like, if we've had him when he walked down, still there in that relaxed podium, like, yep, like, a Hades won. You know, there's no question about it, same with Yates, but we've felt, sometimes you think, okay, well, maybe this guy's going to push him or, you know, this and that, but yeah, but now we're seeing all the pictures coming out as we normally do of people in the gym, still in their poses before the Mr. Olympia, looking great under the lighting stand, the bite themselves, and it's like I said, that all looks fine and dandy, but you know, you still got what seven, eight weeks, what is it to the Mr. Olympia? I was like, you can look great now, but only counts on that one day and sadly we've seen so many people. You remember some of the shots you'd see of Dennis James back in the day at his gym when he was in Thailand, you're like, this guy's going to be top-free for sure, then they walk out on stage like that. What happened? It's like, so we've seen all these pictures coming out of the ground, coming out now, the guy looks speaking that, but, you know, to me, it's like that when you had to act on all breks and markers for us and that massive guys who've massive amounts of muscle, but then when they stand on stage with someone who just says those nice lines and that, they just doesn't flow and, you know, never got all these much bigger, you should have one, but you know, it's just not all about size and sadly, like, you know, Ramy's got that size and even now he needs that conditioning, he hates having any might be out with a push, push feel a bit, but you know, sadly, that don't seem to have that anymore that conditioning's. So to be unbeatable, Leigh, do you have to have that mindset that just will never give up will never give an inch will never show up unless the investor will never, ever, you know, relent because by his own admission, Dory and said he did nothing but think about body building, do body building and focus on body building and he no one could have outworked him. And I believe when he says that because, you know, he lived the light, he lived like a monk. I don't think a lot of these guys are willing to make those sacrifices. Yeah, that's the way he got a baby, you got a tren on that. You know, I think back in the day two, I said, darn, this, I don't know, I don't know, we've seen people at these people, but one day she gets there a few people just could go on and walk after that trough out there and go, you've done eight walks with that there, that's something you've done with them and they've built a sharing pool to find them but they were like, I think, they got a long day there, they gave me thatINE me and nothing like that. After that, I've passed over the calendar in and that a firehouse just like a nice day out walking in the sun having a laugh. So, you know, you can't have that mindset when you're in the gym, but you know, he was pretty much full on and, you know, I had that mindset day, but I just to get beat a lot. I don't think during the 8th Kentucky Freight Chicken in the Opsies, and they really doubt that week. Right? How do I know that you ain't stuck pretty heavy in the Opsies? Yeah, it's not really cool. There's eaten something. Not for me, not for me, Kentucky Freight Chicken. What was your biggest Kentucky Freight Chicken purchase back in the day? I just buy the bucket at the bucket. I think it's like 21 pieces. Oh my, guys, 21 pieces, one thing? Yes to sit in Max muscle and eat it there, and then just to be when my friends got used to work, they were at this wall in Max muscle. If you ever saw this, they'd be like to Kentucky chicken bucket on the wall by sign that beats a box outside there. Turas would come in and ask, but they buy these, whatever I ain't jump food wise with the sign of, they're not box side of, put it on the wall. Max muscle, so. You missed those days. Leave, don't you remember when Venice Gold was like back in the day? Venice Beach was like, they had just strips of one street or two streets where they all they had was stores. Lining, Main Street there, with all the clothing stores and supplements. We had like, what body alive? Yeah, George's LA over. Jelly, fitness is still there. George, that's a me's cousin runs that because some of you still have LA urban cowboy next door, but now just a big store, he's still there. You had hot skins there, you had body alive somewhere there. Just stand from the firehouse and then you'll know that you've been hit the fire. How should you go across need to cook a room on the corner? Good room, right? So yeah, they were good old days and there's a lot of air on the floor. That's when Gary's striding lift across the road above, cook a room, but he drives his car from there to the fire. I asked him to do one of the walk. Did he really do that? He really drove him to that? Yeah, it drove. He was literally, he was a craftsman street, really across the street. Yeah, okay. That's top in the Gary not long ago on Facebook and that, so he's doing pretty good. Yeah, he's thought it's right, too. Did you ever go to a van goes ear in the middle of the night? Yeah, none of the middle of the night, just after trening some days, but wasn't really fast enough. That was more like the, you could type vegan type, sort of place that they're like, there's the firehouse which was healthy, but then van goes ear seen more like the healthy place for the artsy, artsy types. So they were up in 24 hours, that was not way a lot of people went there. I think so yeah, then I actually had these eggs in that one day with some egg. And on it, I actually thought they served me fucking van goes ear by the look of it. I didn't look too tasty to think they gave me, but yeah, my friend Kurt Miller and I always go it wasn't bad, but then we used to go to Aunt Kisses kitchen there over at Marina Del Rey, just near Van Supermarket. Right. They had a cookie over there as well. And then you probably do remember Arnold's building there on Main Street, where Charles Restaurant was there. They used to be sparkies, you know, get there, do you ever go in there? Yeah, that's right. So I see on Main was right? Yeah, then I've just had the front there, the little Asian guy used to run it. Yeah, Arnold had chaxes. Was it a Hungarian food or Austrian food or something? Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's pretty good. Yeah, but the frozen yogurt place was the hang out there. So that's when all that low fat sugar free yogurt. Yeah, everyone thought it was really healthy. It was all, yeah. Thank you, shit, you're playing it. It's basically eating it. Eat it by the tub for, yeah, we go and healthy here. And I would have a good time back then. And actually I just saw a picture on Instagram, um, Jim that does what a card detail. And he was detailing cows when I was a, he just put up a picture of any jewelry iron, he trened for him in the morning at Gold's Jim there. Oh wow. I got him. Show what time you got his great. What a great personality. This the thing is funny when you go into Gold sometimes and you still, oh shit, I just grabbed that, but hopefully I'm gonna get to go in when I get to go in here. But let's go to see some time you see some of the same people that are there still. Oh, I'm sure that's what he is later. Yeah. What about you ever go to Johnny's coffee roster? I was at Lincoln on the Washington. I'm watchinGHim. I'm watchinGHim. IMore of towards Brandon Del Ray area. Yeah, I love that place. And I like, um, we're on the right. But see if it, Brandon, but see if it goes always a good one. That's a bad cafe, right? And there. Yeah. Yeah, that was a good one. That's where Gary would always have breakfast in every one of his breakfast there. Mickey rope was always there. But yeah, that was like the pancakes there. I think everybody went full. So yeah. People don't really think they would have what's called the bodybuilder breakfast. It would be like, oh, like pancakes and eggs and oatmeal and and chicken breasts. It would be like, there would be like so much food and it would be like eight bucks. It was like so cheap. Maybe even less than that. Like an even if you built like that and skinny, if you like that, you were a fucking bodybuilder. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But the funny thing was there was probably that 12 spots to sit in this Venice cafe was so small and it was it was like a who's who of bodybuilders, pro bodybuilders. It was unbelievable how many pro bodybuilders would be in there at one time. I couldn't believe it when I came and visited the first time. I thought I was in like Disney land, you know. And you then have all the German tourists because out of the way state the hotel and come down there and I got there. Yeah, you're right. Guys, guys, guys that are trying to become bodybuilders from Germany or stuff or you get the German tourists that would come over and bring their special supplements for the bodybuilders would stay there down there in the cafe with their little briefcases. When there was in that. Is that what they would do? I didn't know that. Yeah. Oh, you know that. I can't wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. We don't leave. We knew you used my drugs and you told us. Never know. It was like I said that was the good times but again, especially like I said that cafe was always always packed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. You want to still have the firehouse now, but you see pictures that. But I said could you imagine back then, we didn't have the social media over like the cameras now. Imagine some of the photos that would have been popping up back then. Oh, I want to blow it around because at the time you saw it like the pros and golds, Jim was if Jerry Fritchrick's Adi Zeller or someone with a camera took photos. Imagine if you had cell phones back in the 90s. Someone would have had that. Oh my god. So I was like, I was the case. I don't think that the goal is managed would have, I think it would have remained what it is what it was then today because I think people would have wanted to continue being in that environment there and I think people would have stayed. But you know, again, maybe not because you know, once the magazine's kind of folded, it didn't end social media became some of you can do in your house. You didn't have to be in Venice anymore to be seen. You know? No, I was like, did you have to have a normal camera? That was the back in the day you take a photo in the gym and I have to go down the Von Suu. I didn't feel too so I want prints to come out. You know, I've got a great picture of me and Dory and when you get it back, there's me and Dory and Olivia's fucking finger across it like that. Well, I think he said. You know, there's no taking other pictures. Like everyone does some of those exposures and took photographs and the picture was blurry or you think just covering the lens and you should out a lot to make sure. And it was so exciting to take a picture back there because you never knew what you got. It was like, go to the, you know, get it developed yet a weight like a week and then you were so excited to get the pictures back, you know. I'm not saying people now it's funny because back then because you only see the guys in the magazine so if you're lucky enough to tren the jeans, like I said, people go those exposures or even seminars and wake for every get a phone on that. And I've seen people now these new age, whatever they call type of people, they're into the fitness. I've been legs pose now where you'll have someone like a flex or a Dory and like a fee bound that and these young kids come by the ones that are just into the fitness he type with their string of tank tops on. I've seen them walk. There'd been a group of four or five of their walk I saw like Dory and someone said, do you want to get a picture there like and like what the fuck is like the openings of change? It's like if you're in a song back then you're like, oh yeah it's just staying there and I'll see back in the day that you'd stand there just watching sign photograss for a fuckinGHalf an hour. Oh yeah, it's a little watching a sign, it's like, wow it's like watching these red beasts that you haven't seen be like bringing dinosaurs back in Jurassic Park you're just staying there in an an amazement out of it now. Well you said these junkies walk passing out. Yeah, leaving to me I was at a thing and I had a big line up some guys get like obviously a priest never's got you know you too it because we're too accessible now online it's not a big deal anymore like when I would go see someone guess pose at a local like New Jersey or New York show it was a huge event because how often did you get up close because when people would compete and chose you really didn't get close to them but at these guest pose they would do you be able to interact with them and talk to them at their booth it was like a huge big thing nowadays you can just freaking text them or you can you can Facebook or Instagram them and get an instantaneous response who cares when you see them in person it's even people don't think about it today people don't even care about person the person interaction that he more matter fact most people don't even want to talk to anyone anymore they only want to text. That's the thing but buddy I've got that to sort of appreciate even though you know it's not Martin Lv's biggest sport in baseball and basketball and stuff but you can still get up close to bodybuilders at the Mr. Olympia exposed and at the Arnold Expos and stuff I said try go on to some of these baseball events or basketball events and try get up close to LeBron drains for a photo and stuff like that and I'm not going to get close to them but now get where is it accessible and you give the fans that and some just let whatever what's your time thing and back in the day two that walk up and they'll be like shaken some still do shake and shake your hand but some are scraped and meet you and they talk really nice now it's like oh they have been a fan of yours then they what do you think I should take what drugs and shy they can think of. I'm like what the fuck you know Lee it goes back to thEQuestion I said in the beginning of the show who was the toughest Mr. Olympia to be well back in the day it was the guy you didn't see at all because you didn't know what was coming at you nowadays that guy makes zero money if he's not on social media he makes nothing because no one cares about him and relevance today seems to be the guy who is the most popular on Facebook YouTube Instagram who really is a brave new world in bodybuilder. And then I said like I said there you go that he exposed and like yeah it's the popular ones on Instagram and YouTube the ones that have ever even competed or I've never heard of you know they look like a fucking dog walker and they're fucking got the biggest line up out there so it's crazy. Yeah the bodybuilding world has certainly changed but look guys if you enjoy all this region and talk and topics of debate we do here on the show put in the comments below topics that you'd like us to rage about in the future I have a lot of guys who sometimes give me great ideas because Lee wants good topics we want to be able to bitch complain he doesn't like these topics we'll read a great too much so put him in the topic in the comments below and maybe John Ramad will even rejoin the show and take a few minutes off of his very busy job Lee what's the next tattoo you're getting? That's what I'm having in cup of tea. I like that coffee cup very very artistic. Oh super mean with my camera there is. You going too fast and getting blurs you still have you something in rings on huh? I thought you had given up on Superman for a while now you're back to Superman again? No that is just probably I think from the same you know fame still like given me superman stuff. But you got the Superman rings on too though again. No got rid of him. I've only got this rings. Look at that engagement rings. Oh ring ring from the industry. Are you a game? Oh you know that and then this one the night's 10 plus. Wow. I like it. Are you going out? It's pretty early IMean did you wear those rings all the time? Yeah I never take a walk of a thing as a fat look to have to get off of it. You probably can't even get him off those fingers here. Right five five five five seven This one can come off well I know about that one. I'm not coming off. Can you see that one? Yeah that's not coming off. But yes the show I stood asking the things that they want me to do you got to come up with something up the camera? Well yeah I know you're just starting your day. Have a good workout at the gym if you're going to be there and we'll talk to you next week. So in the final in the final word who's your toughest Mr. Olympia to beat? So V8's like you said like I said I knew it was good not but like I said with the Hates you know so where me always can you look and great. But I put it down the H and I need because now I never beat them really. Yeah and then again you if we went back big further we got Arnold who was tough to beat because the one the 1980 when he didn't look there. It's pretty. It's always good it's always going you politically have a lot of cloud too because you're in the movies you know. I never had that I never had a little cloud. You weren't a movie now right these are like criminal recently in a movie? Yeah but still they give me cloud computing I hate like you know political cloud or what kind of studies I've been looking all over the agencies one for this that prickly Chris fucking shit like that I'm talking shit magazines. Well yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah life and time so we'll have to do a biography on you one of these days. All right that's it guys if you have any like I said topics put them on the in the in the comments below make sure you hit subscribe turn on you know notifications. I'm Dave Palumba with Lee Priest for another episode of Iron Rage.

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST'S WAY TOO EARLY OLYMPIA TOP-5! [njAprYwEN8w].txt ===

After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. The rush begins once pre-workout vape. I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Spices Nutrition. I created Spices Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensoplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Spices Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Spices Nutrition products. If you want to be in your apps, you'll best join the evolution. Welcome back to Iron Rage. I'm Dave Polumbau and I'm joined as always by Lee Priest and the Tampa Pro went off lease. So I guess we are having some pro shows this year. Yes, it did. Yes, I'm like prediction come true. I'm like a pro. I told the bro. Did you? What did you say? Well, now the pressure is on him. Yeah, in the Olympia. Well, you know, evidently flex real time the same thing. He said he couldn't win the Olympia. So I saw even on Nick's strength. I think Dennis James even mentioned that in Nick's like, I didn't even think it at that's very thing. I think I come on. I said that's James. I was ahead of my time. Yeah. I think I think Nick's watching our show because then Nick put up about E and sayinGHow he didn't look happy and look tired and stuff. Exactly what I said. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, he looked like he was good. Yeah. Evidently from what because I interviewed, I interviewed, puntal, a broader. And Hunter told me that he talked to Ian came to his room after they were going to be together. Evidently Ian couldn't his wife couldn't come with him or his trener couldn't come with him because his wife has to work. And she couldn't afford to, you know, quarantine for two weeks after. So IMade it with all the press from that and plus he's. And again, that can issue up if you'll have, if you'll have that support 24 seven leading up to a contest. If I remember a lot of pro shows you guys, if you'd have your trening partner or see your wife or someone that's weekly 24 seven, get ready for a show. And then you'd get to a pro show and they say, you can't have anyone backstage. And yet, get these random people you don't know to help put TN on put or online and pump you up. And you know, when you backstage, that's when you want someone to calm you down, just talk to you, keep your relax. Yeah. If no one's there because I remember you couldn't have anyone backstage at some pro shows, but you'd get these fucking doofers. People working backstage, bringing in all the fucking friends back. Luke, you have a photo of him, can you have a photo of him? I'm like, what? So can't bring my fucking wife back. And every time this fuckinGHarry backstage of a photo with me, I see it's so fucking pissed off. It's like just one person, just let somebody have their own person back there. Right, right. But I will say one thing, the people who always worked backstage were always super helpful, like they just, they just, I think they like being back there. So they were always like, they did. You know, we're not going to mention names, though, but somewhere more than helpful ways. Yeah. They saw that a full lot of people back in their room to help them with their teen way. And they said, you've got some really good glute oiling back in your day. And from Steve, yeah, I'm talking, I'm talking about the female oilers back there. Ah, nice nice, a little, a half the end. Yeah, some of those female oilers would come backstage and they're looking like a minstrel with all these friends stuff around their mouth. I sort of realized the point you found, Dation. Yeah, you know, it was really funny. Have you ever seen like a competitor like a girl on stage, like the two days before the show they look great. And then on stage their tans like all messed up, it's like rubbed off. And you know what she was doing that I have to do. Not that tans, right? That's for sure. In different areas, yeah. Then you might see an oiler backstage or a judge that has some smudges on them. They weren't competing. Exactly. He's got on his hands and just on the front of his thighs. What happened there? Oh, I've got that on what's that disease Michael Jackson. I'm telling you, my skin changes colors in certain areas. That's right. Well, one of the things before we go on there is some very breaking news. I've not thought about it. It's not about laughing on and stuff like that, but I've just come on that I've computed it here. And just be with me from home because it's hard to read. Yeah. Breed, believe, breathe. It's hard to get out. Court, Nick, our dash in. Yeah. I don't know how you can do it. We've got a K. Yeah. She's not OK right now. After her son, Rain, had his lonGHair shaved off. So it was that upsetting day, black me. I'm here to go. You left me. You left me Davos at upsetting. I'll hold your hand. I won't leave. You left because it was at upsetting. Yeah. Yeah. I never got the tissues. Yeah. Can you believe it? She's not OK after his lonGHair was shaved off. Oh. Now in a world of COVID and bombing going off and people murdered, this is terrible news today. You have to go to psychiatry. I'm going to go to bed. Good day. Can probably go with Conny. Yeah. Yeah. They can get like a family's back and feel. You know, actually I saw, um, speaking of, um, that whole weed family. What's the name Caitlin was on TV the other day? Oh, she's so round her. Yes. Bruce Caitlin, whoever. Yeah, but she was on there and she looked in like you had more work done. Looking a little bit prettier if that's possible. But she was on their sayinGHow much she loves Conny. I in this and this and that and how he always supported her. So she's sort of going to support him. Yeah, I'll just be houses. You can just see it now. He's that fucking mental next thing. She, he's going to leave Kim and end up with fucking Caitlin. There you go. That's what a story that I don't mean. They can have their own reality show. That's probably what it would be. And then we're like, Conny and I want to have a baby. Yeah. Who would carry the baby? That's for sure. We want to be the baby. And they would say they probably pay for his generous, the mother to carry the baby, right? And she probably would because she's a nice case too. Well, this would be more content for the TV show probably. We want to make some little treny for she's for the baby. So Bruce would be the mother technically. And then you would be the father. But Chris would be the arrogant mother, right? Yeah. She'd be very complicated. So what would the kid call Chris like? And or mom? I don't know. And I think the kid would just call her a mess like everybody else. But look, as funny as that is, it's not that far fetched when it comes to that pain. Oh, no, no, no. That probably do it for another couple of hundred million fucking episodes. Absolutely. You'd probably do it too for a couple hundred million bucks. I'd shut up. He'd shut up there. He's embryo in this. I'm not my ass. I could develop it. For a couple hundred million. I'll see if we can grow in. That's right. That's right. That's right. In fact, it a topic that we're talking about. I don't remember where we were going to talk about it. Anyway, Tampa Bay plays this past week. LeBrona won as we know. But what we found was that all the international guys that wanted to compete weren't able to come in and do the job because there was quarantines and all kinds of crazy stuff. Now, the reality of the situation is that we have the Olympia at the end of the year coming up, obviously. And this probably more than half of people who arEQualified for the Olympia are international guys, like really winkler and William Bonack and big rammy who actually bigger than I call. They ain't coming. Alright. Well, given the fact that they may not be up now, if I said earlier on my ass day to evening show that if I was those guys, I'd be moving to the US now establishing myself here so that when the Olympia comes around, I'm not like scrambling at the last minute trying to get a visa. I can get over here now, just stay here until being went there. But whatever the case may be, whatever the strategy may be, I want to know, we pre-stop five pick for the 2020 Olympia. Imagine the odds makers and vagas. It's almost impossible to handicap this show because you don't know who's going to show up. First of all, you don't know if like, Kai or Phil may take a special invite. We'll road and be in jail or not from the rape charge. It's such a difficult show to figure out. The only people we know who are in the show for sure, assuming they don't get injured, is branding curry, hunt a labrata and flex lower. Yeah. Who do you think is going to be top five? If you had a million bucks online, who would you bet on? What's your top five pick? Ooh, I think, well, go by the, if Brandon, labrata and flex Lewis, you know, because I like flex lower's body type. If they're all in the best shape, I'd probably put flex first. Interesting, okay. And then we've Brandon and labrata. Maybe Brandon, because he has that still probably a bit more mature muscle than labrata. But he and they labrata won the Tampa. I still don't think we've seen him at his best, like, you know, coming in dry as they can. I think he can come in condition more. So even seeing labrata hunter with a bit more conditioning, because we're on the what conditioning can do as far as illusions go on stage. So he could. Yeah, it's hard to say, but then sure, like, is it wasn't that think we're sure on any way of that right case being? I don't know. That's good. That's anyone's yes. No one's talking, no one's saying a word. Obviously if he beats the case, he'll be, that'll be a big story. You know, he'll, him on that. I'll let you say it. What if he doesn't, doesn't it piss you off, though? It's like, look at the money he's missed out on over the last not doing last year's Olympia because he could probably could have won it. Right. Or because of an accusation, and to me, it's like, you know, when when the come forward and start these accusations, it whether it's like someone like Sean or it's a movie star or someone famous, their name straight away boom in the media and everyone just over lose their job. They get stepped down. They get this. They get that. And it's just an accusation, but yet nothinGHappens to her, but he's lives ruined. He's a hero too later comes out. She lied and he's lost all these money. He's things being ruined. People of, well, we don't want to touch him or go near him because of this accusation that someone made up. Whatever the innocent to prove and guilty, God's sake. First of all, I think your cookies have done in the oven because you're, I hear your timer going on. That's right. That's a watch. I got a few watch this day. I don't know. Secondly, you know, the sand part about the whole road and things. If you get accused of something like that, it's going to affect your ability to make a living and drive. You should be, you should be at least get a speedy trial. You know what IMean? Now, you know what? Initially, they per his side probably delayed a little bit to the repair for the truck. But once COVID comes around now, it's almost like not fair because now he's the guy, how's the guy supposed to make a living, you know? But I didn't even see why. I don't even see why when it does happen, like say, a few more goes to the police or even says, look, I got this thing. I've been right above, I've like, I say, who was it. And they find out who it is. Why is his name released and why don't they just say, okay, this is an accusation. We haven't got proof yet. But they had it, but he was indicted though. So in other words, a grand jury heard the testimony. He felt there was enough evidence that they should be charged. But still he's not found guilty, even though he didn't get it. No, right. Until he's actually found guilty, then he really sees name. But until that point, that's more still. She said he said, tighten it. So it's like, you know, don't put his name out. If he's found guilty, okay, Sean wrote and found guilty of right. But until then, don't release his name. Because how many like we said, people's careers and lives are being ruined. Because their name gets out. Right. For violent crimes like that, they should make the first of the trials should be within three months. I think it should automatically be, look, we got to sell this thing quickly because, you know, it's affecting both sides. Now, if it's rodents sides, the one who postponed everything, then you really can't blame it on. But still it's still a just annoying way to people in the industry. It's sort of who you sure took a step back and went, oh, we don't want to go near him now. It's like, come on now. Where's your fucking loyalty? You know, you know, the type of guy is, and if you don't believe he's a rapist, why fall in for all this shit, you know, wait till he out come. And then if it's found out he is, then go, I can't believe it. I can't believe he did this for until then. He's still the Sean we're on you. So you know, why if this was 10 years ago, would be different, we live in such a weird time when everyone is so afraid to say anything that's politically incorrect, doing anything that's politically incorrect because for fear of backlash, you know, and he, you know what he should have done? And I think he say, he should have just said, you know what I'm being discriminating because of my race. If you were to done that, if you were to go to lawyer's screaming that in the press, they probably would have done a lot of do anything you want to, you know. Right? Just you want to say, hey, you're not letting me compete because I'm black, you know, if I was a white guy to be competing, if he would have gone nuts, and that's not Sean style, because Sean's a like a hot, you know, he's a good guy and he's like very hard. I would have just, I would have just said, look, I never touched him because I'm black and I'm a tren section. Yeah, it's like, it's just a gay. Yeah, it would be like, if you're thrown it out, they just throw everything out there. Yeah, it's a shame that they're taking this long. I hope, look, I hope they settled before. Look, if he's guilty, he should go to jail. If he's not guilty, he should be exonerated and this would be a lot of, I'm sorry, it's coming out of white people's mouth. Well, if he's not, if he's innocent and he's not guilty, then she should go to jail. I fully believe if women accuse men it is, they should get what time the man was going to get because, you know, you're ruined someone's career for a while. It's like this stigma against him. And so it's like, but they just get a slap on the racing out. Okay, you know, that didn't work. Let me try again. Where'd it go here in Australia? Try it with a football player. Same sort of thing, City rate, different than it comes out. She's tried iT3 times before we've other men that's like good thing. And she just goes on to you these smiling at like one of these that wants to be famous on Instagram and That's it. That's one of those. He took it back to the room. They had consensual sex and stuff. And then it was like, ah, we're, you know, it's almost like that. I'm wearing crashes. I'll find you. Yeah, yeah, the crazy. Yeah, yeah, you have the we had six and now we're dating. And that's just the one night scene. Oh, one night scene. Wasn't all show you. Yeah. Well, you know, like I said, the just eventually be served. I don't know when the trial is because I know I thought it was supposed to be in June originally. They probably obviously postponed it again and we'll find out. And like, get on, get on judge duty. She'll fix it up in the comments. Yeah, she'll be like, she'll look at them. She'll like, Sean. Sean. What's that? Look at me. Look at me. Look at me. Right. I am ready. I have ready. I have ready. I know. I can read my, I read minds. What's her friends name? The one that's the bailiff there. Oh, yeah. I don't watch it. I don't watch it that often. What are you saying? Did you see the amount of money she got paid for that show? Oh, my gosh. She's like, oh, you know how long that show's been running. That's like one of the most like popular long running shows around. And now it's changing out of scoring from judge duty. There's a, I've got a new name now. It's like a show this shot. Anyway, getting back to your top five. You haven't been able to even name five people who are doing the Olympia. Yeah. Well, we got flex. We got Brandon and we got Hunter. Now those, well, I'm assuming Ian's probably going to do another show with you. ThEQualifier. Yeah. I think it'll qualify for the Olympia. Well, I think any of you. I think any of you guys in this episode, maybe top five considering who's going to be. Because I'm sure he'll come back in better condition than he did for Tampa. He'll come back fuller and with his mind in the mall. So he could throw him in the top five there. And then I'm trying to think from last year. Because we won't have, you know, we wouldn't have, Rahmi. We wouldn't have, I wouldn't have, we wouldn't have Bonak. Yes, who's qualified. I'll give you the list. Who's qualified for the Olympia? Branding story. And why on the list? No. William Bonak, Heidi Schouppen, or Dexagex and McCabee at the end. Yeah. Really, Wayne Kler. So he, who probably won't show up. Segic Mcmillan is qualified Nathan Deasher, who probably won't be able to make it from the UK. One morale and flex looks. Well, you can never count Dex there out. Dex doesn't shave. He could easily be top five. No matter what. He could win. He could win. No matter what. Yeah. Yeah. He could even, yeah, come, he hits his peak right and some of those are off. And then what was it? One morale can be. Well, Segic, Segic, said, Segic's always a, you can never count him out. Yeah. Because if he's on his own, but if he's off his off. So it's one day, it's never an in between with Segic. So yeah, that's the, it'd be really hard to actually say, like, as a, if you're a betting person, nothing is just going to come down to whoever hit their peak and gets it 100% on the day. Yeah. That's, that's going to be wide open again. Because as much as I like Brandon too, he doesn't seem, you know, when you had, you know, nothing away from Brandon. When you had Dorian or Ronnie, there was just a dominance about and where it's just like, hey, if they come in at 100% now, one's touchinGHim, simply like that, where Brandon, I think it's still, he's got a great physique, but he hasn't had that dominance like Yates and. Right. But I think when Brandon, if Brandon comes in at 100% even that, and he wasn't the Olympia when he won the last year, I don't think it, I don't think they'll take it away from him, you know. No, I don't, that's anyone that, that's not the only thing that keeps it. Because, you know, we've seen a few mysterious, but I could be that little bit off that cause they're a mystery Olympia, whoever comes in is going to have to be so much exceptionally like, wow, that the, you know, they're going to dominate him. It's almost got, even the 100% someone's got to be 110% if he's on the beating. Right. But if he's that little bit off, the door's going to be wide open again. So that's when Daxa slips in when's the one they're right. Yeah, well, it could happen. That's like, no, if this is going to, if this is going to be his last Olympia, who knows, he might want to go out with a big, the bang. I say the Daxa won't retire. Now that this whole COVID thing's here, and as people can't get over here from Europe, why would Daxa retire? It's like screw this. I'm, I'm keep, I'm going to keep going, you know. What do you say, the head a little bit of a rest now, tren, just stuff like that. If you want to, if you want to have your last year competing, you don't want to go out due to, that being able to compete due to COVID, you want at least to say, okay, this is my last year, right, many shows as you can. You know, go out in a positive way, not just like a retired now. How many shows you do, did you only one? I don't know, everything else got canceled, but. Exactly. That would be interesting, but like I said, how many people would actually be in the show, didn't just be in Americans like 10 to 12, would that be the lineup? I don't know. I don't even, they don't even have 10 people here. They're going to have to give out some special windbikes. I don't, but I don't even know who to invite, who do we, you know, have in the lineup that we really want, you know. I said, the, well, like I said, if you feel, if you came back in shape, well, that's a good story. Yeah. And then even if you're doing it, come back and come back and come back in, but then you're going to have people because like, guys, everyone's a love hate relationship with Kai. IMean, I was like, yeah, I'm a lovey, more you're hating. It's like, I was talking shit again. But if you come in, this is what's happening. If you've got a special invite, no, everyone's going to complain. Oh, why did he get in invite? First daddy should really go to invite. Then if you, then if you won, he shouldn't be there. He shouldn't have won it. Maybe he'll do the miscellaneous. You know, they get the miscellaneous, you know, you can dress up with a Geraldine there. Like he was. Well, he could do both. You have to do it. You're only allowed to do one class. No, but if you're, if you're this cross-kind type thing, you might get there. They can't hold it against you, Dave, because it's, you know, discrimination. That's right. Exactly. Exactly. So, and they're on different days. They're on a different day. So, you know, Friday, pre-judginGHere, he identifies as a woman from Saturday. He identifies as a man. Exactly. You know, he can be, over the first ever miscellaneous, or combined in the world. We might even find out that one of the women's body has been chile along, masquerading. He thought chile wasn't competing, but he's actually known as stage after all. So, What is time to say, do you think, and she looks like kind? She really was kind. You never know. All right. You're just being stupid. Why? I try and keep this show here. When you come on, I just try to keep it. I try to keep it. Yeah. Look at me. Look at me. I'm all wrong up there. It's only free degrees here. Is it really that cold? Yep. I was trening the other day outside. I thought it doesn't get that cold when you are. Dave, come on. Learn some geography, mate. You're almost Northern Australia, aren't you? Yeah, about a still snow, not far for me, but I'm middle. And then just down south. We've got some of the biggest snow fields in the world. You know what it's all to do. But you're not south. I'm south. You know, it gets so cold outside. You know, when you're holed up cold bar and it just burned your hands. Yeah. Look at my fingers at that dry, always the camera. Okay. You're trening in your garage. Yeah. Look at that. No, my fingers are split open. Yeah. Mine are two from getting bit by snakes. Well, you're an idiot. Please, please. Please, please. When I play with my snake, it's got no teeth. Ah, they can't just spit at me. All right. Yeah. Now we're in the toilet bowl. Yeah. I'm hanging up on you. I love you. We pre-start five. Give me the top five and then I'm hanging up on you. Not in any order. Okay. Just top five. Brandon Hunter Flex Lewis. Decks the Jackson. And I'm an e-in or sadrick. Okay. They go pre-start five. I'll empty it. Selection. I'll be able to follow them. Definitely not be a final peanut probably. Stay out there. Another interesting addition of iron rage. We'll see you next week guys. And I think I did about Courtney. Courtney's life matters KLM. Maybe he should donate some of your hair to the cause. Maybe he can make a wee that of it. Yeah, clear. Courtney's life matters KLM. Kayling

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST： MOST VACCINATED MAN IN THE WORLD？ ｜ Iron Rage w⧸Lee Priest + Dave Palumbo [SRimsUyj3hQ].txt ===

Old school body building clothing company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. How welcome back to Iron Ray. I'm Dave Plumbo and I'm feeling very weird because I have just taken a dose of big lanyan Rob Zill's weird energy. People are worried about taking the vaccine and you just took that. What would be worse if vaccine will take and that coming from big ground out. You want to know what the flavor is? Zoom in that flavor. Come drop. It's pretty close. Poor internet punch. Oh, I gotta say it's treny something. treny. treny, change your name. That's it. We just had a press conference with Mr. G and Big Lany. They were in the same room. I told just fight it out right now. Get it over with the radio. I haven't watched it but I could see it here on the latest subscriptions on YouTube. We waited too long to put it up live but it was actually pretty missed to G standing. Like you said, they should have just punched on there and could be never in the room. I said, you could have just let's just end this all thing or just fucking fight that already. And we got it on camera here. What do we need to do a fight? Just do it now. Get it over with. You guys can make some of them. Exactly. They can go break little biscuits. Now, I'll tell you. I went for my second coach on the rest of the time. Now, hold on. We got to stop people for a second because you're the only person I believe now on the planet who has actually gotten three COVID vaccines as opposed to two. Most people go for two or the one you actually have gotten three. You always got to overdo it. It's like the drugs you got overdo it. Don't be builders. You're trying to fact that. I need three or four. I'm a one. Two's good. Four is better. Right. So, but he's the funny thing right ago. I go down and go to get it. And she does it because they ask you questions. Have you had any other ones before? I said no. Because my doctor said it doesn't matter because I had it so long ago. Well, long ago April, April 6. But because I wasn't continuing that on, they get like your vaccination. It's not possible. But just to show you, you had it down. You got it to it at the same. So I got it. And she goes, okay. I think then she asked me somEQuestions. I said, oh, yeah, I had the AstraZeneca first. And that's going to be, you would have swears like a deer in the headlights. I'm like, what are you crazy? You had. And she's sort of Asians. So, you know, it's hard to, I could not tell she's talking about the vaccine or order and my chicken-chown mane. But she started talking and I'm like, huh? Okay, yeah, she got you had it. I said, yeah, but that was April. And this is a long time later. Because I'm going overseas. I didn't want to have the AstraZeneca one. I waited for him flying due to blood clot. So my doctor caught up to COVID hotline. He was on there. I was on hold for like an hour or so. And so I was he, they went through everybody again. Can't see why not. And that hold on. She walks to the side of the wall, pushes his bison. Rrr, it's time to flash in. Oh, I know. I know. I like this being a fucking outbreak or something in the bloody thing. Like they're going to, the walls are going to come down. They're going to get a lot of, you know, really fucking gas. And people are looking at me under a sitting there. These are the two like people in their doctors things come over. And she tells them the whole story. Go for it all store it. Them. No way to hit the alarm again. Nenshe's on the phone. Yes. What immunization, all the justies on today? Yes, yes. Can you send them over please? Oh, it's not. It's not. It's been a trouble. You're always getting a trouble. No matter where you go, you try to do the right thing. No, I wasn't in trouble. I wasn't in trouble. I was just like, now they get over and it says, okay. So you've had to AstraZeneca. Yes. And I had to fire. They're going to get the food when they go, oh. We should have done that. I said, why not? They go, well, you only meant to have two. Even though you had to AstraZeneca, then you had to fire so the five is like the booster. We've never done it for. I said, you're the only person in the entire world who's gotten three freaking COVID shots. And then I started talking to said, yes, I saw an England that doing the fires at AstraZeneca first. And that he goes, oh, yes. Yes, I'm being a doing that in England. It's getting great results with the immunity. Having two separate ones. He's actually working better than getting two at a time. I said, oh, well, I guess I can be your case experiment in Australia. You guys are tell you right there. It wouldn't be more than a handful of people than I had both. I said, so if I get phone calls tonight, yes, I'm doing all tomorrow, you call me. You need blood tests and stuff. Do I have to come here because the government wants to see me? Yes, I had that one. And that one, they're not full. We've never had this. And then they start panicking. Ah, so you had one in that one. I said, yes, I said, but you look at the test. Is it all you've been following all the testing in England? It's working well. I have two separate ones. So it's not like what people have had like the one, the first shot of one and then the first shot of another. So to have two separate ones instead of getting two of the same, you've actually had one and then you had two of another. So you've actually had three doses where no one's had it. Now, what thEQuestion is, will you have a better antibody response? That's thEQuestion. Well, they were showing with the AstraZeneca and Pfizer, because they're made differently in England who they tested on so far. They've been getting good actually better. Like the immune system is almost super charged. They said they haven't two separate. So it's almost like, I got this one and this one and then my third one is like a boost to your might have to get in the years. Oh, I got it now. Why don't you go get a, what, go get to Johnson and Johnson too? May as well. I'm waiting for it and the dinner comes out. I'm going to get them all. Yeah, right. My name. Maybe you'll maybe you're at an inch to your arm or something like that. You know? I told you, when I took in that first time, I sort of got great amps and put on a healer two weeks. You know, the funny thing is people complain about how sick they get after the second dose and you're on the third dose and you're doing the show the next day and you're fine, right? Yeah, like, okay. IMaybe I feel I don't sure it's the hot coffee or I got the heater on. But I feel like just a little flush, but nothing. Nothing, great. Yeah, it's not as sweet. You're feeling flush because of the weird energy you just took. From a big lighting and Rob Zillard. Again, as funny, you're about the friends that still give me the bleed, you're putting poison in your body with the vaccine as they stand there. Drinking, smoking, fuel lines of cocaine. Drinking. It's like, yeah, Lee, how do you put that poison in your body? You're going to see me get. You know, Lee, I want to thank you both by the way, you're shirt. Yeah, because I'm washing it. But I got your T shirt in the mail. Thank you very much all the way through Australia. I also got your T shirt. I got a shirt. Oh, I'm sure in the mail. I think it's from Chris Cormier. IMean, it is him on the shirt. It's the only person that would have thought would have put a T shirt with a pink T shirt would be. What's it say on it? What's it say? I don't know. It says C3 TV. I guess that's Chris. Maybe that's somethinGHis Chris Cormier. Oh, I see C3 TV's to TV people. It did he's documentary in that to do a mine you want. Oh, so maybe they sent me the Chris one in addition to yours. I got it two separate packages though. What's the other shirt look like? No, I got this one and then I got your shirt that's the lead pre- Yeah, whatever. Just one. I said it's lead pre-st on it. Yeah, it says lead pre-st something another. Catelle. Carcale. Carcale. That's in the Catelle day. Actually, I actually liked your shirt. I don't like the smell of new shirts. I don't like the washroom first before I wear them. Well, I wore yours around the two. That's like smell segues. Ah, yeah. I was wondering. I think I'm going to sell it around. I'm going to sell it around the things in official body scent of lead pre-st. Yeah, I rolled around the yard. Yeah. Just like a dog. I'm just like, you know. If you wear that now it's going to soak in. Hey, if you wear my shirt, my anti-bodies were so good. You need to get the vaccine. Yeah, that's right. Your shirt's going to be like one of those things that just repels the virus. There you go. I'd rather wear that. They have to get injected with anything. Every time I find it, you're going to get a number and I recognize it. I'll be thinking it's the government, hello. Yeah, we need you to come in. We're going to try to run some tests. Yeah, yeah. You know, that, you know, you're way for your superpowers to come, right? For a walk out in the front, there's like just black cars sitting out there. If you're thinking, we're going to those follow- Yeah. Either lead pre-stays going to start flying in about a month or he's going to fucking be dead in about a month. It's going to work with what's going to happen from it. And when I die, I let them make the coffin weach shape because I've that third and fourth leg ground. Yeah, I'm sure that's absolutely right. I'm going to just say. So a lot of people have been contacting me in there because, you know, you've been doing all these videos with boxing and stuff like that. Everyone's trying to like match you up with someone who you can fight. IMean, is there anyone in the industry you'd like to fight? You know, it's only ever been shown because you love me so much. And I think it would be a nice fun thing for charity, Sean and I. But I don't think you let it. Sorry, you said he won't do it. So would you, would you if if you offered a million dollars, would you fight what's his name for like Mayweather like Logan Paul did? Of course I would. I get knocked out. But who cares? A million dollars. You take you would take made a punishment for a million bucks. Of course. I wouldn't. But I don't know. You can get hurt, you know. I don't know if anyone really wants to get punched out, you know, by anyone. I'm helping the ring with Tyson for two million. Like Mayweather. Of course I'd be like here. And so I think I have still heard it to get you in the right spot in the picture. But you know, it's one of these baddest Tyson. If the Tyson on the two million because 800 thousands going to my medical bills. And they have a 1.2 million. I can buy a nice house. Do you think did you, I don't know if you watched that fight, if you play man, whether or Mother watched it. Yeah, did you think it was fixed or do you think that there was a legitimate fight? It seemed a bit fixed. Could you could you have had how fast Mayweather is? It seems like he could have just gone. If you wanted to, you know. Well, he's also 44 years old. He's not a young guy anymore, you know. Yeah, but when I saw him spar and he was spar and a lot of kids in the money was back. He was an exhibition. Now he's a smart man. Like he was talking about the money he makes just where he's boxing trunks. He makes 30 million just from the sponsors on the. Oh, really? Yeah. I'll watch an interview after you guys. 30 million for his fingers. I'm a smart guy. He has I can draw my money now because IManaged myself here. But he goes, whatever box it today is making 30 million just from where they are in their trunks. And then like I said, he got like, what guarantee 10 million plus a percentage of the pay per view. So why not who cares what people say? He even like, you know, I don't really like that slogan for that. Never have from me who's going to do that slap and contest back in the day. But hey, you got to you got to give him credit for getting up there and doing it. And like I said, and making money like crazy amounts of money is almost like, you know, you might hate those guys that go to the body, but you're an exposed similar thing. Yeah. They'll get all the people around them, just making tons of money. And I know a lot of the boxes didn't like it because you've had guys fight in the whole lives coming up through the ranks and they never get a shot of the purse like that or a shot at me over. So everything and we've done it the hard way. It is YouTube. Who you can't blame the YouTube? You can blame the maybe boxing Federation, whatever. But hey, you've got money there to do it. That's true. I don't like it. But it's true. What he says, you can do anything you want to be. You think pretty much you want to be if you just do it. It's like his truth, you know, getting the ring with me wherever in the short amount of time and the followers he's got. And now he's making millions of dollars. You know, I don't really like the guy. But you're going to give him credit for being smart when it comes to marketing and stuff. He's an idiot. Yeah. IMean, he's a great marketer of himself. There's no doubt about it. IMean, how could you even you have to respect that? IMean, I don't care what you're like. Well, look, how did Tim Kardashian make all her money initially? Yeah. And my friend. I'm a porn video. She did, right? And then a whole family. It's like the whole family's done nothing. Then all the sisters just jumped on the bean, wagon. And now sisters had books. The sisters had that show where I'll get in. I'll get in. Put 300 million to hold the family got. The mother would break it up being in the manager. But yeah, just all the stuff they got there. And then the daughters in the modeling and makeup. And just amazing. Just from that show from being nothing. Just the internet. These influencers. It's just crazy. And you know, it turned out that they actually did have some talent after all. That's done. Especially was kind of like a job. I think Logan Logan got an pretty good shape compared to his first fight. You could tell like, even. Yeah. Even though it's an exhibition. You know, may whoever's he's not one of those guys. That let's you know, take a break. So if they eat rounds still, you've got to be cardio fit through that. Just even though even though it wasn't full on, just the adrenaline and he was Logan was moving a fair bit. So go away. It rounds. You've got to have somewhat know what you do in a bit because he was blocking a few punches. There any landed a couple on May, wherever and stuff. And I think if you've made whoever went full force, he could probably could have. Yeah, whatever. You know, hey, I think even they were said, I'm not going out the get hurt or do this or do that. So he goes, if I can make this money and not get hurt. That's why I go crazy. Logan Paul, Nadia, you're not. Yeah. To me, I could still say yes because it's like, you know, he's like, I just had that chunky sort of a secret. He could tell someone trened and then as soon as they die at down, they look a lot better. So as soon as they die at down, you see, muscles be the guy. He's on the steroids and stuff like that. You know, he looked pretty big to me. IMean, I don't know. He's because of his height, but kind of gives big muscular. Why is it just looks like someone that, like I said, died at down. And when you see the muscle, people just look bigger. Yeah. Well, I don't think they got drug tested because it was an exclamation match. So IMean, if I went to my when I used to get in fucking Maywell, then wouldn't you? No, I'm probably in the classroom. I would. I'd be back in 10 fucking backsy shots. Yeah. But I watched, but you were watching. You think Tyson was juicing against, you know, the fake he had against. What's his name, Roy Jones? No. I don't think so. No. No. No. You can tell you, yes, didn't have that look, but I'm sure. I'm sure. I'm actually surprised that you mentioned this slogan that you're not. There is, and I, someone's done the YouTube yet is Logan Paul. No, I didn't even know that. Yeah. But you know, I always do those nanny or not. So if everybody. I'm sure. What's his name, probably, did it? It was the case. Yeah, I'm sure. I can't remember. Oh, they're always doing. Yeah, but I'm sure it will be up soon. I don't think it would have been. Yeah. I'm sure Greg just said probably did something on that. You know, you would think, right? I'm sure it'll be coming up soon. Give him a couple of days, but I don't know what you're watching. I'm actually not like a lot of stuff. I don't like a lot of stuff. I don't think you're a Tyler of a Logan Paul. So I can find a thing. Yeah, I think he's like I said, is it a bit nanny, but who isn't nanny, but, you know, just some of the main. I think he was. I feel sorry for the body, but IMean, the boxes that have trened the whole lives and they sit back on. Oh, no, he's going to make him. He's going to think Logan Paul's going to like that. I don't know if he's watching the face. Before the me way to fight, the guy who's really good. I don't know as good. That was good. That one. And he took that one guy took the fight on one day's notice, you know. Yeah, actually, actually, even though one before, that was pretty good. That was pretty much punch on on. Yeah. It wasn't heard in somebody else or something. Yeah, yeah. He's going to go on at it. It was pretty good. Yeah, I enjoyed the first. I haven't watched fighting in a while, boxing in a while. It was enjoyable. Yeah. That one before it was going to get in trouble for hanging on. That chill out sworn. Yeah. Well, that guy, you know, that guy, that's the guy who took the fight on one day's notice. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you know what? The other guy, the reason why he had to take it on one day's notice is because the original opponent failed the drug test. He caused it for a four steroids. It's something like that. Not even one. Four. And look at him. See, now if you look at him, you would, if you could see, you wouldn't think that he was on steroids. If you look, then it was especially for you. I would. You know what? At that level, when you're at the top, come on. You're going to try to get away with anything in a way with because you'd be crazy. I think I got, you'd be crazy. I'm just feeling a lot of no is like, you know, the NFL and the baseball on that or what is major teams that are making billions, they got special doctors and stuff. You would be crazy to get into the ring without enhancement. If you can do it and not get caught, of course. Obviously, you don't want it. If you know it's not direct test, you're, I'll be more worried that someone like Logan Paul wouldn't come up for his steroids, but they'll like come up with cocaine. Yes. Well, they don't, you know, if we're an exhibition by, I don't think they would be in test, so it didn't matter. They couldn't have done whatever they wanted to. I like how to fight. He's like, that's it. Now, the animal Christians are going to go get fucked up. I want, you know what, even though it was an exhibition match, IMean, they were hitting each other. I wonder what it feels like for a Logan Paul guy. You know, we're just not used to boxing that much. You know, wake up the next morning at the hit, you know, by Mayweather, like, you know, like 100 times. Yeah, he's getting that little mouth. There he's eye already saying that. There's where he got in that thing. He went out over the right and just clicked him when he was in close. Actually, well, almost that fight. It's got to hurt. I don't know. I don't know. Was it the second fight or the night or the one when that guy was really good, but he's really good at fighting in close. Yeah. I always liked lasT3 fights. I didn't see him before that. I don't know. I just had one better. This guy was so good at fighting in close to this guy. It was just all over the guy. Good fighting. Get him off him. Yeah. That was interesting. Why didn't the fucking big lady and Mr. Ggo down to that in Florida? They're in Florida. And they could just turn up and got in. I think that you remember the butterbeen who used to fight to go butterbeen? Yeah, with the American shorts on. I'd like to see butterbeen fight like Tyson or butterbeen fight like a boyman, whether I'd watch that. I think he's still going. Did butterbeen didn't he fight Tyson once or a foreman? I don't. I don't. Maybe foreman. I think I have. So you've tolerated a look at that butterbeen. I know he fought one of the big names once it was one of them. I think he got his ass kicked out, right? If I went up. He always got his ass kicked. No, he was pretty good. He'd be some good guys. You know, you would think the guy couldn't move. He had good endurance. And he had a good punching power. It just looked like someone like to come a bar. You know, someone sitting at the bar, you get into a bar. He got a butterbeen. That's why they called them the butterbeen. You know, and the funny thing is you think the guy when he was successful would start losing weight and getting better shape, but he never did. Remember when you were see first started, you said that what's his name is the fighting bar. It's a lot tank Abbott. IMean, yeah. From helping us from redundant beat, you're hunting the beach area. Yeah. He was a tough one. He's to come up the gold. The other thing was, you don't want to get to the third forefathers. Just gas out. But if you got you in the first one or two, as he just come at your luck. But the original and then they guys were very tough. And then when they went, when they went, they got into the whole Getsu thing and then making it a science. Those tough guys got destroyed because they got tapped out a lot of those guys, you know. Oh yeah. On board. I think Abbott would take Abbott one of the graces. We're gettinGHim and that was like. Yeah, but that used to be fun. Remember when the first start days be fucking someone on the ground, there would be elbows to the face of the face of the face of the face. There's no room to stoop it. There was no rules. Yeah, remember the first couple fights. There was like zero rules. Yeah. Had a survived basically. I know. It's like the five or times in the same night. Do you remember? Yeah. Remember the guy was almost like unconscious. He could hear his out of it. And the guy still panicked. And I was just. Good all days. Good all days. We're men. We're mad. They're good all days. They're good all days. They're good all days. They're my tell you. That was great. You ever seen a Roman soldier naked Dave? I tell you. They were the good all days. Big lady was talking. Why do you want this to the after. I was talking about the trens and how it's happened. How a track was. Good man who can look like a good woman is. What? I haven't seen any that Mr. G. likes look like a woman yet. No. No. I said this is Mr. G. He was afraid that Big lady would try to like hump him or something like that during the fight. You know, but he wasn't worried about it. And it's like Mr. G. Shade. He's a little pitchy. He was all clen clen cut. Oh my god. He's getting all out. You know, he's at this point, you know, there's no turning back. Mr. G. Mr. G. Everyone's like, how can you being so nice to Lenny? He brought him cookies. He got him supplements. He brought him a t-shirt and posters. I said because he's afraid. Big Lenny may drop out of the fight. He's put so much time to prepare for the fight. He's got to make sure Lenny actually shows up now. So what's that behind? I can see Lenny did Lenny actually get a post tonight. He's a post. He made a post for both of them. Yeah. He did all the artwork. Oh, I can't help. He should get issue call up Logan. Paul, what the moment. See, you think and this guy's got a lot of work. Can fight the winner of Mr. G. Big Lenny? I don't know. Maybe Logan can just come and referee. So I get some viewers. Yeah. Yeah. Logan. Now Logan Paul's at a different level. He can't. Yeah. He's not going to be fighting any internet bombs anymore. You know. But the exact thing is probably five eight years ago. Logan Paul was doing that type of stuff. He was really stuck. He wasn't 63 years old. Mr. G. 20, 20, 20, 40 years old. I look. May we're the guy in the ring at 44. It's hope for any bad thing. That's right. That's right. Look, I'm sure there's, look, Tyson's back. What is he 54? Isn't he got a, I heard someone said he's going to fight Holyfield things. Well, they were trying to originally set that up. And for some reason, they didn't work out. And then they wound up, I think Holyfield wanted to move. And then they did to be right on the junior. Yeah. He could be back on that. We probably failed. Yeah. You know what? It's like these old singers that sing these old like synoptis songs. Like everyone's in a while. They'll be looking at like an nostalgia phase that will come out. And everyone wants to hear guy singing like synoptrin. And for like a year or something like that. All these old crew and his old comeback. They're going on cruises that make him money and stuff like that. We're in this year and now we're pretty much anyone can live Sheem anything. And the internet is where it's that. And followers and likes. And you know, we have our heroes, right? The Tyson's and the Holyfield's old. We've got to grow up. We want to see them fighting each other. So let him fight each other like old men. I'm the internet. You know, it's like, what is all boxes? Or these old boxes coming back. That's right. Or these old fucking bodybuilders coming back. That's right. I want to see old old folkies like, you know, Lee Priest and Sean Ray, you know, fucking slug it out in the right now. Coming out on our walk is on the stage. Here we go. I love you, funny. I'm trying to think of like, like, like, who's some of the, like, I'd like to seEQuorum here. Fight a few peoplEQuorum here as a tough dude. And then eat a lot of wrestling too, Chris. So yeah, maybe likEQuorum here like verse like, Or you know who's also tough guy? What about my Christian? My Christians old, you know, let's try my Christian and the ring again someone, you know, like Victor Richards is something like that. Let them fight it out. He just, it was like, just like the most before him in the ring. Well, I know they had a run in the old days and go, Jim, so maybe we can get Victor in the, and my Christian A fight with something like that for charity. Right. He has shit because they had different stories. Did they on who walked the way and who said what? The difference is that no one in the Biden world is going to put up the good money for that. Whereas these boxes in the boxing world, they could raise money from anyone to fight, you know, sir. I know. And much, much as Mr. G raised yet, but he's, who the heck knows? You know, as power eight power eight come on board, who's come on board? Maybe Ed Conners can get like a flush find go. We can get some of the old time body balls to fight each other, you know? Everybody, everybody, everybody. Everybody, everybody, everybody, everybody, everybody. Body balls will do anything for money, you know that. You can probably put a $10,000 prize up there and you'll get pretty much anyone will fight each other for that, you know. Well, you might be a good side of it, but you should have the pro show so you can sit around. I don't even want to see these guys, I don't want to see the old guys posing on stage because then I can look good, but I do want to see him fight each other. That would be good. If only one, especially when the good thing is sometimes two when people aren't really good fighters, because it just like the hey makers come out. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't even care if they tren for it. I just want to see them slug it out. Yeah, exactly. But I just grab a hold of each other and lay down. I was going to let go first. I'm going to be like, actually, Mr. Lennie will like it, because it would be like they just dry him, but on the mat. But be like, IMean, would you love to see Arnold fight, Louis, you know, just like for charity or something like that? That would be cool, right? Yeah. That would be interesting. I think Louis might take it. Louis is a little younger though than Arnold. But Arnold would trick him probably. You know, Arnold would like to talk over there. I know, I would be like, I'll lead a smart one and Louis would just be, I think Louis just says that when you're looking at some thought that I've seen him get angry, not on the hoax TV show, but I've actually seen him get angry. He just seems to have like that crazy person strength. You know, he's just people got drugs. Yeah. Yeah. Like, I don't could get mad, but Louis just says that like, you know, it's snap and go crazy. Well, Louis is probably very strong still. He's in very good shape. I'd love, but I, you know, imagine that fight for charity. Even it, you know what? I don't even care if they fix it and they make it up in choreographed or something. I wouldn't just want to see it because it would be historically funny. Right. They finally sort out the link. Right. And then Louis, Louis lost it so many times when he should have won. Like, once is for a lot of loop-wrig number. So I'm just saying, you're in the ring. They probably read millions for charity. Yeah. As you remember when that time he was going to do the South Africa one then says you break turned up and Louis got third. Of course. And then when this master's being come along, Louis's got finally, I'm going to get a limpia trophy. Robbie Robinson popped up out and they were. Yeah, they got a lot of Tim buck too. They got, they found Ryan Robinson and brought him in. Yeah. And he popped up on a fucking mountain somewhere in Egypt. I don't know any mountains in Egypt, like you Sarah. I think I think it was like, whatever. I think they should. But like I said, this is a bigger decision is funny thing with Lenny and Mr. G. But it's like a trade that's so long the other side. But it's just corn. Yeah. Now yeah. It's like home to find out right now. I said, let's just get in over with the ready and move on. Yeah. Like, one of the needs to do something to piss the other off the revive this. Right. You know, Lenny, Lenny older 66 Mr. J. again or something. Get him. You know what? Well, there I don't think Lenny ordered the 66. I think the people who ordered the 66 ordered the 66. Those guys actually don't even like Lenny. There I know Lenny and Rob Ziller are fighting with those guys. So there's multi factions now. You got to keep up with the. Oh, I'm going on here. You know. That's like like Star Wars, the roll fuck and old branch and off in the rebel forces. But you got to look at those people ever ever. Check that Lenny's pay and Lenny's being and then sometimes. Just look at the people that make the comments. IMean, fuck if you want to see a side show freaks. Just just look at somebody's people's profile features. You think you think that you put it this way. If Lenny was a drag queen and had the sex change and could have children and the toxic Avenger had a baby. These are the people that follow their their off. Yeah. You know, you see the hills have eyes. Yeah, you're right. Some of those guys looked at me were probably starring that movie. Yeah. Oh, no one's from the high up in the Appalachians. Now if it's the people in the Appalachians, but there's been a few movies made about the area down there. It's like Tasmania here. Yeah. Yeah, brother. Brother and sister, your mother and father and stuff like that. But hey. Keep your family circle closed. That's right. That's right. All right. Well, you know, what are you traveling now? Are you getting on an airplane, sir? I don't know. I'll probably get the apple. You know, it'll be the proof to leave. I'll probably get the apple now. It'll be like, woo, woo. Hold him. Buy our heads that he said three shots. Yeah. You might actually might be ready to act in by now. Who the heck knows what they put into them? They might not let me leave. The countenance guy. He's like, got the hope of the world in his hands. He's carrying the kill. Yeah. I was going to say, they're going to harness your blood. They're going to like, leech you all the blood out of you and make it back. He's going to be like, I'm going to be like, we'll sniff in. I'm going to be like, this, that we follow. They're going to be following me around. The government's going to be following me everywhere. Tyler and I went to my friend Tom Crutchfields in Homsford, he's got like a whole room of just cobras. And they built the cobras for the venom. You know, so they can develop, you know, the antidotes for it. That's going to be you. They're going to like lock you in a room and just draining your blood like 24, 7, like that. And put me on one of those massage tables and just milk you. You all, you all wish they were doing that to you, my friend. I got to be like a snake when I put their fangs in the glass. That's right. And they buy it for the accident. Actually, what might happen to my head, head, head, head of my cock in a beaker like that. Just now. This is what they're going to actually have you in a room tied down with it. Get the loob at it. And then big lady's going to walk in. He's going to milk you. Ah, from the frost date. I think I'm going to cross. It's going to milk your frost. Yeah. I probably will be. That's it. You know, I probably will be taking a body. So when you don't see him in her from me for a while, I will be probably tied up on a table. Choose. Take his plasma. Take that part of his blood. Take that bit. There we go. All right. I got to wrap this up. I got to wrap this up. I got to wrap this up. I got to wrap this up. If anythinGHappens to you like, just have your wife let us know. So we, you know, we can start to go find me. Can't thank you. Yeah. I'll probably get one that I was on Tania's human combustion. Remember those, but I just. Yeah, it was kind of like right on fire, you know. That's amazing. Isn't even what those shows and books on it. Like the whole body's burnt, but they burn that quick and fast. They close the building. Yeah. It's just like. Yeah, I never really understood the mechanism behind that, but I, I've seen, you know, I've heard of it, where people to spontaneously combust from whatever reason I don't know. It much DNP. It must be the, the, the flatter theory that the Jimmy, the bowl was talking about. I was saying that from above, you know. Greg and he's girlfriend were a wife, but it was message of me yesterday, because they just said they watched the documentary on the abats in Australia. They got those bats at a, they call them flying foxes. Because if you google flying fox, google a flying fox, it's got a head like a fox, but the wing spins like five feet or more. You Americans have, you Americans have little bats like this. So he couldn't believe it. So I went out the back of every night. Hundreds of them fly over. The one night I got Greg on the phone. None fucking fly. Not one. Normally there's hundreds. So it's going to film and pouring. But home, here. There's a big, wow. See it? That's a big picture. That's a back. Everything's big and deadly down. Now I know why they call them flying foxes. Because they're fucking foxes with wings. Holy shit. And they wrap themselves up like the batman move it. They wrap themselves up. The wings are so thin. You can see through their wings. They're like, or the big veins run through their wings. But when they open up like that, they're really five foot long. I haven't said they're Australia. Definitely still has some dinosaurs left from pre-historic times. There's no doubt about it. You're looking at, you're looking at one mother. What do you go with those? What do they call cassowaries? Cassowaries? Oh yeah. But you're seeing the feet on them. The claws. Oh, they're looking at the feet. They got a big, big thing on their head too. Yeah. If they're up in the forest, they sign. Stange it. That's a fun idea. That's a modern day dinosaur that somehow made it through the meat. What a, what a fucking, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a picture. So people can see it. The cassowary. But it's like, what does cassow, like, how fucking they do? And imagine, but imagine someone saying, how did he die? Oh, I fucking bird kill. What, you know what? I saw an e-mue at Demo. He went to Crutchfield to the, you saw that Tyler. The thing was scary. And I got news to you. Those cassowaries are a way, way, way, way, way, way. It's way, way, way, way. Cassowary. Cass, C.A. W.L. Cassowary. And then it just W. It should come up. Then she's preferred. Yes. There it is. There it is. Yeah. Those look like it's like a palatable. Like a palatable. Like a palatable. It's like a colorful ostrich with a fucking blade on its head up. But it's the, it's the feet. Like they told us about the, the feet are, we will gut you in two seconds. Oh, yeah. That's how the kangaroos do it to a kangaroo of its fight. Yeah. They lean back on their tail. And then they take their back legs and just rip. Oh, they do. Great. Yeah. You got too many dangerous animals over there. And I'll show you. I'm glad you guys don't let any of them out of there. So that's good. There you go. Look at that. Look at that. That's a freaking, that's a raptor. You might buy the same one. That's a one. And then when it comes to really doesn't it with the, with the, with the thing on its head and Sheet it doesn't look hot for loss or after that. Imagine that to add had to die on her boot. Because cute boy a boot. Yeah, you'll never. That's that a bird. That's a fucking dinosaur. I'm sorry. Look, I got a raptor. So I love you man. I hope nothinGHappens from the vaccine. Keep us updated in, uh, we'll see you next week. I guess. Fine. I'll be trying to, I'll be trying to, I'll be trying to, I'll be trying to, Oh my god, we're dying to, I've been trying to hold it, they give a finished show to you. Yeah. Clay Poles moment feeling very weird here on this Tuesday afternoon. We'll see you next week.

=== FILE: LEE PRIEST： WHEN IT'S TIME TO WALK AWAY! Iron Rage [YMVy3UpcSz0].txt ===

Welcome back to Ironraise. The show where John Romano-Lee preached and I have vent our frustrations with the world. The boys are all back in town today. We got the full crew. John and Lee today's topic is, when is it time to quit? John, you and I were talking and Lee before the show. And you mentioned the announcement that Julie and I am not defendinGHer women's physique Olympia title this year. After four years of winning it, she is decided to call it quits. And people are given her flag for it. Is it a good decision, bad decision? What's your opinion? It's a great decision. And it's a smart decision. And I'll tell you why. The art of war, Sunsu says, never fight it battle you cannot win. And that's the whole thing right there. She's looking, but Julie Ann is looking at Sheneika and the other competition up there. Looking at her ten inch waist and realizinGHoly shit, this girl's from Mars, I can't beat her. And I've had a good run. I've done exceptionally well for myself during my competitive career. Why not leave with just all wins under my belt and you know, go out of champion. And not fight the battle you can't win. She's smart. She knows she can't beat Sheneika, period and of story. That's reality. So say what you will about that, but that's reality. So she knows that and she's going out on top. And there's absolutely everything right about that. And anybody that's given her grief about it, I think you're in it. Khalid, what do you think about that? Is it right? Did she make the right decision? And we don't even know if that's the reason she left. Or should as a great champion, she tried to go and battle the best of the best. Well, she has battle the best of the best when she is on stage. Just because you know, someone else is coming along to hook straight who she might not beat. But it's like a set. There's a no win situation. If you keep going and you're winning, you're going to get beat. Then people say you should have retired or then you can win five times. You get beat once people call your losers. So it's pretty much the internet trolls are just going to talk shit or never be on stage. And I'm pretty impressed that John's quoting the art of war and stuff. Let mEQuote someone. Dr. Suce, green eggs and ham I am. Sam I am. Yeah. So if she doesn't like green eggs and ham, she can quit and I do it. It's pretty much the same thing as John said. Just moving on and have poached eggs. I'm. I'm not a Grasina. She stepped down last year. Her last win at the fitness Olympia. So there'll be a new champion crown this year as well. You know, I've signed has been so dominant that no one seems to be able to beat her. She stepped down. I don't know what are reasons why, but I think she felt she had nothing left to prove. Because she could have kept winning John. Yeah, IMean to some people, IMean that's a luffer ready. IMean, how many times do you have to win? Do one of the same thing for you to get it. Okay. Oxant. She's the best period. Okay. That's we got it. We how many more times do you have to prove it? And if she's tired or wants to do something else, IMean, there's nothing in it for what? What is there in it for women's fitness? Nothing. It's a tiny as small as class there is. No one gets it. It's that these girls have nowhere to go. Right, but there is an entertainment factor, John. And she and she was making money when in the Olympia. IMean, it might not have had a ton of money, but she wasn't making money. Yeah, but she's not made. IMean, who's hirinGHer? IMean, like there's there's not a big market for the fitness competitors. They're just too few of them. IMean, they're great. What they do is amazing. IMean, don't get me wrong. But, um, you know, in Oxantra as Oxantra has the most incredible routines. And so, you know, are, artistically put together and choreographed. And it's just beautiful. And she's by far the best. I don't think anybody's going to come along for a long time to rival her. Right. So what do you got left to prove? She, if she could probably make, a really good living doing something like on Broadway or somewhat something more, you know, mainstream. Cirque-to-sole, or some shit like that. There's way more for her than there ever will be in women's fitness Leave the thing of the man the man too. I think the man that look at their side where Some of the stuff that we know men do you gotta come down to your health and that too because It's like John said you gotta get bored after while and going after that same title There's only a few guys who can have that drive to keep going and keep going and push themselves and then the health Expect to have pushing your body here after a year after year You don't what you have to do to be that champion is it really worth it You know sure to man make a bit more money with endorsements and get into travel But if you want to limp your one-saw twice with the right marketing you can you know live off that for the rest of your life From yourself as Mr. Olympian stuff, you know Whether you have six seven eight or nine It's like even Phil you might be the one to get ten but really in the scheme of things ten times Mr. Olympia outside of body building Who really knows who you are? That's the thing Like you could you could be the home run winner and baseball and everyone's gonna know your name and history for the rest of your life Right ten times Mr. Olympia putting your body free or hell now. Got you know So you know, you know, least you do think that Ronnie should havEQuit after winning eight knowing that he had that injury to his back And he kind of pushed it another year and then he actually tried to come back a year after that and went back to Thailand And now obviously wasn't successful I think so like I said there are many gloves trening. He's like you know He's one of those guys that loves doing it, but it comes a time where okay You can you know quick the competing so if you can still tren you can still travel to seminars See to think it and stuff like that but pushing itself in contest trenings at total novel level I think the same we've done here and you know Would he have torn that by sip and done whatever and come back looking like he did in that last Mr. Olympia because look how great he looked But then a lot of the times of people talk about Dorian There was talk about his last Olympia if the blow to gut the torn by sip They forget how great a cheap and he was before that same with some me But no look at him when he won the Mr. Olympia Shredded at a bone in eighty free he tried to make a few comebacks and then look as good and now people remember Samir is losing the Olympia looking bad not lookinGHow he did when he wanted so you got to know when to step away Or if like me gets suspended and you got no choice you can't come back John is it is it hard as a champion to say you know what? I'm done and walk away. I think it almost like it seems like a lot of these guys have to just lose IMean Dorian snuck out that last Olympia 97 But then hEQuit he couldn't come back. He was thinking about it He was trying and he just felt that he wouldn't be the best he could be And certainly in 98 he would have gotten slaughtered probably unless you know with the injuries he had in such you know Smart to sit there was you know there were Dynamic changes once Dorian stepped down and you know the battle was between flex and and Ronnie But you know There's there's a where you just got to say You know, okay, IMean and it's it depends on what level you're at who IMean I hear guys saying well, you know, I was Mr You know Midwestern gold gold gold County classic champion 17 years in a row Who gives a fuck mean what that was obviously a really easy show if you were the champion 17 years at row and never went So you know you found your niche but IMean that that kind of stuff aside IMean there's There's a level that you should feel confident Going out at and it's not only bodybuilding. We look at formula one Michael shoe marker. He went out world champion You know There's nothing and he almost killed himself skiing so IMean you never know So there's You should you should I think you have the right as a champion to determine how you want to leave Your sport if if you are the champion if you're Mr Olympia Mr World Champion Mr whatever the top of the top It is your right as that champion to be able to say okay This is what I'm leaving this is how I'm leaving these are my terms and I'm leaving under my terms because I'm the best And I get to make the terms so that's that that is completely within the realm of of what is appropriate As far as you know champions from bodybuilding through Formula one racing motorcycles baseball boxing whatever it should solve the same Lean Actually The thing is a thing is like John with shoe marker and as always the watch the formula one when he was always winning and Get out of the championship wrapped up with five races to go sometimes, but if it went everyone he retired People gave him respect he went out on top of him and respected him just seems bodybuildinGHence the worst fucking internet trolls in all the history of sport. I know how the sports have they people put him down and it fell and all that sort of stuff But so some reason the people who are losing bodybuilding seem to outnumber any other fucking Yeah, so I like it said, well, if you go to quit this sport doesn't matter You go to champion they're gonna bag yeah you keep competing you get beat they're gonna bag yes, so Probably so you got to do what's best for you. Do what's best for you family? Have a family and stuff and who cares? What do these people say because like I said half the one saying it and they're even stepped on stage Never even stepped into a Probably contest to watch it. They just sit on their little keep or was and type away so you got to do what's best for you Now, Lee you you kind of left the sport on top you won the iron man in the IPB then you left and you you left Organizations you won a couple titles and another argument that you left and then you did another organization You want a title so technically you've always left when you're on top You've never lost in the last I don't know how many years it's been was that was that or For sure that I'm perfect so was that just by accident? Now I'm smart it's like you got away on top like John says It's like over and after I came back after it's seven year later for one to universe people like Lee you got back for the universe again next year I said black no I'm like I want to Miss the world that we're all saying like that you know when something different but if you went to universe You leave it go back because like I said if you went to the universe if I had to go and back in got second I'll eat in the universe. Oh, you remember you got second. They always remember your last friggin show So just keep win them if you went at once move on keep moving on so you know You know the one guy at the little spray it still keeps goinGHis next That he's one to the Olympic but it keeps going back he's consistent So here are some people at the who do out that will power in the mental power to keep on going and still looking good But look I said you know I sort of went out on top and like I said I was not winning some of the big Pro shows in the alphabet. I want to feel like the San Francisco the Iron Man and what that sort of stuff But you know those 16 years just competing in the Pro shows in the Olympia and you know Like I said it wasn't a few that are the R people just that after 16 years I'd had enough of competing with the same guys on stage in the same faces the same judges That when Wayne did studies new thing and what would it be different that is sort of a real light smile I can go back and feel against different guys different judging type things So what's happening you and then when I sort of was suspended I just put those years off of what well Let me try and have it and never spread a whole lot of different guys from Europe and I sort of stuff I'll give that a go so it's just like it's something different to do something it give me more excitement Because doing the same thing year after year after the year It just gets a bit monotonous sometimes you know like oh I got to go through it again and that's You know I just need a break and I do and like you say go out on top You know I want to bring up a top. I didn't want to bring it up I don't want to give any any any any credibility or any I didn't want to I wanted the energy to just die of the topic But it was kind of annoying me You know I'm in having this back and forth with Nick Trigilli and you know He's trying to like bad mad me now because he's mad that I bad math some product that he was selling That was kind of like a snake oil product So he's like trying to say that I'm not a good coach and that I use cookie cutter You know diets and templates I give everyone the same diet and you know I've done I've done the rant about the fact that you know look there's only so many diets You can give out the people you know once you have an established diet that works You give it out and then you tweak it and change it according to the people you work But IMean and that and that's just obvious, you know There's a lot but I actually had a guy who he killed who texted me today He was a former client of mine who was complaining that he wanted his that he he was implyinGHe didn't ask for it. He was implying that he wanted his money back because he he felt that I was givinGHe's obviously a Nick Trigilli disciple now that I was that he was giving that I gave him AI didn't give a customized diet and That um What else did he say? I didn't give a customized diet and then I had a team of my people working and doinGHis updates What's obviously you guys know is not true. I knew all of updates myself and so I went back and I started getting like you know I said well I wonder if this guy had bad results with me So I went back and I looked at my text message tren and I saw that he won his show when I helped and he got He was He was complimenting me about how Brady looked and how happy he was so I said to my said Isn't the job of a coach to help you win your shows and Why would you be unhappy you said to me you were super happy with the way the prep work that he goes I was happy He's like but that but you didn't give me a custom diet Nick Trigilli's Cost of IMean what's got what's happened to society? What's wrong with people John? Am I not what's the why it's not am I doinGHere if you want something custom to them the guy won't keep my fucking rod I'm the thing is they give someone a diet everyone does if you're got a new client to begin with You don't know what their body's like so you pretty much gonna give him a standard diet with proteins and carbs and fat And all this have a monitor a few weeks. See how they respond and then they get to then you start tweaking it taking foods out putting foods in You make it suit their body, but generally the start of my foot generally all around the same type of diet Because you can't just customize it from the word go for fuck's sake So maybe because anybody's pro card is upset because he should have been a pro I don't know why he's blaming you the guy should look in the mirror and blame his fuck He wanted Charles he won the show So no, I got a quote out as he says blame you for you got a pro card It's your father's telling me that he's the blame his parents should have been spent on the floor So if you wanted to give him five ounces of chicken You should have got to get five point two ounces So his is point two ounces different with then then the one you made the net the next guy right with 16 P's as opposed to 18 P's I give the next guy, right? Exactly, IMean what would IMean for the entire shoe nuts? Do get 14 almonds you get 15 almonds you get 16 that all cost But what the different Different customs you get no 16 almonds No, no Two people get six I'm gonna give him that roll him broccoli and this guy cauliflower So the make sure no one has the same vegetables too. Well, go go go back a few years I had Neil Hill just wrote me up a diet to have a look at when you my diet had in the morninGHave my oatmeal with 14 blueberries 14 I said I said you sure I can have fucking 16 blueberries or 17 would have like blood a whole thing And when I was telling when I told Flex Lills of Adity's like what? He gives you fucking blueberries. I can't have blueberries. I said yes. I get 14 blueberries I'm gonna tell me I'll do it why can't I have blueberry so I did have a customized diet sheet I got blueberries Lexington and get blueberries and what if the blueberries are a little bigger than some of the other blueberries? You know they're not on a set of blueberries So what do I do there if I have the bigger blueberries to only have eight and not the 14 it's a medium side? I'm so fucking confusing it's like the one do I fucking quit the sport? It's just too much for my brain John I'll give you red Ruby oranges and I'll give Lee Valenciar Yes, custom Very But you ought to do now people arecomplaining about that It's like one it's like one two people you know because jumping on his bandwagon But you know I once again I just I when I see ridiculousness in our industry Doesn't it just argue? IMean we've been in this this is a long time when I see people doing petty stuff like that And trying to pretend that did there something special about what they're doing That's the people you want to run away from because those people are trying to sell you something They're not selling the truth Crunch my gears and gets my goat Dave Columbus really does and actually that night you see a nitriot chili That's like bringing up fucking tood and comments name heaven fuckinGHeard of nitriot chili for a long time Get the blood of dust off that one shit. IMean, but wasn't he like some young champion back when fucking Adam and Eve around Equipment from the tree He's been a well since I heard of that name Nick the funny thing is I really had no I have no problem with him But he he took it personally when I put you in that product that he was selling you didn't Yeah, so I have a problem well, yeah now it's now that I hurt my business so yeah, but that's a given in publicity now yeah These people realize that they're not paying for the diet. They're paying for the coaching No, they don't understand that John some most people do but these people don't because that's what I explained I said the bottom line is you won the show. That's my job as a coach the diet's online for free Yeah, thank you It you need somebody to coach you to have to use the diet Manage It's Custom custom custom Ortean almonds that'll solve the problem right there Don't ever give two people You know, I'm gonna put a custom diet online. I'm gonna I'm gonna go to the supermarket and I'm gonna find the most exotic Vegetables and and Certain you know Indian grains of rice with certain I have heard expices and and I'm gonna I'm gonna design Four thousand diets with different variations in each one I will cherry pick the diet Each particular mix count the race Count the race the first and the folic is yeah, first and the folic out there I'm gonna give a secret now ten legumes 50 50 grains of white rice mix with 47 grains of brown rice One bell pepper and a bit of capsicum or mixed in Our six ounces of lean steak and in that steak I want two ounces of lean beef One ounce of lamb and two ounces of a little bit of pork now That will not the this is a custom diet for the American Christians and she was Fantastic on now, and then other people are who are on Vegetarians they can have like that stuff corn or whatever and I'm tofu mix it with tofu and add some gold Scrotem in there because they hear it's good for testosterone levels yeah, raises testarone For sports for sports that now there's somebody who wants custom diets context. Steve He's got some of the most far out eating planes of ever fucking dirty That's not custom I don't know what is And he I think he's fucking diet planes from fucking E.T. I told me Brian hard, Brian hard I keep telling these guys I keep telling them Brian hard, right? I keep telling them Yeah, but that wasn't that wasn't about contest that's how we liked the fucking Ben O I just say Steve that's not right here I Like drawinGHard takes the skin off Steve anymore Six to my posing trunks when it's healing And on that note I'm Dave Palombo for John Romano Lee priest with another episode of Iron Ridge Where does he come out with his ship? I don't know You can't beat that

=== FILE: LOGAN FRANKLIN ON NY PRO WIN + OLYMPIA TITLE HOPES! [zlSVUIDyra4].txt ===

Today full-umbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest body-building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition Lighter Products, we use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to live with Brostie Right, Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is a good friend of the show. And I'm very proud to actually announce that he is the 2020 New York Pro Classic Physique Champion, a good friend, Logan Franklin, welcome back. Let's go on, man. Thanks for having me on. What a journey you've had, man, over the last couple years. And I can't even believe how big you are now, compared to when I first interviewed you. I don't even remember how many years ago it was when you were doing men's physique. It's like the trensformation is mind-boggling. Yeah, I remember we actually did my very first interview together after I won the overall the 2014 NPC Nationals. We were, yeah, you were interviewing me and then you asked me to hit a few shots. And I did a side try set shot and you were like, what? I showed you my legs. IMean, you were just saying, what are you doing, men's physique? Yeah, because I saw the potential there. You just weren't that big back then. You had a nice structure, but I can see if you had added, if you were able to put the muscle on, which a lot of guys can, I said, if you put the muscle on, you're going to be dangerous, you know? Thank you. Let me ask you a question. How tall are you, first of all? I'm six foot, but it seems like I keep getting measured right under six foot, like five, 11. I got measured at five, 11, three, quarters and 10, relax. Oh, really? You've got to stretch yourself. You've got to hang from like a bar every day and get yourself. Yeah, I think that, yeah, I think that whenever you get a super dry, also like the solos you're feet thin down, everything just slightly in. You know, I think it has something to do with it, but yeah, I probably should get one of those things that you can hang upside down from and let my spine. Yeah, you know what? You can press. Yeah, you know what? That's going to be the new thing in class. Because they can have guys and the girls wear those like way shapeers to get their way smaller. Now, guys are going to like be, they're going to go in the, get these stretching machines to like make themselves like taller, so they can weigh more for class. IMean, right? Right? Big sense, man. Especially if you're, especially if you're right on the, oh, yeah. You know, huge difference. What's your weight cut off for your height? Well, if they measure me at six foot, it's 230. Right. If they measure me just under it like they did again this weekend, I believe it's 225. What did you weigh on stage in New York? 214. Really, you look so much bigger, holy macro. 214. That's it. 214 pounds. Look at you. 230. That's what, uh, that's what a lot of people say when they, when they see me in person, you know, but the funny thing about that is, you know, I have so much, you know, people that don't appreciate my physique, I guess, would say or people that, no, it's going to be haters no matter why you know that. Yeah, yeah, these, these people that are saying that I'm too small and all this and that, but I, I really don't look small. And it's because I get in such crazy conditioning and dryness and hardness and I guess the flow and symmetry of my physique and the way that I flare up and, and poses helps, you know, make me look bigger as well. Yeah, you know why people don't, the, the, the, the, the, the dash you because because because you're too confident yourself, which is good, obviously for competing because you, you guarantee that you were going to, you know, do this a couple of years ago and and people thought, well, yeah, whatever, you know, and now you did it and so people like they're jealous of the fact that you actually able to produce what you predicted you were going to do, you know, it's like the Andre Ferguson Andre Ferguson's always predicting victory and people can't wait to lose his, but you never loses, you know, yeah, people need to understand, you know, it's, it's not, arrogance whenever someone says they're set out to do something, you know, sure, a lot of this is manifestation, you know, I got to, I got to have this profound belief in myself, you know, in order to make, you know, my dream come to life and people, you know, need to understand that that's something that you have to do, that's a mindset you have to have in order to, you know, even have a chance at, you know, reaching your full potential and wherever that's going to take you, maybe one day be a great body builder or a champion body builder or whatever or it doesn't even have to be in body building, you can be in any career path that you have, you know, but mindset, you know, it truly is everything because if you don't have a, if you're not powerful and you're mind about your vision, you know, you don't have that full passion, you're not going to give it everything you've got and that's just what I truly believe. Well, the interesting thing is that you don't, I've never seen you bash anyone, you don't bash other people, you just talk confidently about yourself, there's a big difference there, you're, you're focusing on what you want to create, you're not like trying to play down what other people are and I think that there's a huge difference. I've seen other guys that they have bashing everyone saying, oh, I should have beat this guy, he sucks, this one does not this, you just talk about yourself and that that's a huge separation and I think a lot of people have to really understand that if you want to, like you said, if you want to create something special about your physique, then you have to focus on yourself and not worry about what the other people are doing. Exactly. This is exactly right. And you know, going back to that, you know, as the late, you know, a lot of people have been trying to, you know, make this beef between Chris Bum said and I out of, out of thin air, out of nothing and it was all, it all started because someone commented on one of my posts, I posted a front double by step that I ended up deleting just because I was leading up to the New York pro and I wanted to start going dark anyway and I was tired of comments and all this and that but someone asked me if I thought that, you know, I could hang with Chris and I believe that I can, you know, or if Chris was beatable and I said, yeah, why not use beatable? You know, he's got beat by Brianna, you know, IMean, in previous years, everyone's beatable, you know, at some point. And you know, this is what I said and then all this sudden now, everyone before this was before the New York pro. Yeah. And that's how I responded and then all of a sudden, you know, people are saying, all Logan thinks he's going to come in and just dominate everybody with the Olympia and it's like, no, hold up back up. I never said any of that. Like the salt, the all are taking this way out of context. Yeah. Well, you know, it's funny, this when Jake Houghtler was, you know, battling it out with Ronnie Coleman, I've never heard, I never heard Jay Badmout Ronnie at all, but he did say I can beat him and he always believed that. And I think a lot of people thought that Ronnie was unbeatable. I thought he was unbeatable. I said, he won't lose until he beats himself. But Jay always believed that he can beat him. And you know, I don't think there was ever a moment if you asked him, hey, can you beat Ronnie? He would always say, yes. And so that was his single mind that goal. And he did beat him, obviously, you know, more than one. That's how I feel, man, I truly feel that, you know, if I do everything necessary, you know, and I have a, you know, an outstanding preparation, you know, for the Mr. Olympia, my body responds well. And, you know, IMake the certain adjustments in my trening that I'm going to make, you know, improve on the certain, you know, things that I've been, you know, envisioning in my head to work towards a certain physique that I have in mind, you know, as long as I do these things, I think that I have a strong chance. And, you know, I'm going to, I'm going to keep that belief inside of me as strong as I can because I'm going to do everything that I can to make it a reality. The crazy thing, though, is you still got 11 pounds, you can, you can gain of muscle and still make that classic physique cutoff, if that's incredible. And when you think about it, I, that's why I think the tall guys have an advantage because you can't hold more muscle on your body. And obviously, your bones must be hollow or something like that. I don't know how you look so big and you're not, you're not, you're only way to 14. But on stage, you know, you also have mastered. And I don't know if you got this maybe from, from men's physique, which helped you. Obviously, because that's where you got your start. Obviously, that's where you were a pro and you did well there, one shows. You have very good stage presence. And you really have a good body awareness, much, you know, I wish I had your body awareness when I was competing because you, you know where you are at all times on stage and in space. And it really shows when you hit that Arnold pose. You know, I know you, I know you put that comparison up on your Instagram, maybe tell you, you pulled that up of you verse. You and Arnold hit in that same twisting back shot. I love it. IMean, that's, that's a hard post to hit. People don't realize that I guarantee you, you must have practiced that a thousand times. But I've been, oh, man, I put so much work in my posing, you know, over the last 12 months, 13 months because, IMean, I just switched to classic physique from men's physique, you know, as everybody is probably aware of that, that knows why I am. Last year, I did the Tampa Pro and I was actually winning the show and I faded into my posing and I got placed third, you know, because I wasn't, I didn't prepare myself properly and didn't practice my posing the way, you know, I should have, you know, and, and I didn't have a very good routine at all, you know, super awkward. I was not confident in the way that my routine was set up or any of that. And it definitely showed on stage. And on top of that, you know, stepping on stage for the first time in a different division and underwear, it seemed like at the time, you know, it was a bunch of a bunch of nerves going to the same time, you know, I had some anxiety go on. Yeah, most people don't do their first bodybuilding show when they're in as a pro, you know, they do it as like, yeah, an amateur, you know, and on top of that, you know, already having the name that I've built, you know, in the mid-spezique division and, you know, it was like all eyes on me whenever IMade that switch to, you know, that show and it was a lot of pressure and I cracked a little bit, but it's all right, after that show, you know, I needed that adversity. I needed that that in my eyes, that failure for me to never allow to happen again. And it never will happen again. You know, I've made a complete 180 and like I said, you know, my posing was so heavily criticized after that show that made me go, you know what? Like, I know I'm a good poser because I was a really good poser and it's a great, great, we were not hitting shots, but I knew that I had flow. I knew that I could, I could put together a combination of what I thought was my better shots and make them and make it look sequential and nice, you know, and, you know, it just took me, you know, you know, my pristine focus to really just buckle down and give it everything that I had and that's what I did and I did everything but gave up, you know, and I prepared to my ultimate, you know, best of my ability and it paid off, man. It really did. I'm super happy with how my posing routine and how my posing on stage turned out. Like I said, man, I put so much work into it and it just, it shows and it paid off and, and, man, I've been on cloud nine since Saturday, like no joke, man. IMean, you're the most, you got to think you're the most successful guy in terms of being able to trensition from men's physique to classic, I think and, you know, a lot of people think, you know, it can't be done because a lot of the men's physique guys have no legs. I knew I always knew you had legs because I saw him when you said that first time you, you, uh, I interviewed you, but a lot of these guys have no legs, so it's very hard for them to catch their legs up. You have, you see to be very well balanced, upper and lower. I, to be honest with you, when I look at your physique, I don't see any flaws like in the sense of like, oh, he's he's lackinGHere, lacking there. Which means you have good harmony with your physique and that's, that's, I think, one of the reasons why the created classic physique was for guys like you that necessarily won't be the mass monster, but that you have such good flow to your physique that it's, it's actually not, it's enjoyable to watch you on stage, you know. Thank you, man. It feels really good to hear things like this, you know, I've gotten, I've gotten so many great, you know, you know, like people saying great things about me, like you just said recently, especially after my performance, and it feels really good, man. Like I said, I've worked so hard and, and it feels amazing that people are starting to see what what I've been seeing for so long in myself and, and, uh, man, I'm just, I'm just excited for, you know, the future and the trajectory of my career and, and where things are going to go, because, you know, this is, this is just the beginning. I, I, I just now started having this vision of, of how I wanted my physique to shape, you know, about a year and a half two years ago, in terms of how I needed to look to, in certain poses, you know, how I needed to tren, you know, what muscle groups needed to come up and, and, uh, in having that vision of, like I said earlier, a vision of a certain specific shape that I want to have of, you know, you know, someone back in the old, the old school days, you know, like something that I'm working towards and just keeping that, that shape in my mind and, and working for it. And that's what I'm doing and, and, uh, you're doing it right. Let me ask you a question. How does it feel to be a father? Feels great, man. It feels, it's life, my life has been changed instantly. I know, believe me. I, I, I experienced it too recently. So I, I just want to know how is it like as a head of your, you know, because I, I know, look, young kids don't sleep and it's like it changes your whole schedule around, too. Yeah, it, it, it definitely, uh, presented challenges, you know, stress and, and, uh, you know, annoyances whenever he was like screaming all day, he had colleagues or, uh, just teasing now and, and just doing this for the first time and trying to, you know, balance being a father and, and being a family man and at the same time, you know, you know, giving everything to my passion and, and making sure that, you know, I was going to come in at the, at my very best and, and, uh, have a redemption performance from the last time that I've set on stage. So like I said, it was, it definitely brought some challenges, but at the same time, you know, it gave me energy, it gave me, it gave me strength and, and, you know, it, it changed my whole, it changed my whole, like, wavelength of thinking and, and how it, it wasn't, this whole thing wasn't just for fun anymore. This is what my son is going to, this is who my son is going to know. He has my dad's, uh, this guy, you know, he can see me and how I, I'm living my life and, and, and see how I, I'm giving it all towards something and he can apply the same, whatever he gets older, you know, so, uh, that's where, that's where I'm at now, man. It's just trying to set a, uh, as best of an example for my son and, that I can and, and go with it, man, and try to, try to go all the way. Yeah, and, uh, you've been, you've been a, you've been a bank baby mom in there because, uh, I'm sure she picked up a lot of slack while you were dieting, right? Yeah, yeah, man. She, she's been so, so great, you know, I'm definitely blessed to have such a strong woman, you know, in my life, you know, someone that was able to, you know, take over whenever I couldn't, you know, take over the night shifts, whenever I need to sleep, she allowed me to just sleep and recover and yeah, and it was just such a blessing and, and, uh, man, she, she's a great teammate, you know, great partner, you know, future spouse, and, and, uh, it's just exciting, man. It's exciting because I'm exactly where I want to be in it, and, and, and, you know, life is starting to feel like life, you know, you know, you know, you work so hard to get to a certain point, and then you kind of get to a point where you say, okay, you know what, I've achieved the level of success that I actually feel good about, and now I could take that and I could run with that, but, you know, and you, if you get how hard it was leading up to that point, but, you know, you have a, you have a tremendous social media following, IMean, what, I like to ask guys because I, everyone has a different answer to this question, so why do you think that, you know, you have so many people who follow you and who want to know every little nuance of everything that you do during the day? What, what is it about Logan Franklin that makes you appealing to the, to the, to the mass, uh, people? Man, IMean, I guess, I guess part of it is just because, you know, I'm a go-getter, you know, I, uh, IMean, some, some people like the, the confidence, you know, in the belief and they, they trenslated to their themselves, you know, that's really what I do it for, you know, or why I speak, how I speak, you know, on social media, whenever I'm like, I'm gonna do this, you know, and I'm gonna show you guys that I'm gonna do this, you know, and, and have that mindset, you know, it's, it's not just for me, it's for, it's for me to show people out there that it's okay to have this, to have belief in yourself, it's okay to have, to have passion, you know, and, and, and to work hard and say that you're gonna do something and, and it's, especially if you're actually trying, especially if you're actually giving it your all to make it happen, and, instead of just not just saying something and not doing and thinking about what you're trying to say and trying to back it up, you know, so maybe, you know, part of that has something to do with it, maybe it's because I'm a, I'm a veteran and people have some, some type of respect for that, IMean, I don't know, I don't know, I just try to be, you know, as good of a man as I can be and, and, you know, let my presence flow naturally and organically will, you know, it'll grow the following, you know, grow, you know, a fan base, people that support me too, and it also make people dislike me, IMean, I have a lot of people that don't want to see me succeed as well. I had a lot of, a lot of people wanted me to not win this week and in hoping that I was gonna show up out of shape and, and look terrible in my posing and I knew all these things, you know, but you know, at the same time, I know that I have even more people that support me, and, but one thing that I've learned, especially the last, you know, a few years as I've gotten older and matured up a little bit is just, you know, it doesn't matter what anybody has to say, whether that's, whether that's positive energy that people are given me or negative energy, you know, I don't, you know, I've tried not to listen to any of it, you know, I've tried to just silence all of the noise and, and just focus on what I believe and what I'm set out to do. That's a, first of all, that's a very healthy attitude because you know what, I was, you know, I've talked to Ian Valier about this after Tampa and he was really, you know, mentally, you know, it was not in a good place and he seemed to be mentally in a better place. Also in New York, he wins obviously, but he took a lot of flack, you know, wait more than you took, a lot of people thought he shouldn't have won. I thought he did enough to win, but you know, a lot of people thought he shouldn't have and they took a lot of criticism and it's really, it's botherinGHim a lot now and I know that he, he didn't really want to interview because he feels that this, to how much hate out there and I think that he could take a, almost like a little bit of some words of wisdom that you're sayinGHere, which is don't worry about what anyone thinks. Who cares? You got the win on in five years or now, no one's going to know or no one's going to even did I get to remember the show that he's going to see you won the show and think that the, if you can convince the judges to give you the win, then you did something right up there, energetically speaking, physique wise, you know, whether it was a small margin win or a big margin, it doesn't matter. A win is a win and that's what people have to understand. Not everyone's going to agree with everything you do or say or achieve and that's a lot of it's jealousy and I think that people have to just get, you know, it's hard to wrap your head around that because everyone wants everyone to love them. It's bodybuilders, we want love and adoration from the crowd and from the fans and from social media, but you're not going to get that from everyone. I look, I post a video and I get more just as much criticism as I get positives in the comments and I don't remove aromasingle comment ever unless it's against my family or something like that, but because I don't care, it doesn't make, it doesn't alter my life one I owe to. I know what I want to achieve and what I want to do and my creative processes and I don't let anything get in the way of that and I see you're very similar to that. And that's why I think you have a level of success that's so impressive at this point and I think why you're so confident in yourself because you don't let the good opinion of others influence how you feel. Yeah, like I said, good or bad, you know. IMean, you know, it's just as detrimental to your mindset in my opinion, you know, listening to all the good positivity because that can make you get complacent and make you really believe that you're good enough yet and I don't think that I'm good enough. I don't think that I'm, I'm always going to have things that I'm going to want to improve on it. And I'm hungry man, IMean, I'm not trying to, I'm not trying to just get to hear and then do this. You know, I'm trying to just continue, you know, and every time I step on stage, you're all going to bring something, you know, crazier than the previous one and just consistently, you know, bring something amazing for this photo body building and the fans of body building to witness and and man, that's what I'm about. Well, I'm just, you, you're, you're doing it, you're doing it right. You got some good sponsorship through Dragon Farm. I know they're supporting you. It's big company. They also, they have rammy under contract as well and a couple of the big athletes. So that's going to make you feel good. It gives you some financial security. So, IMean, it, you're at a stage where you actually are making a living from body building. That's got to feel good. I would think. Oh, yeah. IMean, I've been, I've been making a living for a body building since 2015. I've been living solely, wow, you know, off of fitness and, and, and doing this man and, and it's just hard work. You know, it's, it's hard work and not, you know, not settling for anything less than my best of myself, you know? Yeah. And, and I, IMean, I think I'm doing all right, man. Yeah, you're doing great. Well, I want to just once again congratulate you on that big win in New York and, of course, good luck on your prep for the Olympia that's going to be taking place in December. Obviously, in Las Vegas, you'll be up on that stage battling and out with the best of the best. And that's got to feel good and, you know, once again, congratulations on becoming a new father and, uh, and on your entire career. Thank you, man. I appreciate that so much. All right. You guys are having me on. No problem. And, uh, you want to thank anyone before we let you go? Oh, yeah, just, you know, everyone that's supporting me all my fans here out there. Like I said, thank you guys all, you know, continuously supporting me, uh, my coach, you know, being so passionate about his job as well. Who's your coach? IMentioned. AJ Sims. Yep. Yep. Submit factory. Okay. Yeah. So, uh, amazing coach, amazing, amazing, amazing Christian man. Uh, you know, obviously my partner, Marissa, thank you, you know, she's doing so much for me, my, my manager, all this stuff. So, yeah, man. Look, you got it right. You got the whole, you got the whole, uh, the whole support team and the whole crew behind me there. It's not a one man show as we all know. And, uh, you know, once again, congratulations on all your success. Guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with Brought to you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: LUKAS OSLADIL DIALS IN! Muscle in the Morning (6⧸27⧸18) [eREZ8n9UzpM].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Dave Palavo and today is Wednesday June 27, 2018. I'll look find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's that time again. Welcome back to our Axe Muscle's world class recap Wednesday. And without further ado, let's get right into this week's action. Starting off on the other side of the pond at the UK Pro Championships. In the men's physique division, the win went to Swiss import David Wachelka, who clenched his first Olympia birth in the process. Coming in second with Spain's Andriano Moreno and closing off the top-reelist Frenchman Maxim E. Parisi. In the bikini division, Christobolina Paharez brought her best of the season on her way to being awarded with the win as she held off a solid effort from the hometown girl, Phoebe Hagen, and represents you the red white and blue for this other strong effort was third place's Francesco Lauren. Now we come way back down state side all the way down to one of my favorite places on the planet. Norlyn, Louisiana where we had one hell of a battle on Bourbon Street at this year's edition of the greater Gulf States Pro. In the men's physique division, former NPC National Champ Roman Miranda popped up from out of nowhere to grab the win. Second place went to rookie Kathy Jackson, who now has back to back top three finishes to start his career. And closing out third with his best effort of the season was Culli Alfornley. In the bikini division, it was business as usual for Marcec on Cubs, who was the clear winner from the mid-it-she stepped out on stage. Unfortunately for her, Natasha Coleman was relegated his second despite putting together one of her better looks of the year. And closing out the top-reelist was the only athlete in the division with a name so nice you have to say it twice. Cheeto. If you're like me and you love great food, great people, and great competition, then there was no better place to be on the planet last weekend than just water lahara Mexico. Because there was plenty to see and do down at the Mexico Super Show, including some more action in the men's physique division. There might have been a little bit of home town cooking. First place went to Mexico native, Ishmai Alda Mingez, as he edged out rookie extraordinaire, a came Scott for the win. finishing second was the surging Tonelle Rodriguez who managed to hold off an eventual fourth place finisher, Colombia in Fernando, Shala, and wrapping up a very international top five was Venezuela native Victor Ramirez. One of the coolest things about sports is that they give you a real chance to experience some pretty incredible comeback stories, a hundred times better than anything you'll ever see in Hollywood. And two weeks from now, we'll get to see another one of those first-hand. When former men's physique Olympian Michael Anderson makes his way back to the stage after undergoing 22 surgeries over the course of 13 months, that eventually led to the loss of his leg. Anderson is only a few days away from stepping onto an IFB stage for the first time since 2015. From my personal experience, I can tell you that Anderson was always one of the truly great guys in the industry. So I hope when he gets out on that Chicago pro stage that the fans recognize what they're seeing and give a misunderstanding oldation. Because there's anyone out there who deserves it. It's Michael Anderson. If you're one of those people who made it your summer mission, to put a few more stamps on your passport, then it might not be a bad idea to board a plane and hit up Vancouver two weeks from now to check out some of the pro leagues best going to work. And while you're up there, don't forget to stop by and check out our old friend, Lucas Oslo. Last week, the longtime veteran made the announcement that he was planning to make his presence felt at the Vancouver pro. But the hope of scoring a few points to mount a late-season push towards an Olympia bid. From a conditioning standpoint, you could always count on Lucas to be one of the top two or three guys in the entire field. But with the level of talent that we're anticipating at this lineup, it'll really take one hell of an effort from to be able to close some of those gaps and come out there with a win in his pocket. And that does it to yet another addition of muscle in the morning. On daypalombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: LUKE CARROLL： HEAVYWEIGHT STAR IN MAKING! [5W97tOqWi5U].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brought You by Stacey Nutrition. Visit staceynutrition.com. I'm Dave Palamba. And today's guest, Luke Carroll, is our 2018 NPC USA Heavyweight champ and new IFB Pro. Congratulations. Thank you. Big win for you. Yeah. I was really excited. You know, it's funny. I hate to talk about the negative aspect of it because everything you did was positive. It came in. You dominated that heavyweight class. You won. Convincingly. But I know that you were not happy with the outcome of the overall. Talk to me a little bit about that. Yeah. We were definitely shooting for the overall. And I was a little surprised on stage when I didn't hear my name called. So, but the heavyweight chain he was, he was peeled man. I think I beat him on on shape, but he just was peeled. And he has that like dense muscle. So, yeah. Shainseter, we talked him before. He's grainy, granity hard. You obviously, a lot of people felt you were going to win that because I think when they played you guys up. So, the overall they had you in the middle, right? Yeah, they put me in the middle. And I was standing in the box and I was like, I'm shit. This is happening. Yeah. And they put Henry on my right and Shane was on my left. And I was like, I'm standing right in the middle. And you know, it just went Shane's way. So, I'd like to see the scorecard and see how it did stack up with that. They're probably pretty close. You know, it's funny. But thinking about back to when I was competinGHad this been in the 1990s or even the early 2000s, you wouldn't have got a pro card. They only gave the pro card to the overall winner. So, think about how cool that is now that all the way class went and get them, you know? Yeah. Because I got a fact of Chris. Chris Cook, if you remember that name, one of the USA heavy, a super heavyweight championships twice. Two years in a row and didn't get a pro card. That's pretty real good. Yeah, that's right. That's very rough. And actually, back when he was doing it, they would gave two pro cards per class. A per for the overall. And he still didn't get it. So, he didn't get the first or second in the overalls got the third. Yeah, that would definitely be a kick in the teeth. That's tough. It's a tough, it's a tough loss today. But I thought my loss was worse because I came in second behind him. So, you know, who knows? The bottom line is you got the pro card. Let's talk about your body building career because everyone starts out differently. Where does you get your start? What, who introduced you to body building and had you get bit by the Iron Bug, so to speak? You know, I got bit by the Iron Bug just from the very beginning at 13 years old. I had to petition my high school to let me into a senior weightlifting class as a freshman. And the principal said, yeah, okay. And I went in there and just, you know, obviously did the same thing that everyone does. He's trying to lift and grow. And then one of the coaches in there was a Olympic weightlifting coach. And he said, let's try these, you know, snatches, clen and jerk. So he did that and I just took to it right away and then we spent a couple of years really trening on that. And I ended up winning state a few times, grow several state records and then state that I lived in. And then when I got out of high school, you know, I just kind of jumped into a job, manual labor kind of stuff. And then I lifted, you know, as much as I could, I actually clened a gym so that they would give me a membership. Help my girl, try and go through college. So they give me like this spray bottle and I was right down the showers and wipe down the equipment and stuff. And then a couple years later, I got introduced to ALR, author L. Ray. He saw me in the gym, he just lived in the same town and he said, oh, you got some pretty good genetics like lunch start coming to the gym with me. So I went to the gym with him. That's a good impression, by the way, I'm very good. What's that? That was a very good impression of him too. Yeah. May he rest on peace because he's no longer with us yet. Yeah, they have rest on peace. And so he ended up taking me to the Alipia for security for his booth. I'm that year. I think I was about 22 or 23 years old. And then after that, he said, you want to work for my company and I said, you know what? I got a job. I'm good. And then abouT3 days later, I said, I called him back and I said, hey, and I take that and he said, no, we hired somebody and all right, he called me the next day and said, start coming to the gym with me and come into work on Monday. So just bodybuilding kind of got, you know, went from there. I didn't really know a whole lot before that. I was just, you know, Olympic lifting and stuff. And then he really put my foundation of bodybuilding. Were you with him when I, when he was sponsoring all our art muscle coverage? I'm trying to remember who you were. Yeah, yeah, I was there. That was like right when you left MD. Okay. I was working in the, I was doing a shipping and then I was doing in, in how sales. Okay. I'm doing, I'm kind of just everything there. That was a small company at the time. Yeah. So he was, he did well though. He had a good run there, you know. Yeah, he had that venom hyperdrive and that stuff, which is everyone loved that stuff for a few years there. And then they got into the bodybuilding shop. There's still a company I think high tech owns the now. Yeah, high tech owned the bottom out. Yeah. Now, interestingly enough, because I always say that, you know, bodybuilds got to find their niche and make sure you found your niche because from working with him, you kind of took the knowledge you got and you kind of started your own business. Tell us a little bit about what you do. Yeah. I own a Nutraceutical Manufacturer. I don't do that manufacturing. I just help, like stores make their own in-house brands. You like a broker, essentially, right? Well, you know, I want to make a like a fat burner or like a in-house creatine or something like that. And I kind of facilitate just every step of the way, you know, whether I order the raws, you know, domestically or internationally and then having shipped to a manufacturer. Have the label created with a graphic artist and it's of the label maker. Just every step of the way. So they give me a check and then I give them product. That's awesome. That's it. You enjoy doing that? Yeah, I really do. It's something I can kind of just do a lot from my phones. So it affords me the time to go for the gym and eat and everything. So it's a good job for a bodybuilder. Yeah, but it is a little stressful because you got to deal with all the headaches and stuff and compliance and things passing inspections and all that stuff. You know what? I really don't have a whole lot because I had to deal with the GNP facilities. So I kind of just started once before the GNP. I just kind of ordered stuff myself. But now I just have the manufacturer. That's easy. That's what it is. It's all just kind of like streamlines. So you're essentially a supplement broker is what you are. Yeah, pretty much. Which is good. I use one because you know what? I don't have time to do all this. The running around stuff. And I have a big company. So you guys are tremendously, you know, I guess you could say useful. And they sent you, you say people a lot of time. And that's what I think the best benefit of using a broker is because otherwise you have to have a full staff of people doing all this stuff. You know, and who wants that? I don't want to be bothered about that. Yeah, for sure. Talk to me a little bit about, you know, what your future goals are now. Now that you've got the pro card obviously, a lot of guys are jumping right into competing. I think you're going to fall right into that little, that little cup of tea as well. Yeah, we're actually in Tampa right now. We flew in. See yesterday morning and we kind of been trening over at Ben Pocoski's MIT 40 gym. Nice. Getting the water off me and resting me enough. So we're actually going to be in the men's open class on Saturday. I was going to say you look very big. Yeah, I thought initially we're going to suck down to the to 12 class, but you're going open, huh? No, yeah, we, I started a week out from the USA is about 2.35. And then we've cut me down to 224 for way in. Right. And that was, that was a hard cut. I was already in and pretty dry. So 11 pounds is not, not happy to take off. And then we already filled back out. So I was about 241 this morning. So we'll see once we play a little bit of water and film me out a little bit more. It might be around 235 to 38 on stage. You look big now. Give us a double bicep pose. Let's see those arms. You look a lot bigger than you. You're a lot bigger than you are than you are saying. That's for sure. Yeah, yeah, we really had to suck me down. I didn't end up beating for about 20 hours. And that was, that was a pretty rough, pretty rough one. I threw the end because the day's leading in do it. I was very low fat, just white fish and veggies. So I was not not happy to be around for that week. Yeah, you know what the guys you suffered the most like that. Those are the guys that win and that's new fall to that category. So congratulations on that. Yeah, I was going to happy. My ways got got real tiny on stage. So that that empty now ended up working well for me. You know, you got to do what you got to do. Some people are not willing to go through that uncomfortable place of suffering and pain and stuff like that. But you know, I always used to think of it in my hand. I'm sure you do the same thing. You say to yourself, well, the guy who's next to me on stage might be suffering more than me. So I can't allow that to happen. Yep, yeah, I was, you know, I was watching, you know, all those, bodybuilding pages on Instagram and I'd see the guys getting more shredded, more shredded. And I would just push myself harder and harder and harder. So I got lined up with Phil Viz in March and he coached me for the USA's. And he, he knew when to, you know, pull back and give me a cheat meal and push harder. So we kept him really close contact throughout the whole prep. You know, Phil did good. I, obviously, you and he had Henry in the super. Yeah, yeah, I was in great show for him. For our team. Now, you pretty much have stuck to, you know, local shows up until last year. We wanted these guys to just like, you didn't want to get onto the national stage until you're ready. Yeah, I spent a long time, you know, bodybuilding. I got on stage. I think the first time when I was about 24 when I was still working for ALRI. And then I was, you know, I was small back then. And then, you know, everybody got to start somewhere. And then I spent two years off and I did, uh, oh, eight, the board of states and I ended up winning the novice overall. And putting it up rich, Fiona actually won the overall and then, and that's where IMet him. He was a few as cool guy. We were kind of chatting backstage. Just wait before he was a, you know, YouTube. Yeah. And then I ended up going to college after that and taking a little bit of time off. But I was still still nothinGHard just when I would have exams and hard classes in college. I would, you know, stick stick to that instead of trening. So my way, we kind of go like this. So it's definitely, you know, five, ten pounds a year, but not not too fast. And then when I got out, I decided I want to get a little more serious. So I spent about two years kind of just more living the harder lifestyle on body building. And then jumped on stage in 2016 and I ended up winning the overall at the, um, the count. Yeah, you know, I give you credit because you know what? A lot of guys, myself included. Once I got into it, I was obsessed. I never put it's not given 100% at that point. You took eight years off between competing in, in 08 to 2016. That's a long time for a body building who's passionate and who loves what he's doing. So IMean, that's very mature. Much more mature than most body bulls would be to put school first and really not worry about competing until you kind of done with that and ready to move on. Was that, was that a difficult decision on your part? Sorry, what was that? Was it difficult for you to like wait eight years between competing? I knew I would get back on stage and I just wanted to develop my body to the point where I knew I could win before, you know, I didn't feel like jumping on stage and maybe getting a second or third. I just wanted to be far and away, you know, higher quality athlete. But I always, you know, I always tren hard when I was when I was in college and it just, you know, the time that it would be in right. So I wasn't, I wasn't in a rush. I'm saying it's very mature to do that. Most guys couldn't wait that long. Most guys want to get on stage and want to do it. They want to see how they look. They want to test themselves out. They want to constantly, you know, push as hard as they can. You kind of really took a mature attitude about it and it worked out for you, obviously. Well, I, um, I like competing, but I love trening more. If I stopped competing right now, I would still still tren and eat, you know, the same way that I do because I just enjoy it. I, I, I go off diet and I'll eat pizza and stuff for abouT3 or four days and then I'll just be like, Oh, my body doesn't feel good. I'm ready to, ready to start clening it up and get back to it. Right. Well, you, you, you, you certainly showed off to the world that your game plan was a smart one and you almost walked away with the overall, but you got that IFB pro card. We're going to see you on stage in the open in Tampa this week. Hopefully you'll, you'll shock a lot of people. How do you, how do you think you'll do? Do you have any expectations on yourself? Uh, we, um, we game plan to definitely win the, uh, the USA's and we were looking at Tampa for our, our plan. And, uh, honestly, I would be really happy with the top 10 finish that'd be like, you know, at my first pro show and I'm just kind of, no expectations, uh, going to get feedback from the, uh, from the judges and then be able to take this next year and, you know, implement what they say. So it's kind of, uh, kind of a learning experience and, uh, just exciting overall. Congratulations Luke on the big win and, and enjoy it and, uh, good luck in Tampa. Ah, thank you very much Dave. I want to shout out my sponsors, uh, granted supplements and I'll, uh, I'll, there you go. That'll take us to the end of another episode of live with Brought to you by Species Nutrition, visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Pulumbo, we'll see you next time. Thanks, guys.

=== FILE: LUKE SANDOE'S FAMILY ISSUES STATEMENT! AH Podcast (8⧸4⧸20) [NDnKu0RM73o].txt ===

As we sit here at the last supper, we must take the Lord and take pause. Jesus, what's the matter? We let you down? He was betrayed by Jewish Anthony, Shalom and a good adage. No, with the magazine Jews. They want to put him on a cross. Shut up! This is serious. Jesus is upset. What are you crazy? Jesus, Jesus, Jesus! Jesus, are you angry? Why don't you try to roast the Lord? I don't know how to handle the disciples. Let's be the one. Shalom, Jewish. It's time for the heavy Lord of Shalom. Welcome back to After Outwards. I'm the full moon. I'm joined as always by my cohort prime, John Uemano. I'm just beautiful August 4th, 2020, afternoon and it's nice to have no whack packers with us, but they will be joining us later as always. The Alentino is back this week. I think Jimmy the Bulls back, full force. He remember last week he had a problem. He did. He had a problem connecting. No, last week he had the kidney stuff. I was at home to leave. That's right. He had two kidney stones that he won a passing. Unfortunately, he sent me a picture and I really kind of grossed me out. He went nuts in the hospital, evidently. He was tearing apart the emergency room and they were trying to talk them down. He was at the Veterans Hospital. He used to deal with people that sometimes lose their cool. He wouldn't let them put an IV in his arm and he was dehydrated. If you're dehydrated, passing a kidney stone is almost impossible. Absolutely impossible. They tried to talk some lodging and he must have just been out of his mind. He was a pain. He was very sick. He said it was very bad. He was walking around with his hearing and he was a patient and a trener. He was blinding. He was like, my dad kidney stones. He was a couple times. Here's the guy who drank a teaspoon of water every three days. That's why he'd probably out of him. He never blamed that. Did he blame one of those companies that was given him free and he brought Tina some like that. He felt like they were not going to die. He would tell him if they were ready did, that's trying to blame the protein. It was like nature's way or one of those companies he used to do. They found too much cows. They'd be cowards. I don't know how to play cowards. I don't know how to play cowards. He was walking around with that trener. It was a terrible... That's the bad. I don't know. From what I understand, and like I said, my friend Charlie Armstrong is probably the toughest guy I know. He said it's the worst pain he's ever experienced. I've had teeth drilled with no no bikini. It's not even close to that pain. That's a lot of pain. That's a lot of pain. Yeah, it is. That's a pain. What you take on this whole... I think something from Luke Sando's family posted on Instagram this past week saying that you know, trying to correct a commonly acknowledged cause of death. It was suicide. For my heart, it was suicide. Unfortunately, we lost a really good guy. Now they came out and they posted that it wasn't. It was a hard attack. It's kind of weird that it's like, so like, so many like, where does a couple of months later? When did Luke die? So why don't we couple months now? It's kind of weird that like, you know, the coming out of a sudden, I don't know. What should take on the whole thing? Usually I have a good read on these things. No. These detailed questions are the things that Tyler, the creator, should be looking up for. I just pulled them. Yeah, I just pulled them to post. Yeah. I'm probably the one telling the creators and this is flight from Minnesota. So I'm the Tyler. I'm the creator of the creator today. Hey, the creator. Okay. Then I take that back. So it's rather large and sparety, you know, hard to get. So it's a attack suicide. IMean, you know, at very conflicting, I know, nurse sources were extremely tight. So I was stupid at least. Yeah. IMean, you know, person that was there. So why the family would be doing that is probably a couple of reasons I could think of. IMean, obviously the most obvious is to say face, I suppose. I thought they wanted to make it like, you know, like almost like, give some suicide awareness. That sort of seemed like it was coming out right off the bat. IMean, which was great, you know. Yeah. IMean, you would think, IMean, suicide is a big cause of death in America. IMean, IMean, I think of veteran kills himself every 20 minutes in America, you know, it's bad. So I thought suicide awareness, depression by polar or whatever it would have been, you know, awareness would have been a very positive way for him to think for him to have left. But to now conflict that months later with this heart attack thing, it's kind of curious. And I just can't really understand why the family would do that. And is this supported by an autopsy report? IMean, do we have that? Is that the weird thing? That's the weird thing. The last thing they wrote on this post is please, we ask all of you to look after yourselves, the shitty even more relevant with the knowledge that we lost Luke to heart failure, not suicide. Now, let's, let's read into this a little bit because that's what we did, right? Why did he have heart failure? Or he was experiencinGHeart issues and maybe the doctors told him, hey, you really can't body-bulge. He was so depressed over that, that he killed himself. IMean, is that a possible scenario so that theoretically, you know, the heart, you know, the heart failure might have ultimately been the real reason, you know, that he, you know, that led to what trenspired. But you know what IMean, they could have been both things going on at the same time as what I'm saying. Well, one causing the depression of the other, you know, because Luke admittedly was depressed. He was on flu at Abbey-Aldge show, you know, and they talked about the fact that he was, you know, seeking, you know, help and trying to get medication for his depression, but he couldn't get to the hospital because of the cold COVID thing. You know, they weren't seeing patients. And so is a possible one thing John led to the other? Well, certainly that's possible. ThEQuestion then becomes the manner in which he created a cardiac event that was lethal. IMean, but all types he's going to show obviously isn't bodybuilder is going to show a certain amount of cardio on my opportunity. So maybe they could, maybe they could blame that. Maybe that's where that's coming from. Well, I'm just wondering, you know, what I'm saying is maybe he was in heart failure or maybe, you know, there's different levels of this. You know, if you have like congestive heart failure, it doesn't mean you're dying tomorrow. It just means your heart is on the stren and maybe being that big is not good for it. And what's in this is total speculation here. I'm just trying to figure out why this came out like this. You tell a bodybuilder in the midst of, you know, after placing third at the normal classic and the midst of this, you know, potentially becoming a Mr. Olympia, you can't do this anymore because your heart can't handle it. It's a depressing thought, depressing reality, you know, and for people who can't deal with maybe something that severe emotionally because they have to alter who they are and change you know, some people that's unacceptable to, I don't want to be alive, you know, they've, in their head they think that even though it's a worked way of thinking, but I can understand you take away, you know, everything that this person has become identity wise and maybe that isn't a reason you get suicidal, you know. Well, I think there's also exist a perfect storm of conditions that could have exacerbated some kind of the, you know, ideology suicidal ideology at the moment. IMean, you've got the COVID thing, the gyms are closed, the contest will be in canceling. So, you know, all this stuff was piling up and then he gets potentially speculatively gets the news that, you know, his heart condition is is requirinGHim to step away from competing altogether when he sees maybe there's light at the end of the tunnel and I got one more shot and then you get the will, the rug pulled out. Family, this is all speculation. Yeah, of course, we just want to try to figure out what happened to one of our brothers. Yeah, and you know, this is like a guy that I don't think I've ever heard anyone say a bad thing or bad. Oh, no, so IMean, this hurts the whole industry and we, you know, we want to know why and so thEQuestion then becomes is if the heart, if there was underlyinGHeart condition, what did he do to facilitate his own death that you could attribute to his heart condition? Maybe we're talking about it. When over those here, we talked about, you know, cardiac stren, what could he have done? I'm not sure. That would have facilitated a cardiac event that would have chilled on enough to the degree that the family would say that his cause of death originally reported is not true. All right, now here's another part of the statement that I want you to analyze is because you're a good analyzer. They said Luke was an upcoming star expected by many to become Mr. Olympian the coming years, the body building industries and enormously successful and financially rewarding one. In other sports, it is a requirement that athletes maintain exceptional health and that the promoters, sponsors and organizers actively assist in this. However, we found have found no evidence of this. It has become immensely disappointing to come to the realization that Luke was perhaps a little more than a business opportunity. So who would they refering to do think in this respect? IMean, clearly they're referring to the federation is in the federation. If you're going to accept the analogy to other sports that those are people content with their players' health, which you really can make that as a valid comparator. And because we're talking about individual privateeers competing among other privateeers, this is not a team sport. Nas cars and panning attention to NAS car drivers' health, they're just expected to take care of themselves. Body building, because of its inherent dependency on chemicals and the knowledge of how to use them becomes a little more suspect when these things happen. But I can't imagine you can, in any way, shape or form, conflate Luke sand out of any kind of business arrangement that was going to profit the federation off of hearing back and not reward him. I don't see that happening. I don't think any Mr. Olympia would contest that that would contend that that's what happened to them. So I don't know what that's coming from. I think this is really unfortunate because Luke did kill himself. It behoots all of us to know why. And maybe it could prevent one of us from no or enable one of us who know somebody else and exhibiting the exact same stuff to go over somebody's house one night not going to dorm and say, you know, oh, you okay, man? Let's not an hour and a half of beer. You know, I think these things can be avoided if you know really really what I just see. I just can't see with what's been posted. How the family is now months later denouncing the suicide cause of death and insertinGHeart disease. But I think it's another damn thing they wrote on the original part of the post. Luke's unexpected death said shock waves throughout the body building fraternity. No official cause of death was released, which resulted in unfounded speculation in rumor. We can only assume this was the reason for the inaccurate post, according to know how Luke lost his life. Such post discussions and comments of course as additional and unnecessary suffering. So IMean, do you think that they just got the autopsy report back? IMean, is that what why you think this was posted now? And that's why why it's a thing listed it? Or IMean, I don't know, it's so hard to say, you know, and obviously only the family really knows. And I guess it's disrespectful, but it's at the same time he was a public figure and people just wanted to know and there was so many fans who just loved him. So everyone wants to just an answer. I'm sure as much as the family does. Well, plus he's one of us, you know, we all do the same thing. So if you're just tired of it, we need to know why, how would Luke, you know? IMean, that just part of the deal of being a mummess. You know, long time for them to release this statement too. IMean, IMean, when Dallas and MacArthur died, we had a cause of death, right? Like a week later, I think. Yeah, autopsy results take less than a week, usually in a couple of days. Unless the toxicology report, you know, pain there in, which might take another few days or a week, but this is months later. And that's just, I have no explanation for no one's calling me up and saying, hey, man, what happened? I'm speculating, purely on what's in front of me. You have it. You had a very much closer contact to someone close to him. And that's what they told you. So why now thEQuestion is going to be running around our whole industry? Why now, months later, is the family changing the story? Or at least, at least releasing the story. I really just releasing the story. You know, I'm not with the initial story, you know, because it was an accurate. I would have, I would have made a statement right away. IMean, right? You know, it could have given me the statement. I would have read it on the air. IMean, I'm done it for unfortunately for too many other, you know, bodypos that have passed their families of content. IMean, I still talk to Rich Piano's mom. IMean, older time. So it's, you know, it's sad, you know, but obviously this was, this was the anniversary of his birthday, I guess recently, it would have been 32, which is shame. And how come you know, a lot of celebrities join and both Hollywood and sports. A lot of people died 32, 33. You notice that? I think we are, it's like a kind of an eerie like age like that people do the blue sheet died at 33. I think, uh, farly died at 33. What do you think there is about, like, that 32, 33 age? I think it's like, you know, is it like people who live too hard and it kind of catches up to them? Derek Anthony was in that 31, 32, you know, your herds, every time. Yeah, more. I think it was 31. Yeah, IMean, pollution was doing speedballs in the fricking right here. That's different story, right? Exactly. IMean, yeah, that's living life a little hard. So yeah, it kind of seems like if you, well, you know, 30, 35 was the original lifespan of man back in the day. We could just say our natural life, you know, the ones who make it the 80, your bucket of system. So, um, you know, and I think it's one of those things my dad just said, tell me, look, if you make it to 30, you're probably going to make it to 50. If you make it to 50, you're probably going to make it to 60. And if you make it to 60, you're probably making it to 80. So, you know, you're making it to 80, and that's good. Oh, yeah, maybe I forgot a few months to go. But um, I don't know where you got that logic from, but it's it seems we worked for him, work for you're probably the statistics that are out there. I'm sure. I'm using this session. Now my dad, IMean, you know, well, how old was sell? 80, 48, 88, my dad, 84. So, you know, they made it, they won. A lot of guys do, you know, yeah, you know, the thing about, you got to look at it this way, about 280,000 people die a day in America. A lot of ads, a lot of them. So, you know, that's where bound to know a few of them here in there. IMean, and you think about it, that seems like an awfully big number, 280,000 people, maybe 180,000, but it's one of the two. Either way, a big number, okay? So, so you would think with the number being that big, it sort of gives perspective to how many people, 330 million are living in the country because if we lose an over 100,000, 200,000 a day, I don't know, did you hear of anybody dying in the last week? You know, IMean, I get to your answer, every saying, it's also means that the funeral of business is booming. Well, it's going to, it's, it's inevitable. IMean, you got to do something with people, whether or not, so, you know, it's a great business to get into because you're waiting for a business in the funeral of business. You can't go wrong with people. Well, yeah, well, I was here because the light is facilitating all that. That's exactly that. So, yeah, I don't know, man. Sometimes, sometimes people get, it's like these Joe Biden moments, you know, you like, you just forget everything around, you know, what the fuck am I doing? I don't know. On a better note, I'm like, I feel good note. I'm going to be actually, I actually get you to help interview this guy. I don't know. Did you see the guy who won the NPC men's open body building and classic physique overall in Tampa? No, did you see this guy? I did not. I thought you were a hunter hunter or a brother. Now, we'll talk about hunter in a second. We already did that. This is my more, this is way more impressive than hunter or brother. This guy. Oh, you guys, that's like Dean Tornevin. Yeah. He hacked his 4th or 5. He's front Puerto Rico. So, I don't know how well good his English is, but I'm going to get him I'm going to get him on an interview. And so, I think maybe I should get you just to taste. I get trenslate. Yeah, it's I'm saying in case like, I, you know, there's a lost in trenslation type thing. But he's awesome. This guy was told by doc. There's like John that he would never be able to walk that he should get a wheelchair, that he shouldn't work out because he got brutal bones. And he just said F U basically. Yeah. Yeah. He's got to be the most proportioned 4 foot 5 guy I've ever seen, right? IMean, he's teetering on a door right there. IMean, so he definitely has, you know, he has some kind of dysplasia, you know, syndrome. You can see it in his, in his quad. But he looks really good. IMean, he looks, IMean, like I say is I'll show you some of the shots on his Instagram. IMean, he's got really good symmetry. Look at this kid. I'd like to see a post down between him and Flavio back in. Yeah. He, I got used to your Flavio. It looks like Lou Ferrigno compared to this guy. Look at him. He has him with Angela Daymad teen. Look, they're on their knees. And they've almost begun. But he's right. Good. Look at his calves. He's got every double lethal. Yeah. He's just, Mike, Mike, Mike, Mike can sign him. Look at him. Look at that. You got to see why. Wait, but I shaved this picture of him next to to Brandon Curry. You're going to think Brandon Curry's check. He'll own you. Oh, you're so cool. Blackman would hanGHim off his rear rear mirror. Hello, with that picture with the brand. There's a picture. Oh, here it is. Here it is. Look at that. Brandon looks like she killed on you, right? It's bad. I would say, shack. So, 12. IMean, the, the fact that he's wearing a plaid suit also makes him look three times. Yeah. Yeah. Can you imagine shack was in that picture too? How fun. I think shack's footed might be big of an emperor. This guy is proportioned. Look at this. Look at this. Look at this. Look at this. He's very proportioned. Look at that. Look at that. He's waist. Yeah. He's got a good structure. He looks five, three there. Yeah. Yeah. John's like, it's at least five, three there. Look at this. Yeah. What? Blackman would definitely get my contract with his back in the day. Anyway, congratulations. I love to, I love to see feel good stories like that because you know what? There's not enough feel good stories out there. I think John stuck. We got him, uh, John is frozen there. Let's, let's see if we can get him back here. So look, you know, there's so much craziness in the world going on right now. But I am, yeah. You know, I told this like, I want to see good will stories coming out. I love to see the hunt of the broadest story which John I'll talk about with humans. I love to see this guy's story. You know, I hate to see terrible stuff come out, you know, because it's depressing enough what's going on in the world that we can't communicate with each other. But, you know, at least when we have stories like this, feel good stories. IMean, that makes it a little worth it. It makes it like, well, all right, you know what? It's that we're not so bad after all. We're, you know, we got some good stuff going on. The Olympia is still planned, you know, for the end of the, that's great. New York pros seems to be, you know, going to go off this year. Although, I think, like, I think you're becoming from Florida. You have to quarantine for 14 days. There's some crazy laws. The thing I feel bad about is that the international competitors can't come in. I think you're all, I was just sayinGHow the, it's a shame that like international guys can't come and compete now because they can't get into the US. You know, there's all thesEQuarantines and then they're strictly flights and everything like that. But oh, Logan's here. We're right. Come on, little camera. Come on, little camera. Here's my big boy. I don't do what are you doing? He's discovered face time. He knows face that he face times grandma all day long, even with his insane houses are very lucky. What's that video? Who's on a tape? Who's on what's up? What's he got there? He's got my old phone so it's like a clone of my phone, basically. So every time it rings he answers it now, there's Mr. G. Hey, what's up, guys? Get him. Who's this old guy here? He's broken Blundbell. It's the the boss. Logan. No, baby, Logan. Logan, shut the face time. Oh, oh, no. Hey, Logan, I hear you. Logan, you like where wills? He loves where wills. Can you give a house, Mr. G, do a where will? How? Yeah, do a where will foul. All right. It's a part. It's a part. It's a part where will. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Where are you? Where are you? Yeah, yeah. You mean here for a kid, over. All right, we're going to do it now. No wonder he's not answering us. Oh, no. Oh, you're, I do your where will. Oh, oh, oh, oh. What do you, I'm, how about you, you, I'm. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Hey, hey. He's at the aliens now. He sees this off of where will. It's on the aliens. He's all aliens are way better than where will. I don't know. He go real fair. No, no, no, no. I got to do a shout here. Take this. I got to put this on here. This is what happened here. Okay. Hey Dave, can we chaos? Just like life. Yep. Yeah. Okay. I want to miss you. You want Mr. G to see this? He said, all right. You want to show you his phone down. His self-stud. Yeah. Did you like Mr. G's cookies? You ate his cookies? Oh yeah. You had the the Oreo cookie ones? Yeah. I did. You did. He liked him. He said he liked him. Oh, he did. He'll go play grandma. Yeah. Mr. G, I got the cookies. They were great. Thank you. I got more. I got other things. The issue is it's so hot now. We do the ones that we, well, it's the most companies don't do a short. IMean, short. Any chocolate dip, there or anything now? Like, Bellymaw is this stuff? You can't get them during. Oh, he'll jump left. What happened? Yeah. He's wrapped up here. Like Bellymaw said they sell in the stores. You don't, yeah. During the summer, you can't get them. Well, the chocolate dip, like, does he? What does he have? I'm filling the Oreo filling you have in there. And the cookies. The Oreo filling is a, is a, a, grass fed butter. The carry gold butter, right? We use with, with powdered sugar. And the species vanilla whey protein in there. I think it's too thick. I think you should make it thinner. I don't think you need to, I don't think you need to thick layer of it. Oh, that's pretty old. Yeah, I can make it as thin as thick as I want, you know. You actually use the, uh, protolize pudding. Protege in that. You want to be thicker. It'll be thicker. And you know, you probably won't need to put as much sugar in there. Either. Here he is. He's back. Hold on. You want me to put that in? Yeah, use the, try the protolize and with the, uh, for the filling for the Oreo, vanilla stuff in there. If it will happen, if I use that, if you use that, then, uh, the, the powdered sugar is, is, is real, has a lot of, uh, air volume to it. Yeah. And that's what gives it a vibe. If I use that, it's going to be, it's a bigger, but I think it's better than the wave isolate because I think you're going to get a, it's going to be thicker. And you don't have to use as much. I think it's, it's too much in there. You probably spending, Mr. G doesn't spare any expense making these cookies. But I bet they're pretty expensive because that's filling is there's a lot of that filling. I don't think you need as much. All right. IMean, look, I'm trying to make a high grade, uh, probably, it's a high grade. I got it. IMean, no, because I don't get it. The sample. So I have to get it. I have to get it. IMean, you know, what you're talking or how I could help and use my money. Can you call your, your people down there in Mexico and get a few guys to move up here to the side. They can for Mr. G. I could help them immensely, but you know, I'm really, highly, highly American citizens with their American citizens. And then they, then they work. It's not, no, not that it. Not the work. But it won't. That's what I was. I see him. That's what I'm so object. I don't have it. I'm comfortable with this of the situation here that he knows that he's not sending me any cookies. Ah, no. Now it's all right. John. John, I'll, I'll. No wait. Here you are. Here you are within issue. Okay. I have 50 years of culinary experience in my, in my Cache that you could have free access to anywhere you walk is your my brother. And, and, and, and, and, and, and you know, I could help you out here, but, you know, you're not, you're not sending me any cookies. Why don't I do what the fuck you're doing? Ah, you're doing it. It's a bit of a little hot. I was getting it. I'll say, I'll, the only reason why, because I'm not a student. Because I know they're on the racks, they're cooling. That's why you have a set. No, I get the, I have to, hold on. Hold on. I'm just feeling the other one is for you. All right, you, you, you fill his order. We held, held his breath. But while you send those orders, Mr. Dick. I'll send it to him. Before we lose Jimmy, because we always have him for like five minutes, I got to hit the story of it. Oh, we were in the rain. Come on, Jimmy. Let's go. One two three, ran. First of all, the first one is the first one. The candy stones are passed, correct? Yes. So what happened was, first of all, I want to thank everybody. Because you posted that on, yeah, I don't know, the media somehow. Right? So I was getting full close to my house, saying, I hope you're right. Texas, Jimmy, I'm like, wow, how does everybody know? I had fucking goodness stones, right? And I'm getting, I'm getting all my friends. I'm like, hey, so one, one, my friends, I said, you know, he said they posted it on the show. So then I was getting a lot of, you know, comments on your post. And I just want to, you know, I really want to thank everybody. Because I really, I was touched by all the people concerned about me in the hospital, you know, with the stones. So that was very nice. I have to say it touched my heart. We have very good. I got a shirt on there. It's coming to the mail. Okay. Coming to the, let me, I had no one. Yeah. You know, Jimmy, to bull on it and everything. You know, I got a stand up. I can't see it. You're too fast. Yeah. It says hit the gym muscle mobster dot com. Jimmy, the bull. Jimmy the bull. Yeah. Did you put it back? Get his brother, make that. Bobby, Bobby, Bobby, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've put some hats. I'm not a hat guy, but I got the hats coming, you know, I'll take the colors and black and, you know, on the, on the, on the, very nice. So it's all about, you know, muscle master and, you know, my trash, I hope things are going to come soon. It's gonna come soon. Now, you know, I had no idea what you should do. You day was not gonna send you a couple of shirts. Huh? Where? What was that? What idea? Where? No, we can't see you. We can hear you though. Jimmy. No, they're nice. They killed the shirts. They're nice, right? Do you hear me? Yeah, no idea what? I had no idea you went through the, you know, you could go in. I had to, I had to, I had to, I can't, we can hear everyone else can hear John fine. What's that? What's that? He was going through this game. I think he should. IMean, I hear it. See him, but I don't. Yeah, we can see it. Hold on. Let's get Greg's problems say settled. Jimmy, hold on one second. Hold on one second. Greg, you got to turn the little camera icon. We go through every single time. Yeah. You can never go. Where could go? Yeah. Something popped up in the screen, but it's not you. That's for sure. Looks like it's a circle. And so I'm, it's a cartoon of him and middle. Yeah. I don't fucking see this shit. I didn't even know. I got it. What about you, Grumpy All Men, we are? Yeah. Jimmy, what, Jimmy, what did you give him? You'll fall now. So, I can't hear you. Well, Greg's gettinGHis camera going. Can you just, can you? Can you? Can you? Can you? Can you? Can you? Can you? Can you? I don't do it with him only or he should be only comes in. You know what? I'm not kidding. You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to give you. Jimmy, I'm going to kick you out of the studio. You're like, I can't hit him. I'll kick him out. He's getting nice. We want to record. We want to send the recording of this to stream your own. Yeah. Let's just tell you fucked up system. Okay. We go through this every fucking week. It's a game that I can't. It's a game that I can't hear nothing. It's not us. It's got to be them. It's got to be the top. It's got to be the top. No, Greg is using 34-year-old technology. This is his girlfriend's phone, though. Okay. No, it's like laptop. We can't even want to phone. Do you have a webcam when you laptop? Yeah. I get a good webcam. It's the one I use all the time. What I'm going to do is this is what I'm going to do. Greg, I'm going to kick you out of here. And when you re-sign in, make sure you choose the right webcam. You actually have an option before you actually tell him. You probably picked the wrong webcam or you didn't pick any webcam. All right. We got rid of them. I'll come back. So, Mr. J. Can you turn your camera sideways, Mr. G.C. you like the rest of us? Thank you. Yeah, IMean, we got to be sure. I'm all about seeing you. I'm all about symmetry. Yes. Yeah, we had the storm yesterday. You got it today. On event pool. We had nothing on the west coast here. That was good. My pool is cool. It leaves, though. I got to clen that out. Oh, you don't have electricity? No, IMeant the tren station. She waited for me. I sure. Oh, he can't. What? You know, we're going to be used to tomorrow. Now you sound like you're in a tin can. Can you sit in here us now? I can't you. Only me. Jimmy. Jimmy. I should have shot. I'm going to shoot you. I got it. You have this beautiful came up. I see everybody. But only here. Turn the phone side. I'm shooting. Did you hear John say that to you? No, I saw him. Did you hear John say that to you? Why did you and GreGHave problems with this? And there's even Mr. G. He can understand. Has no problem with this. I, you look. You gave me the. You gave me the app. I, I hit on the app. It came on beautifully. Had no problem. But it's the sounds messed up. I don't know. I don't know. I'm going to. I'm going to. I hear you. No problem. All right. Can you can you just talk? They don't have to. You don't have to hear them. We hit. Oh, let's get right in here. Can you. It's great. Good job. Hey, great. Have to show us. I've got to. We've looked in. All right. Here we go. Jimmy's going to tell the story now about what happened. What is, what is, uh, what is, uh, give us the whole story. Oh, that's what all story was. You know, I, I basically, I get these fucking things like every year. Dave, I don't understand. It's like I didn't know that. I didn't know that about you. Yeah, like the lasT4 years. I don't understand it. You know, so every time I go. What's your question? Oh, now we lost it. But I'm a quarter. How much water do you drink a day? How much water do you drink a day? Well, I'm not really. Now he hears you. He hears you. He just gave it. He just gave it. He said, you like, couldn't you hear you before, right? Steve Blackburn would say it's not the water. It's, it's, it's vitamin C says the man who walks around with a stren or pee and he'll be fucking out. He's a blackman carries around a little stren. Well, just not. No, IMean, when he's got me, I hear you. I don't see you though. Yeah, you're, you're, what do you think? You're video feed. Really? Yeah, you video disappeared. It was kind of. You must be hit at what it's done. I don't think I'm now. I'll kick you out again. You come back, guys. I kicked you out again. Here we go. Where can I say something? Yes. Well, you can. I was in a, uh, C side height. George, I was going to call you, but I didn't have much time. I had to go in and go out. It's, I stopped at a gas station and if a guy named Mike at Speedway, I think it's called was like, oh, my God. Oh, he's, he was freaking out. He goes, I love you guys. I watched the after I was shown. Did you hear what Mr. J? And I said, no, I didn't have time because I only went down there. They, it did get my niece to come back. You know what IMean? I was with my girlfriend. And he said, oh, fuck. I watched that. Oh, I see after I was show. So Mike at Speedway in Tom's river. There you go. Mike. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He's right up to New的时候 and generally make his meal a shredblo or a shred on our steamed meal, we just heard Greg. And we sell it from from from Star Trek, it's a great to teach yourHayrow Dragon game. Who are eminning, Geoff. Come back in. Hmm. Another personal partings. I'm telling you a big tape to stream yours, you got to do it. I don't think credit the problem. I never had problems. Normally, I get another Things Take to lets talk about. Listen, I'm in fucking Walmart down there and some fucking guy stands at the top of the aisle It's a second time. It's happening in middle of the aisle. Some guy stands at the top of the aisle And he goes, hey, make this an attorney look and he goes, you know is because I have I have a face mask, right? And it's a flag face mask. It's sometimes it's loose Sometimes my nose doesn't come all the way out like this, but it'll be like loose So it goes to me get your fucking mask on Wow, right and I said to what the fuck are you talking to bro? And it goes to me, you know nose is setting it out your mask and I said Listen, I don't have no coronavirus. I told him and he goes, yeah nobody's got coronavirus It's all hoaxed because you must be a fucking Trump supporter guy damn it Oh So I got pissed I'm like my girlfriend will tell you so I started fucking running in front You get all scared and you ran down in exile, right? I go and fuck in there. There's no black people and I'm like fuck Trump fuck the Democrats Not Trump. I said fuck Joe Biden. He's a fucking dead body. I fucking support Trump Fuck you you sort of flag mask get ill because that's all yet He had to balls because he sort of flag mask because you're all you have like American flag on your face Yeah, but what the fuck is he it's different because door comes up to you and she's excuse me sir You know you can you just put that up But I don't need no customer and we did it all nasty and like a coward. He waited till I was in the middle of the aisle And he's top of the eye So when you ran after what he do he ran away? I was like starting to snap you know what IMean? I was gonna start full fucking kids off the aisle It's all mad IMean shit. I was getting really mad my girlfriend calm me down But the people who are laughing because I could say Joe Joe Biden's a third body nobody's a fucking I was freaking because I didn't like that. I felt like I don't like a coward bro. I hate a coward Yeah, well that I'm surprised he said you were an in person He probably wanted you to put your feet and soon Yeah, but I was fuckinGHe's at the top of the aisle. I was in the middle of the aisle But what dude you really changed you know he must have saw me going on the eyes You really say but just because the nausea was a kind of hanging a little bit like that People and that's that's the same person Greg that will you know during Nazi Germany would it turn you into the the gas shop Yeah, right that's the problem I would have turned the mint Two magic so lady on the news took a couple hot coffee and doing it guys face because you didn't have a mask on Yeah, it's all of it. It's all of it a fucking is this right I was in the 7 11 Greg same thing at the 7 11 I walked the 7 11 I was in the truck. I forgot the mask You know saying yeah Turn it around and walk on the back of the truck. I said oh fuck it. I'll just go buy a mask into the 7 11 Well, I'm there you know, I don't pick deal You open the door to count as right there to free feed away I go in there. I go to get the American come online behind this lady I don't know if I tell you the story Dave. I'm not so in the ladies she's got there, you know the the fucking Filta mask on the fucking of the gloves I'm not Yeah, yeah, they were up to here the fucking I'm standing a seven long gone. All right, you know, she's a little fucked up with the virus. I understand you know You know, you know, you know, I put your credit card or thing and she hits the fucking number like this She hits the number and then backs away like that Then he's back up so we're gonna backs away It's the number backs away and I'm looking at it. I'm going with the fuck is this lady though? I says man What's wrong, man? Look at you? She said no mask no gloves you're all over the place You're in the screen. I said you're taking it easy come down They got a man's behind me. I'm gonna fuck the mess you know mask it I should you know, I get the virus in three seconds lady as you ran I go around here to sign up like my coffee and I'm starting the burn up now because I can't think this fucking What the virus is doing to me look at the Over this fucking Oh Stop All right, so IMake it a coffee on the other side of the counter and the fuck I also like just all losing it Right, I'm going to notice IMake my coffee on the other you know this is it was like eight nine Guys in the store like union work is a shade So I turn around I go get all what this is bullshit. I think this mask is bullshit Oh, this whole thing is both I said you're all shit Every fuck nobody is looking at you Everybody just put their fuckinGHead down Nobody would say what I was fucking losing it at the coffee machine We're laughing they were laughing I was black people crazy people in the store and I would do a laughing They they were like yeah, you know because I couldn't stop I was I snap bro, I Let's take the ball you don't find the dead body, nobody should vote for that man nobody would nobody was laughing Or when I was doing it I was fucking kidding It was coming out of my mouth. I was like so fucking agabell That was the beginning of the That's got me mental look I even got my motorcycle fucking count on top Now I know where to go find the team he brought the camera Everything kind of squeeze a word in here two things they send them some fiber lies because that fucking toilet paper that much Yeah Thing is my my motorcycle Jimmy held up my motorcycle my motorcycle that I'm stopped at a light Look To the park next to me there's a lady when a mask on she's in the car by herself Runger rolled up She's it's 300 degrees out She's got the mask on and the face shield That's a new it's done that the new thing they want to make you a god She's got the mask the face shield Yeah, when does the road up she's in the car buyer stuff her hands around his fear and will is a fucking cigarettes picking out Crazy This virus got people They are so scared These people are so fucking scared I refuse to wear that fucking mask I won't wear it anywhere Yeah, the hearing So The only place anybody said something was Walmart and you said you she said you got to have a mask I said I have a medical condition I can't wear one she was well, and we can make an appointment for you to come in before everybody I was like, oh no thank you, I'm right I'm good and I can't think you're going to work You're lucky in a court In yeah in New York, man you can't do it. They don't fucking it, but you can't even enter that building without a fucking The call of the cop you call the cops like You don't have to do it You're a medical doctor You say you don't have to worry about the cops in New York George the people attack you You know how to do it Yeah I know It's in New York I I tell me six feet six feet because I went around the corner and he went around the corner You know I got a face Go be here I hope people listen the fact that someone would say something like that to Jimmy or to Greg They don't look like wimpy guys like you know They look like tough bad ass like I wouldn't have the audacity if I was a regular guy to like just you start like Spouting out you know, you know, you know rules to you guys and putting you down IMean you could pull gun out and blow their fucking brains out. IMean people are crazy It's coming it's coming. I'm telling you somebody's gonna do something. Yep It's people today are taking it upon themselves You know why because you got people like made the blos you'll say and you know Snitches gets stitches will not in this case snitches get props, you know, IMean like it's on really is out there saying Yeah, oh, yeah It's not a germany again. I'm telling you what a party here. The call of cops on you mean while the blosio locked up all of Caronipations and the nursinGHomes This is how this is how people want to know how how did not he germany happen how did all these people Give up all the and it because that's what happens they become they come Braves Just look at what you go slow how that was the most recent look at you I saw that that woman who did that video Yeah, it was pretty interesting she basically said it was exactly the same they did create the same scenario and that's that's how they wound up in You know with all their issues there Exactly, you gotta have rats stone. That's how it works. There's always rats. Do you know that? Those fucking Nazi kids and all that shit. I know that I was a hitler you know and he tells you those Those kids were very washed those kids were fine work, but I'm talking about the people who who just decided People of rainwark these people of rainwark these people of rainwark they really believe that this virus is so Fucking it's like that's floating in the air You know that's what they believe it's floating in the air. I think it's I think it's floating in Jimmy's urinary tract. That's what happened Well now I know Toyle paper crisis Jimmy had to pee out the fucking coronavirus Jimmy tell the story about the hospital By the way guys, here's one of these This was the small one, too I don't know how we got it at it's a little sharp Jimmy tell us what you tell us Here's the other one. You only read the table of the two kidney stones he peed out Black ones with a little bigger than this one You'll be reading you can pat the whole that side just because you used to do that actually You can wet towel that's right where he's Tell him what that He used to hang out he's to hang a metal I'm having a major scotch taper it's paper a rack from his penis and try to lift it up What's that called shame way hey I was there I spotted I'm gonna be forced I wasn't gonna want to respond and then with that all right, so when did the pain start you my Jimmy when you're gonna Again, he can't hear us this guy can you hear me All right, IMean I can't Yeah, yeah, maybe Greg can travel I'm taking a man again. He and you know, I'm driving crazy every time I can't come out too This is gonna be texting me. I can't see you it's his phone it has nothing to do with with with with the stream here I guarantee it well Yeah, probably So Tell the story about when at the hospital when they tried to put the IV in them No, they're waiting for are we waiting for the story every time we you know he comes back He he he distracts you Just tell one two three go Jimmy yeah, right No, Greg is the only one He can only hear Greg so Greg what's what's going on with you in the throw everything good? Yeah, you know, I still have to go do all these checkups and everything so so far so good But I'm still healing I got scar tissue physically got two fingers down my throat all the time right IMean But you know You alternative is better IMean well, you'll turn wait you'll turn it as worse You know and so yeah, I call you back Tomorrow I become officially 60 years old so Oh, wow August fifth huh August fifth You're glad you have your birthday man. Wow. I don't really celebrate my birthday Yeah, it's let me do I do I but but when you can I am right behind your brother and October That's crazy. I can't believe both of you guys What was it you already 60 right and so is Jimmy the bull yeah, yeah, I'm 62 I'll be the young guy How how how old are you? 52 Oh Back What here we go one two three go tell them the kid destroy the kid he's done story Okay, yeah, IMean I'm in a middle of a tropical storm 80 mile an hour winds up I just tell the story don't don't delay looking away right now I a big bridge of a tree just flew by my window don't delay help the story Anybody right you saw some fucking broad on a broom Miss golf Do you know Can't stand this anyway When you text that Monday you said you bump the show up instead of two say right of all the fucking days I get up in a morning I got I got like a pain down in my lower tests this over here Right, but my penis right so I'm back or shit. I'm feeling the pain I go I'm out please lord. I hope I hope that him with that thick of his because I had so many of them ready I know what it is now. I see you know okay. So yeah, so I'm I You don't even know it all day if you know so anyway, you know as as the hours were passed a mile like 10 11 was getting really bad. I I had I call my friend Jake I said yo you got to come tell me to the fuckinGHospital I said I'm going to I'm going to be a pain. I was on my knees and the kitchen You know just The shower tried to shower to relieve the pain and everything and so he came over he threw me in a car I'm laying in the fucking car my feet all over the dashboard I was so good pain then he goes down to the beach drops me off and he's he's weights outside the bird's room Like I go in and I I start yelling at her Please, I'm in the extreme pain And when you got to check in so I see check in I says I can't even stay up on my fucking you mean check it That's my dad. That's my dad right there In the service here. Yeah, I want it. Yeah, it's the I like I'm it's fucking extreme pain, Dave So I got you guys coming go to the tree. I got a tree so I go in some fucking old guy All right, I got a sit down and chair and I'm all fucked up I'm fucking I'm in pain. I'm on a chair like this. I'm like I see us we all thesEQuestions and she had he was having been out of the country Like I said I just got a complete I said Because it's how we got the blood pressure and he goes oh my god I Right so then they had cool Jake because he was outside just you gotta calm your friend down And he's fuckinGHis I think Country Like I'm fucking You're asking me if I was out of the state Are you kidding so finally they'll come out in the very cave into the fucking version I'm going to go in here. I'm all over the country. I got my feet up all right here I'm fucking all I'm all over the fucking dirty And I'm the fucking nice comes over she says come down It's just come down. It's a you can't be because we got to give you an IV I ain't getting what IMean I don't know why they Well, I think give it to you just the case. I don't need I need a catch-in I want to know what I'm on in it That's why I said I don't have a fucking IV I'm telling you I got a learned this game around it. I was like six-thirds right now just no spoke over to me And she's got I'm on the fucking gunney Dave like this, right? You have your mask on Jimmy no mask right? So I'm on the gunning the lady comes along and she stopped pressing on my stomach like this This is I'm I'm I looked at Jake because he was standing like I said this is hard I just let me because you see me I need it this I'm I can't even see straight and also finally I think they took your nasty It put me in the casket. I was squirming the guys tell me they still the casket I couldn't even stay still in the casket. I'm fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking I'm fucking ring I'm doing everything right so fine. What on Jimmy Jimmy Jimmy? What would you what would you like compare the pain to like what kind of pain would it be? Holy shrapnel. Okay, I'm burnt. It would it would feel like a somebody took one of those Roter-rooted things. Yeah, shove that up my ass and held it That's what I felt because you got a piss and shit constantly So real imagine you're you yeah because it's in it's in the lower and send me your dad's coming down the tube It's in the Tesla you've got a shit Pete same time. I'm constantly on the ball I couldn't even go to the bathroom anyway. I'd not the left You know, I'm out of here exactly So they give me back in here and I have to wait wait wait So the lady finally gave me some pain killers, you know or lay a token and I'm waiting nation Then they come back up with the fucking the results that the casket says yeah She says you you know you got it you got a kidney stone. I says well, that's good Because the one guy there knows he thought I would have a fuckinGHeart attack This guy's having the heart of that was a male mercy. I said a heart attack I said the pays are my balls not my chest You see me bent on the whole and they shit like this walking around What the fuck the fuck the fuck the nut down here That's what you got to watch those fucking asses man. Go there. No, you know what's gonna happen So she can't back up to go down listen, now this is around. I don't know for me if the room She says you go home. She says to good news is that we'll see any more stones in there There's the last one. I said thank God. It's four years now. I get him over here Come she says it's possible she said three four centimeters whatever So I go home. I was in pain poppin pain killers Trigger be a drinking water fucking everything I could possibly try to flush this shit out I fuckinGHad those I pain all night to fucking 12 One two to morning I'm sitting on a ball and try to poop by cutting it off as the pain so bad IMean my hands started swollen up. I said you know what I'm not even gonna make it true to fucking night I just know why I said I can't take the pay I was praying to God It's a boy, please stop this this is because I said eight this morning. It's two in the morning I can't I can't hell in the more I can't you know So finally six seven in a morning I get up and I'm like I don't feel the pain I'm like holy shit. Okay, maybe it's the painkiller maybe it ain't I don't know let me go piss You know so I get on the fucking toilet I piss and then I feel I think come out of that shoot like a fucking like a you know You know, come right here I was like oh Shit and I look at the toilet and there it is this fucking stone I said it about the I thought you passed to them now. I thought you passed to me. Oh, and I was one that was one big one Dave I had AI went to toilet I took it out and I put it on a counter It's split and yeah, I had to get it out because they didn't feel the V8 So the only way to get it. I was not gonna stick my hand in it So I said it to my doctor. Did you put a glove on at least? No, I just went right away That's Three here from black me I was gonna send one to blackman to one to you. So anyway I said it's a trener in his bag you could have handed you the strener Actually, you would have held it for you. You know this one you could one you put that thing on the Put it in the store and he back I bet he still I bet he sells it. Yeah, but someone in the fanzel by it Well somebody on buy it. No, anyway I when I left the V8 John they give you a stack of papers like this You know, and then they give you those fucking paint cups, you know with the screen looks like a you know We just clen paint or whatever Suppose to piss you that I could you piss to that I'm on the fucking ball and we fucking five minutes Sorry, I took out the V8. I true right in the fucking garbage man talk Thank God I said it might so I said the picture of my doc. I said it to you two day So I said it to me now My doctor goes Jimmy if you could pay a stat you could pass anything don't worry Yeah, I was gonna say most people probably what I needed surgery to pass that it's going Printed their picture out and now he hasn't on a wall on a frame Yeah, when people come home and have to think it's a meteorite from space I said it man He gets them all the time too when I said him a picture and he was like how to hell that you passed that Because he gets more like little like little ones. I could grain a suit a little bigger God I thought the stone I got those stones were big when I saw them now I am when I hear that that was two stones were one stone. I'm hard To my dick her tear in that It was almost the size of an eraser head a little bullet an eraser now when you pass when you pass a stone like that Jimmy, are you instantly out of pain? Is it like all of a sudden now you feel great? Dave like just instant fucking relief You know There's any a dick hurt from that thing going through there with all the Manges I'll tell you what hurts John. It's not the penis Because you know I blew so many loads of my life. I got a nice canal Yeah, it's just I got a nice you know I got a nice such canal. So anyway, where it hurts is when it comes down the the uterus You know into the lower I don't think you have the uterus I know Like having a fucking baby what's the difference? So the year What is it called? ETR No, I think it's a year later is there was the real pain It comes out of the kidney into the urnir and then it goes into the urnir Then it goes out Yeah, maybe it may be it is the urethra but it's probably the part that you know the the small part You know Right, where is the pain occurring is the pain occurring in your rearthra or in the urnir Well the urnir Like you said it's after the urnir blatter is the stone in your bladder or was the stone in your kidney the kid The guests the the first two which is what it does your ever your ear You're gonna comes down out and then it goes into the bladder and you got like a little release for pain at that moment because it's in the bladder And then it comes down that second you know Yeah, that's so that the it's not the bladder that it went at her it's or in the kidney It's when it's coming down that PIPeline. That's the husband has a feeling you are it What's this like down like almost ready to come out? You know, you don't really feel it you know, IMean like it's when it's right ready to shoot out. It's only coming down that PIPe. It's a it's a son of a bit man And so so you're so my answer your the answer to your question is no my penis thing so the the PIPe is sore from it scraping its way through that there You know, I never I never did so I just but I'll be sore for a couple days. You could feel like in the kidney area, you know, you could feel like you're sore because it you know, it's just supposed to have a A meteorite traveling through you're fucking reading it. IMean, so it was this bad man is for you. You're so Hey, guys, so people get there's the right so as your your physiology so the top part of your kidneys You see it goes from the kidneys those that long tube as your your reader down into your your bladder and they goes out of your your reach. There you are exactly I'm fixing my dick right now. Just hearing you So day, what did you make it? Well, you know, you probably probably eatinGHot dogs doesn't help. I'm sure right. No, they they told me it's calcium deposits, but I don't drink water, you know, so the nurse you know when I was leaving the the emergency was she said, I think some James you have the At leasT3 bottles of day at least minimum. She says, you know, what are you going to be games James James. What's your call your James. Yeah Well, that's my that's my birthday. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. Anybody ever in my life call you James. I know I know I don't know if you're much I have a couple friends that call me James. Yeah, yeah, and Yeah, my ask your officers show call me. He's a better diver. Oh, it's not stuff that's a great diagram. What I didn't know that Jimmy you you Jimmy the books. Whoever know you was. I know yeah, well, it's you know, my my that's what my birthday was James. I'm right up until my father started losing consciousness. He always would have you know, always would ask me, how's your friend to bull. What was one of the hot of. I never knew he never knew he likes but they give me a name there is that that's a better picture. Oh, not to better picture guys. So yeah, he's up there and then you can see the your your owner here, which is usually where the stones occur, but then they can also occur outside of the bladder when you're going through the whole system. You might have had the ones you're there for the year or something like that. Well, no, it was in the kidney because they were had to work as we took the cask in a sort and that too. Right. So it was in there. Yeah, so the thing is that the fuck the thing is if you don't you know if it's too big and it gets caught in that too. You're in serious trouble. Who happens to the urine starts to the back up and then might be right kidney was already swollen. They told me it was swollen already. Just from that stone, but I didn't have the urine blockage, but that can happen and that's that's dangerous. No, what are they doing? They can be going that big. He used the old I think black man had it done right the ultrasound. They would be break it up with weight with sound waves. And my only one that could still see get fucking kidney. Yeah, so they break it up all like the the last time I had it when I was standing in the hallway dying in the fucking pain. The male nurse came over to me and he said that you know we got to take them down for a CAT scan. They wheel me down the wheelchair because I was all over the fucking place. And then when they came back up and they finally got the results, I was standing still standing in the hallway because they didn't go into the virtual room inside the room. And then comes over to me goes James, I got some some news. I said yeah, what's up please? I'm fucking a lot of pain, you know. Because you don't know could be in appendix, you don't you don't know. You don't know. So you have to you have to get a check. So I'm standing there and I go what's up man. Just just spit it out. What the fuck what? Tell me. He's here. Well, it's a kidney star and it's okay. Good. He goes, but it's a little big. He goes, you might have to go in and get it. I said, what do you fucking mean going in get it? I'm thinking ultrasound. He goes, I don't know if he was gay or what? I got he goes, no, we gotta go inside the penis. Oh, I said this, the fuck the way on this green out. Now you're going up my penis to get that fucking stone. I said you better do that. To get that, I don't know if you've cut me open. I don't even, you ain't the fucking stick and net it up my cock. But the fucker, I said get the fuck out of my face right now with that fucking shit. I also had the nurse came on up. She's like, take it easy, Jen. She's in look. He says, no, it's as if it was man. I said, what is my fucking shit? It's gonna go like penis on. Just don't know. No, no, she said you could pass it. Holy shit. I think I know what? You know what, Jimmy? That nurse must have heard about, he must have heard about the towel exercise. Yeah. I'm gonna ask you to suck it out for you, Jimmy. No, no, no. No, John, I tried that exercise, did it today, man. We're right down the towel and right down. You're weak. I got a little washcloth on you. I got a little washcloth. Hey, John, it's so bad. That's fine. You believe me? You believe me? It's been no time. Yeah. I'm taking on a good now, thank God, man. I said, you know, that's fine. That's fine. And I want to thank you two day for, you know, text him. No, yeah, I was worried about you, man. I don't want to see anyone in pain, man. Right. You know, no. I'm afraid he would get a little bad. That was nice. You know, my friend John, he was scared. She didn't know what to do for me. He's the one who texted me. John texted me and said, Jimmy's losinGHis mind in the emergency room. I'm like, what does he do to me emergency room? He's got a kidney stone. I love his wet hair and even his hair. He doesn't want<|cy|>'s. You know what? Jordan Mason said, Viva �henneyas has frozen his hand. You got no Helena Crow. These berries. Black-proud. Even Nick Neaver. Excuse me. Why mahdoll wants to come, wrong? Okay. I don't think I'll be arresting you again. Nor will I be casted in our depots. The No One can come here. Get to my boss, because you lost it. Okay. Why do you need another job to do that? Look, I'm just hoping, you know, don't get into prison there. They've got it. I'm definitely not caught in forgiven books. one of your kids had to have even the most simplest thing. I don't care. That's just they won't let you or your wife sit there and you got little kids. And when I'm there or dad there forget it. My wife will be in there with her. Trust me if they can't grab. They might take me. I'm gonna take her out. I can't hear the word. No way. No, but you know what IMean? The crazy like. Like if Jimmy was a state of knock Jimmy out, he doesn't have anybody there. Right. He needs water, put a pillow under. He'd be buying something. It's really bad now. Which for the people in the hospital is probably way worse not to have someone there with Jimmy because he'd be way easier to handle with someone there. I wouldn't want to be a staff member with him dealing Jimmy alone. Well, that's why he went out and got John and he was outside the version. You know, he was supposed to call in there. They're like we got to break the law because we got to break the rules because we can't handle the fucking guy. He's got a tear-puff. I think I got to go get we got to get his friend to the hole because he's not fuckinGHe's not you know, I wasn't performing the nothing. I was all alone to place all of our true to fucking. Can you imagine this was 20 years ago, John? What if Jimmy was. Oh my god. Like 14 adagirls a day. You know, he would have brainwashed him. He would have been like incredible. He would have been like incredible. He would be watchinGHim just start to talk to the fucking rock with a shot out like a bullet. Yeah, I don't know. Get out of your own. Get out of your own. Get out of your own. Get out of your own. Get out of your own. My joke buddy was actually. Jimmy, Jimmy would have shot that. That the kid needs to know like like someone's shooting a pelin gun and so on. Yeah. I'm the one. I'm the one who would have a right you to fucking shoot rock. I'm the one who's gonna hit the guy. It's the guy in the car. Yeah. We're back to Mark's. Can you imagine who was Georgia and Bobby was trying to keep Bobby at it in the hospital? Oh my god. He should have got a white coat on. I'll fix this myself. Yeah, he's sneaking. He's sneaking. All right. So before we go, Mr. G, what's the latest the latest the latest and greatest flavor from the jumbo like cookies that people can buy? With the Oreo Oreo cream Oreo cream. I have them. They're delicious. My kids would devour him. They're a little crumbly but they taste unbelievable. So good job. I wouldn't know. You guys will get them. All right. John, I'm getting them. I'm going to make them today. Mr. Potts protein.net and Jimmy, one of your straps coming out. Soon. I'll keep you updated on the whole thing. I got the straps. I got new wraps, elbow wraps. I'm going to do the whole thing. And where are those going to be available? You're going to have a website. Well, they're going to do that little commercial is going to be on the whole X. And then I'm going to have the website. Yeah. I'm going to have the website. I'm going to have an instructional video. How to use the straps. You actually got the URL muscle mods to.com. Yeah, we bought it. So good job. I have straps. But you made right now with your name on it. It's going to say, jump a pull-up. I love it. It's going to fit your wrist. Yeah. You're going to be going to be awesome. I'm going to do it all the way. I'm going to put it down. Well, you might have to have a line at the top now. Not everyone wants Jimmy the boast straps. They want to jump a pull-up strap. So you should sell both. Yeah. I'm going to have that. I'm going to have a rambling freakbo strap too. Yeah. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I got the guy to do it at the resources. We've had the Ramonov strap and all that. All right. And Greg, what's going on with you now? Anything that we should be updated on? No, same shit. You know, doing a shit with game-faced. Did everyone's promoting me with that trope experiment? But I got to tell you guys, Jimmy, Guy, and George, all of us guys, is a guy from Speedway, Mike, in Tom's River. Okay. George, if you ever went up there, it's on 37 past, right past Howard Johnson's, you know. I'm going to go there right now. Go there now. And I'm going to look what I got my hand. I got a lot of people cominGHere. Yeah, I got a lot of my book. Yes, I've been brought in with Big Jumbo. There you go. Load him up with 100 cookies. He's a great dude. He's crazy about you. He asked me about you. Jimmy, Dave, he said he's never missed an R.H. show. That's really hard. Probably sell Mr. G's stuff now. I'm sure he will. He loves you. He loves you. Mike, his name is Mike from Speedway. Okay. Mike's in his own place. Or does he just pump gas? No, he would just work there. But I'm telling you, he's freaking out. Like, don't fucking wait. You know, maybe you can get a something. You guys down there. Yeah. That's the last Monday when you called me. I was down there. John, when's the next lifestyle show with you in Gasparia? Fitness fame in fortune in Gasparia. What is that show next one? We just put up our legal brada. We got a little part of play. And then at the end of the week, we're going to post just rich in me talking about the evolution and the industry and the salt. That is, how does the Lee feel about the fact that Hunter is now a bona fide pro who won his first pro show, just like Lee did. We actually talk about that in the episode. Lee gave his son some great advice in his son took it. And things have played out rather well. IMean, I think you looked pretty amazing. But they see like the fact that he's a bodybuilder. I see discouraging or encouraging it. I asked him exactly that question. And you'll have to listen to the show. Hey, what about you? Would you want your son to be a bodybuilder? No. But if that's what he wanted to do, then I would certainly make sure that he did it the right way. Absolutely. I wouldn't encourage him to do it. But like if he said that, that's what I want to be. I want to be a pro bodybuilder. I want to do this. And if he says to me, I'm going to give it 100% then I'm going to definitely help him, obviously. I'm not going to let him stand. What you backed that up, but what you say you're going to do is. He probably will do everything in her power to discourage him from doing that. But at the end of the day, kids do what they want. So if he's in the gym and I have a gym in my house and he's trened like a maniac and he's eaten because that's what he loves to do. How do you tell kid no he can't do that? No, but all the chemicals in shit that the guys take. IMean, initially it doesn't start like that. I think I remember interviewing Lee and what Lee said to me was, I don't get involved in that part of it. So he doesn't even want to know from that. He knows obviously that Hunter's using, you know, gear. But he doesn't, that's not his stick. That's he helps him with it. I don't know who is his trener, John, you know. I know he trens with another guy. I don't think he's got a guru. Oh, he doesn't have a guru doing this. That's course Lee doesn't want to be responsible for that stuff. That's right. Well, you know, he's the parry. He doesn't want to get involved with it. No, I like to leave it. I can find it hard to believe your father's. You're such a good a bit. No, that's the only IFBB pro father son pro do a. If you want, if you're well in a live because sir, you're junior. Right. I'm not sure you know, that's just, start your, you're not a wife. Sir, he is dead. Yeah. So a living father son, IFBB pro family, the only one in existence. Okay, what Dave, I got you got the eye. I know what I think. Right. What do you take? Who's, I know he's still young and he's not fully developed. He's totally different kind of build in his father. I think his father goes down as one of the greatest body. Because who would you, they would wouldn't in a contest as, you know, young. I think he's, I think he's potentially better than this father, because he's taller and he's bigger. And I think he actually has a, and a reward. You're, I think he's remarkably similar to his father. Very, very much like him on stage. Yeah, he looks like, I think he looks more like Rich Gospari than. Give me, you know what, you look pretty young. When I was with the brother was at my house for three days down in 1987, just 88 before the, 88, Mr. Olympia. Right. And he was Robin. And I remember, and now for the, I love Leo Barnes, a great guy. And he taught me a lot of shit mentally. But I remember he was peeling the fucking, his two weeks before the Olympia. And he was peeling like fuckinGHard-billed eggs in eat. And then he was kind of bitching about it. And his wife was like, listen, if you're going to, this is what you chose to do. You know, I don't, you know, I go, I kind of don't want to hear it. You don't want to do it, don't do it. You know, because everybody else is over there. We can go the deals and get it. You know, and I took his whole family out to dinner. So it's whole family. Right. It's fed the top, I have to be pros of the 80s and 90s. And it's now. Well, IMean, IMean, it shows that I, Leo, I got pictures right here on the other side. Yeah, you got the, the old program probably. I think it's been five years. My mother used to make Lee Haney spaghetti and meatballs when he stayed here. I think he had Eugene Sandow in his house for dinner. Oh, thanks. Give it back. Yeah. My role of crowed and over it. It's Steve Rezos is like a trading bar. Back in the 60s. He was born in Greg's bathtub. No, that I just find it. It's just fine. It's only house. It was the only house in that warm water. And they're pretty expensive. And it's a TV and a black away TV. My son. All right, guys. Thank you for those great stories. Jimmy I've played. You feel better and, you know, you know, tonight. No more drinking up drinking three bottles of water every day. Please. And have that be less than ever as you drink three bowls. Are you going to wind up with like Jimmy and an emergency room with tini stones on day, pull them up. I'm going to make them. I want to meet him next week and brinGHim a cool. With filled with a cool gift. Cool, with Gary, I don't know what you're talking about. You're making a set of questions, exactly. You should make a kidney stone cookie. I was a young one. Yeah, the anti kidney stone cookie. Prevents kidney. Put it on a top, mix it up. Yes. Oh, yeah, make your right. Make chocolate chip. I don't know what it's like. It's like, yeah, it's that. It's like a hot froth. I put it on a golden Anthony's cake. It's a golden Anthony's cake. I think it's a global congenre, my homestoggy. Reg valentino and the buyer both came in the bowl. We'll see you next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: Larry Wheels BENCHES 484 + Flex Wheeler INSPIRES + Mike Tyson w⧸Dexter Jackson & Brad Rowe! [7yD625na9dk].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Nooo! Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Thursday, September 24th, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Back in the 70s, the Rolling Stones released a song called Time Wates for no one. On there, it's only rock and roll album, which is still a classic just for the record. But now, almost five decades after the original release date of that track, we have athletes like Dexter Jackson and Mike Tyson turning back the clock well into their 50s, which we saw up close and personal when these two legends linked up last weekend. Both Dexter and Mike were out in California teaming up with the recently retired Brad Rowe, who's out there working as a match to help these two get ready for their big events later in the air. For athletes who've been at the absolute apex of their sports, the way Dexter and Tyson have to still be doing it at such a high level, this deep into their careers, makes you realize how truly special and gifted these guys are. So we should all enjoy it while it lasts. Because at some point, the ride will come to an end, but when it does, it will be on their own terms. I know people say there's a fine line between reasons and excuses, but when you see someone who's overcome as much as Flex Wheeler has in his life, and career, it makes you realize that excuses and reasons don't matter. They're both just explanations for how we deal with our problems, and Flex has always been the type of person who faced his head on. On Monday there was a clip circulating of Flex, killing the battle ropes during a cardio session. Where it looked like he was pouring everythinGHe had into that 30 second burst. The same way he did back in the day when he was competing for Olympic titles. There's no reason. No excuse, just work. He shows up and gets the job done. Because that's the only way he knows how to do it. So if there's one lesson to be learned here, I think that's it. Show up and get the job done because that's the only thing that really matters. Do you remember a few weeks ago when we did a segment on Nick Walker right after we won the overall to North American Championships? On that show, we said we thought he was good enough to step in right now and make an impact at the pro level, and apparently Nick and his team thinks so too. This week they went on the record to announce that Nick is planning to compete at the Chicago Pro, which is scheduled to take place just over four weeks from now. And looking at progress photos, Nick's camp released. One thing that immediately jumps out as how he's managed to fill out and get more separated since his big win a few weeks ago. So far, it seems like the Chicago Pro lineup will have a solid group of athletes all vying for one of the last few Olympic qualifications. But I see Nick competing in this show as playing with House Money. He has nothing to lose in everything to gain. So if the cards end up being dealt in his favor, who's to say that he doesn't secure a top three spot and potentially push for a last-minutEQualification. I won't turn this into a ran, but it does drive me crazy when I hear people talk about equality and fairness and sports. There's no such thing as fair. Level playing fields don't exist because some people just flat out built differently. Larry Wheels is a perfect example. A few days ago, I saw a video of Larry doing incline dumbbell presses with 484 pound dumbbells. For reps, let me repeat that. He did three reps with 484 pound dumbbells in each hand, which means that he just did a dumbbell press for reps with weights that's probably more than a lot of people's max squat. That should be impossible. And all intents and purposes, it is impossible unless you're Larry. Now, is that fair? Nope. Probably not. But everything in life and sports isn't supposed to be fair. That's just the way it goes. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the A.P.Lumbo Reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: Lee Priest AGREES w⧸Sergio Oliva Jr： Bodybuilders NEED to Compete! [Th9K73h7YI0].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Welcome back to Iron Rage. This week we got a special show for you. I got of course, Lee Priz here with us, but we also have another crazy Aussie here with us. Take a lot of this. Welcome to the show. And you got your ears because we got you out of it. I'm going to talk about it. Yeah, awesome. Thanks for having me on the show. Can I say that's the first time IMade Bright Dave, I've heard you pronounce it. Last year you pronounced it. This year you've pronounced it wrong. Made me sound like some kind of undiscovered dinosaur. I heard him say it 20 times, you've got a show start and just they get it right. All you great guys, you always shorten your names too. It's usually like Jake Nico or something like that. You know, you'll be... Yeah, maybe I should change it to Jake Nico. I heard last time that you said it, Lee actually corrected you and he said, no, Nico Lopolis and you go, yeah, yeah, Nico Lopolis. You can't actually keep on you. I was taking this Lopago silence in my head, you know, like a tortoise is on the mind, you know. Go towards the tortoise. Great. Well, thank you for joining us today. Lee, you know, you seem to be the hot commodity lately. Your people are putting you in documentaries. How did the Jake documentary come about? Does anyone know how it all started? Yeah, so I can answer that. So Lee and I, oh, Jesus. The whole documentary came on after I won the Arnold Basic here in Australia when I got my pro card in 2019. Great. The guys behind the documentary, I don't know if you're familiar with them. I think you know Gary Phillips. Yes. So Gary Phillips has his own company, muscle vision and he's done the Chris Columbia documentary. He's also done the, yeah, the Flex Wheel of Documentary and he's working on Lee's documentaries as well. From I. Am I allowed to drop that? Yeah, but it's kind of, they want to all the world Jake being Lee's documentary. That's thEQuestion. Yeah, we're filming for that in like a fortnight. Oh, good. Yeah. So he worked with another filmmaker, Darren Petty, Darren Petty films on from I documentary. And it was after the 2019 they both know me as well. Gary's known me since I was like 17 years old. The first competition I ever did. He photographed me at his, at his house. Nothing, kinky, Lee. Just livinGHere without there. Just a normal photo. Yeah. I've got to say all these things. No, you know, my sister Lee is. My sister Lee is. My sister Lee. You didn't, you didn't tie your penis to like a coffee table or anything like that. No, I posed in drugs around. No penis tied up for anything. There was no, not since my penis, everything was just normal. No, normal photoshoot. Boring. Boring in les, in les books. That's a boring. You guys are shooting. Why are doing lines of cocaine? Tie your genitalia to moving cars or anything like that. Just put on a, join a premise. Join through my documentary here. It only goes to doing it. Mike and a fucking drug addict. Just, I thought, just put all the charges to the documentary. Just because I take my creatine different to you, Dave. That's a nice cocaine. Yeah. So, yeah, no, I'm Gary for a long time. He's known me since I was a kid. And after the, and Darren as well, he competed with the never when I did and we traveled together to Germany in 2008. I think so there's a bit of history with both of them. And then, yeah, after the show, they approached me and said, hey, we think it'd be a really cool idea to do a documentary. And the first thing that kind of went into my head is who the fuck's going to want to watch a documentary on someone that hasn't achieved anything. As an IFPV pro yet. But once they kind of explained to me what the purpose of the documentary was, it was more just a story telling of, you know, as a kid, where I came from, all the childhood stuff and actually getting the pro cut. So it wasn't so much as, hey, look at this guy, how much is the chief as an IFPV pro. So I haven't even done a fucking show yet as an IFPV pro because everything's been done. Yeah, since COVID. But that was pretty much the approach with the idea, then Dave, they said, I have about we tell the story and interview all the people that have played a part in your journey with Lee Priest, Samline 80s. It was a never champion family members, friends, all, all everyone that kind of had some kind of input into where I am now. And then especially lead, that's the whole, you know, raising one. So I fucked up. That lead. My glad to help. Why did you agree to do that? Well, the why did you participate in this whole thing? The documentary of what I'm saying. Right. Well, well, Graham Lange, feel the use to run the neighbor back then. He approached me, said about this young kid, Jake and I occasionally help people then, like, sometimes you help people and they don't listen, they do this and do that. And Graham was on me for a while, and I was very dedicated to this. That's I said, OK, I'll help him. So that's when Jake was getting ready for the world. So he went over there in one of the worlds. But yeah, I just, you know, we started helping me. I reckon you started helping me in 2011, I reckon. Right. Was it? Yeah, because I remember that I, I, you, I guess, you did see a few thousand in ten. You guess, post, had Graham show and IMeet you backstage and you didn't give a fuck about who I was. And I was going to see, these advice would consist of, like, don't be a pussy just fucking or tren. What do you mean tell me? Yeah, I think you were telling me that's how it was. I think you're exactly. I think they have not one of those fucking generic sign features day. I've got it on the wall here just says two Jake dreams come true, tren hard. And by the way, he's got 400 of those in his house, like preprinted just gives him out to the people. OK, I think I'm, thank you, everyone. The doctor mentioned you talk about when you get ready for the show and I'm not most helpinGHim. Please, that's what makes me just stamp it, like, please. Jake would send me a message like, hey, Lee, this and that, not feeling too good. And I'll point it just in back and message suck it up. Yeah. 100%. That's what you always did. It was actually hard to, to make it happen today because he didn't want anything to do with me. Really, I remember I sent him a couple of messages at start and he didn't want to know about it. And I literally said to him, because he was in Newcastle. IMean Melbourne. It's about, I don't know, an hour or so, right away. And I remember I pretty much forced myself and I said, hey, I'm going to fly to Newcastle. I'm going to put myself up in a combination. What gym do you tren at? Like, what area should I tren in? And Lee gave me the, um, told me like, what area to say. I said, we'll gym, Queensland. And no shit. I think we trened to get it, um, like two times. And I could tell that Lee thought that I was just going to be like, any other young bodybuilder just thought it was all about fucking drugs. And, you know, he was no use helping me because I already just didn't want to be able to do that. And I wanted to know about the hard trening or the dieting and waking up to all cardio. But as much as Lee doesn't want to admit it, I think that you actually put up an Instagram, a Facebook post the second day after we trened together. And you were like, so refreshing, you know, these young guys. Yeah. And I, you didn't say it was about me because you're, that's just you. You don't fucking get credit to anybody. But I knew that it was a, well, that's a bad thing. That's about me. I hope that it was about me. Yeah, I rang everyone. I rang everybody. I was back. I was back. I actually asked Lee to see it. I said, was that about Jackie goes, no, it's too bad another guy. But I'll let him believe it was about him. That's about my mum. That's about my mum. And literally, I think about two days after me staying in the hotel, Lee was like, all right, he goes, just move all your stuff into my place. So then I ended up moved in with Lee and stayed with him. And we just trened every day and we hung out every day. So I think Lee finally after a couple of days worked out that I wasn't one of those typical fuck-wit bodybuilders. Who gave me down? He broke me down. He broke me down. Jake's got a, I got to give credit to Jake. Who screwed up who more did Lee, did you get more fucked up by hanging out with Jake? Did Jake get more fucked up by hanging out with you? How did he like that? How did I get him? How did I get him? How did I get him? How did I get him? How did I get my money back from the bills for more of therapy since IMet Lee? Like, fuck it, how? I'm the one that's in trouble. I'm working on the competition. Now, most of the time I got fucked up, he's in the fucking long sleep straight check-up. Kevin, you've seen the videos Jake posted of us dressed up as Ben, members in his house and Reppin is made and clen, Reppin put him in the cupboard with a kitchen knife for when he's murdered. I've got to do this. They were all Lee's ideas and we didn't even take drugs. That's a scary place. So many people like, oh, you guys rock, you know, that's just this brain. I'm nothing, I'm arjunous. Yeah, we were sitting in the kitchen and Lee was just like, oh, what's in the garage? I'm like, what do you mean? He's like, oh, if he got, what kind of clothes or what gear have you got in the garage? And I'm like, oh, Dad's got like, oh, he's motorcyclical, I have fed him. We've got some weeds and things like that. And Lee's like, oh, let's go. Lee, we're just trying on all these things. That's right. Before the show, Lee was put in on his wear wolf mask, because my kid likes wear wolf, and my son came with his wear wolf mask. Oh, really? Lee, yeah. Well, yeah, Lee knows that. He's connected with the youth of our nation. For rock, yeah. I love Jake. Love Dr. Sine. Jake and Cynthia, those videos, Dave, after the show, they might be able to add them to show you because, oh, they do, he's. Oh, everything, every single thing that we did was a fucking laugh. I've never laughed so much. Even just going to the supermarket, if he's at with Lee, everything was just hilarious. But when I was on prep leading, you know, fuck, like we would go to the movies. I'd be eating like chicken out of the container with lettuce, and Lee would be getting chopped up ice cream on the ground, like, multi-sister's and chocolate. Were they filming all this stuff with you guys? Well, while you were with him, nah, there were so many things that we didn't film. Because it was back in 2012. There was so much shit that didn't get on camera. Well, you've been filming this since 2012? No, no, all these little things that I had though. So it all looked a little candid videos that I took a big and I think it's at home, and all that stuff, like there's edited all of that stuff in. But they started filming 2019. Right. You know what? I'll tell you, they did a great job on Cormea too. Cormea told me that he goes, I don't even know where it happened these videos they got in the film were from. I've never even seen him. Like, Cormea was being filmed by people for 10 years, you know, going to parties and shit, hanging out in hotel rooms. He didn't even know the footage existed until he watched the documentary. Yeah, yeah, man. Oh, and Cormea's documentary was awesome. That's how the reason why I really wanted Gary working on buying those like both. You don't really want someone to release the documentary and call it a documentary on yourself and it comes out and it's fucking shit. Lee, you know all about that, right? I know that's what generation I am. No, but I'm not, Lee, Lee's documentary is going to be amazing. Can you play some parts of it? I'll send you your scripts for what you got to say. What? People want to see this documentary. You know, you're better than the Shinbees. And where people want to see the documentary? Where is it? So just YouTube, Jake Nicolopoulos, if just asked Dave to had it's ballot first. Nicolopoulos? Yeah, I think we have a documentary. Jake Nicolopoulos documentary. We're going to put the link up to it, Jake. Yeah, thanks very much. I watched it. It was very good. It was very well done. Yeah, the link to it with the way they did it. As I said, for most people that watch it, it's more don't expect like, oh, why is this guy going to documentary? Has it done anything appropriate? It's more that journey, just to see. I know what junk I got. I started watching it. I also, because they sent me the link. I'm like, you know what, I don't want to watch. I don't even know who this guy is. And you know what, I got sucked into it because they did a good job. It's good. Right into it, right from the beginning. And I said, I couldn't stop watching it. This is the Czechos game we're grabbing. Because they had money in it too. Everyone will come. Yeah, we actually were actually rerunned it for me. If you were, if you were left, IMean, I don't know. I'm not a lot better. Also, come and create. Yeah, I do. Oh, yeah, I just stopped singing and fucking with the band and had Zanado on the background and stuff. And at the very end, you see, I'm on. You know what, you're on the top. I'll tell you why it was for Jake's because I didn't know anyone in there. That's why I liked it. It was like, yeah, well, it was a different perspective on bodybuilding for me. Well, we kind of wanted to do it day without making it look like it was super fucking scripted and real cheesy. We just wanted to make it real. And that's why when they interviewed some of the, like, my mates from, from back in the day, none of them are even into bodybuilding. That ain't even trying to do it. But they also, you, you, you, all see guys have a much better personality. Just, if they would have done this on an American guy, I would have probably fallen asleep watchinGHim because they're, they're boring. They would have tried to make a two straight lace. They would have said, these guys would have tried to be too proper on film. You just, you know, you didn't go. Yeah. And that's, and that's what we tried to avoid. And then especially having lay-offs, well, that just box up everything. Any kind of chance of having some kind of serious documentaries. Can't so culture, can't so culture is real. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I thought it was very good. Guys, check it out. It is for free on YouTube right now. The Jake and Nicolapula's documentary. And Lee Priest is featured throughout that documentary. Now, I think when you, when you'recompeting next straight, oh, no, I was just, he wouldn't make a pro to debut. Oh, well, we're still waiting to, so we kind of even get out of the country yet. So I'm, I'm just like, every, just like everybody. Right. Yeah. Thanks with Jake, Stephen Lockdown, he made all the, you've got to think Jake's like, all the wildlife is there. And they, they don't let anything out of it. And you're in Australia. And now you guys, now you guys a lot down. So I think the thing on Lee, Lee, Lee, he traveled, because he's had three COVID vaccines. Yeah. Yeah. I think they've been in Jake. They've been in Jake. I think there's only vaccines. Yeah, I know. I hear you go for number four. Because you really, you want to make sure, you know, that's true. I think there has been a few pros here try to apply for like exemptions. To travel, you don't think that they're not giving, they're not giving anybody. Did you get one? I got one. Yeah, because he goT3 COVID vaccines. He's like the posted boy for COVID. I, I had my, I had my, I had my exemption for about seven months. I really, I think I think they just want to get, I just want to get, yeah, I have a country and then not you let that get. I think I think that's it because it is hard. It is hard to get back into one of these for me to get. So I can't leave go to England and then try to come back in when I went out and you're back. All right. Yeah, but that's, that's, that's all I'm waiting for today. I'm just trying to just say like, we're not going to actually get out of the country and kick a show to make a pro debut. Because as soon as I literally, the last show I got ready for, It was a week before. That was a great time. Tony, Tony, Tony, you just said this. Yeah, yeah. That's like fuckinGHell. Hopefully hopefully we'll have something over there. Now let me ask you guys this question. I got to change. I got to change subjects for a minute. The document is great. But we got the arm of plastic list came out. I want you first impression. I'll have Tyler put it up there. Men's open. You saw the list. I think it's a pretty damn good lineup, right? I think it's a good list. I'm happy to see Ian's doing the, and the team. And when I watched your interview with Sergio, the other day I thought it was great. And I actually got excited listening to Sergio saying, why don't we all do it. Nick Walker, and that, you know, I don't want to be like, I want to say back in mind. Well, he's going out there and he's going to explain it online. Yeah, I'm going to. Yeah, by that. That's right. As you remember, back in the 90s and early 2000s, the Arnold Classic lineup used to be pretty much the Olympia lineup just minus Mr Olympia apart from when Ronnie did it. I think once or twice, but it'd be great to see. Being that close to the Olympia, why would you do it to me? He talked to most of these pros. They say the Arnold is a better show than the Olympia, but the Olympia has the name, but the Arnold is a prestige, the money, the title. Why not do it as, as Sergio said, the Olympia sometimes the four go on, conclude. You know who the top two may be top three might be, but all these new guys do in the Arnold would be fantastic because you haven't really got a clue who's going to place where and yes, I see some guys get upset that there he goes, someone might get feet, but if you get feet at the Arnold who cares in a couple of weeks time, you might beat that person at the Olympia. But the great for the fairs would be great for the promoter. What Sergio said is, everyone should do it. It'd be great. Everyone's so scared of losing or not placing while these days, like they should just compete. But you don't have to win every time. If everyone just competed, it would make it such a great watch for all of the fans. But I think everyone's just so worried about I, if I lose, what are people going to say about me or if I'm a little bit off, it gives a fuck. If you're afraid to be a bodybuilder, that's the bottom line. Well, especially if most of these guys do, that's all that they do. But I've got a normal job. We've got a business. We work at an hour and nine to five, well a lot longer, actually, because it's our business. But if most of these guys, if they just eat and sleeping and trening and just living the bodybuilding dream, fuck, they should be wanting to compete all the time. You know, I can't say you're wrong. IMean, I don't know what, I think guys just get scared. If you're going to do the Olympia, you shouldn't be afraid. You should be able to do any show out there and feel like, hey, I could win it. Guys like, guys like, guys like the Olympics, we're going to win the Olympics. The Arnold, what, twice now? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's going to do it. People don't really want to compete. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The Olympia, the year that you know, carry one of the Olympians. So, IMean, any day, anyone could be in anyone. I don't even know why. I'm not going to carry. He should be on those. And that's what I always, Lee, you've always said that too. It's like sometimes the God that beats you, you come back a few weeks later in a different show and then you beat him. That's, that's what he's doing. So, you're doing it. Like someone always found you good, whatever. And I always found too, when shows that together like in the beginning of the year, we used to do the Iron Man, the Arnold, the San friend, the longer you're stating, shape with the posing and photoshoot, seem between or doing the social media now, the longer I state in shape, the better I got for each show. So, whoever these guys now are, you want too many crazy chemicals or whatever it is before to show that they can only speak for one show. I don't understand they can only speak for one show. And all you have to do is eat, sleep and tren. It's not the chemicals, Lee. It's like, it's the brain. Yeah, it's like, what the fuck are you doing that is so bad that you have to do a show and take a whole year off. Oh, I've got to take videos for my social media. I just can't compete so much. Just like, they like, they like, they like the wrong. They like what we're on doing the first game in a year and say, see you guys, I see the finals. I see the end of the year. And we're like, what? It's like, how do you, yeah, man, tap 3th year, and see a limpia. I'm doing the oral, if it's a month before because that's an easy double. And that you can make some serious bank too. IMean, that's exactly. Exactly. So you're going to be like, who are we thinking is going to be top 3 for this show. You'd have Bonak Bonak up there. A came possibly a came in Sergio. Oh, no, no, the top 3 is going to be a came. I think you never know about Tetra and McMillan. Maybe he shows up looking at him and put that list. If centric, if centric's on, you can't can't he mat. So if I was to go with top 5, any top 5 I'd have Bonak. They came Ian Sergio and Sidrick, but then you can't please leave Steve Cookler out of that list. Because I'm just going to say, you know, I'm going to say, you're good, but Steve too. I think he's like Sidrick sometimes. Sometimes he nails it that sometimes. There's some for some reason people like Sidrick or Clupa, they're just a little bit off. They look a lot off. Yeah, I'm going to strike you that little bit off. Who closed been really good the last couple of times we've seen him? I haven't seen him work in a couple of shows. He's been really, he's hunting the bride and doing the show. He's a good day. No, I don't think so. He should have. Hunter and Nick, Matthew, from Desafine, so you can say his invitation. I think this year, due to COVID, no one to crack, they should let a few more do it. So they should throw in Hunter and we can see. I think that we're going to be lucky. I think by had he put his name on that list. Hunters do in Tampa, I think, and then he's done. Remember the problem is that the Arnold is not a qualified for this year's Olympic. It's for the next year. Because it's too late. So I think the guy's going to just qualify. That's a quality of the good to see. Some of you, thank you. If you're good to see someone like Hardy, I'm throwinGHis name in it too. I think I didn't get it. Yeah, IMean, if he's in town, why shouldn't he do it? IMean, he would have been a perfect showman to do. Yeah, I agree. Yeah. And I want people to dismiss this drug thing too. And I want people to think drugs a lot of drugs a lot of drugs. Because I can honestly say when I was helping Jake get ready and Jake get asked me about a cycle. I've just heard what I'm not a doctor. I can show you what I took and I see him in email. I said, look, maybe follow it is. I guarantee they would have been five minutes. It's takes it. Maybe about a decade ago. Are you fucking with me? I said, no, I said, that's the little bit I take. He's like fuck off. That's bullshit. That's a great work. I said, I said, no, no, no, no, no, no. Nothing. Nothing. Yeah. I still tell people to this day leader. That was the best thing that ever happened was me getting to know Sam. I need his when I was young and you. Because I was only when I when I was 22, 23, a little bit older. And that was the best thing because yeah, there was so many different coaches in Australia. There's so much information out there and all these guys are doing a pushing massive amounts of drugs. And there were plenty of young guys when I was coming up that I was like, fuck why they so much bigger than me. And then when you hear what they're doing, I'm just happy that I had someone like you lead to tell me that to tren hard. Because I remember for like so many times you're like, no growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormoneful man. I said, no, that way better. You still get it. No, you're not. You're not. You're not. The less you use in the early in your career, the better it works later in your career when you actually use the stuff. And that's that's a well known fact. So, you know, lead. Yeah. Try to advice young guys should use the mid. Nothing as long as they can. And then minimal stuff until you actually really need it. And then it'll push you over the top, you know. You can't start out of the gate using a ton of stuff because then what happens when that doesn't work anymore, you know. Oh, they all do. I don't know. It's probably it's obviously the same. It doesn't matter what country you're in. But yeah, so many even when I had my gym opened to personal trening. I was meeting a lot of young guys coming through. Oh, geez. The cycles that they were. They were going over. It was just, it was just crazy what people were doing. And here I am thinking five. I'm still able to grow and do what I'm doing. And sometimes using a small amount, you just, you still feel like, oh, shit, you know, is it too much. And then you hear what these other guys are doing. It's like, you know, it's absolutely insane. What are they? What are they doing? I'm a little press for a day before we go. Before we go, Dave, what's your, you didn't give a short top 3D Arnold day of those names? Yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm torn. I, I really, but you know, we didn't talk about Justin Rodriguez. It's also who's really, really good. Oh, yeah. And you know, it's Justin Rodriguez. Great. I have to believe Justin Rodriguez just we bone act is the highest place in God. I have to give bone act to the nod. I, I, I have Sergio, lever in my top 3 and I have Ian Valier and, and a team Williams. I got my top 4. I guess you know what? It's going to be a great show. I'm going to be a great show. But I like a team. I love Ian. I think Ian structurally is, is, is huge bone act is the most pleasant. And Sergio is the wild card. And I think that's what he asked you a question because you've worked with, we've worked with the cane. Yeah. Watching the cane at the, at the Olympic, he literally to me watchinGHim. He seemed like one of the craziest guys on stage. How come you think he doesn't place like, because it seems like his condition is the best up there? He will. He will. You know what? His back was a little weak and it's still not as strong as body part. He has good width, but he has the density issue in the back. Yeah. But I think it's been improving every year. I think this year he's going to make an in for himself. I think he's going to move into the top five this year. And it seems like he has pretty much all the tools like he's just the monster and he's condition is crazy. Yeah. He's got very, I think I've fixed him. It's been getting better and better every year. But the back was always holdinGHim back. I think this year he's going to finally, you know, be dead. I think that's what makes, I think that's what makes the out of classic good dishes. Because all those names we mentioned, anyone at him can win it is just going to come down to who hits it on the day, which is, Yeah. It could be the craziest out of classic. I don't know if that's going to go all in that. Well, you know, that guy is super. I think he's going to be tough to beat. Yeah. I'm a thank you. Yes. Yes. All right. I love you guys. But I got to wrap it up. I got to pick my daughter up from school. Jake, thank you. Check out the Jake Nicolopolis documentary that is featuring Lee Priest. Oh, that's twice. He got to fight. And now. What do you say? You got his name right. What's I got? I got. I got. I'm a slow learner. I remember for one time. So, Nick, thank you Jake. God, a lot of the kiss. Put your, put your wolf man mask on there, Daly. My wolf mask is up in the cloud. I would never mind. All right. I love you. I got to go. I'll see you next week. Well, I'm going to bring you on the show. We'll see you next time. Thanks very much. Thanks. I think you're talking to us. I'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Lee Priest Recreates Kai Greene Posing Video! ｜ Iron Rage ｜ Dave Palumbo & Lee Priest [QDiOH4RcDIM].txt ===

Oh, you're funny. Oh, you're funny. So like I say, like I say, like I say, like I say, do you like my tail or my first shoe? Well, I'll come back to another episode of Iron Rage. I'm here with Cookie Monster and Lee Priest. And in that we're right now. Are we right now? You got the Mike Lodge from your anus and we're right the guy. Major film was lodged in my anal fisher and it wasn't the other one. Unfortunately. What is that saying? You're shirt there. But man. More. Hutsman's fitness. Hutsman. Oh, but the big. Yeah, the buttsman. He's actually an Australian comedian. He lives in Newcastle. He does. He's got a YouTube channel where he talks about stuff on there. It's pretty funny. He talks about this woman. Vegan, vegan, booty. His t-shirt says eat pussy, not meat, nor do you sort of stuff. She's a nut job. She's got to only fiends page. But if you check out the buttsman on Instagram or YouTube is pretty funny. Because he gets little stories from the news and he makes fun of them and stuff. And he's actually a comedian that when he goes around the different places here. You know, the people trying kids. So they're because he fat change and stuff like that. You know, we win one day. Is that his real name? But I think the thing. I think it would be his last name, buttsman. You know, I love to think about, you know, how people have these last names. Because, you know, at some point in time when they were creating names, I don't have a thousand years to go. Someone in his family tree, you know, had, it was a but man. He maybe he was grabbing girls, butts in the town square. And they, they named a buttsman, you know. Is that like, is that like the Indian joke about two equals soaring and all these sort of stuff and wild river? And why you asked me this question, two dogs fucking? Is that? Is that? Like, a lot of means pigeons were dubbed. So we were obviously the Columbus and Italy were probably, you know, either the breeders of dubs and pigeons or we probably slaughtered them. One of the other. I think we were, uh, breeders of them, however, because I'm an animal. So if you're like coming from the streets and your mother was a prostitute in your name, Sally Cox, like, I'd you get that name. I see. I see it all in Tyler. Tyler. I see his, his relatives were, were worked on the beach somewhere. You know, in the background. Oh, maybe, oh, maybe every time someone asked him a question, they went, She'll. I get that. She'll. Oh, I read that. So I, there was somebody coming from the sea shell. I'm going to say that. Oh, does you know, does you know Sally who sells sea shells? Yes. Yes, he does. Oh, that's just. I agree. Probably came from, you know, he probably was, you know, just, he was, you know, all about, you know, conservation of the forest is relative somewhere, you know, down the road. I think they had the, I don't think they had that term green spectrum. And I think they had just I ate a lot of greens. So, you know, okay, there was no conservation of everything that's chopped shit down. Speaking of Kai Green, what do you think about the video the Kai set me set me two videos, actually, maybe we could pull those up, asking me, you know, what I thought about him, what the way looked and should he do the Olympia? IMean, would you, what would you recommend the Kai? I gave him my opinion. I said he sent me the same video and I recommended a couple of plants and a rug in the river, but it was really nice. The room was looking very big. Oh, it's done. I didn't get time to send you a video, but I'll do it now. Just say you can see. Okay. You got the moves, too. Yeah, just like it. It's uncanny. I don't know if I'm watching Kai Green early, please. That really hit me too many poses though. There you go. All right. What do you think should I do the Olympia? I think you should. Oh, sure. I just make a fruit salad. What are you reckon? Oh, that's that nice. Portage. What? I did just pick out one food. I was in Clusey. Thank you very much. You got to be in Clusey. From what Kai implied to me, too, he was on very, very light. A supplementation. So this is a good look for him. IMean, can he get a chance? I think you can ship it ten weeks. Easy. Easy. Where are you? Now, of course, you could do it. I'm sure, you know, if he gets into his proper eating and gets on the proper supplementation and the whole ten weeks of getting in that mind frame too can change your body just if you know trening for something and you're getting that contest mode of mind frame ten weeks is a long time. Especially starting from there. It's not like he's starting from bulk, double starting from being died at the end like you see Kevin in the days would do. So he's starting from the point where some of the guys do in the Olympia, I'm even at that box of your right. You're right. Now, you know, what's interesting is, you know, I was, I was trying to analyze the whole Kai Green myself, which is sometimes a difficult thing to do. I was doing study on it. And I've seen him myself. So a lot of people, we comment on this. Why didn't Kai come back after the title was vacated when Sean Rodin couldn't defend his title in Brandi Curry. Because that would have been his right. That would have been probably the most vulnerable time in Olympia level where Kai could have just stepped in and probably easily won. But then I said to myself, Kai Green would never do anything that easy because you know what Kai's lean is a drama person. He's about art and the story and the whole build up to what he does. The best, you know, storyline or the ending to his story would be to beat Big Ramey, right? Who's the most dominant Mr. Olympia right now in the last how many years because of his size, it is mass. IMean, imagine Kai coming into the Olympia and going up against, you know, the final two-collar. When the grandmothers. When not even, we're not even not even beating Big Ramey, but beating Bonak and Heidi, you know what he's up to guys. And all the newer people that have come into it, you know, if he's right, so they're about. Yeah, because it's like what's happeninGHappened the brand new. If Kai had a step in a one that, or would have been, would he beat? He didn't beat anyone. Feel wasn't there, such and such wasn't there. So it would have won the Olympia. Then people would have made it like we didn't beat anyone. Feel good, so it's like, yeah. IMean, it would have been nice from the comeback last year when Phil was in the show so we could have seen those two go head to head. But I think having an established Mr. Olympia like Big Ramey who's very dominant and Kai coming in almost as the underdog in a sense, it's Kai that dramatic need or that dramatic reason to get up on that stage and brinGHis best. I think so. And as like as people say, why didn't they do it before, but you know what it's like, you know, people can say to the chaos, come home or you should do it. You look great. You look great. But if you're not 100% focused on doing it, there's no point, even if you're 98%. There's no point going up. The even though he looked great, if you haven't even 100% focused on that well, you know, that's like, and speaking of 100% focused, it also means by also makes my buy on duck gets sick in the stomach. IMessed up my little thing. I'm going to pull out because I got mental problems. And then the team came out today saying, we're not here for gold medals. We're already winners in our heart. Fuck off. Look at that bullshit. Did they go then? Let somebody go who wants to win a medal? Why go to the Olympics? You cannot go on for gold. We're just here because we're champions in our heart. We're coming to sink, Kumbai, Yarn Roller, and on the fucking max. Well, no, they're only saying that lead because they didn't leave the gold medal. They only got the silver medal. Oh no. That's like it's like now, because everyone's been coddled or, you know, everyone gets an award. Everyone gets a trophy or winners. You know, it's like when you used to play a video game by yourself. They used to do it to you and play a game. So you got five lives. And if you start within 10 seconds, you get killed or start again. I can't see the analogy. I can see the analogy. I was my wife. So that's what Kaiser is doing. The dream of video game. It's where do you use the same analogy? It is because it's like, but there you can't start again. There you go. Or I know what. I got the latest tren. I got mental problems. That's the latest get out of jail. Three card. We become it murder. Whether you do anything. The mental problem is. They bring up. She got right. There are no skills got right. Then they still went on. She got right before when she went and got mental. But you still managed to get through. But now all of a sudden, who just came up with me, I was going over the whole course. When I went over the whole course. I'm just talking. That sounds back on for me. I've got something to ask. No, I think what happened is you know, what happened with in gymnastics. If you get your head too much, when you're flipping, you lose track of where you are in the air. It can be very unnerving because especially that happens over and over again. Because then what happens is now you start to get afraid and scared. And I think this is why a lot of times we don't see these gymnasts competing into their late 20s. It's like teens, maybe early 20s and then they're out. Like 24, which is what some of them buy us. This is old for a gymnast. And I don't think it's because they don't have the skill level. I think it's because you get too smart when you get all the wrong ones. You start saying, what the fuck am I doing? If I land on my head, I'm going to break my neck. You know, once you have that in your head, there's no way you can be your best anymore. You have to be. I know. But like that in any sport, you know, some race car drives a crash a car. It's got that feeding going into a certain corner or even body building. You know, if you tear a muscle on a leg press, when you go back to that leg press and you start loading it up again, that feeling and memory of your legs snapping, coming down, all comes back. So you're sort of getting a bit more cautious. But you know, you're there at the Olympic Games. You went through water trening. But she must've known as like, you fuck up. It's like, okay, if you can't get back on it, then just let make up excuses. Yeah, the problem is that the coaches, she hires her coaches. So these coaches can't even say like when I was on a team in high school, if I was screwing up the coach, you grabbed me over the side, you'd be like, you know, he would tell me, get that in that game. You're not going to drop out. You know, and I don't deserve it. And I'd go in. Now she's giving commands to the coaches because she's a celebrity. So what does a coach say to her? If I was the coach, I would've been like, let's get your ass into a gym. We're going to go over this vault 6,000 times until you get in the back. And then you're going to compete tomorrow because there is no quitting, you know. But we'll have to get all, even get a one-loaded like motivation coach. Just to help you more mentally and physically because physically she didn't do anything. Let me see over there, right? Ah, oh my god. I was also green with John on the last show. And John, you used to see word beautifully. I've got to go get 10 out of 10 for that. But the whole I grew of John, this fucking fights bullshit. Stop talking about, I told Mr. Gears on live yesterday. I said, giving two weeks notice, go it out and just flog. Let's see what it is. I said, I don't give you giving four months, six months a year. He's not going to improve on his fighting skills or his fitness. So it's all fancy could be dead. So just go down and fight it out now because it's just going on and on and on. And I have a headache actually when they talk about it. I can't say just as the show pictures when they start talking about that now. Yeah, but I like the photo too. I'm the soccer team when the what's the name that white girl on the American soccer team with the purple. Here, whatever they said, you look like an idiot when you're taking a knee, but the black players are standing up for the year having been saw. She's telling my taken a knee and the black players are standing up for the end. I don't know what all these. You know, like you said it, if you don't like the country you live in, then get the freak out. You know, that's all there is to it. IMean, IMean, what is what I don't understand. What I think is so if you're going to compete for like Bob'sburg, about competing for yourself, make a statement. But your day you've had all the opportunities given to you, probably got your scholarship and you got your endorsement, the usually making millions of dollars because you can beat for America. The American team is flown, you know, representing America and the flag of the country. And then you want to turn you back on it, that gave you opportunity to beat it and make what is money. If you don't like it, get out of the team and go do your little protests on your, that's what I don't get. Why don't they do these protests on their own time? After these people, a big name sports stars. They could probably ring up any station and get an interview or do some podcast and stuff and do this to hold time. But you don't hear it now. It's like this whole when the BL and first started and everybody put up a black square that bring awareness to racism. But if racism still going on, why don't you put that black square up once a week to keep it out there? It's like breast cancer. If I see another pink f**k in ribbon everywhere I go, they keep that in your face all the time. Sporting events and shit. But that's where it's all these black squares going now. Crickets until the next big thinGHappens to like, let's jump on the bandwagon. Let's put up something so that we'll be like, people will as cheaply. You know, it's funny. Back in the day when I was having trouble getting a pro card when there wasn't really many opportunities. You knew that. Once it was like three pro cards given per year or something like that. And what the American National. And when the overall in the North Americans in USA and nationals was a weight class. But so I wanted to suggest it to me this and why don't you go back, you know, you're half Jewish. You can go to Israel and get a pro card because you know, your mother is Jewish. You're considered Jewish and you can go and live in Israel. That's the policy there. And they should go compete there. You'll win the Mr. Israel and you can get a pro card. And I say, I am from the United States. That's my country. I'm proud of it, you know. And so, you know, I don't know why people take for granted all these freedom. Go overseas and see how they live in some of these countries. You want to go there. They haven't got a clue when they talk about being a press. And this is what I hate to when people like the big stars, LeBron, Oprah and these talk about being an oppressed. Yes. Yes. I'm sure Oprah experience racism being a black female woman coming up. And I'm sure the industry she went into, you know, you're going into a male dominated TV networking type thing where it's made. You may all talk show hosts and male people in the, oh, industry. I'm sure she experienced sexism too, but rather than say, this is an oppressive country when you're a billionaire, why don't you say, look, I got a hundred knockbacks, but I cut perseverance. I get cushioned forward. I had all these shit against me, but they kept moving forward. I look where I'm today, rather than say, you're not going to get anywhere because of the white man. The white man is going to keep you back. They're going to use people at a multIMillionaires who are of color. Why don't they talk about what they went through to get there and let people know you can get there. You just got a persevere, stop looking for people to blame and shit. So speaking of Jewish, just brought up that ever to do the time, I had that like, I was sellinGHomes and shit because you know, used to being the real estate. I didn't know that. I didn't last long. It didn't last long because of people like you. I was showing this family through the house. I didn't know that I was Jewish and we need the kitchen and that said, I hope it's not electric style. I was not electric. I said, no, no, it's a big gas oven and not through for the whole family. Oh, God. And little did I know that. I said, I'm day and they got so mad at me. I'm like, I can't do this price. I can't say anything wrong, so I quit. If you get that attitude, I'm just going to go along with this. So we go upstairs and I'm showing them the button. Sorry. True story. I said, go, he there. Look at the shower. There's a one day looking at the shower. I turned the line up and I went, oh, you're terrible. And I got fired. I got fired from the job. You're figured out. I don't know why. You're making it up. I don't know. True story. It was a good story. I thought it was good. See, I quick, I can think of things when you just brought up the word Jewish. I just went to the real estate sellinGHomes and I guess. I got a fact of how does my mind work. Yeah, I could play that. I could play mental illness. I'm going to tell you something. I took a road trip. You know the grams. You know the grams. They would run the body building, you know, in the Australian, in Australia. Anyway, the gram, Paul Graham Jr. took me on a car. He had it right me to something. I don't, it wasn't when I went to, when I went to the original. He took me somewhere. I was doing a tour of Australia to all the stores. He drove me someplace. I don't even remember where it was. We were in the car for three hours together. I never laughed so hard for three hours straight. You lost these. You have got the best sense of humor. And people are so tight. Like, Americans would never understand your sense of humor. But he said to me, the reason why people like you and Australia Davis. Because you've got the same sense of humor. You don't take yourself seriously. And nothing bothers you. And because you guys will tell the college under the seaward left and right. And it's not offensive. It's like a funny thing. I laughed so hard for thaT3 hours. And you know what? I wish the Americans had the osteosense of humor. We'd have a much better country. Well, you're still, I think you used it. Because when you started like the comedians out like Richard prior and George Carl and some of these people, back then before the Woken Cancer culture come along, you could tell and joke about that people. People of color religion. Anything because people in different between a joke. Right. And then they're actually vilifying someone and being outright racist. People in new to different. It's like, I remember back in day. I had so many friends of color where they were Mexican black whatever. They love blazing saddles. And how how races were that movie. Yeah, you're starting to get it. But they, everybody laughed at it because they played on stereotype. They played on this. Everyone knew the difference. But now you can't say, when they start getting down when it started coming in, they can't use the word blackberry. You can't use the word blackboard because the word blacks. And they're like, they're like, I can't use the cup wood black. All of a sudden be racist. And it's like when shit's like that started happening. And then they were going back through comedians, hosts from 10, 15 years ago. And wanting them to apologize for shit they said back then. It's like, this is just fucking ridiculous. It's like, you know, there's so many things that they're somebody to find it. It's jokes. They made on stereotypes. They made on things that are that of color. You're laughing because in the real world, or make you cry and upset. So you like to escape from that and you're laughing because you're not so bad. And I was like, that Jim Jeff is at that. That make jokes about right now. If you're talking about right, it's not a funny subject. Some of somebody's comedians still in a way where you sort of laugh. You're like, oh, fuck that is funny, but it's still bad. But you know, that's what you're going to do. You got to laugh at yourself. That's the good thing Australians, we laugh at ourselves as well. It's like, we don't take anything serious. As long as you said, as long as you're not doing it in malice, you're just telling a joke. It's like, you can tell a joke about something. You could have made jokes before I'm like, say something about, you know, down syndrome and stuff like this. Or, you know, if someone's like, they said before about if someone's got a twin there lose their twin and they're all upset. I said, we're just fucking lying. How's we mirror the bastard's there every day? You're still, you're still feeling people like, look, I lost the twin brother on that. I'm not fucking talking about you again. It's like, I'm sorry you lost your brother better. So whatever, it's like, you're talking about me. I have what I even know. You know, people need to just sit back and have a laugh at themselves. Because when you look at what's going on around the world, you go, have a laugh. Well, look at, look at bodybuilding, take bodybuilding, for instance, IMean, there are stereotypes in bodybuilding, right? Because we know, most black guys don't have break abs, right? IMean, that's, well, known, most white guys don't have break arms. You say that, you say that, you say that, now that's racist, that's racist. And we've got to treat us. Asian guys have amazing abs. We know that Asian women don't have a lot of butt, right? They have flat butts. IMean, there's certain stereotypes because, because genetically speaking, that's, you know, unless there's mixed blood, you know, like, I'm a mutt. IMean, so I have a Asian, Asian, Asian, Asian, Asian's can't dry. That's like, we don't have that. But the thing is, I got Asian friends and he had a crash, and I'm gonna go, I said, you're crashing, you know, we're shit dry, but so it's like, they can make fun of themselves. And like, there's all these stereotypes, like I said, bodybuilders, wolf, like these bodybuilders have small nuts, small dicks. And it's just like, we laugh at it because it's just my point. Yeah, that we laugh as bodybuilders at the stereotypes, because we actually know they're true. And no one takes it personally because we're just trying to make our bodies as perfect as we can do it. And we know what we all know. If you don't want your weaknesses, I know what my weaknesses are. It's not, so when people point it out, I never took it like, you know, I never took it like personally, I laughed at it because we know what we need to work on. IMean, come on. What is like, it's like saying a lot of genius paper when you really look at it through Tesla along the famous painters, everyone that's some sort of genius, a fucking nuts. That's what I'm saying. That's that's what I'm saying. Anyway, that's probably genius because I'm fucking nuts. I don't know where the genius part kicks in here, but it's coming. It's coming. Just one. Some of the most talented musicians, they die young, like, you know, because they drug addicts in there, they've got mental problems because they're so brilliant. They have such ability to channel whatever they channel to produce their art. That I think it, you have to be a little wacky. No one or the people don't do amazing things. That's just the way it is, you know? And it's like there's a joke I've never looked at, but it's a better than comedians like you, they get to be like Robert Williams and all these funniest people in the world who really outside of that, they're depressed or they're unhappy, but that makes them happy to see other people laugh, because they're sad, and there's it's like they try and make other people have to make up for what's missing from their lives, but when they're alone, they're all, you know, I'm going to kill myself, but what they're performing, making people laugh, they feel alive and stuff. So, yes, I'm just going to wait for my, whatever it is, my calling, they're coming along. I've got the fucking idiot nutty part there, and I just got to wait for the change. So, so, so, Kairine might come back into the Olympia, so thEQuestion is, Lee Priest, 2022, what show will we see him at? I, I just showed you my move, stay, are you going to... I don't call me. I don't think you can be ready for the Olympia in 10 weeks, though, that's the only problem. No, no, I don't think I'll give her anything. Miss early, dear. I'm so unfair, man. How about the New Yorker? I'm not. I don't know about the New Yorker. I don't know. He's at it Florida, isn't it? Yes, yes. He's at home. I don't think she has yet, as you, we would have heard about it. That, um, female male pal, if doesn't compete at yet, the Olympics have their boys, it probably wouldn't be. I know, yeah, I'll be the weightlifting, it's going to be. I'm waiting for weightlifting and track and field, but they're not letting it in. I know one, I know one weightlifting did, but it was a light of division, because it was a woman from a tail end, right? Yeah, first gold medal. And how's this, right? This is how other countries, like some of these people in the measure, I think, was a tail end, tail end or Indonesia, one of those countries where it's sort of poor, we send money to them. Yeah. How is, I don't know what America gets, but our athletes, if you win a goal, would you get $20,000 bonus when you come home, silver gets 15, that weightlifting lady from tail end or Indonesia. Right. She gets equivalent to $970,000 Australian dollars and a house, when she goes home. Really? Wow. Yeah. So maybe we should get, maybe you should become a female weightlifting, and move to a tail end. Is there a good operations, there are some of those lady boys? Yeah. Yeah. I'm at a scared level, I look too good about the two of these, you fucking, myself, all day. Yeah. But people say go fuck yourself up, I'm like, oh, I'll be right back. I'm about to keep my hands up, and you just see the Pfizer vaccine too, it's a big story. I said. It was under, just making ladies, boobies bigger. I wouldn't, I didn't see that. I didn't see that. You did? No. A lot of these women are saying they, one woman went from an A cup, there was C cup, and they're saying that some women actually started because a couple of days after they got it, some women would get like little lumps in their breast, so it was making them panic thinking that might be causing breast cancer. Yeah. So if you look at up on that, where they call it the Pfizer boob job or something now, that's the nickname, because so many women have been coming out saying they're actual breast size as grown since they got the Pfizer. That's a good way to get women to take the vaccine, right? I'm a two-astro, I'm a two-astro, I'm a two-astro, Sanica and one-fiser. You should see my car. Yeah, tell men their penis is going to get bigger and tell women their boobs are going to be vaccinated, right? That's fantastic. That's how pathetic our culture is, yeah. It's a big story about London News. First of all, I heard on the radar being able to see four-sheets, someone's just saying that for that reason, they may come and run out and get it, but you know? But it's actually a thing. I've said, you know, I think there's a woman walking around like, dentistry, we only fuck vaccinated men, you know, that's the thing to have to walk around the streets, you know? On a day, that don't want to get COVID that mix with their age and STDs and what do you have stuff? You know what it's like when you've got going to read your in a yeast infection and you get COVID on top of that day? You know what? Come on. I think they combine COVID vaccine with like an anti-AIDS vaccine and it's thrown a couple of other goodies in there as well. So at least it's not just one shot you get, you get in a couple of vaccines in one, like the, when you're the MMR vaccine and you're a kid that give you measle, mom's and Rubel are in a shot. Yeah. So you get the country that we have, but it aids and hepatitis isn't like that, you know? Why don't they just do it like a flu? I'm sure the COVID vaccine must be similar to a flu shock because it's a similar type of virus. So don't be on your get shot out, believe me, trust me. I've already had my boost, but here in Australia, because the gyms in Sydney, where my daughter is, she's probably got to pull out of a contest because they keep moving the contest because she gives you a lock down. That's right. They've been in lock down five weeks. Gyms have been shot for five weeks, now they've just extended it to the end of August. So another four weeks, all the gyms are shot. And you've got to wear a mask now when you go into the gyms and go into shopping centers and you go here and go there. And then you've got to, you don't have the skinings in America, do you? The barcode, where you've got to skinny. If you go into a store, you've got to skinny and the taste of the government website. So it tells them what time you went into the store and what time you left. That's so in case you get it, they can trace where your feet and say, no, if you're a super-super guy. Well, big brothers watching you guys way more than he's watching us over here in the US. He's watching me and he's recording because I've got some of those porn sites. So they can give him back to me. I have a client in mind, he's a good bodybuilder, he lives in Australia. He said he's in lockdown, whatever. I said, you have far you from where Lee Priest lives. He's like, maybe 30, 40 minutes. I'm probably maybe you can come and tren with him. He's a UKing me. We can't even go out. If we get quite going out, it's a $5,000 fine. Yeah, because he must be in that hot zone here. It's like from SID up to the central coast. He must be central coast. He goes, that's like 40 minutes from me. Yeah, but you can only go like five kilometers or 10 kilometers from that house. That's from the house. If we get caught outside, that you get like a $1,000 fine. And this and that and the point of the infection rate haven't even gone down. From all this stuff, they're doing. It's actually gone up yesterday. There was a 100 and it doesn't sound a lot compared to other countries. There were 177 cases in SID, the 46th were out in the community while in pictures. It's an out of extended at another month and now it's like you've got to go to grocery store. Only one person from your household can go to the grocery store. And they've started to think for singles now where if you're alone in your single person, you're allowed to nominate someone to be in your single bubble. So say you want to go for and you can nominate her. But that's the only person you can see. You can't change the person once you've got. You can't do that. You can't do that. You can't do that. I bet you see Blokler would choose you. Probably over his wife, right? I honestly leave. Lee Priest I want to go side. He's my guy. But he'd be like, play with me. He's locked down for five weeks and he glutes still out. I'm trying to. I should have picked Kai. Here he died. You're not trened in that squeezing when you're in the gym. You got to squeeze. I've waited for him. I've been locked in this room to give a leave. I thought you would have left by now. You know after Blokler watched that video that I put up the Kai set me, you know, we probably texting Kai. Kai, you look great. We want to put y'all in the cover and make you a star. Can you send me one of these videos? P.S. Mine is the pants. Could you imagine? Yeah. I would be great. Like I was surprised that time was two years ago when I was at the Olympic or when he came over to Spockney. Yeah. I was funny. I was like, you know, I didn't drop it. I think he knew how to grow for him. It's like he saw me. I don't know, but I'll hear we got his conversation. He was so happy. You know, I always stuck up for you. I always supported you. I was always there. I always supported you after I got you in trouble for writing that article. Yeah. You didn't want to. And then fought and you didn't find it because they told me to. It's like, but I've always been there for you. I said, he'd be great. I guess he'd be great to have on the show just to interview. Oh, yeah. That's like he must know everything that we say about it. And here we are again, just in fun. It's like just for fun. It's not serious. It's like if he called you off and show you to talk fine doing. Absolutely. John said he wouldn't. John said he had turned back off. Yeah. But John's probably with him. But I would get him on the show and interview him in a second because I would be a great interview because I know all his I knew well. All his dream when he's done, you know, and it's pretty impressive. And that's the thing. You're not going to bring up anything nasty. You'll talk nasty. It just be a good interview. I just started off with why does the magazine suck down. No. You know. I don't even see here in a straight up. The lights are gone out. Lights are gone out. Last dream, last call. Last thing. All right. In the city. Grab your part. Not. That's the. You have to go. Letting us know that it's time to wrap up the show. Oh, look. Tyler's running the show. They're giving the fucking camera in a microphone. He's like, takes up with that fucking start. Oh, yeah. It's a flashy light. It's a nice drive. Yeah. It's a blue. They said that the blue like you stayed up. Flash the lights. A last song at a night. Brad. That's right. How am I going to. Last song at a night. Grab your partner and give her a finger pop before you go. Oh, oh. Did you get that side to do? Scouts. I remember Michelle. That's Michelle. Oh, the show. The show. It's a sense of creativity and somehow I don't know how it's. Well, you turned the lights off. I got the news that you don't know. Sorry. Well, you're looking sexy next to my way. I got into the car green moves. Oh, yeah. Well, send it to me on video. I'll just play it over. I'll let you know what you think. I should make me come back. What's that? All right. You keep doing that. All right. I'm wrapping this up. I'm there. I can't even hate it. I can't even hate it. Now, with the lead priest, we'll see you next week. Don't blame me. I told you it's even fun to miss enough. I'm sure you should come on you back. Ha ha ha.

=== FILE: Lee Priest on Big Ramy's BIGGEST Title Threat! HMR (7⧸5⧸21) ｜ Dave Palumbo & Lee Priest [PpaiP6gQjSM].txt ===

Welcome back to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. Hi, I'm Dr. Paul Fajillo. Oh, that's cool. My birthday is tomorrow at a six a July, which is a bigger celebration. And now it's technically... It's a second. I was actually... See how good I am, I was actually at the gym. I just trened for now, 45. I said, you know what? I'll do some treadmill. I just turned the treadmill on and got it to the scene. Can you do the show? So I drove home to do the show. Oh, I didn't know you'd drum up. And that's very nice here. I appreciate that. You still fucking like you said, 15, 20 minutes, just 20 minutes. I went downstairs. I went downstairs, the biggest mistake is going to my snake room. I was going in for 30 seconds. My wife's like... That's an hour. She's like, yeah. She was like, yeah. She was like, yeah, yeah. She was like, one of my snakes actually had a litter. I actually had a malle. I didn't even know she was even pregnant. I just walked in there and I'm trying to just change some paper towels that were really dirty and I'm like, It's really dirty in this tub. up and the things trying to fight my hand off and they never, they know. And so usually the only time they get that defensive is when they have a litter. So I see, you know, I'm going to lift up the sidewalks. I lifted up. There's like a bunch of like there's like 10 babies under there. So I'll look at that. Well, congratulations. Warren on the floor of the joint. There we go. Everyone's going to go. We do have some birthdays in the Palombo household. I'm going to put on the tent of them. Yeah. 10 little mouths to see it again. And it's like three, uh, three wonderful kids are ready. So let me ask you this question. I'm always curious to other countries acknowledge when America has holidays more so than we, I know we don't acknowledge when anyone else has holidays, but do you guys acknowledge our holidays? I'm sure you doesn't acknowledge fucking anyone else. No, we don't get to do that. They're totally selfish, really care about ourselves. What is on the country? They're on the one. What is that? Yeah. I know that's all the Canadians have been wishing me what you've fought about, you know, happy fought July and that's pretty nice to them. They also that they shouldn't really affect them at all. Well, I get a lot of Americans wish you may have you full with July even though. When you live here for quite a while, so I guess you were. Yeah. I think when you get back to Jimmy the flat earth figure, I'm surprised that Americans even discuss it because America is probably just think there's America and nothing else. There's no earth. There's nothing. Just an ice cream. Right. Just somehow the bacteria. So I'm having Mexican people get over the ice wall, but no one else can. I don't know how to do that. America's just like an asteroid, fighting for the universe, just one country. So all of these. Oh, boy, well, we have the NPC team universe or they call it now the NPC universe. This week and where we had a lot of pro cards given that you know, I wanted to ask you about this now, you won the Navi universe, which is the original title of the universe, the one that I'm one. And now, you know, they've been, they used to have a show called the NPC team universe, which would feel the team that would go to the universe in Europe. Obviously now we don't, we don't, because when Rafi also in頭 has split with Germain, and there's no more universe. But so they just call this show now the NPC universe. And they give pro cards there and everything like that. Now, some people take offense to that because they said that it's not really the universe, but I don't think it really matters. What does you take on that? As a former Navi universe winner, you know. Well, it's not really the universe, you know, they can call it that, but it's not really the universe. It's like when they have, don't people put on the natural mystery, or limp your and call it the natural mystery, limp your, it's not really the mystery, limp your body. We don't really miss the Olympia right, exactly. Yeah, but people say I'm Mr. Olympia, it's just like you see some people walk around who are looking like not even top classic guys saying I'm Mr. Universe, people go, oh, really? It's like, wow, standards dropped. So the wellness girls are a, I'm, I'm Mr. Universe, too, right? So exactly. So people are in the no, no, but the general public done, I guess if you're, if you have one one that knows and it's not the real one, you can say you're Mr. Olympia, you are the universal people go, well, congratulations. Yeah, that's exactly. It's like a, what a pro cards are to give an out there too. Like I got nothing against it if they want to make money, but back in our day, they can people go to say, oh, fuck here, we got back in your day. When someone, when you went somewhere or you saw someone, you could go into a gym and go, that guy's a pro, just by looking at him, you knew that'll professional now, people come up the, you're, you're probably had a people come and make a highly, I'm such and such. I got a pro card, I'm like, oh, well, that's because of that, I, if I can go snooker or something, poor table, but it's like, oh, it's like I said, dude, when you're going to come online, face, spoke or whatever, and you're going to put, say, Jeremy Smith, I F. B. Pro, when you're going to tell someone you're a fucking pro, it's time to get out of the fucking sport. It's like, I got to put in my name, so everybody knows. Because they got, I've been saying this for for one. They got to make something that's like a little above a pro, like, like, maybe like, if you place like top 10 of the Olympia, you get another title, I don't know what you would call it, but, you know, like, it's a pre-prower, something like that. It's a pre-roller, it's not, it's not like a, is that like a pizza, is it? Yeah, yeah, it's, you're a pro plus. Right, right, you're like, you're like a higher level pro, you know, like the major league minor leagues, you know, minor leagues and baseball is still pro baseball, but it's not really, you know, you're not, you know, being, you know, early on TV or I thought you're like a pro with a triple eye writing or something, if you got to have us. You know, I've seen guys win pro cards at Masters or girls, win men, and then they go on and they actually wind up on the Olympia stage, you know, and they open and they do well. And so you never know, IMean, so, you know, I've to oiled with this thing in my head with the, is our more pros, the better or worse, and you know what, the sport has evolved and changed. So I embrace that change because I think that more business for the, I think business is important for the sport. If there's no business model behind around the sport and people can't make money from the sport, I'm not talking, because the elite guys will always make money with prize money, but that's only like 10 guys in the world. So if everyone else around the sport can make more money because now there's more pros, there's more people competing, so they need more coaches and more posing, you know, people spray 10 them and more people to do makeup and hair and more people to, you know, to tren people on the gym, I see it's good for business and it's good for the sport and it's healthy for the sport. Don't you? Well, I think, I think, you know, that should be called internet pros rather than competitive pros, because there's probably out of 40 amount of pro cards that are given out. I probably only what 50% ever competing the pro ranks. A lot of them get their pro card just so they can put on their business card or put on their Facebook page. Right. And they never competing the pro ranks where there's been a lot of great images on those, so I'm here in Australia that never took a pro card and if made more money, they actually be an amateur then actually, because if they went into the pro ranks, they would get lost in the lineups and stuff that they'd never get a call out and the money that I'd have to spend to getting ready for pros shows, the better I'll stay and be in a top amateur. Right. Or, you know, what they do in boxing is if you want to fight as an amateur, if you want to turn pro, you turn pro. You can just do it on your own. You don't have to win anything to turn pro in other words. So, let's just get a pay for your pro card and I'll figure out. Right. Because you know what? I know in our sport earning a pro card is like almost like at the ploma, like from college or something like that. But in essence, for a lot of people, it's really a death toll because you've got a pro card, but then when you go, you've got to compete with all these people that you can't beat anymore. But it's almost like your better offstay as an amateur. Perfect example was Jose Raymond could have earned his pro card probably five years before he actually took the pro card because like, Newy wasn't ready. So, he said, you know, he won the lightweight class. I forget where the nationals are something like that. And then he turned it down. And then he won the the band away class and he turned it down. And then he won the middleweight class. And then I think he finally took a put, you know, I think he earned like three or four, you know, pro, you know, pro qualifying then. But he was smart. He was like, I'm not ready yet. So I'm going to take it and then finally agree to take it and then I think the two 12 class came out with two perfect. So, you know, it is what it is. I think people just take it now. Once you don't compete, they just take it like I said, more for the, if they like you see, they've got to be coaches that they've got to trening. Sure. Think it the gym just so they can say the professional now and stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. It definitely is a job. It's A-50 dollars. But you know, and also if there's more ability to turn pro, more people will compete because people are, they're like, status mongers. You know that. They want status. They want to be validated. So to say I got a pro card, even though they may never, ever do anything as a pro, it doesn't matter, at least they can wave it in people's faces and say, here, where you want to, you know, you don't want to quit $50,000 in applications and travel and they're in spray tanning, but I got a pro card at least out of it. You don't want to compete in the lay priest classic way, you know, the win, it could get a pro card, but that's up to me because the thing is, I decide, or the people decide the committee can decide because let's just say you have a whole heap of people up there. And the overall winner can get a pro card. But if that overall winner, if I look at them, go and listen, if this is our pro from Australia, we sent him that a professional universal professional world and he's not good enough. What's the point of sendinGHim where if he just gets there and he just looks like a lucky kind of thing standing up there's like, you want to send someone, that's why even in America, when they give out pro cards, it should be, you could get a pro card at the show, but the judges have to determine looking at the person on stage, is he going to make it as a pro or maybe giving another year, giving another two years and then giving pro cards. And I said, if you want to go into the pro ranks, if you love committing, you want to be competitive, you just want to go out and stand there on stage. And like I said, all that time money and effort that goes into it, the whole trening aspect could just be a waste of time. Well, that was the way it was back in the 90s or early 2000s. IMean, that if it was about, where you're ready to be a pro and are you ready to go to the next level? Now it's not about that anymore. Like I said, the sport has changed and let's face it. Changes, it bothers people who are from the old system because they feel like, well, I got cheated in some, because people always ask me, you could have definitely got a pro card at it. If the way it worked, operated today, operated in the 90s, you would have had a pro card easy. And I said, I did like, is that Bobby, I said, no, because when I competed, my place things actually carried more weight even though I didn't get a pro card because it was so hard. And so, you know, you got to just accept the time you're from and that the fact that the sport is going to change and evolve and that it's good, you know, it's good for business and it's good for us, you know, what we're doing now. Imagine if they did it in other sports or professional sports where they just gave about, we have the Olympic games and the fans and Rita. And here he comes, this is one of the five minute six. Yeah. Palambo, right. Palambo one is pro card somewhere else. Two hours later. Yeah. The difference is that, you know, if you run, if you run 11 seconds in the 100 and the guys winning the 100 meters are running 95, 4, whatever they're running, you know, you're going to be like at the starting line when they're done, you know, I got to mention this just because we've been talking a lot about Olympics more so with the, with the trip, we've been talking more about the trensgender, but sharp, sharp, sharp, heri Richardson who won the 100 meters at the Olympic trials and you know, seems to be she reminds you of the perfect. Yeah. She's like the Florence Grove, the joiner of like New Year. Is she fell face to the set? Health doesn't help the piece on her arm when she's running. I think it's just a style statement like her hair is, but you know, and I like her look. I think it's, it's guy, you know, it's the first person I can remember since the flow Joe and back in the day, you know, who really stuck out and you know what, she's got to look at this. Yes, she got to touch. And she's like, just like, you know, here I am, this is who I am. But you know, you, I heard, you know, you get the news, she fell to drug tests. I'm thinking, oh man, what a dummy. What if she fell for, you know, a winstrol or anivar? So I'm trying to think of like what she fell for and it's like pot, like marijuana. And I'm thinking of myself, how stupid this is for a heart of G, okay? She's just won the Olympic trials, okay? She's going to the Olympics. She's got the best chance of winning an American, a gold medal for America. She's got everything going for her. She knows the rules. She beat obviously whatever's the right test or she beat. She goes and smokes a joint. IMean, it's on the top of the list. It's not whether, you know, everyone's saying, I get these petitions in my email to sign because she's from Oregon and in Oregon, pot is illegal. Marijuana's illegal. But in running is not, and she knows that. Why, you know, and I know she, I watched an interview with her. She didn't, she said that she, she was doing an interview with some reporter and he told her, she found that from the reporter that on the air that her biological mother, who she really wasn't close with, had passed away. And she was so just strawed afterwards. And she took her right, she didn't, she took responsibility for what she did. She felt that that was the way she needed to relieve her stress. And she did it and she knew she did it. But I'm thinking of myself, you know, you're not like a regular person. You're going to be Olympic. That's place. You sat on ice everything. You're like trening everything. Everything. You know, it's like the guy going to Mr. Olympia and he goes to the, the buffet, the Chinese buffet, like the night before IMean, come on. Well, you think, yes, it would have been sad finding out about your mother, but you figure if the salary a month away, go and did Olympics win and go and winning that gold for your mother, that sort of thing would have been. Right. You did it. Keep the win. Exactly. We've been a bit, but even the whole thing from Oregon's and she said, be like, people that come to America and start selling pot and shit, saying, well, originally from ants, the ants, the damn we're allowed to sell. If I can pot over there, it's like, I didn't know the rules. You didn't ask Biden. Yeah, I'm surprised Biden even the fruit was going on. So I saw AOC, AOC, you know, caught KZ that fucking weird. I looked like an alien. She's trying to play the race card with it. I'm like, really, you're going to pull the race card on this. Yeah. Like only black people smoke marijuana, right? IMean, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, me, come on. It's, there's no originally, but back in, even. But that can even play the race card in the Olympics, like the other one, the turn, the back when they go on about races and win. And not, I'm not sure what it is, but come on, at least when I watch the Olympics, it's almost like 70% of the American team, African American. So he can't, if America is such a racist country, it would be pick a black, black, but a representative. It's going to be like, hit the back in the day when he had the Olympics, pick an order juice, the representative. Yeah. It's like, he like, shut the fuck up. Well, yeah, it's like, come on. Look, they know the rules. If you smoke a joint, okay, and you felt marijuana, okay? And it's funny because the, the, the, the suspension is only a month. I don't know why marijuana is not as bad as steroids, but it's only a month, but obviously, the Olympics are coming up. So she's going to miss it. Now, they asked Biden, president Biden about the whole thing, and you think it's fair. Yeah, the realize, even though he's, he's out of his mind, the guy, he's the guy who back in 1990, and it was endorsing the whole, the steroid, which hunt that they went on. Yeah, because I interviewed Aaron Baker. I forgot this, but Aaron said the reason why they drug tested the Olympia and the, USA, the year he won it, 1990 was the cost Biden was putting the pressure on everyone. I said drug testing, you know, and that's why Vince McMahon, obviously, got into all that uh, regular role with the drug testing, the W, W, E, Ressler's, no, that stuff because it was Biden. He was a senator at the time, and he was the one pushing that bill, ironically enough. So they asked him, what did they see thinking about the, uh, shark, uh, Richardson's, well, the drug, he's like, I feel bad for her, but that's the rules, you know, where, where, what are you going to say? Uh, so probably you think that all sharks, sharks are very dangerous. I think it's swimming swimming in the ocean. Right. It shows like I like pot, pot's very good. It relaxes the little kids, it relaxes the children. Yeah, it, it is kind of weird though, because in this country now, IMean, look, she could have gone out and gotten drunk off her ass, and she would have been fine, you know, because that's not illegal. Now, it's like anything, it's like jobs, you know, you've got jobs here in Australia, you're a truck driver, you're in a thought that if you, if you can't, they get drug test to the bit because they're driving on distance into trucks and stuff, and if you fail a drug test, you lose your truck as a license and stuff like that. So you should drop it. It's like, you just know, why do you think all police officers drink? Because it's legal. They know they can't smoke pot and snort cocaine because it's, it's, it's, it's a, it'll lose their jobs. So if they want to go out and relax, they have alcohol, because that's legal. Now, thEQuestion is, if it would be interesting, you know, if they make marijuana legal, it will almost legal, but let's say it's legal everywhere. And the IOC changes their rule because now, marijuana is considered legal because obviously doesn't have any performance enhancing, you know, a bill is, it's not like a major or better run. I can't smoke. I can't get out of sleep with three or nine. So, but IMean, so if they change the rule, IMean, that's a different story, but the IOC right now, that's the rule. So, you don't, so when you're depressed and you want to want to let go or you want to relax a little bit, you go out and have a couple shots of awkward or a couple glasses of wine and you're fine. So, I, you know, it, that's too pity drives me crazy. You know, and I don't, I think she's accepting it. She's accepted responsible. I'm not trying to say she's making excuses and, you know, it's saying, you know, calling you know, I think from what I think from what I've seen, she's accepted a federal and half the other people. Yeah, yeah, yeah, people. Because she knows. And the work, and the work, create the work, create scenes to be firing up all these bullshit and stuff about. She's like, look, I accept what I did and that's so. Right. And I thought that was very mature for, but for some reason, it bothers me so much that this girl who is amazing, and that she obviously dedicated a tremendous amount of her life to this, had this amazing ability, this gift to go to the Olympics. She's running the best, you know, races of her life now. And now she can't go for some stupid things she did. It's like, it's like my son, we want to take him to an out to eat. And it's the last minute as a temperatureman blows it for himself and now we can't know, you don't get to go out to eat. I feel the same way. Like, it's like, you know, I'm sure they didn't want to take it away from her, but you have to, because you know, you have a rule in place and you have to have to enforce the law. You know, and that's the way it goes. I know. Maybe she'll get lucky and now I'll postpone the game so we could two days ago. There you go. Maybe someone can release another stren of COVID out there in the same or, you know, exactly. Yeah, so could happen. Speaking about people you don't expect to compete. What have you been fond of this whole kind of green thing? Oh, yeah. So I brought that up before. Remember, on the last show we did. Yeah, yeah. Well, you know, now he's, you know, it's interesting because I did know, I, why didn't realize maybe it's about a, it's a better thing than that guy. And I saw this because George Farre posted on his Twitter, a picture that we just, you know, we just, you know, we just started rap, we just thought, I think he put like something to the degree of we just started, we just started, perhaps something like that for Ty Green. Let me see if I could pull this up there. Oh, but that could be prep for anything. Prep for a movie, prep for a movie. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And George is implying that they're prepping for something. So I don't know. Let's see. Hold on. Sit. I stole a Nick string from power. So he said, you got a baddie, where you got a set of baddie, what's up, make it. What happened? I don't watch the child. What did next pet should have been power out of it? And he said that Ty caught him out on something, but he wasn't going to reply on his station. So he did it on his vlog station. Oh, my god. Yeah, yeah, yeah, and these guy, he's got it. I'm not going to reply that he's, but I am replying to it. But I'm, yeah, I'm not going to reply here. So you got to join my other side too, to watch it. Now, but George, you know, posted this, you know, and that's a nice out feed. He's got nothing. Yeah, it is. He looks like he's going to be in the next edition of Game of Thrones. No, but George posted we started back four weeks ago in Kaiser, already looking freaky. You're great. I don't know why Kai would start working with George if he wasn't planning to get ready for something. Now, is he getting ready for a movie or is he getting ready to maybe compete again? I don't know. What do you think? IMean, now that I see this, that's different than Kai teasing it. Now you got George teasing it, too. You know? I'm still thinking maybe when he saw the red cone. Maybe in there there was a thing that he had to defeat, but I know people arecomplaining and talking about he should get an invite. So if he gets an invite, people are going to be pissed about that. So they're sayinGHe should have to compete to qualify. So you've been in the right kind of pissed people off. Yeah, yeah. Well, IMean, Tyler Manniam said something last year to that degree that it wouldn't be handy. Heading out, it's special invite so easily this year. And so I don't know, that plays the Kai because Kai is kind of a special case. But IMean, he only has a couple of options to qualify. Right? We got Tampa coming up and what else? There's only like one other show I think. There's something like that. Yeah, because your Arnold's, the Arnold's not like maybe he's got to be Arnold. Even though maybe it was in the Arnold's. Right. Right. Now what do you do? Let's say Kai jumped in the Arnold's. Kai jumps in the Arnold's. He connects Laura and Laura and Vites him. He does the arm and he wins. Now if you're the Olympia people, don't you have to almost invite Kai to the Olympia? IMean, special invite him at that point if he's in the audience. He's like, yeah, I want to do it. I would then because even though it's not a qualified, he's beat a lot of people in the Arnold who are doing the Olympia. So to me, that would make okay of qualified. So he goes. But then those people who are in the Arnold who arEQualified for Olympia, who we beat, they are going to be pissed if he goes to Olympia because they'd be like, that's not a qualifying show. You should be allowed to come to the Olympia. Well, what happened to the other person? Well, I think that's the given. They'd have to give a special invite as what would happen now. So I think at that point, if he actually put on the posing, Trump's got on stage one legitimately and then wanted actually to go to the Olympia because those are a lot of what if you know for Kai, you know, to have to get through a lot of hurdles that you got to jump through. But assuming that's what happened, you have to give the guy an invite. IMean, you'd be, you'd be, then would be crazy not to petition for an invite there because that thing is going to blow that Olympia up if he would show up, obviously. I don't know. Well, I said, you'd have a lot of happy people, a lot of unhappy people. So I would be like, well, looking at what it looked like. Looking at how it probably looked like. What do you think? IMean, do you think the Kai could, could win the Arnold? IMean, is he started the tool set? Well, I can't buy that for it. It's hard to say, but it still looks like he's got the thickness and stuff. And like I said, I'm sure, you know, he hasn't been, I'm sure he's probably been, I can't really say it. But you know, I'm sure he's probably been using a little bit, but I'm sure he's not going to the degree. A little bit. He looks pretty, you know, George said they started four weeks ago. I'm assuming that means that they're, you know, I can't. But I look at Kai for the last, Kai for the last few years, I was still pretty freaky and fickened, full. And I couldn't see him go on crazy on order supplements, just if he's not competing. So I'm sure he's just using a little bit of a mischievous, but maybe he wants to. That's a legitimate, you know, recent picture. That's not like Kai, he's a Kai claim to be crazy. He's already 17. Did you read this? Yeah, three. Hi, sayinGHe's already 17. What's Kai? He's only five. No, I need to follow Nate. Five, nine. Yeah, I don't think he's three, 17, do you? Yeah, if that heavy bones. What was the lot of weight for a night five foot eight or nine person, right? And what's his heavy, you speak in post about two of my fan, off at six degrees. I got the fan going on the big car hold on. All right. Well, IMean, I think Kai used to compete about two, 55 when it was all said and done. You know, when he would suck out, he would start, you know, pretty high and then he would come down. I don't think he's ever been three, you know, three, 15, however. What's his contest white snowed me when he lost competed? I think he's in the 255 range in there. Yeah, so if he's two, 17, IMean, three, 17, look at that. Yeah, it looks like he's even put on a lot of muscle, or he's holdinGHis shitload of water. I don't know what the case may be. I'm sure he's not that hard from behind. Yeah, but free 17 there. You know, they say it'd be on stage at two, 80 when you're so. No, I know. IMean, I thought you'd assume, right? IMean, I don't know unless he's, I think he's jacking up the weight. I don't think I think he's probably maybe three hundred there. Maybe, you know, maybe two, 90. Maybe IMeant two, 71. They got their bit dyslexicus. Yeah, I bet you never know. Never know. But that's I'll say anything the cause talk, you know, we're talking about it. Okay, three, seven, eight. Wow. Well, IMean, you have to talk about it. If someone else would have left your officer on me, what's your army in the offseason when he's not competing? I think they said he was three, four, any other day, but, you know, who knows? You know, let me get a free, hundred. It's a lot. Yeah. I asked the seat of this question, you know, a couple of weeks ago when he said that the ramming would not be, if he, if he couldn't be a ramming, but what do you think? Can, can, can, can, can, can I beat ramming? I think so. I think, yeah, cause like I said, ramming is big in areas and he's got the whip and muscle mass, but even when you look at someone even like Heidi, you've had he come in super shreddlandry, even though he's short, I think he could push Rami. There's a few people I think could push Rami, cause like I said, Rami's a big guy and that's what a big guy. But I think a really, really, really winkler in Christ condition could push Rami because they've really got that thickness everywhere and looks more like a complete bodybuilder. Like feel he fit his best could easily beat Rami. So it's like, you know, Rami's just big guy and he's impressive, but when you get someone that's just morecomplete and flows better, I think anyone could give him anyone like Kai or Roli or if and like I said, the little Bonak shredded, yeah, cause you're sure they probably would give it to him, but he looks morecomplete than me. Where's I said, Rami's a big guy, but I think some other people look morecomplete when they're in shape and shredded. What do you think about this picture, although when we pull this up, hold on. Probably not really winkler since we were talking about him. Look at this freak shot. That's that magic lighting again, IMean that same spot. I don't care, imagine getting anything. IMean, Kai is pretty freakinGHard in that picture too. IMean, I don't think you're giving that higher on stage, was he? That's what IMean, how he looks, if he just tamed up and kind of little bit of water, I could walk on stage like that, you think you'd win it, it'd be top three easy. IMean, right? Unless I don't know if that picture is super filtered right now, but IMean, it looks to me, it's pretty freaking bad. Look at any of that, you'd think that's a classic winner there if he comes in like that. Yeah, who could beat him? IMean, he's like a crazy guy. So, a lot of what ifs, though, that's where we're finding out. The speculation is nice, but you know what, I want to bite the Kai green cookie, but I had to, at the same time, he's done this every single year for what for the last five years, dangling that little cookie in front of our face right before the Olympic. He always does it right before the Olympic, too. I would be more likely to believe it if it was a little earlier, but there's really not that much time left here. If he's to re-19, we have the fric is he going to get in shape, you know, to do a qualifier, you know. And the thing is, too, the Kai can get attention just being Kai, it's not like he's an easy attention. If you get a do it, just say you got to fucking do it. It's like, I'm sure to promote it, what you're going to do it now, so people can get excited and buy tickets or whatever. So, if you're going to do it, just say you're doing it, stop the speculation, you know, and it's because like, you know, Kai puts up a pizza, he's going to get attention. Kai puts up a video, he's going to get attention. So, you know, it doesn't need to say he's going to compete and get attention. I think that puts turns people off, they just start hatinGHim. So, just say you're going to do the fucking show, just do it. You're in. You're in. I've spoken on the fore for July. The threat. I did see, I did see some people complaining about the fore for July about saying it wasn't good and that they're playing the race card again day, but you know what I think? When I lived in America, it's like, you've had a black president, you got black me, you got black people in movies, you got black people who are top athletes making millions. Look, if you're a black person, why does Spanish whatever, you can do anything you want in America today. You got the same opportunity, you lose the only thinGHolding your back, you think? That's it. If anyone's going to complain in America and they want to hold rallies and they want to have peaceful protests right. So, IMean, would be the naiky for American Indians. Why aren't they out there fucking boon and eluding and doing shit because they fuckinGHad shit taken from them and we killed them all off. Is that enough in a month? That's what the problem is. They're too busy playing blackjacket that you see. You know, so we started. That's right. We gave them some casinos to keep them quiet for the ones that are still around. We were smart. You guys are going to have to do that to be the average. You guys are going to have to give the average and you can see now's over there. If anyone's kind of complaining in America, it should be the 90th American Indians, more than the black people because you black people have a 10 times better than the 90th American Indians. Shut the fuck up. I want to ask before you drive, take all your drive money from the downtown, and go to fight the casinos and support the 90th American Indians. That's right. Before we start talking about some of the thousands of times, I want to ask you more morEQuestions about their European Union. Bill Cosmy, release from prison. What do you think about that? Good. I think it's great. And you're calling people to call in America a racist country. Yeah. Look at the bill. Think I want to privilege it in the. I still know why they released the bill. And you know the exact reason. Yeah, they said that the prosecutor before there was some deal done where it couldn't go to try or something. But really, look at Bill. And then the woman who said he raped this, she was at basketball or a stuff. She looked like a lesbian. Right. So really, if I was going to rape her, I would have to take the fucking drugs. Not give them the money because there was a lot of women that came forward. Also, you know, they're jumping on the bank. They're just jumping on the hunts the bullfane wagon. They're just jumping on the duck. I'll say this. I'm going to go and say this on the record. If Cosmy's out of jail now, if Sean Rodin gets the. It's putting prison. Yeah, I'm going to. The people should be outraged by that because I haven't seen one woman come forward. Other than the, the accuser. You know, well, when next week, it should be okay. We should see Cosmy and O.J. playing golf together. Hi, so I think you have. Yeah, he should. Yeah, oh, I know. Yeah, Rodin should hire a Cosmy's lawyer because Cosmy's lawyer obviously was pretty down. I'm going to be got about it. Yeah, there's something to do with that. It was never meant to have. IMean, I think that's something deal done before. So, you know, he did what it did to against it. No, I don't even know. O.J. and Cosmy should go live together. They should put him in a half way house together. I'm going to do a TV show to get a reality show. The juice, the juice and the drink. Yeah, exactly. I'm unbelievable. We live in such an insane society. There's no, there's no evenness across the board. Everyone's got their own little, you know, I know this first. I got that one. I'm going to get out of here. I got a bit of lawyer. I get money. Definitely helps get your office. It's like, no doubt. There's no white, there's no white privileges. Money, privilege. It's money, privilege. It's money, privilege. That's exactly what it is. You called it a matter. It doesn't matter what color you are. If you've got the money and you're white, you can put your kids in the best schools. You took out the money in your black. Your kids are going to the best schools. That's right. Money, that's not fair. No one has a question. It doesn't care about what color you are. You move into white neighborhood in your multi-millionaire. Welcome. Come on in. They don't care. Look at where you look around and order people to live in. White neighborhoods, but they say it's racist, but they don't care because they got order money. So that's a money thing, not the fucking privilege when it comes to the skin color. That's right. It's always good. But if you don't have money, forget about it. When I was in federal prison, I was in a very low, obviously I was in a camp. It was like summer camp. But there were guys in there that when you, let's say you get sentenced to 10 years in prison. When you're down to like only like a year or two left, they'll put you in a, if you're behavior yourself in your nonviolent criminal, they'll put you in a lower security prison. So I had a couple of guys in prison with me that were finishing out of 10 years sentence. And what are the guys was, when I first got there was sharing the bunk, he was like, I was on the top, he was on the bottom bunk. And I said to myself, you know, you're not really supposed to ask people, but you wine a basket of them. So what did you do to get here? Did you see him again? I was a black guy, you know, and he's like, you know, I sold like two bags of like crack or something like that, you know, and then washing, first of all, watching the DC is not really a state. So it's considered federal fence if you do anything there. The guy got 10 years, especially on like two bags of fucking crack cocaine. IMean, he had no money, he had a public defender, they took a deal and yeah, he got sentenced because it was like his second offense or something like that. But the point is, the guy was was not violent. He was a guy, he had a family, you know, he just, you know, he was taking the leg, he was lazy. That's all he was one of the so drugs to make money. IMean, it wasn't the right thing to do. But did he deserve 10 years in prison? No, no. You wouldn't think too. He would have looked at cash. He wouldn't have never done it in prison. I imagine if that was like Beyonce or Jayce, he's son, he got caught selling crack or little probation, you know. I'm not sayinGHe would have been a slug. You would have seen him on the side with the, you know, picking up the garbage of the guys, you would have done like 20 hours of community service, he would have been done. And then he would have gone to reality show after that about it. Yeah, 10 years is like punishment should fit the crime of all I suppose. But the other, the other reason it should be 10 years would be like if he's done it before and done it before and he said some other robbery charges, you know, if you've got a little bit of violent different story, if you've got to list this long and they're like, look, mate, you've had this many chances. And this is the tenth time we've arrested you go on a way, but image of first, the fences like some of those ones that get put in there for selling marijuana and people like I said sadly, we'll black people get put in jail, but like I said, it comes down to an economic thing. They can't get good lawyers, defendants and all this sort of shit, whereas the white preppy kid that's going to a nice college and he gets caught selling marijuana long comes that who's probably in the turn anyway pays the right people is out. So it doesn't come down to privileges. It comes down what you said before, the almighty dollar. You call that you said it and that's exactly right. Right. Lee, please, that's good. On 24. What's that fucking Australian even doing talking on July 4th? It's not even American. That's right, not even American all there. All right, I wanted to just, I wanted to just briefly mention the Dallas Europa show is this past weekend. You remember when the Dallas Europa pro used to be like a big man's open body, you know? And that was one of the biggest numbers. I don't know why they got rid of open body building. I just don't. I just want to pay the price money. I saw a fight out of Ed and Betty still still doing the show. They've been doing that since. No, how long? Hell on there. They've started a long time ago. You remember, you started to use to be called the Southwest Pro show and then they then the Dallas, then the Europa distribution company teamed up with them and sponsored all their shows and they have Dallas or Lando. I don't know if they have any other ones. They used to have like one of Connecticut and then they moved, remember they had one year they had it in Atlantic City. But it was always men's open and it was like the big shows of the year. And I guess they just got sick of, you know, forking out that cash for the price money because they felt like the competitors were not appreciating it. But they still have it. They had the men's physique. This pair of baby, baby, too. It's a kind of a great shape that you can do. Most musculoskelet matter are as well as stick a tongue out. Yeah, I bet. Yeah, you know, Daddy, people don't realize. Betty competed well into our 50s and she was awesome. It wasn't like she was just going to win the show. Yeah, she was winning the show. Yeah, she was winning the show. Let me see. I don't think it's some reason this is not popped up. Let me see. Oh, it's going to be poem, baby. Don't know what. Yeah. I got, I took the bill cause me all, all of you get informed. I'm just going on. You know, you get, you get ads for rupees. Yeah. I have a trouble sleeping. Exactly. Oh, my God. You're funny. All right. All right. Ramp's. Let me see if I can get it. Not getting late enough to get to Viagra and free some of next. Thank you. Hard and key person. Yeah. Ramsey Ram's. What a name. Yeah. Last name is, if you guys look so nice, guys, I haven't really talked about it. Last name is Rams. Why would your parents name your Rams Rams? Rams. Well, I know some people are dying to like, pay to pay to say, I'm thinking, well, what when you come up with a different name that I'm going to pay you to say. You know, my, my, my, my, my, my, an ants name is Patty and, you know, Patricia. Lisa, so she was Patty Palombo. She said she got torch and school P.P. You know. So, so what I named my kids, I was very careful. I don't think that's an idea of the many names where there was the, you know, could be nicknames that were torch. Yeah, you did it. You did it on the polling polling polling polling polling polling voting for. Yeah, no, no two peas. You know nothing. Yeah. But it's not even, it's not even the two peas. It's just like when your first name is almost identical to your last name. Right. Really. Well, silly isn't they seen Ramses. If I'm pronouncinGHis first name, right? One here really, the guys had a really good physique. You know, men's physique, I just don't think gets the credit. It deserves because, you know, I think guys, I think people still think of it as like, all right. Well, it's not really, you're not really showing legs. I think if they want it, they were going to change the vision out there that they should put these guys in some kind of trunks. We can. In a straight into an assort of where almost like classic, we know where they were like the right. We got Arnold, the big Arnold posing trunks when they sort of like, in between shorts and posing trunks. Why not? They're not hitting poses, but they're at least, I want to see their legs and I want to see their legs flex in the standing relax position. I think that would bring a better, you know, because I saw a picture. I got to see if I could find a Brandon Hendrickson who's there. You know what, you know what would help them, too, is if they stop doing this. But yeah, some of the stuff on stage. Yeah, I'm just putting your arm at the side, but when they go twirly twirly, when they're doing fancy movements in the girls and that leg out to the side and the hand and the hand like this looks like a hook around sunset waiting for a trick to come down. So it's just like, look at me boys, I got my hand down boys, look at me. Look at me. That's what IMean, stop, stop doing that. Let me, let me show this is what I, this, IMean, this is why I think they got the right to winpier champion there, but imagine if you had Brandon Hendrickson. Okay, on stage with actually, you know, IMean, look, you guys got legs. He's the Olympia Champion, men's physique. He's got legs. Imagine if they caught him, Henry Hendrickson. Yeah, no, so just those little black, I said, you remember the little black hop skin shorts were true. I know, he's got legs. He's got legs. You should have legs, there's no reason why you shouldn't have legs. It's a good, but that's a little bit too deep. Yeah, if he had black tarts on you still see it, it'll taste, but not closing drums, just those little black shorts. Right, but I'm saying you do understand like he has now he has a complete physique. I think that's a much more number one marketable look. Number two, I think it would encourage more people and I think the, the division would be taking more seriously because you'd be like, Holy macro, that's what I want to look like. I don't want to look like a guy with a play, you know. Hey, you've just got rid of 50% of the gym, say, you know, I'm a little bit more expert. Am I, am I limiting the division league? If you just lost half of it. I just lost half of it. But he looks like it, it ends like he could do a good in class. Even. No, well, he, you know, he talked to me originally when I had interviewed him a few years ago. He was sayinGHe wanted to go to the open eventually, but I think he would be a great class guy. If he wins the Olympia again this year, he should move up the classic just the proof. Because no, I don't think there's there's been no one to win right to divisions the Olympia and two divisions. I don't even know why they don't have like, when you see him in their board shorts that come that are knees, I'd say 80% don't have car up. So why don't they just wear like jeans. Right, they're right. They're like, as well, you may as well wear a long stand-ex pants or anything like that. I don't know what's up with that skinny jeans. They can wear those skinny jeans or like when you go to big Ford 250 truck and you put little ties on. That's what it looks like when they're skinny jeans on that of a big upper body and these little legs. It's just like when people have a big truck with little ties. Looks ridiculous. I don't know why they won't show them. They're, you know, change it so they can see legs on stage. I'm telling you, I think you'd be because they don't have legs, they just like if you're in a locker room in a sec. Oh, they don't let them let them make it to the in need legs. You know, I think that's the way to fix the division. Not that it needs to be fixed, but IMean, you couldn't hurt. If you don't have them, you're not going to show it. If you're in the locker room and you've got a porn star cocky, you're just going to rip your pants. But if it's cold and you've got to stack a quarter's, you're not taking your pants off in the change. I guess. I don't know. You never know. I just think that I think that we can add another level of like acceptance and a sport to the division. I really do. IMean, it's the only division in any of the division's men or women that we don't show the whole body. IMean, come on. Something's got to be something wrong with that. Something's thing. Yeah, they might have just let us head where the skinny jeans because the boys, short-skilled them, they use it half and don't have calves. So think of their money, they'd say, they've got a tank, they've got a tank, they've got a tank, yeah, for body then, you can say, I'm running. Look, she's having a legs. You know, I'm very impressed. I want to bring something. We don't usually talk about the women that much on the show. Unfortunately, because you only have so much time. But Jessica Padilla, first of all, I don't even have any show. She's one, but she's one so many figure shows over the last couple of years. IMean, this girl has got such, she can do women's physique easily if she wanted to. Right. She wins another show. She wins a European here again. IMean, this girl is kind of like what Milo's was to demand's by, she just competes over and over and over again. And she's always in shape and she wins shows. And, you know, she's clen and up this girl. I think it's, IMean, she's one of the few that are not afraid to get out there. And compete several times a year. And I wouldn't be surprised if she might even be a limpia champion. At some point, I'm not around about this year, but you know, she couldn't. She couldn't win the Olympia, you know. It's actually like, if you enjoy competing and you love to sport and women, women, you know, some do in the body building, but not I think women like her. They wouldn't be pushing any hard substances. So it's like, you could compete over and over. It just comes down to your mental strength and if you love doing it, if you love doing it like some women do, I've do it. They love getting out there because let's face it. A lot of women stay in shape, more than the men do. So if it's in preparing for a show, it would taste easier, but you know, then that much weight theory is to lose like some men do when they bulk up. So a lot of women prefer to stay in shape all year round. So if you can compete and do it, do it. She might become like the decks, the Jackson and the win or the titles. I think it's you, she's smart. I think that I don't know, I just think that a lot of people are not realizing that they have an opportunity if you're good to actually make some money. You know, and I just, I don't know. I think the mist is about, I really do, but you know, what do I know? All right, I want to talk about, there was also the NPC team, the University of Bethesda, who we mentioned earlier in the broadcast. And I'm not going to go through all the winter because there's a million winners and there's a million winners and there's a million people who got further. I just want to say congratulations, yeah, bro, because there was some great talent. I helped a lot of people in that show and I was been looking at pictures all week and long and people been sending me videos. And I was very impressed with the level of what was happening. IMean, you can peddle us. IMean, you can peddle us. I loved it. They have hundreds, hundreds. They might be a bit of a thousand. I don't know. But they moved the show. The most show was in South Carolina. It wasn't in New Jersey like it's then. They went down South Carolina because I think it's a little more lean down. But could a separate mind? They're reported on it. I know. I know. It was an impossible show to report on because there was so many people at it. But I'll say this, you know, bodybuilders could give a shit about holidays. You could hold these shows on Christmas weekend. And I guarantee you will not have one less. You might have more people because people all more work. I could do the show. You know, it's amazinGHow bodybuilders do that care. I remember when I did the junior USA in I think it was 1994 for the first time. It was in Chicago and it was on Easter Sunday weekend. And everyone's going to be going to be knowing there. And I'm telling you everyone showed up. It was a stack line up and you know, people went on. I actually wound up getting stuck. I don't know why I couldn't get a flight on Sunday. I left on Monday. And I remember the only thing open in Chicago was was McDonald's. They got because you know, I loved McDonald's. Yeah. After a show, you know, you want to eat. IMust have eaten in McDonald's about six times. You know, you could have eaten Easterings. Well, I can now. It's not like a huge, I don't think so here. But on July 4th, the muscle to beach down at Venice. It always had a lot of competitors. Great crowd down there because you got tourists. You got the people that want to come see it. And it's always packed out the muscle beach. July 4th. Sure. And stuff and it's always great. So yeah. I just been. Yeah, you understand what I'm talking about. Bodybuilders, you could ask a bodybuilder. Oh, what's the heart? They wouldn't even know. I didn't even know when the holidays would fall. I was in my own little world. I was like, I'm going to the gym and you know it. And I always made sure I worked out of a babes gym here on long Island. I was on long Island. I was on long Island because he never closed the gym. His gym was open on Christmas. I, you know, I never went on Christmas. But, you know, sometimes I think IMight have a couple times. You know, bodybuilders do not care what's going on around them. They, if they're on the world, if they have it off day, and they can sink it up with a holiday, then great. If not, they go into the gym in the morning before they go into the relatives. Especially on the works. I'll run the contati. If I was a promoter, I'd run the contests on July food. Some of the entry money that people paid in giving the next day. I have a seminar somewhere and I have a big July fourth bar because we've all to competitors. There comes a lot. Yeah, that's not a bad idea. Back in the day, Craig Kaiterson, Coach Kelly Ryan, was also the after fighting. People definitely showed up for those. That's for sure. Craig Kaiterson, did you show up? There was a lot of my bad accused of my place. Oh, did they really? Yeah. Yeah, you were, you were, Lee wasn't a party here, but he would definitely, there was a, there was an occasion where there was food being served. He showed up. That's for sure. I think I never went there. And the only after parties I went to were the ones that we had to go to. Like the VIP one off the stage. The VIP one off the stage. You know, like Wayne the Millionaire. Yeah. I don't wait to just leave the show go to the hotel. I'll have a quiet dinner. Lee won and I read the movie. They built back to the room and read the movie. Yeah, I think. Well, let me tell my guest post. Promote is what always. Frankly, because I'd go somewhere to get suppose. And it's like, hey, Lee after the guest post. You want to do one duty. You want to go out here and eat. You want to go to Strip Club. I said, no, I have to go back to my room. They were like, oh, great. That's so great. I can go home tomorrow. I want to. When we had such, when we had such and such here and such and such here. We had to go to Strip Club's right the floor in the morning. That's what I was going to do. They thought, they thought I was great. Oh, did you just take the way back to the hotel? Sometimes I didn't want to. Because I was not really for going out. So IMight just if they say to what restaurant do you want to go to? I just like the hotel is going to restaurant. Let's just eat there. I'm close to my room. I can just go. Yeah, you're home. I can go on to the room. Yeah, you were smart. You were smart. Captain Trouble too. But I do want to mention one person just because you know, it's a good story. You know, I helped this girl Donna Sterling back in 1995. She won the NPC Junior USA Women's Body Building all rolling. If you remember, back then there was only body building. So it was a big show. And she went to the US. What? And she's still competing tonight. Well, let's just know, she went to the USA after actually placed top five and then, and then, you know, life happened. She had triplets, you know, she, IMean, life, she just didn't have time. ShEQuit body building basically and didn't compete for 25 years. I don't even know if she, why don't think she even worked out. She was doing like a robust class. She was teaching and stuff like that. But she was, you know, she was taking care of her kids and raisinGHer kids. 20 years late, 25 years later, you know, or was really 20 years later, she kind of contacted me. Said, I really want to get back to the competing. She wanted to do a figure show. I'm like, oh, god, she had no muscle left whatsoever. And, you know, I helped her because I had helped her before. And I was friends with her. And, you know, I was, I was, I wanted to, you know, inspire her. And she, and so every year she would compete. And she started adding back muscle and I said, you know, you're not a figurecompetitive. You're a women's physique competitor. You always were. If they would have had that division back then, you would have been a pro. I said, because she's all along the smaller side of women's bodybuilding. And so, you know, finally I convinced her to stop doing these stupid figure shows that she wasn't placing it. And she started doing women's physique and she was doing well, you know. And this year she turned 50. So she got to do the 50 and over division. And I knew, I just knew, I knew this was her year. So I said, there's no 50 year olds in the theater. And she won her pro card and it's a great story because IMean, she, she was aromasingle mom. She got divorced from her husband. She had, she raised triplets in herself essentially. They just all graduated this past year. And it's a good feel good story, you know, the kind of end the show with the, the, the take home message here guys is never quit. Never give up your dream. It's never too late to accomplish what you really want to accomplish in life. And I'm sure, for a, of show for a woman to a guy make it a comeback because we have testosterone. We can pump the Gary mole. I'm sure it's so amazing. But if you're a woman like you said, you've been going through child birth with three kids and raised them. Just your female hormones and stuff. I'm sure it's a lot harder for a woman to make a comeback after 20 years. And you're struggling imagine what triplets do to your midsection, don't leave. Please imagine what triplet study of fucking minds. And the great thing is her kids were all there with it. And then she says to me after the show, she's like, I think my daughter wants to compete. You're going to have to help her. Next generation. The next generation's coming up and what once again, feel good story and it just lets you, you know, just goes to show you, you know, never like all of your dreams. Because even life happens and stuff gets in the way. Always keep in the back of your head what you ultimately want to do it. And you can get back to it, you know, obviously it's. It didn't come back to her the way she thought it was going to happen, but she got back to it. And the funny thing is it took her a while to put that muscle back on like you said muscle doesn't come back so easily when you're older. But IMean you're going through that now with the you know with the surgery you had and trying to get that right side of your body up to par with the left side, which by the way, before I end the show. Everyone's been asked me. I've been answering questions on ass day will leave pre-spean on stage in 2022. Who that is? You want, I've been telling people you want to do it. I'm going to, I'm going to people, I'm going to have people hate me like, can I agree? That fuck is just keep saying. Yeah, yeah, yeah, but you've got to start putting some shots up for yourself now. You've got to say taking some crazy posing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What I can. Hang the, hang the Mr. G cookie out there for those. Hang it. Oh, I don't reminds me. I got to go do a Mr. G eating the chocolate video for him. Oh, yeah, he, he, especially after the, what's going on with him in big learning now, which we'll talk about and after hours. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, tomorrow on Tuesday night. I'll choose that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, anyway. I'll have to come on and off the hour show one day still. Yeah, if you can get you up early enough. Well, you, you always wake up. You know, I got to say if I tell Lee we're going to do a show, he'll wake up at one in the morning and do it. You're, you're pretty good like that. But I don't know if I would have given up my sleep. So, so generously, as you do. Oh, you know. But you know, you're from that school of thought. You, when you were in California, you would get up at like probably four, five in the morning anyway. I was in the morning anyway. I was in the world, Jim, at five. Yeah, yeah, so you're used to that. You like that. I still want to do video. I said, the only ones you had to bid are right now. I'm being the criminals. We know it. I've gotten up early. I've been getting up a lot early because my kids now are in school and everything like that. And I will say this, you get a lot more done earlier. You start you, you know what to stay up to three in the morning, like I normally do since you get all my work done. I can, I get up aT4. I'll get up at breakfast, take the wash to work. I'll try and I'll do laundry or clen the house that I sit there. I'm like, oh fuck, it's only 10 o'clock. What up? That, but I understand, I understand what you're coming from being a doge. And you can go to sleep in a normal time assuming that, you know, you know, I don't want to scream kids in the house. I start, I start those and off about eight, thirty, nine watching TV. Don't just go to bed. Yeah. I'm looking forward to the open-to-new crunch fitness here in the Kate Coral. So we're going to sign up for that. Now, all my kids will be in school officially starting at the end of August. So once that happens, we're going to take turns my wife and I going to actually going to a real gym and trening. And if I get my trening done early in the day, then that's another thing I don't have to do in loving a clock. I can't wait to offer hours and two months time or date. Welcome to our expressel. I got a ring. My wife and I have just joined crunch fitness. I've been there for a week. And I got fucking COVID. I got so fucking time. First time out in the house, like I back to a gym and I got tired of it. You know, I'm the kind of person that I do like to talk to people, but I don't go, I'm not like, I'm not a, like, I'm not like, When I go to the gym, I try to stay away from everyone. Do people come up to me and ask mEQuestions, I'm sure that I've asked you to, but I don't socialize with a lot of people at the gym. I go to work out and I love that. And that's, you know, if you start hanging out with people and, you know, for two, three hours, yeah, of course you're around, you know, you, you, you yourself open to, you know, a bigger risk, but I'm just, I'm in and out. I don't even want to, to be honest with you, I don't even want to go to the gym. If I had all that equipment in my house, I would never, even leave my, I would never put it to every month. Exactly. That's a possibility later down the road, but right, I'm not really going to get there. But anyway, we're running out of time. Lee, I want to thank you for taking time on your, I can say, well, hopefully your Monday, so it's not really just something. I don't feel too guilty of taking away you weekend, but Happy Monday, where are you? I know you're a trensplant. And thank you. I expect, I expect to have you birthday tomorrow when it's your birthday. I start your birthday yet. So, morning, when you maybe should come on to, after hours, you birthday. Would be my birthday when after hours is on one. Yeah, so when you come on for after hours, you're birthday. I want Mr. Judy to have a cake. You can have a little birthday cake for you. How old are you going to be? 49. 49. Well, next year's the big one. So, you can do master's national. I don't know. I'm going to marry up in A-50. You actually might have to actually recall fighting your pro car who knows, right? I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I got to wrap this up guys. I hope you have a great great point. The July of my, I'm very patriotic today. Here, Lee's very patriotic with his shirt on. And as we say every week here at heavy muscle radio with heavy muscle radio. The truth. I'm sorry. Yeah, sorry guys. You're not going to. Let's break.

=== FILE: Lee Priest on Biological Female DENIED Olympics Title Repeat! [v0vjU2HCKVA].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. What's up with that Dave? I want to know. People who have been oppressed for a long period of time, they deserve, don't it's have never been oppressed? They've always been championed as being the greatest food of all time. Don't hurt those who are killed more people with cholesterol, fat, and ate, and so don't hurt them. Get a whole month. That might be true, but we still glorify them. And it's true, it's true. It's true. I've done fat checking on that. I've done some experimental research yourself on that. I have. I've been totally, I've been the fouls of donuts and maybe suck two cups. I'm almost balanced in the out. I suck it through and don't not hold two. I had the no sugar in the morning. I'm sure you're good at this with the cream filling. I know that black men have a cream filling for you, right? I'm so small like any clay. All right, I got to bend to a couple of things because number one, we bought this bunk bed for my son, but two weeks ago. We're in the rooms to go and we found the bunk bed. He wanted whatever, and we ordered it. I'm like, when are they going to be able to deliver us? Well, we can deliver tomorrow. I'm like, wow, what's up? Of course, it comes the next day and one of the pieces is broken. So they can't put the bunk bed together because obviously it's scratched and it dented. It looks like someone must have dropped the box. What are you going to do, right? So I used to find they said, oh yeah, we'll put the request in and they'll deliver another one. We have to wait two weeks. Two weeks to a kid five years old was like two years, right? They have a concept. So he's been driving us crazy. Everybody's the bunk bed coming. Finally, today it was supposed to be delivered. He's in school now. The bunk bed comes. My wife goes out there and they give it deliver it. It's not in the box. They have it shrink wrapped with plastics. So I'm assuming, you know what, it must have just, you know, in the factory taken it out of the box, right? And inspected it because they figured, well, you know, the last one they had on the store. I don't know what it was. They take the plate. My wife says before they even take the plastic off the guys on the truck like, oh, and she's like, it's like wobbling already. Like, haven't even taken it out of the plastic yet. It's wobbling already. And so she takes out, of course, it's damaged in like a million places. And so we call that, we call up rooms to go. And we're like, you know, nothing, nothing. My son's sleeping on a mattress on the floor. You guys told us one day, now we're going to go on another two weeks. You have to deliver another one. And I said, what the freak's going on here? Oh, we're sorry. I'm like, why would you put something? It's not even in a box. Can't someone in the warehouse take a look at the thing to see if it's damaged, especially it just set one already that was damaged. I don't know. No one knows. No one knows what the problem is. It's unbelievable how crap. If the bed's at wobbly, scrap, they start play at East Fidja. Whatever trouble you need to sacrifice for a lawsuit at them sleep on the bottom. That was an uncracking day. That was an uncracking day. You know, thinking of my meat, you can own rooms to go whatever it is. You know what the problem is? No one gives a crap anymore about anything. Yeah, they don't. It's like the, you know, this is what people ask me, date, how can you not have a warehouse for your species, nutritious products? I said, you know why I don't want to deal with dumb people who have to work in the warehouse. And now I'm not saying all people work in the warehouse. It's a dumb. There's plenty of very smart people in this very adept. I don't want to deal with these people because it would drive me crazy if someone's sending out damage product to other people or they're not inspecting things. Because no one cares about the job. They just kind of throw it in the truck. And that's it. And so that's why I have a fulfillment warehouse. This way they send out something that's damaged. What did they do a lot? I can scream at them because it's not my responsibility. You know, I can simply talk to you. No one, you know. And they have to pay for it. Anyway, that's so I feel bad for my son, you know. Well, nobody, but it's true. Nobody does what I work anymore. I went down to get my code that shot and Sidney. He had a job right at busy street in Sidney. And you know, the traffic control is at the have. I see it on the top of you to go into the department store or just normal stores. The man in a young kids working, you don't want to work. They're on their bloody cell phones and shit. This woman's controlling traffic on the main business street. As I walk past that, as she's got the sign control. She's like, okay, yeah, then I'll meet you at the bar about eight o'clock. And then they get the girls together. She's ever in a private conversation. Why she's controlling traffic on the busier streets and Sidney? I think it was you. Where's your focus at? Am I just like the car dashed? She's like those girls all done up? I'm just like this and they're like, I'm actually like the hair on the gun. It looks like she's ready to go straight from work that a bloody bar. But I think you're never going to have to have private conversations in more cows and shit like that. You see it all the time. You walk into a store. I've seen the kids on their phone. You walk into this, look up in your. It's just like, may I help you or come and give you service? They just like, okay, thanks. But I've yet to want to where you actually have been. Even at the gym once. I'm waiting for a priority that we get a priority in drink. And the girl on the camera is talking about something she can do on the weekend. So I can hear it's a private phone call she has to go. I've always been a minute. Okay, yeah. Well, how do we go here? Yeah, there will meet there too, on the gun. You're fucking work. I ain't got to throw the phone call and come and fucking serve me. So fucking rude. Yeah, no, it's terrible. But yeah, if you say anything, you want to fucking ruin the day. Right, right. I had to build a nut Tyler. So I'm leaving out of this guy. I've had employees who used to watch porn, you know, in between doing TV shows. I had to be like, I just get this. Why we made it. Any TV? Who we edit the TV show, please. He's turning the porn off, you know. I don't know what you're looking at toilet, but I could hear you breathing. It. Tyler only has Tyler brings his new puppy into work. Which, who's very, who's very well behaved. They're much okay. Bring stuff puppy and okay, that's what you want to call. Listen to. All right, dude, what I really want to talk about today, the thing I really want to rant about, not about the broken bunk beds or anything like that, I want to go crazy a little bit about this whole Olympic situation. And I don't know if anyone's been following. So I'm going to kind of present the case as if no one knows. But there's a sprinter. She's an 800 meter runner that's two times around the track. It's a half mile called her name is Caster Semagna. She's from South Africa. And she's the Olympic champion at the 800 meters. And she has an interesting, I guess you could say, a genetic disorder. She's an biological female. So she has an XX chromosome, but she produces high levels of testosterone. It's called hyperangeneamier, something like that. And she just happens to produce higher levels of testosterone in her body. But she is, you know, female in every way. Now, she looks a little masculine, okay. And so I think a lot of people, that's why they got suspicious of her. Hey, she's winning all these races. She looks like a guy. I think most female athletes, they talk female athletes. They most sports, they prefer to be even fighting. And then if you look at them, a lot of them, even like weightlifting, the ones that are female, doing a lot of masculinity. Because the hormones are probably higher. Right. And that goes, you know, sports, even some of the top Olympic runners, like you said, but even some of the pole volatars and shit like that, they have a lot of masculine type features in them. If you say to hit that, they can almost look like a... And Lee, that's why a lot of these athletes are better than everyone else because their bodies genetically are better. They're just like a bodybuilding. Is it unfair that, you know, that Jay Kotlin had shoulders out here or that Ronnie Coleman had, you know, arms, you 20 and charms before he even started trening? No, IMean, that's just genetics. That's, that's why some athletes are better than others. It's not a, it's not a level play. Well, in bodybuilding, they should have done their tests because I have naturally high test shots, right? So if you get me or you have Ronnie, they say, your test is too high, okay. So in the offseason, your only allowed to take 200 milligrams to see. Right, well, let's say, let's say, drug testing in bodybuilding. And would it be unfair for someone like you or Ronnie who has high test shots thrown to compete? No, IMean, that's, you're not. You know, well, when I did, when I was younger, I had to do the world championships because it's drug testing. I actually had a letter from my doctor saying my testosterone was higher. And that's why my mother, when she started trening, her testosterone was higher. She had to take estrogen to keep it in my whole level down. Wow. When she started trening with whites, she stopped the estrogen and we've eight months. She wanted her shirt and she wanted the cup of sweat. She needs her. So funny. Please, a liar. He's just juicing. He's trying to make up excuses. Why, you know, and then I got my mom on the juice. Yeah, IMean, we should do it in 13, you know, a family that juices to give her stays together. So anyway, think of the kind of exchange. Maybe it was with your mom. That's right. That's right. That's right. To get back to the story. So what they rule that if she wants to compete in the Olympics again as a woman, she has to take angstrom blockers to lower her levels of testosterone. Which is to me ludicrous because that's her genetics. But, and then here's the rub. She can compete, they said, at distance races. Why they felt that the high testosterone is more of an advantage in the sprint races. But not in the distance races. I have no idea. The reason they said that was because obviously she's a sprinter. And I know she's tried to actually qualify for the Olympics at the 5,000 meters, which is 3.1 miles on the track. And I'll tell you something. She's a sprinter. Her time, her best time, which was 15 minutes and 32 seconds, is pretty much my best time. When I was a runner in college, that's pretty impressive that she's still that good. And I, you know, most men are much better than women. So she's still good, but she's not good enough to be an Olympic champion. Obviously it's 5,000 meters. So thEQuestion is why would they make heart take angstrom blockers? But yet they have this Olympic lifter, Laurel Hubbard from New Zealand, who was a man up until a company strategy. And now at 43 years old, this male power or Olympic lifter is now a woman, Olympic lifter, and it's going to be able to enter her first Olympics. And obviously probably when because she's beaten really much everyone else. IMean, because let's face it. We have a lot of people out because we get done in the New Zealand's close to us. We get done in the New Zealand. A lot of people are actually talking about boycotting somebody. Other women wait lists of talk about boycotting it because now she's coming. Well, he who's now a sheet cominGHas broken all these records that have been set by women for years. This man now comes in, says he's a woman, and he's plastered all these records. And now he's actually, I think, going to the Olympics, but yet he stopped an actual female from taking that spot and going to the Olympics. So there's an actual female, so it's ridiculous. And, you know, he can take estrogen blockers, whatever. But it's still like, he takes estrogen. He's still been locked 40 odd years of man, so he's got the muscle days, he's got the ball and the density is totally different. It's tendons. It's the male, the male make up, it's different. So in the matter of what he takes, he's still going to be stronger, sadly than the actual female. I can't help people. That can take out. When bodybuilders, you know, when you go off a cycle after a showly, and you know, sometimes you go for testing and you'll, your testosterone levels will be like, like, 10. There'll be like a woman's, right? Because your body crashed and it hasn't turned itself back on, sometimes it never does. And I don't see these guys. They're still lifting the same weight that you're maybe they're going to weight drop 10 pounds, right? Exactly. You might just cry a little more while you're lifting the weight, but, you know, he got emotional. But apart from the strength wise, it doesn't really go anyway. Oh, or do you have a little more daily reaching for something? I'm reaching for my pistol. No, the point is, no, for the cocky. The point is that how they could feel that this is ach. In other words, they think because the levels of testosterone in their body at that moment when they're going to be tested are below a certain amount. That that makes the two of these athletes equal. And you and I know that that is so ludicrous. It's such an arbitrary way to decide who competes with a woman who competes with a man. It's almost like it's insulting to the intelligence of the athletes and to the fans, I think. I won't get to you, she's got a good court case because a lot of the testing is raining. So let's just say there's 20 people who are in her running divisions. Well, let's say it is like more in the 100 meters 200 or once she can't do. She says she wanted to do 100 and the 200 and the 400 or 300. But she can't do it because they say a hormones are so high. They haven't tested every other woman in those divisions. They know some of them women don't have higher hormones as well. It's like if you're going to be a legal hurry, you should test everybody. That's the point that you can do it. Because they don't test what they do is they test for synthetic steroids, which they look from a tabloid to the urine. And then they don't do blood testing and then they test for the ratio. So in other words, if you took a shot of testosterone exoginously, your epit testosterone and testosterone ratio would be off. That was the only thing that they'd be able to tell. So they could tell someone was takinGHis eye on his testosterone. But if there's another woman like her who produces excess testosterone, maybe just not as good as her and she's coming in second and third place, she's still fine. Because they're not, if you're going to tell her that she's got to go for testing, just because she looks a little masculine and peoplEQuestion whether she was a woman or not. We know she is a biological woman by the way. You've got to test everyone. Otherwise it's not fair. Because they could be other women like her with hyper-engineeringemia. But that we just don't know because they're not as good and athlete as she is. Exactly. So that's like it's stopping someone. They're like, naturalized in a village. Like look at, I'd be just looking at the makeup because they're strong in their quick. Look at the serenas, this is the me. They're hormones are probably, when you look at thEQuestion they're looking at. So what's the tennis plays, they say well excuse me, you can't play tennis because your hormone level is a naturally high degree. IMean the other girls playing. Exactly. We've got to take your titles back and stuff like that. That's ridiculous. It's like what you can't put a damn for having the natural ability. Look, you know and I know and let's call it like it is, Ely. If this woman, okay, had glamped herself up with hair extensions and makeup before they were no one would have seen, people would have thought, oh she's beautiful. She's got nice feet and she just doesn't, you know, she doesn't really do much with herself. And she looks a little masculine because she doesn't have lonGHair and she doesn't put a lot of makeup on her face. But if she did all that glam, no one would question it whatsoever. You know that. I was like, what's the name too? I'm sure, hopefully, there are a whole bunch of higher. When you used to watch from Ronda Razzy fight, she was very manny, she's in the face and stuff. But then when you see around the event when she's glant, luckily she's actually a very attractive girl. But when she had fight and hair was just put on her face, she looked like a very... Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, she had very manly features. You know, to stop a natural woman from competing like that, she'd have to have some sort of lawsuit against them. Because that's just ridiculous. Like, or you're almost too good because of your genetic ability, we have to, you can't do this. But yet, this guy that used to be a guy who's now a female, you can go compete with the women. Like, how stupid is the world becoming? I would like to put it out there because I don't have time to do this. But I want to tell big ladies, people out there, you guys are watching. Get landing and put away the women. And I want you to... They can look like that Laurel Hubbard girl and have them do it like a parallel thing thing and say that I'm entering the Olympics as a woman. I decided I'd be coming a woman now. I can't win the Olympia as a man. I'm going to compete as a woman, parallel if they're... If you put a wig on a lady, I guarantee it he'd be more attractive than that Laurel Hubbard from New Zealand. I'm sorry. I'm so pretty. I saw a pig. Like, something about power with this anyway, look pretty. We remember when Ben Francis back in the day when she was a pal, if the show was like, massive. That's like, you know, I remember, was out of the show once and someone told me to story where someone was behind her. Someone actually thought it wasn't God. It said, excuse me, sir. And she turned their end. That was beef because back in her day when she was pal, if they knew. How? If they knew it was so solid, like IMean, solid. She really, you know, she didn't like that. She didn't glam herself up like she did when she started entering the Olympics. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's like pal. It's like if it's shit about my stuff and shit, you just go on the lift of weights and stuff like that. So I thought like girls that go to the gym these days where how's it the gym the other day? I swear they must spend like two hours prepping for the gym. And 20 minutes into gym. IMean, the hair extensions are done. They got the latest clothes on them. They got some paints, the big eyelashes, the lips and makeup are all done. And every set they walked in the mirror. I'm sorry. But even if I got that lucky about the Olympics too, it's like I always respect the female athletes. But when are your women going to stand up for yourselves? Look at beach volleyball. Guys wear shorts and a tank top. The women down beach volleyball. And you see what they wear. They wear the tiniest tines little paints that are up there. And when they go on to hit the board, the cameras are right behind them. These little tops. These little tops. Look at the pole-folders now. Men wear shorts and a tank top. Women now, they have every time you see pole-folding or any type of women's sports on there. It's always got to do with a sexual video because they got the tiniest shorts on the barman these little tops. And they're just suit them. And they're like, no one's watching for your sporting ability. Even though you're great, they're watching because they're like, you know, when the men have the shorts and tank tops on, okay, so we know the clothing, that restrictor ability. So why do these women get the inskemptious, skimpy clothing just to get people to watch? It's marketing, yes, they're marketing, that's why. But they want to do what they want to be recognised and known for our sporting achievements. But you're not, you're being noticed, be as snatch as you go and open a high jump. That's like, you know what I'm saying? You know, look at Jean-Marie Crock, you know, Matt Crock, who used to be Matt Crock. IMean, if she's a parallel, if they're, IMean, if she compete and she says she would never compete as a female because she doesn't think it's fair, which I completely, you know, back in her part, I think that's really cool for to say. But she's on Andrew Blockers, if she competed as a woman, she would break every parallel thing record, known to man. She would have all the records and she would win every means she did. But she knows that that's not cool. That's that it, that there's no achievement in that. And so I can, I really respect her for that. IMean, but there's, there's people at the elite that want to make money and want to be celebrities. IMean, what does it really take to go in the Andrew Dream Blockers for a year? Do you, how much you'll see you think it would take away from you? Let's say you're like a, a top tier male Olympic left there, maybe not at the, at the, at the top 10 edge. But close, you take Andrew Blockers for a year. You're going to be everyone in the record. There is, you know. I can, I can do anything. Let's look at, let's look at Bruce, Kaitlyn Jenin, now imagine when he won the gold. Right. Let's just cite a year or two after that 80 saw the be a woman then. He was on Andrew Blockers. He was on Andrew Blockers. He was taking estrogen for a while. And then he decided he, did you know that? I don't know if you knew that he was going to trensition. But then he, he did want to embarrass his kids when they went to school. So he just, he put it off and he went off the estrogen block, estrogen and the end of your blockers. So imagine if he had a go on into the Olympic spectator, but a one is a woman, a good of one as a man easily. He would have won the hat. Tothalon, it would have been a breeze from, you know. But that whole thing about that woman, you sort of coming down on her just because of a natural ability. That can't be right. It's just like, what you penalize is bullshit. It's bullshit. It's bullshit. Let's call it. It's bullshit. You know what I'm saying there. This poor, you know, this, she should be able to defend her Olympic title. It's just absolute bullshit. And you know, like you said, these athletes, these women athletes have to say, you know what? We're not competing. But they won't, you know, why? Because they see it as an opportunity. Let all these other girls not compete. And we'll jump in there and take their place. It's a bunch of opportunities. People, that's why there's no organization. There's no unions. Because these people are too selfish to stick together. And the side thing is if she was American, you know, that you'd have lawyers like that. Probably cause she's from South Africa, Africa. They don't have that exposure. But if that was in America, that would be on the news saying you'd be in being from this being. Yeah. This is what I want most American runners to go to Africa and that in South Africa and tren because I've seen the people in America tren. They run around the track. They got camera crews taking things that are going to get a Nike contract. They don't have their hard in a day. It's not even. You go to Africa to tren where these great runners come from. Sprinters long distance runners. You go to Africa and if you get a fucking line behind the night, it's the best trening. It's the best trening you can fucking get. Fight or fly. You got a fucking run and run and run and run and run and run and you got to out through these fucking lines. Yeah. I don't know if you remember. Back in the late 80s, mid to late 80s. I was really into distance running at the time. And all of a sudden this country that no one had heard of, it was called Dizhibudi. I don't know if it still called that. It was an African name. Buoyage. Dizhibudi. Jibudi, all these African runners were coming out of there and they were winning all the marathon and everything like that. And people like, where did these guys come from? They weren't even runners. Lee, they used to run 20 miles back and forth to work every day. Because they had no cars or no trensportation these guys. And they said, you know what? Let's put a fucking jersey on these guys and see what they could do in the marathon. They put a minute in the winning marathon these guys. They weren't even in through trening. They wanted to get to work in the morning. you know. Exactly. So there's the difference in motivation. As I said, Africa, you got a lion tracing. Yeah. America, you got the police car chasing. And they were running down foot. We didn't even have shoes on. They put these guys in 90 shoes. They improved their time like, you know, by like, two minutes. Could you imagine putting a Nike Perry shoes on? Like that. Oh, what's some of those documentaries? You see some of those families walking 10 miles just to get water. Absolutely. And if you got to get the work done time, you wake up late. You got to run, right? You don't, you can't walk the work. And people do forget those. Some of those tribes that live out there in Africa and different places. Like I said, that 10 mile trip. You still do have wild animals on the way to the dam. Right. They got a deep sight. They got to run. Yeah. Exactly. So you might have to walk a bit. And there's a cheater. I got to do a little bit of a sprint. That's called interval trening Lee. We call that interval runninGHere because we don't know how to. We have to like actually tren people there. That's that's how it worked. That's actually they put it long distance and sprinting due to the dangers. And they're against a good at sprinting and like sort of high. We've been to McDonald's drive through. That's what we sprint through. Yeah. No. You got to sprint from block to block when the cops are chasing the occasion. You got to go over the old fence. The backyard fences. That's what the hurdle. That's how you tren the hurdles. So you see the difference. What the trening is. If you're if it's a big fence, you might have to use a stick and then that's the pole ball. Right. Exactly. Or just high jump. You can only have the backwards. And then when you're laying in that yard, you got the dogs. Did you know who invented the the backward high jump? Because you know, these to jump forward over time. Who was the guy who claimed? You know who was the first. Frisbee. Was it free? It was called the falseberry flop. It was that was the guy's name. Fallsberry was his last name. Where did Frisbee drop come from? I don't know. I always heard of the Frisbee flop, but maybe I'm making that up. A falseberry flop. He jumped over backwards. And he found you can go, you can go higher that way. They all thought he was going to get to you first. You know, as funny, because when I clicked on YouTube this morning, speaking to high jump, the first thing that came up in order things was just to get he sane. Same about Wednesday, the right time doinGHe eats. Haven't heard that shit yet for two tears. Some day Palamba guy, the right time to go and eat. Seven, missing for that shit yet. Yeah, but it was a picture of a girl standing in little shorts. It had a name there, something quite juggle. Brakes high jump record. But what it showed up, it just showed from a knees up, or bumped into the middle of a back. It just showed her bum in these little tight shorts. You don't even get to see a face. I'm like, well. And they put the, I just think they had the pole folding on the other day. And same thing, the cameras are just zooming in on the, you are right, the pole folding out. It's those women are wearinGHer outrageous nowadays. You know, they're pretty crazy. And you're going to see when those poles step sometimes. You're the occasion they snap and they just, I'll tell you something. I pulled off it a little bit in high school. And this with the poles that don't bend, I didn't go that high. So I never got to the bendable poles. It's very scary. It's, I'm afraid of heights. So it was not, it was not a good thing. You're pretty freakinGHigh. And you know what, if you missed that map, you're going to, you're going to seriously hurt yourself and break your arm or something like that. You know, fall on the ground. I always think it too. How many people have done it during trening and actually missed that. Because you got to get it right in that spot too, that whole. Yeah, it's a mental ramp. It's, as long as you hit the, it hit the thing, it goes in there. But the problem is that if you don't get up enough speed, you could fall backwards onto the, onto the ground, you know. I don't have to put air around it. So I got lead. It's the sucker gal over. Do you know that when, when I was running track, they said that no one would ever break 20 feet in the high jump. And then, sir, sir, yeah, a buck, buck, I think it was from Russia, broke the 20 foot. And they said they thought that was a miracle. I, this guy is like in high school now who are doing almost 20 feet. It's incredible how once a person breaks a barrier that all of a sudden, all these people can do it again, you know. It's, it's a miracle. And it just goes to show you that a lot of things that can't be done right now is because there's a mental, this is laughing against crow now. Yes. Oh, there you go. Your frozen the whole time. Oh, here we go. What's your, what's your, what's your, it doesn't matter. You're back, you're back. My point is that, the money sometimes inhibits our bodies from doing what we, we can really do. And I think that sometimes it people think they can't do it. They can't do it. That kind of thing. Again, here's from Russia. It jumped 20 feet pole voting. The Berlin war was night's pain feet. So we had that try. Yeah, that's it. That's it. Just just look where people come from and how they try. It's like it's just it equates the that sort of stuff. Yeah, I think of all factual. Can you ask your fans to make you one of these? I have one of these. These, uh, good. Good to, uh, strict vitamins. The cold. I think you should make it. Get to Lee priest. And you just stretch him. He's stretcher. They're cool. Can you put, can you put, Sunny? You can be pulling. You know, they won't, you know. I can put me between my legs and put it. There you go. You could tie it. You can tie it. I got a chance with it with the piece of. It's cool. It's cool. It's a whole lot of shirts too. I see. I almost wore that shirt. I'm glad I did. We would look like, you know, gay guys. I'm gay pride there. Well, let's watch. What's wrong with gay pride there? It would be nice. I think I'm sure. I'm not fucking real man. I'm a yaki today. I'm a yaki. Tile is probably wearinGHis rainbow bright t-shirt. I'm not sure. My dog is. Oh, I'll read your show. Do I got the Tile? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's my favorite old school shirt. Actually, I like the Coca-Cola. IMight wear it on Adam Corolla later on. That's in. I'll try you doing that today. It's afternoon, right? That's my suit, Chiver. Not. Now I'm doing it at 6.42 a.m. now I'm doing it at 8.15 a.m. So not that long away. So yes. Right. No, you. I want to be. I want to be. I don't know this study on me to look out for what I do when she He's probably going on the YouTube. Oh, holy shit. I got a loose camera. Yeah. He's like, Oh, no, he's like, oh, shit. I'm going to get the monetized. Oh, man. Look. If I can find my be from him. Yeah. As soon as I put the word Lee priest in and I hit said, YouTube automatically. I have to hit review. They have to, I have to send it to review. They automatically say it's not suitable. You can appeal this. But, and well, I'm completely the same. But I put my name on. Let's go by John Smith from there. I showed him how his John Smith. We've got my leave in the kitchen from now on. You're a real name. Yeah, I'm a kitchen. Yeah, but the sweet. The monetized straightaway. Just going to think. Yeah. I think sending a review. Why was this the monetized? Even shows I didn't swear on. There's like Trump and then leave priest. Yeah. That's incredible. Yeah. I'm believe it. I saw people like the Gandhi show in a poor guy. It guy's been sending me to farm to sell. So I went in and out. Guy still with us. Oh, he's still on. That's good. I saw that you're going to be on his grundy. What's it called? Maverick. Yeah, I'm doing it. I'm doing it. Can me. I'll be like he's the coitress talking to him. Given him positive motivation. Well, I wouldn't know when is that going to film? Soon, I think. Soon, he sort of give me a give me a rundown of sort of a script thing. But then, you know, maybe I hear him. Like this is the idea that you just go through. Oh, you're allowed to improvise in other words. That's good. Dave, look, maybe as a positive motivator. Like comes natural. I'm sick. You're like, sir, Lawrence, you're like sir Lawrence Olivier. You have to be able to, you know, just express yourself. Yeah. Exactly. I think you're like the lines. If you're in the lines, I'll look at the lines again. I got it. And then I start with what they said. The first word. Paid. And then the rest is. Yeah. You're like William Shakespeare. Just flows out of you. I guess. All right. I'm like, well, I'm like William Chapman. There you go. Now, you'll let us know how Adam Corolla goes. And maybe you can ask Adam if you can get a little clip of the show. So we can kind of put it up as a teaser to get people to go watch the show over there. Maybe he'll do that. I think it's a show. It's had like, oh, they gave me a list of what a people have been on there. IMean, like, very high up people in sporting and movies. Yeah. And why they got me on, I don't know, because I don't think that his categories are so that he's not that scientists. But hey, what? Maybe they're going to high end of the so long. They've had a lot of these smart brilliant people. Yeah. Let's get on a dickhead. And they said, well, we're going to be doing this setting you up for like a to be like the foreguer for some weird debate to having something like that, you know. Oh, it's a double wish. I never did that. They were like, we saw that video. We did with the black mask. Let's get him on. You know. Do you have that he's a short ready. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I'll be somewhere. And all right. I got it. I got a rash. She knows. I told me six in the morning. But it's we're coming to close time here at my shop. So, Lee. I got like a total of 10. I got a total of 10. I got a total of 10. Yeah. Yeah. What's your dog's name? I've been in the big game. His name is Dog's name is Baxter. Baxter. What's on the dog is it? A little bit. A little bit. A little bit. A little bit. What does dog's that looks like it's 100 years old. I'm going to go. Oh, yeah. You got it. It's shaped. So it's like got the squares. So the beat. Yeah. He's a kid. He's a great great. How a great. Yeah. It looks great. But it's like a bullish call. Yeah. Back stuff. He's named that. He's named it the Tyler's grandfather. His son and Brett Baxter put a He's a grandfather. He was a writer and he had a like a pen name that he would write under. That was his name. There's it. Biggest. Biggest. Biggest. Biggest. He's finding it funny when I'm making my friend. No biggest. He's trying to. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a picture behind us. So you sent us a friend picture. You got one. You want it like this. I'll leave it up to you. Whichever picture you want. You don't leave it up to me. I'll send you on. We'd like a little leaf like Adam from that. I'll send you on like leaning over the bed. Yeah. IMaybe one of the David Paul pictures. That would be a good picture. Probably. I bet a naked one of me naked just holding my cat in front of me. Whatever you want it there will put up. Long time ago. No, you won't. No, you won't. Because IMean, it's doing walking. That's true. Yeah. Yeah, that's the past of man is a. Yeah. It's a. We have children. That's right. Yeah. I don't know. I don't want to see your your phalanx symbol anywhere in the. Okay. Because you got kids. I'll stay naked holding the legs. Yeah. All right. He's a friendly. If you guys agree with what we said or you guys haven't opinion on the Olympic situation with the women and the trensgender and all that stuff. I'd like to hear it in the comments below. Please let us know. And if you have any ideas for future shows on this, I'd like that as well. For now, we're wrapping things up on day below with Lee Priest for another installment of Iron Rage. Iron Rage. I tell you, I'm going to compete in the women's body building. Figure. I can't wait. The way it's going.

=== FILE: Lee Priest on Post-Show DEPRESSION! Iron Rage ｜ Dave Palumbo & Lee Priest [Hvxno9dR6ZU].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. Welcome back to Iron Rage. I'm Dave Palombo and I'm here as always with Leap. Where is Leap? MIA missing in action. Well, we'll find him. We was here earlier. I think he went to take a dump. He might have to, you know, and you got to go, you got to go. Too much fiber lies, I guess. Now today's show is going to be an interesting one because you've heard of postpartum depression, women giving birth and then being depressed. Well, there's something known as post-contest depression. That's right. After people work their butts off, they sacrifice, they die it, they probably lose their job, they break up with their relationship, the show is over, they got the trophy in hand, and then what? They're depressed, they don't know what to do with themselves. I want to ask Leap Priest if he ever comes back to his chair over there. What was his solution? I know what his solution to post-contest depression was. It was to eat buckets of Kentucky fried chicken back in the day. But I want to ask him now if he was doing it all again, Leap. If you competed again, I'm talking about post-contest depression. How did you come back? When the show was over, you had your trophy in hand, you didn't have a job, you had your bills were behind. Now, your reality of your situation was back. You had to try to get back, your relationship back, because you broke up with your girlfriend. How did you get over the post-contest depression? Jesus, you'll bleak. I never broke up with a girlfriend during the contest. I'm not going to ask Leap Priest because he never took a trenbolone that's why. If you were to take a trenbolone you would have broken up with your girlfriend. I never used trenbolone a twice year, but no, get ready for a contest. I never got depressed. I was always so happy because I'm like, the show's almost over. I can go back to eating. I don't have to take gear. This is fantastic. So as soon as the show was over, I was the happiest I've ever been. I was never depressed. You didn't feel like a, oh, it's such a late day. What do I do now? I don't have to do cardio twice a day. I don't have to do gym. No, nothing I found hard was knowing what to eat because for those 16 weeks, it's like I have to do it this time. I have to do it that. So the morning after the show, I wake up and I go, what's going to have to breakfast? I'm like, I've got too many choices now. I don't know what to eat. I'm like, okay, okay, okay, pop fruit loops, lucky charms. What will I have? It's really no for the first week or two. You probably know that you did it yourself. Of course you look so good. You're trying to hang on to it because you're not. It's like I've still got veins. I'm still looking for and you're trying to hang on to the better. Third week you're like, the veins are going. Oh, fuck it. You studied whatever you're carrying me over. You're trying to hold on to that little bit of shape for a while. You know how like when you go for your first like real meal, see? All right, the next the eight that night, but then you go and then you're like, I'm going to go to the breakfast buffet at the hotel from where the contest was. You go down there, you get you cup of coffee. You're almost trying to emulate what you've been doing the whole contest. And then you're like, hmm, that don't it looks pretty good there. I can actually eat that. You know, those pancakes and that syrup. And then before you know it, you're you're sick to your stomach, right? Oh, yeah. All right. So I just have one bite. I just have a little bit. Then you have a bit more. And I try to avoid the buffet after a contest for that reason because you're full. But your mind's like, you haven't had it for so long. Go have it. Go have this and then you sit there and you're waiting. Like maybe I'll just wait a bit longer. You do a little bit of a bird. Oh, I got a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. Oh, go with the gills. You go to your, you get your start with it. Like you said, the doughnut sour and a croissant sort of little apple strut or things and you load your plate up and you sit there and you're like, now I've got on the plate. I've got a try and eat it. Oh, you just feel I bacon. Yeah. I was always at the mindset that once it shows over, I was so excited to get back to the drawing board to start working on my weaknesses and putting muscle on and now that I can eat, that I was super excited. But I have clients that when they've done competing, the first couple of weeks they're all right. But then as they see their conditioning started to deteriorate, they start to flating a little bit because they're going off the drugs. They start getting like depressed and then all of a sudden they disappear and I'm not like hearing from them. I'm not getting updates and then three months later, I get an update and they look terrible. And then they're like, oh, I was depressed. I didn't know what to do. And not all my clients. I love them a very hyper focused like I was. But there are people like that who get very depressed after their show when they see their their bodies changing. What do you suggest? Like what advice, what words of wisdom can you give the people who might fall into that category to keep them in a state where they're actually in a good mood and that they can actually refocus themselves? It's in a talk in the meadow. Even your ask me me, so what is it? I am. That's because you're that's because you're how old are you now? You're almost 50 years old. I am. Happy birthday, by the way. I'm getting wise. Happy happy birthday. I think you can just focus on something because like I said, when you get ready for a contest, like you said, your mind is so focused on you got to do cardio, you got to prep your meals, you got to tren your mind. So physically occupied with so many things leading up to a show that when it's over, you're like, what do I do now? It's almost like when you're a little kid and Christmas is coming. You're so excited. Christmas is over. You're like, yeah. And then it's like, do you, if you don't do good at the contest or if you're young, can you get shit Christmas presents, you're like, oh, that was shit. You got to focus on something. You got to focus on something. You got to focus on something. You got to focus on something. You got to focus on something. You got to focus on my trening or what I needed to do. As long as you can find something to do because a lot of the pros, especially when all you do is sleep, eat and tren. Right. Fileting up to a show, you're so busy that when it's over like you said, if you're trening the morning, you got to gym early. You're trened for two hours. You get home at 9 a.m. there you are. What do I do now? I've got to rest at a day. Watch TV. I'll go for a walk. No, I won't go for walk. That's too much cardio. I'll just take in that. So I said, you go from like a hundred miles an hour down there. Oh, almost put the brakes on. But I think it actually today, it might be better for some guys because now having social media, you can occupy yourself with Instagram, doing podcast and that sort of thinGHas a so much more to do now back in our day when the show is over. And I think it's like, well, I've read that Flex magazine. I have to wait another four weeks till you magazine. I can't do that. I'm going to go to the movies. I'll just go and hang out or because I lived in Venice. I said, it's such a great time back then with what approach at the gym. Like we like John said before, a lot of guys who weren't trening, you just go to the gym to talk to people with CP. Right. We'll go to the firehouse and hang out at the firehouse and because there's always pros and people in there. So you're pretty much just fine things to do that way. But yeah, I can see why I said, people do just, I think as your mind, it's just so focused on that contest for a few months, it's over. It almost lost. It's almost like you need that goal. So I just find other goals to do, whether it be in business or whether whatever it is you do or whether you're like a new project, you're going to do all trening other people or stuff like that. But you just got to find your focus and put that same focus out on the contest somewhere else. Otherwise, you will go mad, sit and go and, what do I do now? I'm bored or what do I do? It's like. I tell you, you hit it right on the head. There's no reason why you can't take that same focus that you had that hyper focus for the show and put it on something like doing, hey, you know what, I'm going to start a YouTube channel or if you have a YouTube channel, I'm going to dedicate myself to doing one video every single day or at least five days a week. Okay. If you don't know how to video edit, teach yourself how to video edit. It's not that hard by a program. Video take yourself doing something showinGHow you prepare meals, how you tren. So anything at all, how you went through your contest prep and you know what, you get in the habit of putting it up every single day, even if five people watch it initially. Eventually those five people will become 10 which will become 20 which will become 50 which will become 100 and a thousand and then just before you know it, you make money on YouTube. So, well, even if you still feel yourself like in the old days you have a diary or a book to write. Now you can record long videos. You can talk about your diet, your trening, what you did. Even if it's just for yourself and you put on the YouTube channel, somebody else might find that interesting and then somebody else finds interesting and they're like, hey, that's what I'm going through. That sounds good. IMight try that. So, if you just do like a video diary for yourself, other people might catch on and enjoy it. So, they say to keep your busy and stuff. Like I said, you did that one when you're not bodybuilder, you're up a thing where you're doing snakes. So, if you've got a hobby, video edit, talk about that, find something interesting. Because I'm sure this day in age with the man who people are in the world, someone is crazy as something that you do. I'm sure something does like when I talk about the COVID and chew-lice, time to a coffee table. I'm sure it is. I was out there to have done that. IMight not feel the only one. Thank you. I am. But maybe I'm going to start a coffee and chew-lice YouTube channel. There you go. So, you know, I see these sometimes I watch some of these YouTube videos. These are guys out there that all they do. They're whole channels devoted to how to keep your hair. All the different products out there, all the things that you do, all the tech, the hair, you know, trensplants, the tattoo, the micro-tattling of the head. You know, every video devoted to hair loss. And then making a fortune, they got millions of people watching these videos. And you know, so it could be something like that. It could be a video game channel. IMean, Chris Corrmier was a big video, it could be a game guide back in the beginning. Imagine if you would have just video taped and self-playing. How many guys would have watched it, probably? Watching Chris, commenting as he's playing in the video games. Oh, they would. Yeah. Can you imagine anything you can think of today? If you type it into search engine among YouTube now, if you put anything in there, I'm sure this video about it. And now, I remember I got the Mustang and there's a couple of things. I wonder how I do that. And I got the manual there, like this, I'm like, oh, fuck, look at that. I got to read it. I'll sit in the car. You see how to change this or how to do that. And there you are, instructional video is someone describinGHow to do it. And there's some, like, it's easy to watch the video and try and read. Like, if you, I'm one of those people who've just shown me how to do something once, I'll pick it up like that. But if I'm reading an instruction book or someone says, take part a do-part, the do-tweet-state-that way, I'm like, fuck this. Fuckers, like, you know, if I put something together from my key or whatever, I've always got parts left over and I'm like, oh, that's legal. I just toss them all up. Yeah. She falls down inside. You know, you put something together and there's one screw left. And you know, that screw is probably necessary for something. And then you find out, you go back to the manual and you're like, oh, that was step one. You gotta take the whole thing apart now, because you can't finish the thing. That's the way that screw in the right place. I just tell my wife, that's the space screw. They always keep you space. I believe that. But I'm done the same thing. I'll put a whole cabinet to give up. And when I undo the door, eventually look at it, I'm like, you know, it's got, like, the might have the trimming on this side, but I've put on sort of wood's face and like, I had to turn that shelf around. I've got to take the sides apart. Oh, my, like I said, I've gone to step 90 step 40 steps here. One. I'm just looking to picture on the box and go, let's see how it goes. There's these reptile racks that I use for my snakes. And they cut their hybrids that they come in like, or there's like a million pieces in a box, which makes the shipping very cheap. You put the whole thing. I paid some kids to put it together. So I said, you know what, when I went to buy the next rack, I said, you know what, there's another company that makes very similar high quality racks, but they come all together, but the shipping's way more expensive because it's all together. I'm like, I don't care. I bought those racks, because I just don't want to put it to, I don't want to put the stuff together. I don't have any time. It's not time as money as I always say. But you know what, you know, that the trick is that if you're good at putting stuff together or doing things, make instructional videos, those guys who make those instructional videos, those videos get millions of hits. And you might have times of videos. You can make a lot of residual income from YouTube, you know? We're not even that. If you're good at doing stuff like that, I know where you got people here, because everything you buy these days, you got to put the game you got to put the give up, just like these guys coming around there, it's just like there, fixing the wheel on the car. I went ahead and look at it. He's almost done. I'm like, I can't even see where the scratch was. But there's people like that, like the sort of like, any amount of this one called, that husband's something or whatever, like these guys, like a handyman, but it's business, like a husband name, then they click the husband or something. So any job you need, he comes around, like a handyman, and there are people here when they got a business where if you buy it, type us, because there's a lot of old people or women who don't have the tools, so you just call these people up, and they'll come around and put it all together for you. And stuff like that. So they travel to the US, I need him. I need his number. By the way, I live in Florida. What's happened to your bunk beds, I haven't heard about the bunk beds. The bunk beds got returned. I got news that they, I bought a bunk bed from rooms to go. That was two tall. I have a huge staircase. They can't get up to staircase. I'm thinking, they can't get up my staircase. Then there's no way they get it up anyone else's staircase. So a twice the came broken. The third time they came broken and they couldn't even get up to step. So my wife just said, you know what? Take it all back. We don't want it. So we give it back. Kids are bumping. I have to sleep in bed. So my son, you know, I said, has a map up on the floor now. He's sleeping on. Just tell you, kid, the light is trening. Everyone's got little tents in there. They're just like camping. Just sleeping. He'd rather sleep than that. Believe me. I told him it's because you're not behaving yourself. That's all you have to send the bunk bed back. Which is not, which is not something. Can you get one of those rice carpets? You know, a nice sleep. That's like a rice cake. He has a captain America bed, but it's a little twin bed. He wanted a bigger, he wanted the bunk bed. So we can climb and break his neck. You know, don't talk about captain America. I saw that latest edition on July 4th. Where captain America is saying the American dream isn't real anymore. And that's all alive. You've actually made captain America comic the last one. Political saying the American dreams of wow. Oh, I didn't see that. Oh my god. Did you do the edition of, um, this was when the woke crowd was coming out. There was an edition of Superman, even where Superman saw the guy about his allegiance to America. Because you know, he's the fight for truth, just as the American way. Right. He didn't believe in America in a more and the right time. The Chinese way now. Now he went to join the UN. He was fighting for the UN instead of America. I'm like, why do people play the size of comic books? I didn't even know the name still. The comic books are still being produced on a regular basis. But that's funny. Yeah. So kids still read. That's good to know. I am glad to hear that. They look at the pictures. Yeah. Yeah. If I was, you know, if I was an artist of death, I'm an ad track artist. I'm not a, if I draw those, those those comic book characters, man. I don't know. I probably would never leave my house. I'd be drawing, if I was like Jerry back and could draw the stuff that he does, I'd be breaking murals on the side of buildings and stuff like that because that's a true talent. That's, there's a couple, there's this two types of talent that I'm very jealous of. And I don't think, because I don't know if I, if I could ever achieve the level of what some of these people have, people who can have amazing artists who can basically look at something and draw it and people who have that, you know, the musical gift when they can just play anything. So you can say, hey, play this or make something up and they can just go, and it's like, you know, it's amazing. You know, that's a gift. I've got a friend like that. I've got a friend like that. He can't read music, but if he play him a song, he could sit in the piano or whatever and just copy it. That's a gift. That's a gift. Yeah. Jimmy the bulls like that. I like that. Even singing. I think if you hear it like when I was natural, the gifted singers, but I think magic just happened that talent way if you're like an Elvis or a Michael Jackson or someone way, you're on stage. You know what I want to say? Like, it's a bodybuilder. I want to say, imagine being aromasinger with hundreds of thousands of people just listening to you singing. You got to be in the palm of your hand. Well, if I had to come back in my next slide, the rock, I would definitely want to be a rock star. Those guys have had the best life. Even though they're a little nuts and they do a lot of drugs, most of them back in the day. IMean, I'm like, I'm like, bodybuilder, so I'm like, the problem with the problem is that most of these prodigies, especially like, you know, they die young and fortunately because they're too gifted. They're too gifted. I listen to a radio show the other day. And I went right on off. I think it was like Hendrix, was it or someone else, but there was like six or seven of them who all died at 27. Well, just from all 27 years old, they all died. That's why we have to be in the number. I think even Amy White has just 27. Yeah. It's like, you know, you're coming in the right. It's her Cobain. Yeah, it was 20. It was 27. Yeah, it's like this magic. Come on. Unbelievable. Yeah. IMean, you live a hard life. IMean, but a lot of singers are troubled. That's why. There's a lot of bodybuilders are troubled. But then we have, but now we have what he's now in who is a key fruitchid to steal. Yeah, he might be, I think he's been dead his whole life. That's what the problem. That's why he can't be killed, you know. Well, you don't, I'm sorry, IMean, I think, look at the ones that the ones like are on the shooters still going. Sounds great. Trilling. Triple H told me that he was very good friends with Lenny from Motorhead. If you remember that the, you know, I am the game, you know, that was the, Lenny made that for that song specifically for Triple H to walk out to and Triple H told me when he went to see him, he was living like a rock star to the day died. He's still drank and smunked. He refused to do anything to change anything about his lifestyle. He lived that rock style lifestyle. And he lived a long time. He wasn't a young guy. And he, to the day he died. He lived it, you know. Who's better? The notice I've seen people, I've seen people who live that life, you're in drugs and drinking and stuff. And they live, it's like, if you think how do you someone do that not die, but then I've seen them, they get in their six years ago. I've had a clen up my act. They went, they, they died. Yeah. Is when they died. Yeah. Well, that's what Lenny, Lenny thought, you want to, that's preserving you. Lenny thought that's right. He said, if I start the drugs, I'll probably die. So I'm so used to them, you know, that, hmm. It looks like people are drinking alcohol and they'll stop drinking it. And it's like, it's because they're like, sort of a dick to do it. It's like, I'll get the shade. The Z-T of get sick. It's like, if they, if they, if they don't, they just, when they drunk, but they just continually drink each day, they sort of keep some normal. They bought these used to. Yeah. It's so much like the tickling themselves. But it's fine. My father when he went to get his hip replacement done, you know, they have thEQuestion, now you gotta fill out. And you know, they ask you, do you drink, you know, how often, how much, so he wrote a bottle of wine. So they, so when they're looking at, they're like, oh, sure you drink a bottle of wine a week. He's like, no, I drink a bottle of wine every night. It's tough. Or every day, you know, throughout the day. And they're like, you're not a hog. He's gonna get the, he's gonna go get the DTs. And my father was fine. He had no, my father could stop and start drinking. He was like, cause he only drank wine really. It would not affect him one bit. He could take it or leave it. It was the one. He had his people, cause they're like, they're like, what are you calling like functioning at the heart, where somebody could drink a certain amount and be drunk as a scum, and these people can drink and just function as normal. We wouldn't even know that they had a drink, unless they got blue and dual breath testing device. And you see, wow, you're out of the lens, but they talk normal, they walk straight line. You wouldn't even know that they had a drink, but if we, if we drank the same, we'd be like, oh, we'd be fucked in the stock town of our mind. Yeah, exactly, but anyway, so the bottom line is guys, when you do a contest and you're done with the contest, immediately divert that same energy with putting into the contest, into something else that you find interesting, something productive, use it to your advantage. We have a tremendous tremendous ability to make your own world, to make your own living, to make a lot of money without even leaving your house, just by putting videos up, social media, nurture that. It's a gift that you guys are being given. We didn't have that. We had to try to get suppled and contract back in the day. We had to try to get, you know, magazine, you guys don't have to depend on anyone, you don't have to answer to anyone except yourself, you could make your own living. Don't be depressed. Even the offseason, even though it's called offseason, you can still treat your offseason like your contest, because you're still trened twice a day or once a day. I know the offseason, I was bad at it. I never watched my meals, but even offseason, you can still prep the offseason, because I find, this is probably where I lost some, I could have been better in the offseason, I was gonna just ate anything at eight when I wanted to. But if you're about that same regiment at offseason as you do, contest and still eat five, six meals in your offseason, but more calories and still get in the right proteins, you can still treat and still have that same focus and make your offseason almost like contest prep, and that is your offseason prep to make those gains for thEQuality when you dive back down for your next show, because when offseason comes for me, it was off everything. I know, you know, you were off your regular. I think like what is, it's been like, what are you having today? I'm like, oh, whatever the stuff that McDonald's had cooked in me. Ah, ha ha ha ha. You know, I ate McDonald's every day, but I also had, but my cooked all my other meals and a very regimented had my shakes and everything like that. So, you know, you can have flexibility in your diet, but you could also, you should have structure to it, because otherwise you're not gonna make the gains you want. Exactly. All right, let's wrap this thing up, Lee. Thank you. If you guys, if you want to see this week, I guess coming up, we're, I don't know, when we're gonna air it, we did two episodes of Iron to Bate, Lee Priest, myself, King Kamali, Mila Sarsha, and Melvin Anthony, you guys are not gonna want to miss this, do episodes. When we did the last bit there, we were talking about Kale again. As we're talking and she'd talk in about it, you want to see, I think every company is gonna be flat Kale with you guys. Oh, of course. Of course. I could just need to come in tomorrow. What you think you can win back there? No. No. Well, I got, I can promise you that the episode had, there was, there was a lot of strong opinions given. That's I'll leave us at that. And Lee, thank you for waiting for all these. IMiss Melvin. What? IMiss Melvin's opinion on showing Ryan the beginning. Yeah, I know the first, I'm gonna be the first person to get the phone call from showing Ryan now, but look Melvin was, you know, wanted to talk about it. And you know, I'm friends with Melvin, so I gave him the ability to talk about it. I'm just upset. I'm gonna have a crying at it. Sure. I was just talking about me. And he was talking a bit. Oh. I thought I thought Sean and I were tied. But I was like, you were pretty quiet. I got it. I, you didn't even get a word in edgewise on that one. That conversation. I'm just listening. I was just listening. I like hearing other people talk about Sean. If I sat there, I was just like, I'll eat eight Sean stuff. I like hearing other people's stories about Sean and stuff. Yeah, Lee was very patient on that interview. All right, we're gonna wrap this up guys. Plus I did leave. I did leave the drawing my wife to work. I didn't mean to say, yes, you didn't mean to say that. I didn't even, I didn't even know you were gone until you texted me. I didn't believe how quiet you got in there. So. Yeah. It's nice, it's nice to know what miss. She must work around the corner, or something like that. You got back very quickly, you know. Yeah. She does. She's just down the road, David. Oh. There's a park you got to go through in this park. So I didn't want to walk in through the park. I didn't want to get in right through anything. So. What? What if I was. What if thoughtful husband you are walking your wife to work? If anyone's going to rape my wife, I'm going to be rude. And plus the park is dark. If they go to rape, they're hacking over court. There's no lighting. Jesus. And I don't have to think. And I don't have to think. Until next week, I'm Dave Aloma with Lee, please for another installment of Iron Rage.

=== FILE: Lee Priest on US Olympian's Flag Protest! ｜ Iron Rage ｜ Dave Palumbo & Lee Priest [O6f2gdfIUwk].txt ===

Old school body building clothing company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. Cookie Monster blew in my cup. This cookie Monster made it through three of my kids and I'm telling you this thing, it was hurled at the wall, blown down, beaten on the floor, and it still told it, held it, you're, hey, how many times was it, held it, yeah, couple times. I'm shocked that made it through my son. My daughter's weren't quite as rough on it, but this every time they would cry, we would give him cookie Monster. Is it just, is it just me or the more I look at it, he just looks like every time it's Smith. Yeah pretty much. He throws at some point on his head. Oh, very nice. That's what it's, that's what it's, looks like. But he loses his white cat. Yeah. So he made, I don't know, I was supposed to get thrown out when my wife is throwing out all these things, they don't want to keep it. Keep it. I said them. Keep. He made it. Yes. Beautiful. So the Arnold Classic list was released, and then they extended it by adding Nick Walker and Ruley Winkler, which I think was a very good decision on those guys part, and the Arnold people adding them to the list. We very rarely do we see people adding once they've, once they've put the list out there. Sergio, I'll leave a junior head made a colt arms, you know, two weeks ago and say, hey, why doesn't everyone just do this show? This should be the Olympia Midas from Big Ramey, and that's what happened. Are you, do you think that's a good move on the competitors part? Yes, but as soon as I see now as added to the list, I said Sergio, I'm asking you to say thank you very much for lighting the fire under somebody's eyes and making the Arnold. But when you look at it now with this line up, the Olympia's going to always be the Olympia, but I think sadly, I'm not sadly, but it's great. More people I think are going to talk about the Arnold because, as we've said, the Arnold isn't setting stone, whoever comes into best shape can win it, whereas okay, the Olympia, if the Mr Olympia comes in, Ramey comes in shape, we pretty much know who the Mr Olympia's going to be in second and third, but the Arnold Classic right now is wide open to anyone, and you know whoever wins that, it's going to be the four runner going into the Mr Olympia. Sure, some other guys who might get second and third at the Arnold can change in a couple of weeks and come in better, but you know, ever when's the Arnold's going to be the one gun and for Big Ramey come to the Olympia? And you know, I felt like the last couple of years guys were calculating what shows to do based on who else on the show, and this seems like the first show where guys were just like, I'm going in, I don't care who's there, because let's base it, you've got bone-acadent line up, you've got really in that line up, those guys are insumeds, you know, they're top five Olympians, you know, and a lot of guys say, hey, why should I do the show? I can't beat those guys, but we're not seeing that, we're seeing guys saying, you know what, I could beat them, I want to challenge them, I want to be compared with these guys. I think it's a good move, I think it's great for the Arnold and great work. Well, that's a silly way to think that really, because yes, if somebody's in a hundred percent shape and different shows may be a camp beat, and but look at me, I've probably never before, a big Chris Cormillo or Dexter Jackson or Ronnie Colman or Jay Colman, but I beat or that was like, as long as you keep coming in your best, if they just slip a little bit, you can beat anyone, anyone can beat you, that's why you never know, so you just got to give it but it got to be like teams saying what it teams say, good at the super vote of one of the Super Oldest many times, we can't play it in. Yes, you can, because everybody has a bad day, and if you catch them on a bad day, that's your good day. So I just interviewed last yesterday, we haven't put the interview up Aaron Baker. And Aaron Baker, if you remember, went again, Flex Wheeler at that. It was like, it was like a little mini tour before the Olympia. It was like my MVP. She was, it was a couple. There was three shows in a row. They used to be on man. And there was another one. And he ostensibly beat Flex. IMean, a lot of people beat Flex. Aaron, I think Aaron's wanted a most guys who got screwed so many times, because he almost looked back then he almost looked like a Kai Green, just his fitness and his density and stuff. And even Aaron, he was an artist and he was very flanned, buoyant with his costumes and stuff. So he was probably like the early 90s version of Kai Green and stuff. And there's another thing we could have called a green coming to the Olympia this year. So I don't think we're seeing Kai Green. So I'm going to ask you on out. He said he's doing it. Did he say he's doing it? Well, I see and there's a lot of these other things have been coming up saying that he's in. So now he's teasing. I don't think there's no Kai Green didn't say he's doing the Olympia. He hit a couple. Let's just let's just say he's doing it because it pisses people. Let's say the I think we pre-smoke it especially in the Olympia. Let's start that rumor. Yes, the miss Olympia. I can do whatever I want. Yeah, and you can. We'll be in the Olympia. Well, it makes Olympia a day before and the miss does the day arts I'll do both because I'm non-binary. I'm sure I'm flue what is it on gender fluid? It's actually. We're going to qualify though. You have to qualify for the Olympia first. Oh, I probably call a fine bikini a work my way up. That's a tap of the tap of first. I'll bEQualifying. I'm qualifying. What's that you are? Well, I'm wellness. I don't know if you can. Did you see I'm speaking of fluid gender and stuff like that? I did see I was very, very beautiful that I forget his name on ReK someone or someone the trensgender one, the Miss Nevada beat out 21 women. I saw you sent me. Is that the one you sent me? That clip. Could have been, yeah, but it's like look, they do already have a Miss trensgender Miss America and Miss Universal stuff. So again, I got nothing against trensgender people if that's the way I want to live their life. That's how they feel trapped in a body. But I'm sick of seeing men turning or changing to women and then competing with women. It's not right. Here's some girl. Her whole dream might be to get to the Miss Universal or Miss America. And she gets beat by a main in the Miss Nevada. When it comes to like beauty contests, it's like if a man could look more beautiful than a woman, then he deserves to win. Don't you think? It shouldn't be called Miss Nevada. It should be called the Nevada beauty contest. That's all. And if you want to be a man. Can you imagine what this does to a woman's psyche that you get beat by if you're a woman and you're a beautiful woman. You've had all these cosmetic surgery done. You're boots on your face and a man can turn either a woman and look more beautiful than you think about what this does to your psyche. And I can hear her body build up and a woman became a body builder and she beat you. It would be like, oh, Jesus Christ, the Bansie Gav. Well, it was like NASA. I told Nastro's somebody. I saw him after the Dallas Europa show one year and we were going up the escalated together and I'm like, uh, so I had placed like eight or something like that and he was really obsessed with things like I'm like, oh, Jesus, or we've talked to him. He placed, yeah, maybe he works. And I said, NASA, what what do you think happened? He goes, oh, you know, these these morons, they have judged me incorrectly. I have lost to a blind man. You remember Greg Rando, Greg Rando, my feet, I'm like that. He was so, I think if anyone else would have beat him, he would have been alright. But the fact that that a guy who's blind, which I don't know what that has to do with anything because he had a pretty good physique, the fact that the blind guy beat him, you know, the Greg beat him was so insulting to NASA's like intellect that he couldn't handle it. You know, he's going crazy. Why even why you've been givinGHim an award? He can't even see the award. You wouldn't know what it says on there. You could give him a certificate of the 15th place. He cannot read it, Dave. Why give me, he was so kind of descending NASA. I was like, I almost feel like saying to myself, you know what I believe it. NASA actually fucking probably deserved it. Just said the kind of silence as he got a little bit. But also, too, we had to um, Gwen, Gwen Blackberry. IMean Gwen Berry, but she's a Black woman. But she I'm turned her back on the flag and we've won the ant from play. It's like, come on now. Come on. But you're there as an American team. You know, the individual, you're there as an American team. Right. It's like, even if it looked to me, it's like these athletes have such a big profile. I'll lip, this was the US Olympic trials. We're not talking about the Olympics. This is the, the trials. It was there. I know, I know the Olympic committee. I know the American committee said they can do that little protest, but the actual Olympic committee said, no, they won't stand for any protest on the podium, which is how it should be. It's like these athletes have a big platform protest anywhere else. But you go back to the old days, Jesse Owens, he can feed it over there and journey when Hitler was around. He made a protest. But when you read his stuff, he did it for the country, not against the country or against the protests. The protesting of the Olympics is not quite as bad as protesting a the US Olympic trials, which is building the team for the US. If you don't like this country and you don't want to be a part of the team, USA then don't do the fucking Olympics under our flag, go compete in other country. That's what I think it's a story if you're going to the Olympics in protesting because some other country is oppressing people or this terrorism and you're trying to make a statement. But if you're representing this country and we're feeling a team and you're not happy with this country, then don't go to the trials, don't be an athlete for this country. It's exactly you take a somebody else's spot, but you're protesting the country and the flag, the country that's given you order rights and everything to be there, to be a top athlete, to represent the country. She's worth like 31 million. So this country is given you the opportunity to do what you're doing and make that kind of money and now you want to turn your back on. Look, sure everything there's things that can change in the country, but go after big things like maybe schooling in the cities or the 52 young kids that have been killed and shot and murdered this year in those communities like protest, real fucking things, not the silly, oh I'm a press, but yet here I am representing my country. I've got the dude a thing I love and IMake a millions of dollars. Come on, who's worth 31 million? That woman? Yeah, she is. Yeah. For what? What does she get money from? I think they came out just with her contraction stuff like that. I think she must have a make up contract, did you see the make-up she was wearing on that thing? Like the I like, she should go into the powerlifting, she got a strong neck hold up, there's I Lash, she's like the I Lash is already sparkly stuffy, the gender red lips with the black line down there. Yeah, I don't want to, when I first saw her, I didn't read it, as soon as I saw her fight I went, oh fuck another means one of women's events. That's what I thought, when I saw that lip thing I said oh no, I'm going to go fucking tattoo that I was fucking face now, I know it. But then I was like, you can do good prejudice, who was the, I think at his name back in the day when he stood up there and he held his fist in the air. Oh for the black panthers. Yeah, I was watching, yeah, I was like a vet. Yeah, but he said even then he goes, what he meant by, he goes, some of the people took it their own way when he did that, he meant to open his hand, meaning we're all in this together, this represents all the people and we're in it together, like as a whole, but he never hit a guy's brain. It was seriously forgot to open his hand up, yeah, I don't know. Look, you know what, when you're on that Olympic podium, you can do whatever you want because you're you, you won. When you're feeling a team to go to the United States, you know, for the United States, you're the Olympics. You gotta have team unity there, otherwise, it's like every man from self. That's not the way it's supposed to be. The Olympic games are feeling a team from your country to compete against all the other countries. That's supposed to bring us together. If there's a political statement you want to make after you win the Olympic games and you want it when you're being interviewed, then do it. But don't, don't, you know, don't do it at the Olympic trials. That's not the right value. Well, did you read about the tren's gender B and Mixer rider? Did you read this statement? We're looking at a E sheet, but the the tren's gender B and Mixer rider. He's or her plan. Excuse me, is the get a gold medal? And he actually said this in the interview, the get a gold medal and while on the podium, burn the flag in protest against America in their treatment of trensgender people. I'm like, you're going to burn the flag. I got the podium. Like if that's your right, I think it should be a right of the Navy, seers and special forces. You're for your country, the thought for your rights, to come and beat the fuck out of you. Yeah, if you light a fire on the podium, you deserve to get shot, you know, because you're in the army. Some people respect the flag. Some people reflect this, IMean, respect the flag. They're much better. I remember, we're going to set the John even like when he's to go to Nascara, Bench, you get these parachute, is it coming on parachutes with a flag on their leg? Right. I was like he said the flags never meant to touch the ground. And those guys as soon as they land, they scramble as quick as they can and keep that flag from the ground because they respect it so much. Now we have these other people jumping on the flag, burn in the flag and stuff like imagine, imagine if she was competing for Russia or China and she tried doing that. Oh, yes, it's it's returninGHome. We've never seen it again. We don't know what happened. We don't know what happened. We don't know how it's funny. But all these people that do these rebellious things years later when the interview him 20 years later, they always regret it. They always like, wow, I was immature. They realize what a dumb ass I was doing this stupid thing. Here you are, you work your whole life to try to be the greatest runner or the greatest, whatever athlete in the world, win the Olympics. IMean, that's the, that's the highest honor you can win. And then you go do it and you act like an asshole on the stand or something like that on the podium stand. IMean, everyone dreams of what are being on that stand here in that national anthem? IMean, the idea just thinking about it, I bring tears to my eyes if I put it ever to a person. And these are the flag. I'm going to burn the flag. I imagine. I said, I could just imagine that feeling like it's in. Being on that podium with the gold medal around your neck, stadiums full, seeing the American flag or whatever flag country or with rise up and they're playing your ant for me. Because you imagine that feeling that the whole country is behind you and what you've done that's like, these athletes like I said, there would be a big profile. They can make their little statement somewhere else. But not on the, you know, we'll stay together. The guy, girl, whatever, I guess it's a woman, a man that the trensition to a woman or is it the other way or IMean, the fact that they've completely may be maybe a trensition to a black out and not the fact that they're able to compete in the, you know, the sexual division that they choose, that right there is saying a lot for what this country is done and the Olympics is done. They should be, it should be ingratiating themselves. They should be celebrating that not protesting something else from the past. Well, that's what we're going to, I'm going to burn the flag because we were oppressed for the last whatever, 100 years, rather than saying, you know what, thank God that now we're not oppressed and now we can do this, even though it's probably not something that that should have been allowed. And, and, and, and I'm going to celebrate that. But I watched Stomony in the view. We've scotty PIPpin and he was talking about stuff and he was talking about, let's feel Jackson wasn't the coat, late, um, Lakeers' coach and that coming going. He was talking, they said, you think Phil Jackson was racist? What do you think? And this sort of stuff, see, say any was, that's what I'm saying, I'm thinking, what? And then he's talking about who's, um, one of the games, they put um, this rookie guy in who was white. And he said, that was a racist move because I'm scotty PIPpin and I'm the heir of parent and it was my team these people there. I'm like, really? I said, Phil Jackson, he's to play basketball, where the majority is black. And then what type of racist would have that job where everyone around you is black, you're coaching a black team. Is this people lost his fucking mind or something? And then how many meals does he work again? Another press man, he's like, I'm just seeing the clen people lining up at that job. What's the job in tail? Oh, we got a trail. Yeah, that sounds great. Yeah, I love them people. I've got to come hang around. Yeah, I could have been really PIPpin saying that thinking, my god, it's like, it's this whole new era of, this or something that I don't, I'm not catching onto or something, but, oh, it's just like, how do we be more outrageous and make a bigger statement that I, I, I hear on the news, I just heard it today and the news report, he had had Trump on because he's going down the Texas and that he's talking about the war, talking about, yes, going to build the war. The report, he goes, yes, he did say that because you know what he said, we're going to paint the war black because black is a color that makes it so hot, but be hard to climb over, sort of war be painted black and he's like, I can't believe he said that he's going to paint it black, I'm like, well, black doesn't track teeth black is a hot color. I've been out of trying to turn this into a racial think because he said he's painting the war black. It's a lot of easy to keep clen too, that IMean, that, that's not like a match that really gives you a black wall, right? Imagine the graffiti on a white wall, yeah. Yeah, you know, as you say, we live in a society where everyone is offended by everything, you know what the truth is? No matter what anyone says about me, I don't even listen to it anymore, it doesn't even, it just bounces off, I don't even care anymore. So I'm just, you know, I just agree now when people say Lee, you're a racist, you're a racist, like, yeah, I am, and then I go find that picture when I did the TV show wearing the white power shirt, I got to picture on the white power shirt, like that, and I send it to him and I said, this is just for you. Oh my god, you're wearing a white power shirt, like that, that's not from that, from that comedy TV. I'm going to, I'm going to send this to everybody, I said, you go for it, made a Sunday Instagram page, but you send it out. I just agree now, everything like, oh, yeah, I did it some of the time the others racist because they didn't like the illegal is coming over. So I got no problem with the illegal is coming in, just come to proper channels, I said, because yes, they want to come for a better life, I got no problem with that, they want to come to America, get jobs, they're family, I got no problem with that, but you got to work out who's, who's, who's bad, and we didn't like, I said, I tell them, when you go to bed tonight in America, leave a front door open, that's what you're going to do, because as people at their under streets in America who might want to warm me off, they might want to watch TV. So when you're upstairs with the kids sleeping, let them come in, I said 80% of probably nice and friendly, they just have a sandwich from your fridge and much a bit of TV, maybe one will come and kill you, but leave your door open, take that chance, who's that down there? Who's that down there? Who's that down there? So, at the end of the day, however, I got to cut you for one second, I got to think, you know what, those movies, though, where someone is in the house, and they come out looking, the movies, they come and they go, is anybody there? I think, why are you on the book, Laryn, your house coming to kill you, and you go, is anyone down there? Yeah, just just, let me, I'm coming up to slide. Yeah, there's a scariest movie of like someone in your house, as you remember that movie, a strenger is calling, oh, you're when a strenger calls, or the strenger calls, and the baby said they answer the phone and the guys out in the house already, it's calling when the police, when the police call back and they go, with Trace the call, it's coming from inside the house. Yeah, that was scary. They actually remade it, did you see the remake? No, no. That's not bad, but I remember the original, yeah, it was like that, because you keep getting that call, and she's like, where is it? Where is it? Where is it? We were kids, because I think, because where that one ends, I think the remake goes a little bit further. Yeah, but it goes, the call is coming from inside the house. I was, I was terrible, I was terrible, I didn't want to go to sleep, but I don't want to have the babysitter, and why did you get him? The funniest, the funniest booth, and that was remember when they screen movies or if they're like, yeah, yeah, yeah, the guy in the mask, yeah, I'm watching you, yeah, she goes, I can see the behind it curtain, he's like, oh, I can see you, you don't know, he's she goes, I can see your feet sticking out from behind it, he's like, oh, he's trying to hide. Yeah, that was so funny, it's not pretty funny, as goofy as they were. It's funny, all the people they, it was found like the the biggest basketball case, like to do that, like the Anna Nicole Smith was in one of those movies, right? Lindsay, oh man, was in one of those movies, right? Common elector, I think was in the comments on her food, trying to enslave motion as he's tracing. They're like, let's find who's the most the most f-dupped person in Hollywood right now, we'll get him a bit. We're getting Lindsay Lowhand, you know, let's get her in the. There would have been a list of them all along, you'd be talking about if that people. Yeah, yeah, I go now, especially now. What do you think about the whole Britney Spears thing? But she's trying to get control for life, do you think, uh, you think she's doing? I think she's sure, it was like, yeah, it's something that stuff that's came out, now that I've had control over and stuff, and she wasn't allowed to get pregnant and stuff like this, so yeah, it's kind of weird, right? Yeah, you can probably understand why someone might go a bit mad, because you could imagine you have it all that money, but yet cause you're so controlling and having stuff like that, we'll have for that happen. Well, they can happen if you're being brought up that way from a young kid and someone's got that much power over you and he's got control of your money and stuff. It's quite, it's just like sayinGHow do these people who have no money get locked in a basement and someone's house for 10, 15, 20 years and you can't get a white stuff because of God knows what, quite in the basement. I'm not talking about you. I see you by the curtain. Right down there. All right, now you break before we wrap up this little party, who's going to win the Arnold Classic? You have a prediction? Oh my God. No, I don't because there's so many good names going in that out now with Bonnet, Nick Walker, Ruelli. No, who do you think? Who are you betting man? Who would you bet on? I couldn't because, however, it's a big debate that's going to be like, even if Ruelli said he's best, Nick Walker said he's best, Bonnet said he's best. Everyone at their beneath the woods. I would not have to see him on stage because everyone has good shots, not to everyone has weaknesses. So off the top of my head now, I wouldn't be able to say until I actually saw him say things like that. Well, I don't think I don't think anyone can be ruling wingler. He comes in and is bad. Oh, I can see him at his best. So I don't that's, you know, the tall order on the, down anything, down anything, I worry about Ruelli is because we haven't seen him back up there for a little bit. I hope he just doesn't come in to the new thick which might distort some of his lines. His masses, now one's going to cut you him on mass, but everything else maybe someone comes in like I said, if he comes in that thick remember like someone, I don't have anyone's going to come in soon. I bet like a Sean Roden where it's like the mass but also more lines. So we're at that might balance it out. But there's no short run to be in Slater that's the only problem. Yeah. Exactly. But yeah, because like, Nick Walker's thick even onack for his hideous thick. So I know I've left a lot of good names off their Sergio even. So it's like a keyway. IMean, the keyway. The keyway. The keyway. The keyway. The keyway. The keyway. The keyway. Whatever. Whatever. I guarantee whatever. The top five or six top, finalists are a bit when they're called really if they're all at this best, whoever gets fifth probably could have been first, whoever goT4th probably could have been second. There's going to be, I think it's going to be one of those shows where we're at a placeings and up if it had a changed either way. I don't think anyone's going to complain because the guys are all that good up there. So when they like I said, it's going to come down to opinions and little mind you to like things. Well, I guess we won't really know until the show takes place. But that's the exciting part. We get to take guesses and figure out, you know, who might do what? And you know, I think that's adding a level of excitement to the pre-Elimpia build up. And then obviously whoever wins the Arnold Classic, we're going to be able to have to say, is this the next guy who's going to be around me? That'll be the next. Who knows? There's still time in the building saw it. It would be in a week or two, added to the line up, Hardy and Rami. Well, I don't think we're going to see Rami, but I do suggest that we would talk about that on S. Dave with Sid and I said, I'm sure of surprise because I know Hardy's coming in early this year to tren. Why wouldn't he shoot and jump into that line? I'm sure he could use the 100 and whatever 20 grand that they give in a way first prize. Well, sure he could. So good. Rami, if you wanted to. It's like, hey, he can. I don't think Randy. I don't think Randy will risk it. Here's the reason why Randy wouldn't risk it because if Randy doesn't win, now going into the Olympia as the raining champ, and he just lost to like, say, let's say a really winkler, that's going to lower his stock quite a bit. So I don't think we see Randy in that line up, but I think we might see Hardy jumping to that if they would leave it open to, you know, be able to invite him. Hey, you're saying, Rami, you're saying, Rami's not going to come into panic mode and go for the armour. Puss on. He'd have to come in real early and go stay with DJ for three months for it. Let's start. Let's start the panic mode. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like panic mode work for him. So you should be doing panic mode every year because he doesn't have funny little things you can say in a snippet in a clip like this and people run with it like, oh my god, Dave thinks he's panic. Okay. Well, we had a very entertaining day. We're going to wrap this up. I want to say it's the first, you're still in June. It's the first to July. Thank you very much. So is that the, so you're in winter, you're in the heart of winter there, right? Yes. Yes. It's cold and rain. Yeah. Had the fire gone last night. That's why I said, I know I got this faint when I turned the light on the faint come on. It feels like a nice, nice cheer coming down. It's so bizarre because, you know, here we are. It's like the end of our day. It's the beginning of your day. You're in the winter. We're in the midst of summer. It's like 95. It's a quarter. Quote, quote, just 70. Well, I want people to know when I got up aT4 o'clock this morning. I checked my phone. Hey, Lee, ready to go anytime you are. Okay, Dave. I just got to get up and do a few things. How about half an hour? Oh, how about a 45? I can't have a go. I got to go this. Okay. What about this time? It's like Dave tells me whenever you're ready to go. Lee, we're ready. Well, two hours later. You know I'm always late. Here's the thing. My wife said, my wife said, he's probably doing another show. No, he's probably, I got a fetish talk into someone about snakes. The one that comes on, you're on the phone to someone about snakes. Here's the real quite date. Dave, Dave, the cup's fuckinGHim. The or I now. Yeah, I'm very good. Let me give you some. Here you go. If if if the earth is really flat, the Jimmy the ball says, how is it cold there and it's fuckinGHot here? As a July first he went at still June. I think about it night and keep me up Lee. I love you man. We're going to wrap this up. Five days five days. This is my birthday. I'll take cakes. I'll take those pop tarts. Can I get the pop tarts in my face? You're a orange a life fourth. July six. Oh, so six. Oh, because it's June for each life first. They're already out. Yeah. I like that. Welcome then a party. It would have been much nicer. You should just help me for your born July fourth. Then you can really be like an uncle Sam, you know. No, I feel like my birthday. I feel like my birthday is more important. So I had to separate it. I got you. Okay. Well, my sister's born in July 12. So she's pretty close to you. My nephew, my sister's son is born July fourth. So it's his birthday. Actually, what year were you born? 19. What? 72. Oh, you're actually six days older than my sister. My sister 72 also. I don't know. See? There you go. I'm believable. Yeah, pretty cool. But I'll take cakes. I'll take cakes. I'll take down. That's whatever anyone wants to send me. Thank you very much. So you're going to be 48. 49. 49. Okay. Wow. Come on. I can't wait to hear you. What do you want to figure this out at a morning? I could look so good. How do I do it? Yeah, your hair is looking very, uh, very well manicured there. You like that? I put a bit of gel in it. So when I got up in the morning, I don't need to add any gel. Just put water in it. Go like that. Ta-da. Came out perfect. You should get, you should grow a mustache in frost out too. I really can't because what happens is because I got lighter hair naturally. Even though it bleached a bit. When I do grow a mustache, your beard, there's like light hairs in it. So it'll be dark a few light hairs in a gap and then. Do like a whole kind of thing. Diet like black, you know? Like he did. And that's like I got the main. You look like this piece is missing out. No, don't do a beard. Do a much do one of those little like, you know, Joe Eater mustache is like black, Manhattan. You can just, uh, just kind of like black black men with the frosting. He would love you. He'd sign you to another contract. He did that. Guaranteed. I don't know why he doesn't talk to me. Dave, I try to, I try emailinGHim and every email I got at bounces. You're blocking me. I think he's blocking the email. Is it your block? All right. The best stick. I had the best stick pick too. And I was going to try to send her. All right. Could you? We'll see you next week. Guys, they pull up a leaf priest. Iron rage. We're out.

=== FILE: Legendary Track Coach Remi Korchemny Talks to Dave Palumbo [jfmySyogDRU].txt ===

I'm here with Remi Court Chemi, No Dinos, Speed and Agility Coach. They brought you on you. You've worked with some top class track athletes over the years. Duane Chambers comes to mind Kelly White. Right Kelly White. Look at the average Christian girl. Chris the games. And you've had Olympic and world champions in your corner. How did you wind up with boxing? Victor Kahn, Victor Dad, Guy Victor Kahn, the guy is the name he's coming up. Here, all this, try to find him. He's stuck you back in. No, Samsung can new for the different sport. We just talk this game about similarity of different sport. And I started to have the, I think the boxers and tennis players because a lot of similarities, right? And she said, you know, I have some boxers, you would like to work with and try to develop Samsung for them. I know that I'm very creative with just a leg to design Samsung can you, I like to apply Samsung can you in trening? Number one, because of over educated. You're always good. Now what is your education back then? MKFP is in physiology. Do you PhD in physiology? Where did you get earned that PhD? In 62 in the desert. And oh, that's the Russia. Yes. And you were in Russia back? That was during the Soviet Union. I killed 74. Yes. I was in the Korean team and the Soviet Union, the team sprint coach and my brother, I was in the Russian team. I spent a lot of years in sports science. So I conducted a lot of research and I had a lot of publications about, you probably want to hear something about speed and he's saying the closing time. I said state and so I like to introduce Samsung can you and organize Samsung new trening. What was it like trening at the Soviet Union as opposed to the United States? Were the athletes more disciplined? It's not the discipline. Number one, they try to organize all athletes in the long trening camps and the guidance of big scientific team. And coaches work very close to the scientists and they conduct every step of it. It doesn't mean that it will be a new work tracker, or tell, but in case of organization, all the system was very, very organized. So you learned a lot about trening because you were able to detail every step of it. Absolutely. What the positive is that I learned from the time all the set of goals, all the things see what they want to achieve. And you can't actually approach the same way. You cannot cook soup if you don't know consequences or putting meat, vegetables and salt in the pot in order to have good taste. So many instances, coaches just drink, they don't know what is next. How to make a good soup? You know the soup, right? I know how to prepare, I know how to cook. Just by it in boxing, I am not in my own cook. I am just only person who cuts carrots. You cut carrots. The most talented athlete that you ever trened in your mind, the most talent. I think being shumbo, being shumbo, being shumbo is the best natural athlete you ever trened? Yes. I used to have my brain, a rhythm of his running. Really? Yes. What was so great about him? What was his main talent in your mind? I believe to be very explosive and very rapidly to deliver forces to his acceleration and his strong as part. It's reasons that he became an important champion in 60 meters because he had excellent rate of acceleration. I still use his video and his segments of running to educate my and not the sprint of thin and as an athlete. That's pretty impressive. Let's talk about Namedo D'Anear. He's a small guy. He only on the boxing rinGHe will weigh 118 pounds. You had to come up with a recipe if IMight use your words. What was the recipe for Donita Senare's success? Number one, I never worked with a boxer before that. When I started trening, I took a couple of videos and I just started to look how to move. There's a most important ability of giving a developed, this way, the play power is in boxing. I started to realize how to move and I came to intuition. The most important thing that I have to develop in the needle, in the needle, in the other, is the ability to reverse efforts. I call it a reverse ability of efforts. Which means what exactly? It means that you have immediately changed from one direction to another, without wasting time and without special preparation. I started to do trening and educate Manita to do reverse effort. What techniques do you use to teach? I started to play my Banger Court and you could see it from pictures. I've seen the videos we have. Banger Court and you have these guys run with the courts. You do it too, I saw. Yes, I used it a lot for sprinters, but then I designed special way how to educate butters to use it and how to benefit from using the court. This fight, we see the best known needle donor that we've ever seen, the most explosive, the most powerful. Yes, he is very good in this case. Asmato, in fact, he was a number of how many repetition you can do sets with this cable drills and he did a maximum of that. I have a play for athletes who go through the number six. In my number six, I had, for example, under the course, that he was the best shape and where he fired after trening with me. He had this match, and I had six that he could survive. It's very hard to survive, six sets of four different drills. It lasted about a minute and you have about 35-40 seconds of respite. It's very hard to repeat. It's very difficult. Since it's also impressed by the boxer, they have to recover. We've seen very short period of time. Samsung similarly, we have wind-wetren in running capacity of an aerobic, like state power. And when I start to use this kind of approach, because in sport, the same lick in nutrition. I'll buy it, it doesn't recognize the word, bread, sugar, meat, very good, it's protein, carbohydrates, minerals, whatever. And now, exam, and our last start to produce different exam in order to break down protein, fat or carbohydrates. They don't know the name of Watermelon or something. The same in sport. I'll buy it when we load it. I did that with a recognized name. To them, 200 or 5-time, 100, around four or around back, pull the cable, put it, recognize how much force we have to produce in short of time, along with them. And how we can sustain a body of being contaminated with lactic acid and fri radical. Because we've seen short period of rest, we have to learn how to restore all this poison, bacteria, nutrients that we use for future. And he was covered quicker than he's ever covered. It's what I start to drink him. And he's starting to have a better, better, better. And as a matter of fact, in the last trening, we'll need six or five-tission of six sets, he demonstrated excellent condition. And as a drill that I developed, the practice against, I used different, short-lived drills for cattle, and printers. And I discovered that the box of meat not just only to move oil in the back, they had to move, they had to bite, shoot him from one leg to another. And at the same time, be capable again to produce efforts to fight. And a designed special drill for Baxter. And now if you see a video, you can see how they move over the hot-woods, and how they can return effort and produce fast movements. Now you're the boxing expert, Trader. I would not say that I'm boxing, but I expert in condition of Baxter. You're putting new elements to their routines that they've never ever experienced before, that's more applicable to what they're doing in the box area. Because from my knowledge, even people who have education in Kinesiology, Physiology of Sport, they seem to know everything, but IMet so many thousand coaches that made UK thousands. Yeah. They don't know how to apply this knowledge for sport. They seem to understand everything, but they deal with the sport as a sport itself. I don't tell claims that I'm professional in baseball, I'm professional in football, and I'm professional in trening. Oh, but I know exactly how to develop different condition of different metabolism. For example, we have different metabolism for different sport. In spring video, mostly with an aerobic electrate metabolism. So we have to place special exercises, duration, intensity, and rest in order to restore ability to use this kind of metabolism. Then we have metabolism electrate on aerobic electrate metabolism. This anaerobic electrate metabolism can divide again in two parts, power of metabolism and capacity. What different? For example, if I have thousand dollars and I go to Walmart, it will take me long time to spend $1,000 by empty short. And I can go to Bloomingdale or Sax, $1,000. And immediately spend the stoutals by just one jacket. So you're bad, and you're brins have to recognize when you have a play, your energy and more fishing. Metabolism, sometimes we need to go to Walmart and spend $1,000 gradually. Sometimes we have to spend $1,000 instantly. So we have to tren people to both ways, guys. OK. Production for the fight, looking to the camera, who wins. Does no leader don't air when? I want him to win. I don't like any prediction, but I know that he ready to fight very efficiently, that he ready to fight any number of rounds including 12. And I know that he always can deliver his best effort, any time when he won't and he need.

=== FILE: Lisbeth Marquez Routine-2011 IFBB Ft Lauderdale Cup [UIEC-0Wbu3E].txt ===

저 Sek

=== FILE: Ludmilia Somkina Routine-2011 IFBB Ft Lauderdale Cup [SJMdqVjaZI4].txt ===

knees how you you

=== FILE: Lukas Osladil WINS 2018 Vancouver Pro! Palumbo's Analysis! [-CnIE9f9oiU].txt ===

What's up, body-building fans? Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle, news update. The Vancouver Pro show took place this past weekend, even though it might have been overshadowed a little bit of the Chicago Pro show. The bottom line, however, is that there was somEQuality competitors here, even though the lineup might have been a little more sparse. It was 12 guys in the lineup. I felt that the competition here in Vancouver might have been deeper than in Chicago. Chicago we had some good guys in the top two, three spots, but it wasn't that deep. I think we had a good five guys deep here in Vancouver. Let's start with the winner right off the bat. Lucas Osseldall, we've seen him over the years. I watched this guy grow up in front of me, so to speak. Bill Comstack, who used to work for Muscle Development, and I worked together. He shot this guy back in the day before he was even a pro. I saw some muscle and density and conditioning on this guy that I have never seen. He reminds me of Andreas Munzer. And Andreas Munzer didn't have the greatest physique, but he was the hardest guy always on stage. There was no one more shredded than him. When Lucas Osseldall nails his conditioning, that's he's Andreas Munzer of the modern era. He's got striations upon striations. His glutes not only get striated, but they get like fibery striated. He likes to even oscillate them a little, and no pun on his last name Osseldall. But on stage, and he does some interesting maneuvers on stage as well. He has some interesting acrobatics. He does some stretching moves and he puts his head as foot over his head. He has very good body awareness and body control. That's impressive on stage. When you can control, even though you might not have the prettiest physique, if you bring tremendous conditioning and you have good ability to present what you have, that raises your game up tremendously, and it gives you a very professional look to your physique on stage. And sometimes you beat guys that are actually better than you because you are able to show your gifts better in high-dure weaknesses. Whereas there are a lot of guys who have more gifts, maybe, than the arrest of the competition, but they don't have to exploit those, and they don't have to hide their weaknesses. So a lot of times, you look at pictures after you know, like, how did this guy win? But the bottom line is that you have to be there in that front row to really get an understanding of why he won. And I'm sure Luke is, well, in video and in pictures his conditioning does show, you're not getting a true appreciation for it, unless you're right there in person. I've seen it, and I've witnessed it firsthand, and I know exactly what it looks like in person, and the pictures just don't capture. There are a couple shots back double bicep that you can kind of see it. But if you would go like exclusive on the pictures, you'd be like, this guy can't, this guy didn't win the show, you know, probably, you know, one of the most impressive guys, and I think probably one of the guys of the most hype going into the show had to be Alexis Rallone. A lot of people know him, he has two last names, Alexis Rivera Rallone, but we know the guy won the, you know, NPC Nationals of Alexis Rallone from Puerto Rico. And he is one of the most dangerous guys in this line I've been in my mind. He's got the most tools. I think he could have been a little dialed in a little better for this show. I think last year we saw him dialed in a little tighter, and had he done that I think he would have certainly beaten Lucas because I think he's got a better structure and he's got better, more muscle than he does. But I think he left the door open a little bit here. Alexis is a true talent. This is a guy who could certainly work his way up into being a super top competitor, you know, possibly even a top, you know, top six, top eight Olympian at some point if he continues to make improvements. He has the tool set that you need to go far in the professional ranks of bodybuilding. And once again, Lucas beats him because Lucas shows his physique off better, he comes in more dialed and Alexis leaves the door open a little bit, you know, in the conditioning department. You know, like I said, this is a guy who, you know, can show up next week and when a show easy. IMean, here's a, there's only a few guys out there that actually have the tool set that, you know, structurally to win shows on a regular basis. And Alexis certainly fits that bill. Now Josh Wade is, is it what I call the workhorse. No one works hard in the Josh Wade. He's always in the great shape. He doesn't have the prettiest structure, but his conditioning is always impeccable. He knows how to execute the mandatory poses. He's getting a lot of stage confidence in himself. Now because he's doing a lot of shows, my worry is that he's going to do too many shows and his body is going to start getting worse. I don't think this is the best Josh Wade we saw all season, but I think from a conditioning standpoint, it was really good. So Josh, you know, comes in 30 year by virtue of the fact that he's, he's just ultra conditioned here and he's a hardcore guy. And he's another guy, you don't really, you can't get a good grip about how good he is unless you see him in person because his conditioning comes out even better. You what you do is you see in pictures you just see a structural flaws and you're not seeing what he brings through the table in terms of gifts in which his amount of muscle he carries and the way he presents this muscle. And obviously the conditioninGHe brings as well. So if you look at these top three guys, all three of them, including Alexis, even though he wasn't as best, we're all in terrific shape. So this top three in my mind is certainly better than the top three in Chicago with the exception, the fact that I think lock it and Sergio were better than this whole line up. But I think they would have been one two here in this lineup as well. In fourth place, you know, Ian Valier is probably in my mind the most impressive guy with the most toolset of anyone in the lineup. He's structurally phenomenal. He's put on an enormous amount of muscle since I first storm turned pro at the Latin American amateur Olympian in Alco Polco Mexico. And he's improved every single year. And this is a guy who structurally can hang also with the big boys. I don't know, something is a little off. I don't know if he was a little flat here. Maybe it's posing wasn't quite as good as I thought. I saw some pictures of him last week and I was like crazy impressed. I was so impressed that I actually put it on my Instagram and I very, really put pictures of other people on there, unless they're my clients or to myself. But it was like a most muscular crap shot that just has a lot of density, a lot of great muscle. He's a guy, you know, I've been saying it for about a year or two now that it's going to be a definite, you know, Hobie in that Olympia top six and dare I say in another couple of years I believe. I think he's, you know, so me doesn't get hurt or nothinGHappens. So I'm health wise. This is a guy who is just improving the right way, slowly but surely putting the muscle in the right place. He's got a small way, he's got a good wide shoulders. He structurally can hold a lot of muscle on his body without it, you know, ruininGHis shape. I probably would have had him a couple places higher. I would have had him over Josh Wade and I probably would have had him over Alexis Rivera because I think his conditioning was better. I don't think anyone would have complained if he and Valia had finished second in this line and you know what, you probably can make a case for the guy winning. Even though Lucas was just tremendously conditioned Ian structurally is better than him. So I think it's a fair placing for Ian but I think at the same time that no one would have complained that he'd been higher. And that's a tremendous feather in his cap. That, you know, he might be the most, I guess you could say, potent guy in this line up in the sense. So the guy may be the highest impact competitor in this Vancouver pro because I think he comes away with this from this show with like the most potential, especially moving forward. Now finishing in the fifth was it Ronaldo Gary who also looked really good. This guy has got also a great tool set. He just, you know, he ran into some guys that were really good but his conditioning was tremendous. If you look at these top five, all five guys had tried to glue it, they were all in terrific shape way better than it should be better than the line of Psearch Chicago from a conditioning standpoint. And that, you don't see that very often. How many pro men's open shows do you see where at the top five guys are all ultra conditioned, you know, almost to the point of like, you know, being perfect? Like I said, I think Alexis could have been a little, I think he could have been a little harder but he still was tremendously conditioned. So it's not face, I'm not criticizinGHim or whatsoever. I'm being giving a lot of constructive criticism here because I think he could be better than he was. But this is a great top five and I think that the fact that it occurred on the same week in a Chicago pro tells you that there are a lot of good open men's pro competitors out there because they were able to feel two shows and give you two great shows on the same day. And that says a lot, you know, everyone wants to say that men's bodybuilding is dying. I challenge you to show me where because we're seeing tremendous competitors out there. We're seeing good top five lineups and if we can do it and feel it on the same week. And imagine if all these guys were combined into one show, who would have finished where? That would have been some virtual, you know, opposed down that we could have set up and tried to figure out. We never would have been able to do it in a hundred years if we tried. But it's good for bodybuilding. Congratulations to Lucas Ostele going back to yet another Olympia. He is a testament to the fact that hard work, practicing your posing, dietinGHard, sacrificing pays off with the win here and bragging rights to say I beat some super great competitors, probably some future, you know, stars in the making. Congratulations, Lucas and everyone in Vancouver. I'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: Lunsford's 212 WARNING SHOT + Sergio AT WORK! [H1TRQMArUjY].txt ===

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. We love to show this. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to the show! Welcome back to legendary food muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Thursday, August 12th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Some people thought I was crazy. Other people thought he was crazy and even more people tried to write the whole thing off as one big media stunt. And if you're one of those people who love to be skeptical, this segment won't change anything for you. But if you're not, this behind the scenes leg trening clip of Kai trening legs with blessing I would be vote from this Tuesday has to get you excited. Considering that we're only nine weeks away from the Olympian now, this is exactly what you'd expect to see from Kai if he was planning to compete. You'd expect to see him calling in all the dogs and pulling out all the stops because this is one of those old or nothing moments in your career as far as bodybuilding competitions are concerned. I say this all the time where this smoke is fire and things are starting to look awfully smokey around Kai Green now. Don't you think? I've been so few days ago. I'd never heard anyone say that it's time to start the finishing before I read it in a post from Kamala Gorgney. Then the more I thought about it, the more I started to like it. And the app proposed I thought it was for him heading into this year's contest considering a situation. If you look at where he has at this point in his career, compared to where he was last year, it becomes immediately obvious that he's better today than he was then, which is saying something considering the fact that he played second last year. This version of Kamala isn't looking to finish when he started last year. He wants to finish when he started this year. He wants to prove to the world that Kamala L Gorgney is the best 2-12 athlete in bodybuilding. And if now is the time to start the finishing, then the only real way to finish whatever he needs to be finished is to be the last man standing on October 7th. Now, I want you to take everything I just said about how great Kamala looks and forget about it for a minute because Derek once further looks like he's about to do some starting and finishing of his own. Derek hit the stage last weekend as one of the featured guest poses at the NTC Knox Classic and pretty much everyone I've talked to about it since then has all had the same reaction, which is basically, oh my god, did you see what Derek looked like last weekend? In terms of his size and conditioning, this is the best that Derek has ever looked at any point in his career. People have been talking about Derek as their heir apparent to the 2-12 throne for the last 3-4 years now. But if this really is a precursor to what's coming down the road, this could be the year, those people finally end up being right. I know that I've said this before on the show about how important I think it is for people to double down on their stress. It never made sense to me why anyone would intentionally try to shy away from doing some of the things that helped them become successful in the first place. And the reason I say that is because Sergio O'Leave a Jr has one of the best backs in bodybuilding and he's been doubling down hard on making sure that it doesn't change heading into the Arnold Classic. According to Sergio, he's trening back twice a week during the prep with the goal being to add more width and thickness so he can come in and remind people what this sport is really all about. And considering the fact that he placed 5th there a year ago doubling down on what works might be exactly what he needs to do to push himself up another slaughter too so we can find himself in those top 3 conversations. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

=== FILE: MAINTENANCE CALORIES： Determining Factors & Thyroid's Role! [WN0_9dFWSEw].txt ===

The thyroid hormone is kind of like, you know, necessary for your metabolic rate to work properly, but basically what will it does is turn on the machinery in your body. The machinery being the muscle cells, the metabolic enzymes that metabolize things to your body's genetic ability to oxidize fats and do all that great stuff. So if you have a lot of equipment, okay, that can do a lot of fat burning and muscle building, having enough thyroid hormone to turn that equipment on is necessary. Now, if you overturn it on, obviously you could burn a lot of extra calories up, obviously, but you also risk obviously losing some muscle. If you don't have a turned on enough, meaning a thyroid is too low, high-pothyroid, then you have all the great equipment, you can't use it all because it's not all turned on. So that's why thyroid hormone, you really want to get it into, you want to get it into the normal range, you don't want to go too too high, you can go high normal, but you don't want to go too too high because then once again you can risk having other negative ramifications, sometimes harder with me if you amp it up too quickly. Also, if it's too slow or your thyroid hormone is too low, you might not be getting the most out of your body. But by and far, thyroid hormone, any of itself does not control how much fat you burn. It just basically turns on your body's ability to do what it's supposed to do, but how good you are burning fat or building muscle is really determined by muscle. What's going on in the end of the enzymes in the muscle cells themselves. And a lot of that genetic and a lot of that has been built because the more muscle you've built over the years, the better your metabolism. Okay, I believe that people who have done aerobic type or highly aerobic activities, like running, like I did or swimming or cycling early in the career, might have changed their metabolic enzymes, make up in the muscle cells as well. Because I think I became a better fat burner because of all the running I did. But you know, having said that, you know, you still need normal thyroid function. Now, I was interested to find, I went back and looked at all my thyroid hormone prior to my thyroid being removed and I never naturally had a very high T3 level. I was in the normal range, but I was in the normal low. And even now, you know, when I'm on replacement, I'm in normal low, but I feel totally normal. So my body probably doesn't need super high thyroid output. Matter of fact, if I did, I probably wouldn't be able to put any muscle on. I would be running too fast, you know. So your body knows where it needs to be. And how can you tell where the right place to be is because of your TSH thyroid stimulatinGHormone levels are normal, okay? And then normal range, then you know you're producing enough T3. So even though my T3 output is not high normal, it's low normal. My TSH is normal. So that would that and even on, and even on replacement therapy, that means that my body, my hypothalamus to my brain says, we got enough thyroid in this hormone and this body. We're not going to, we're going to keep TSH output on the lower side. Now, if my body sends that hate, we don't have enough thyroid hormone to turn everything on, I would, my, to a terrarian hypothalamus would put out more thyroid stimulatinGHormone to turn up thyroid function. Now, because I don't have a thyroid, I'd have to actually take more replacement. But that doesn't seem to be the case. So thyroid hormone is not the dictator of how fast your metabolism. It just turns on the machinery, so to speak.

=== FILE: MAKE BODYBUILDING GREAT AGAIN! AH Podcast (9⧸15⧸20) [1-sQKaTEYfM].txt ===

六esi三顿一軟老PantsYain holy guys we're two set of B hitIt's 6.30aran video我們今天我們就芽熱 這算公幣啊謝謝開箱給讓一張哈囉搖茹這麼高我在一起這裡看到了我再辦為了介紹你的Twitter因為其他我們都在一起在一起那麼就會教真的到幫我說最麻 occurs說說說倒暗我們你們真是整個政府這是最後我們完了沒有他們突然 snug沒有兩個人去說他們說無論你們聊天所以早上這種年齡昨天一流那麼多例如 Ebola時代前期我是 день級五星八方面我們有一個人帶出我們互相行動,但是алось友的例如他們 сред識東西的注意他們做錯習進攻 Türk阮請你們知道談戰現在他們搭音演唱說但他們叫社出來賣給每次給他們他們他們冷 Kız那天他們連不冷氣而你們兩個去之間 2016年有 zus足 hecho在中工級的年級這是他是要坐開時他的上廁所的是這公司可想出山健康严厚的區諭隨共同 soul但他只要嘴步但是你得多 quelqueaca你認為都是這些人但是你ep你 can read拜託你不會欺騙嗎?誰愛教官?不是,你不宣爲你可家我在追求我我來 AleKa我在國民擁有一根我明白我還賣禮給台灣以及家裡這邊因為我在國民我剛才在世我自己沒有理解我不是在忙我ных人也是在乳最有錢但是後面就有點出вой但是因為Beau雪真哎呀真哎呀疤泣不我善你我我不我我填智本來我我我的你們歡迎 pessoal會是否做了照理好了他們一樣去羽瓣 Hyung,你們的緣但作品 Smart Cafe把我整支快快不要你站立了寒圓走路上 Script單前半句!對這一幕 esque起訊中美今天是整個人拿著我就是就會很爭論當中像裂位, Sabhat剛才是熄儉的燜靠兒子那她還是憤怏不過綜合的火鍵就是awan我講到我我要打擊我illing with the pro因為我一直覺得 vidéo夠滾我只是去找來什麽都是餓了是的我 milligram你我們不要和soever用 exhibition對那起來它長得不清楚有śli失去失去人離人離人離所有人都不負ز所有人都不這樣的不知道當你問別人你把我也有意外是由你的排名所以我覺得我的前面說的時候丟調說我的定案是權盤老 Falcon反此類類的時間別理人的時光非明�中如果你請別人亭反彈你不知怎麼最難發尻尻尻嬨這麼大的科技他們到的食物那我們才能加 кли到厚有面具最難因此武ichen何者大家拉應該不提醒中你鹏我算…快那個氣心不可允許基礎十個正的人實際嘛選擇過全人那這個確正前當他昨天 somethin這個方案他們媽的畿理他們的方法的方法你你因此重新因為俺家真的跟你們一樣 你愛戰力然後還是怎麼ε什麼呢過分成 PV還是將вед的 projet不然的人你別再說職地無 tails會較簡單能夠更接種不略我覺得右 4000能夠夠留意頭頭不好的一直被放弄也不曾怎樣再向上揹那完全更多滑炎我不需要去一件你要追求他們我以為我想要說那四一眾拭�這是一個點的那我真的守醫有甚麼你守醫有什麼我沒有個口我有什麼情緒我有什麼訓練我沒有幅度你你要替他們這個 IPO的時候你上一個了我還錯了他還在拍架更�熱像人員有人在買而已雪他你在拿著优劇 是 strengthening我們就是 Feed Unpopular我真的把你加了呀 不了解其實它不太意思就是你在之中可是算是因為今年了吧迪汁 你影響ener其實以前是在這樣的人有些朋友在各ements問啦 是的話噎炸 membership往心嚷嚷做什麼我覺得責任這個可能對入場的角度非常重要的我基本上就真的有一個叫做該到極樂的連套都是我現在去OOKJIM面合不知所以他以前作成一種因為蔡時候當不是撸空偏 sizeS等下誒然後我們我們心它現在 Nixon,我們跟飛時蘇華亞 venate went into any Victor Richards, The Barbary & Brothers, ¿OK的?但是在那邊,當然日本有個政治局,以前是沒有九岚,有人不是這樣過農林的那種美國中國的你們這邊倒入就對了,那邊證穢那個人有同事,還有老婆,因為有準備的有逃遇了, Wizard園偷了國現在分配。還有土牛一些專業。 slap and hold to it舞蹈很激晴可是走的針對沒有去附人很激晴敨低曾經做過新疆大陀你要次我會戴但我們外面他們晚上整個連結更故問題我們做下放下來可能是香港消失你許孩子們都amos他說他說,你們做一支香港越對人員受到計打撫我們還被公計有人會使 媳妇很久沒 properly會被民眾生了但是至少金馬,那你說啥最後前然後有績甚至能夯化處上 Koserayin Ment學師去打破你的名字還有一個中國沒有辦法澳洲 weiter知道如果者不知道那是 application 人士的 convers及自清我們把 dependency給你辦法我們說你無法廁所我們說的 城市有另一位可以跟yncorn主的可能性看到你比較保労我告訴大家你在說 Ser Autograph你的意思是這個是司機你怎麼這樣操作我是想加入ANN principally你也是制 cidade這是作品和 attends幾年那位車童真的 Gracias但我聽得到如果他要在他門站在守了她認為牆申 fungi父親 若有點殃頭但是若有端元 [" paar數,我們兩場婆半了Dale desersentra提 ignorance"]對腳沒錯當然今次沒有嘉乎而且只是揮載這是不一定一間是很強的就是因為結果我覺得如此給我毫不仅全部也有人守哈囉,可能要不要被你滗了然後要開始取一場就憐善追!我這-----不一定百朝非常多也 wenig不應該要繼續我現在認為講保相我不...地兒給�장員提升是如果你一直在進去你應該有人的印象還有學生我永遠我想拘捕你最初來一分鐘還要變命不是我們也在做到的譚曼他們好好講因為他講他是說好啊101誰在見網上在曚曼應該好像不是更 gì甚至在洩 BI結果已經這樣想自己一半了大概現在噴才病毒的話把該生氣我就帶它算一下誰沒有的我也應該想這樣的一個一路也可以然怒一路還只是這麼一樣大家都不算原來下 rainfall這是太嚴重oque人但不相信與民民有一個你不再去 нужно按摩 sexy揍走 夠maz不分自我你不要這樣的你沒繼續 135說一些你沒有 tri舞男生在林今晚早ened那可以好第一天說問題林我不 loin如果想義dist Gentleman我就感謝你如果 Mason 如果♥这个就要煎掉你,多不基本上只有小�...我愛他們!你們當他們誇張呢可是歸講他們的口 知道所以說講我決定大銷這個也能講下去當然經濟 pays數他們更新但是不見證論25%以上誰嗎?怎要給奧台北會議論讓你的兩個人還有科方你認少了日本人可以得當神馬戀如何請選禮物未知應該不會更大禮物iFV proAnd body building cultural fans are thereOK millions and millionsSuch when you say you're correct when you say most people could care less about the Olympia Statistically speaking on a numbers basis you're right Because most of those millions just want to go on social media and watch rich payout They want to watch the next truth and power and see what the latest you know hottest thing in this sport They don't care about the analysis that we're doing or the in-depth interviews or You know all that type of stuff because they're not the hardcore fans at 100,000 people Just making up an arbitrary number. They're the millions that like the My father would call the pop culture aspect of a body building But let me answer your question if they said we're gonna run your autoplashing OK, what fuck the body building show fuck all the other shit You know just come and we're gonna have the X-Pose and everything You want to lose a purse everybody? No because that is a pop culture That's the majority of the people like like the least the whole idea of trening and and growing and now drugs and supplements and Right protein shakes and all that's they love that because it's it's the cultural thing They don't necessarily care about the competing But that's the majority of the people but the hardcore body bulls are still there It's the same numbers. It's just a comparison to the rest of people It seems love that's all Yeah, water down, but what about guys that would John start it just before we start a talk at any age right What about guys like John and I am just gonna use John and I for example because we were there back in the fucking early early eighties. I'm 181 and you know and all that And I knew everybody builder who competed even in the fucking local shows and shit IMean I knew everything now how come you know What up it guys like John and I that don't really have that you know You're all men you like me you You become a sick that's all I think it's two things one is you know we got we got older and more More Disillusioned with the loss of what our brotherhood was right that's what it is you said it Yeah, we had when we Back then and Greg you know this and David you were there a few times you could have the worst shit Day in the entire world where would you go you went to the gym it's all your buddies were we had nothing to do Where'd you go you went to the gym because two guys were hanging around waiting to go eat or something you had you had a central You want a central community of like-minded people that was that that was Ironclad Accepting of you because of who you are and what you were doing and Greg and I because of we came up during that very intensified Environment of bodybuilding we missed that we missed out But what do we say back in the day we want it we want to grow the sport we kept saying that we got to grow the sport We got to grow the sport we need public mainstream appeal to the sport that's gonna make the sport grow and it's gonna make it more acceptable That's what's happening. I think I think what's happening You don't like you don't like where it's going, but that's that's unfortunately You're not growing a sport nobody gives you a strike you're not right because you're not gonna The majority of the people don't care who missed her limp your sport part of bodybuilding and there's the lifestyle part of They go together though, Greg without mr. Olympia. There is no lifestyle. There is nothing to aspire to You don't have to be want to look like I don't really curry to go out to the gym and tren But that's what I'm looking at when I'm going to the gym and saying man I want to put muscle on you that looks cool even though I know IMay never achieve that you know that that's I think we're to be on a cruise. I think that rich be on a prove that The people just want they people want that part without the sport just guys Focus it because people lazy great. They want to just take drugs and eat a lot of food and they don't want it That's really diet hard and have to do all the things that entail getting on stage You'recompeting practicing your posing suffering You know every day until you lose all your body fat They don't want to do that. That's not the fun part. So they'll do the other part which doesn't entail that But that's still that's still bodybuilding. You know I just thought it's you There's something there. It's not that we lost that taste Do you know what IMean like we don't it you're going to set it perfectly you you lot it was a it was a it was a time You think back to where it was so good, you know It's like when you watch an old movie and you say wow it brings you back to your high school years when you remember Was going to see that movie with with some girl in a drive through you know what IMean you say oh my god Holy I remember those are great times. You know and that's that's what you guys remember that gold gym camaraderie It can never be recreated again because it's right now The only way you can create it is go on Instagram, you know, we're ticked talk or whatever the case may be and And watch people doing kooky stuff on that that's the the sub culture now, you know Well, I I think the other aspect that I think is is part part Partially problematic for guys like Greg and me is that Whatever causes to lose interest in that It's it was back then it was happening right in front of him you're trening next to this guy and then on a week And you see him he's on a stage. We know a fight for the America universe You'll live be out when I write there next to you, you know And so you had that connection to the sport because the competitors were right there with you trening in the gym So so so now now when it when it's doesn't mean that much to be an ISBV pro Or have an IFBV pro card because everybody's got one, you know, and I and the beer top girl at rock bar is not an actual girl at an actual place That is a euphemism Okay, and before I get all the hate mail that Greg doesn't get because Yeah, IMean if people take things so literally a beer top girl's an image It's not a professional athlete. I know I'm looking at this girl and see it a Olympic pole vaulter You see a freaking beer top girl is what you see But can I see one thing for in a John I'm speak for John, but I think John's gonna great John and I will we talk like this and I want everybody who's watching is the know Okay, this is the fact we both love body building still we do it every day I have I have not lost a beat I can fucking cancel a whole bit knowledge it But I still tren the way I always did I still take it that serious I'm talking about the competitive part of who's winning shows and who's not winning shows That's the part of bodybuilding that I think John and I don't give a shit about you know, and IMean I can't really you know I'm not saying John doesn't give a shit I'm interested sometimes that who wins the Olympic and all that the big things but I don't have it like I did But I'm still super into bodybuilding I worked out every day I tried good you know takinGHis you know supplements and it's all that stuff I do everything that it I've always done it's just the the commercial part of it is gotten so watered down And then I don't give a shit these guys did it all look the fucking same it's it's all of that that I don't So I don't want to sound like an old man Is that just huge as great because you're not keeping up on it because you know what IMean You know when you're younger certain things matter more to you and then when you get older You're you're thinking and you're and you're interest evolved so yeah You can't miss these guys world on social media world Instagram and Facebook we see them We see them just like everybody else sees them there's just there's no draw There's no sign no you know here's here's how you know the promise there's no backs You know how like when you go watch a movie sometimes in the character development is not good enough for you And you can't really emotionally get behind the character See you leave the movie kind of thinking wow it wasn't that great and then there's other movies with a Developed the character so much that you actually feel like you're the character in the movie I think what you're saying is that it's too easy for these guys and that's the so it's to move up the ranks Initially and it's hard to get behind people because You're almost don't know who they are because they turn pro so quickly There's no backstory there's no time to develop it Wait a minute let me use the bikini girls for one second If you go to a show okay, but this is what it is I think a lot too if you go to a show and There's bikini girls there and I've been backstage and there's fucking literally at one it to a universe Show did's fucking 400 of them okay, and if you said I'm not gonna say his name because I'm not gonna get trouble But there's a very famous guy who you both know who runs judging and all that shit And I said to do everyone in these girls is amazinGHow do you pick the top four and At you know top five and he said I picked which ones I would fuck first And I'll tell you who said that believe me And if I could want to say negative thing about this particular person, but Here's the point it's it's so watered down that you can't focus on the certain girls Even but then in those days you love the glass you love you know, let me ask you this question If you tren Excuse me, if you If I know COVID I got I got I get a good code to do you tren these girls Like your coach and bikini girls wouldn't you know who all the top girls are because that would be your job No, it's too many No, of course Is that too many you would know every single one of them because that would be in your best interest because you If you got 15 girls that you work in with you know Reus wait a minute to reason why I used to bikini girls I was using them as one I'm not putting bikini down I love to bikini I love I don't like we can say figure I'm saying if you trened girls You would know who all the girls are You wouldn't be saying this a million of them You know you know all the top ones are all the girls who are going to get the pro card are you would know them all Right, wait listen, I think you're missing the point I'm trying to make the big pool It's such a pool of people the reason why you use bikini girls was gate they for a while there They would get in the most competitors and there's so many of them. They so good right so but now What I'm saying is it's hard to zone in on let me like these particular girls It's the same thing with bodybuilding is what I'm saying there's so many shows there's so many pros there's said you don't have enough To zone in a back in the day when you when you said you know you don't I guarantee if you asked the judges They know who all the girls are Yeah, because that's their job right, but right so what I'm saying is your job has changed Maybe back in the day you were you would have been more into it because you're in the gym I'm so you know Jim you got all these competitors working out there Ask your advice you'd be looking through the magazine looking at all the girls so you know who everyone was But they know it's not it's not in your interest anymore You don't need that interest in bias. Yeah, but I still love baseball. I still love the same shit. I love back to listen when I'm trying to tell you It back then even even Up in the 90s when you're Dorian and all those guys you had about 20 to Maybe 25 guys that were really good Okay, and the rest it was just you know But you had 25 guys you could zone in it was more like oh who's gonna win you my kids? Gonna be this one it's gonna be I'm it's not some guy from the middle he shows up You know what's his name? You know mode X team or whatever That's because you don't pay attention. I know who all the top guys are. I know it all the names I Stop your job Yeah, it's my job But as fans right all right, let me let me let me change Let me just change something for you and then then you can say something Let's say there was no social meter internet Okay, it was an blackman had a thousand page magazine going now, okay? And that's where all the results and the body building was in there and they only way you can have any Tuck in touch get any in touch unless you go to the shows with bodybuilders read the magazine You would get your monthly magazine the blackman's copy of a thousand pages 750 would be ads of course and You would read through the pages a hundred times because you'd have a month to do it and you know who all the people were Right Greg Yeah, you're not willing to go to 16 social media sites and and a 4,000 Instagram Profiles it's too complicated That's what the problem is that's what it and that yes And that right there is the is the flies and the appointment Yes, it happens is the the prestige now right Go on yeah because back then People knew it was competing in the Olympia because it was it was that was it right The already whatever and we had the magazines it was a big deal was a huge deal Right, you're running a cover of a magazine It was a huge deal to have your article by you know you it was a big that was Press the right no any swinging dick in the gym can get his picture on the front Yeah, and he's talking about the appetite I'll put you on the cover And and get their by line on an article or blog or what it doesn't mean anything anymore Now just there's right well you have to establish you have to create your own prestige Look at like a dandelion valley for instance everyone knows who she is Yes, but that's it's like it was on This was on her to do that if I had a factory and IMade ferraris Okay, and then and I would make two ferraris a year and it costs $8 million each because it was only two of them right now all of a sudden some German guy buys my company This is all you're doing this all wrong you gotta do it like that and now and now I'm making 5000 ferraris an hour okay, is it any less of a ferrar? No, it's still a fucking for everybody's got one right It doesn't mean anything anymore right? No, it's right great cards still the ultimate but it doesn't it doesn't have that Mistaken anymore because it's just everybody's got one is no it's not too easy What if they expanded baseball and they said you know what we're gonna throw another 10 to 15 teams and they're really making so that you have to That you would stop being like that's too much That's not it. Yeah, we'll whether it down right you need it I've got a formula race you gotta only race in that if you have a formula one car But now I'm letting it shopping cards mustangs doing buggy's motorcycles and it's a big cluster fuck You know, I got a lot of people love motorcycles and I watch it And I got a lot of people are like watching wheelchairs so they're watching and you got this big mess and like We're the formula one guys right there is way the fuck ahead nobody's even watching Just don't think that by watering down the sport you may say it's big and they're making more money by adding more pros and now You got to have somebody backstage that's more money and this is but the bottom line is The int you could get a rich piano walking in the room and fucking don't leave the pro bodybuild everybody to go run to rich because I Social media has made bodybuilding more of a lifestyle You know You know, niche and that people want to be around the social media stars They know that Mr. Olympic and walk to room look I just told you story Couple years ago I was at the Arnold Classic okay and a guy walked up to me wouldn't another guy He goes oh my god, you're above a but he said I got to ask you a question great Do you know this is then and next to me and I'm looking at the guy and I'm and you know He looks like everybody else that's walking around the expo, you know and I said I'm sorry I have no idea and he goes to me I told you it's that's so his friend I told you the told you and it was it was the guy who won the national that year So if everyone in assholes like think it was in 2016 or whatever it was that it was him okay now The bottom line is this They were trying to make that same statement they were actually making that to me like see You know he's not getting the recognition he's not getting all that you know Because the people on the internet Believe it or not if you have the national champ on your show you're gonna get people that are niche to watch that that really give a shit Who won the national you're gonna get that but if you had one of these new Nick that strength the next drink guy. I'm not really crazy about if you had him on there you'd have a hundred times more views and all that why because those the people social media has made bodybuilding into a Social media sports. It's like I've trened everybody's bodybuilding Yeah, but that's good. Greg that's bringing more people in you know It's not doing anything for the actual sport, but it's not it's not bringing it down It's it's just bringing more attention to it watering it down now Let me here's thEQuestion. I'm gonna pose this question to everyone Mr. J included you go each answer me. I want to sink the answer. I don't want to a 20 minute diet tribe Go ahead. How do we make bodybuilding great again? Talking about Trump slogan how do you make bodybuilding great in your estimation? What do you do? You want to go first Then you go first Dad John. I'll go first. All right. Well, I think obviously I'm gonna use the current situation To describe how you make bodybuilding great again. Number one is you get a guy You get a guy in charge to own the whole thing who actually has a passion for it and an interest in what's going on You got Jake Wood now. That's good exactly Jake Wood Versus David Pecker David Pecker didn't even know where the fucking gym was let alone one It looked like money inside a one let alone anything about bodybuilding now you got an a guy You actually knows the sport who owns the sport so Huge step number one and making bodybuilding great I'm not gonna say again. I'm gonna say bodybuilding Really great like it's never been so and that's the way you do it you get somebody with a passion for a money That has a vision that can pull from You know the amazing resources that we have out there people that have an interest in fitness and bodybuilding whatever and get them together You know create a create an online buzz about what's going on and and Promoting promoted with celebrity endorsements influencers who are are interested in bodybuilding they can make bodybuilding and the Associated sports that go away that look attractive and appealing and and the practitioners Interesting and people that are gonna that other people are gonna want to know more about and want to follow around And want to learn about and want to be fans And that's how you do it not by I think you can distill it down to this. I'm sorry I know you didn't want to die. I'm gonna give me one anyway In order to distill it, okay, you got to folk you got to refocus the energy if the focus is on On making money you're gonna have a different outcome than if the focus is Surveysing the fans serving the fans and serving the industry so if you're if you're a prime directive is to service the the the sport and and serve the sport and create opportunity create buzz create excitement create You know prizes opportunities all that stuff that goes along with promoting and and serving the Participants versus only working into in the realm it's gonna return you money I'm gonna spend this because I'm gonna get this ROI. I'm gonna get this money back If it's if it's all about making money then you're gonna have what what the the mess the Jake would inherit it Because that's what it was it was all about making money and that's what we got so Now hopefully the focus is gonna be more on the athletes the sport in the industry and less on Who's me making all my money and I think you'll see a quantum leaf phone Yeah, but I don't think I don't think it's possible I don't know I think with today people care more about watching the guys on here the action is see and some guy in the gym working out Talking if you had that if you had that okay if you had that whole Developed character as Dave was talking about and you and and social media Regular media was was promoting and and creating these images and these characters and you know about them Then when they went to compete you'd have a you have skin in the game You go yeah, I really like that guy. I want him to win right because then I'm other fucker I hope this guy be some but there's none of that though They don't have any calories mat these guys aren't calories men Yeah, why let me ask you a question why wouldn't why wouldn't the Olympic people you know Somehow Do some partnerships with TV you know or they or not it just they don't work now You know a TV's dying they need they need stuff like that, you know They should show like you You had I was working Oh Create a character like w w Create these characters in these story lines and create that and show the guys Yo that that he's got to wake up a tree 30 of the morning I'm more happy because he's kind of full-time job Because he's not making enough money and he's trying to go show all that with all the guys And and and they happen to have to come to practice and this way you don't want to watch him With the WB as they take a car you think somebody from the cat boat and they show them going up the ladder They have a whole character development division Yeah, that's the guy with me that's what Vince McMahon wanted to do right Even with that file you know these guys get a real out it would be so much other because then you like Oh, that guy that guy has to go work 15 hours and then he's going to the gym And then he's taking care of his kids he showed the show them as human rights I think lose good lose wicked great job Hold it lose wicked a great job with that didn't he when he was doing American muscle magazine I'm sure you watch that show you wanted to be on that I wanted to be on that show IMean, but I saw John Cook and I was jealous that I you know how did this guy land this fucking giGHere? Me you you really were a mission Have a job on that show I'm missing a point though you missing a point No, I'm not because you know what they could create their own YouTube program And you don't have to be on TV Greg everyone watches YouTube now. No, I know that But that's what I'm saying YouTube yeah YouTube it's not gonna you the character development all that shit's on YouTube The problem is is that in my opinion there's no excitement it bodybuilding's not the most exciting You know to us old school guys wicked get excited by seeing guys pose on stage and we because we know what we're looking at everything But the average guy don't give two ships about that I'm just telling you they don't they'd rather see him in the gym Puffin going at home, you know the whole rich pianiting opened up a Totally different thing these guys don't have personality. There's nothing to sit up there and watch it's not like watching the UFC We've seen guys bash each other's brains in and IMean that's the fastest growing sport on the planet, you know It's right there's no way right You know Like the action's on your YouTube channel when you're seeing them in there and you get to hood on and your pocket facing around there And they're fucking living and all that shit in your screaming in the gym and and you know That's the answer but to sit there to fucking 20 guys posing to either fucking music videos doing it for None of you you know Black music doing a little stupid fucking shit that they do on stage and you know Everybody's going oh look at it. Look at it. Just did you like this, you know It's boring, you know It's just you can't sit to a fucking 50 people The same thing like the girls when the girls get up to take a 400 girls It's a kid falling asleep like this, you know what IMean basically Greg if I had gained free Tickets to the Olympia bikini I should not give them to you. I don't want to my swimming god I did I Doesn't you know I love those girls those are my favorite and I I'm not Into like super if you want you love the one you want to fuck you don't love the one that's you think is the best Athlete because she's no Great as what I respect him I respect the fitness girls the girls When the girls are lined up with their ass face in the audience and they're bent over and it's like oh look at my head Glute ham tie in no one's looking at the gluten ham I don't think between their legs It's like you like to do it from fucking revenge and nerds. Oh, heopie You know what IMean Remember to you remember that the Chinese kind of an already a guy like they squeaks came in his pants Ah And they're a fix you know with the chicks Yeah, you know I can imagine in in in a in a legitimate athlete's mind What thoughts he's going through when she's got to turn around and face the curtain and bend over where a leg spread I know How was that opposed though? They have real estate That was designed for us fucking are like Up to the fifth seventh row and and you know Stendor like dancing and expect that everybody's looking at her you know Stelberg I never ever this did have that pose Pat. Remember back in the day you couldn't do the moon pose and body Going show your hamstrings glutes. Yeah, IMean that was pain compared to what these girls are doing on stage I like to little importate IMean that affect the girls that are at the top don't do that. You know if you notice they don't bend all over They don't need to try to cross they cross the leg. They do it in a much more sophisticated way and I think This is off way that those girls those girls crying for attention boy They can stick that chute shop to the fucking back door I've never seen anybody arts from back so much like that You know what their posters prize out the door I was at that unit was closed post down and I was with Robbie Durand and Jo Pia Tarot And I in Jo Pia Tarot you know so many motherfuckers are a little bit Okay, and he said to me to class a client after like all these girls came out He said to me I should have got a never thought it ever said it to my lifetime He goes but if I see one more fucking bikini I think I'm going to fucking spit. You know I can I kiss because after a while It's like if I showed you playboy magazine at the playboy at the playboy You're like okay, okay, I get it. I get it. You know it's too much they water down the shows You don't have the elite competitors That's what I was trying to tell you before about that and I'm not just using girls bikini IMean even bodybuilders You knew there was like 25 guys or 20 guys actually that you could that we're gonna go for the Olympic We're gonna go for all these pro shows and you had you could focus on that you know I'm saying Now who's gonna show up fucking John if I if I told you name it like the guys in the Olympic You wouldn't even know who's who's this fucking guy You know, IMean it's this fucking mode X team and fucking you know what IMean And you know you understand what I'm saying But great why did you why did you know who these guys were back you know 10 15 years ago because you're red That's it was all they got from one of our article about it or Peter McGoff wrote an article about these guys and you're red it And you knew who they were because you learned the background That's what you can do no, but there was 20 of them listen to me when you went to school There was 15 kids in your class maybe 20 kids in your class You know everybody in the class, but if you sat in a classroom with fucking 2,000 people You'd be like an I've been in the same class for fucking four years and I haven't you know That's where it happens when you go to college with big university you sit with 300 people in the class You don't know no, you don't know everybody in your class No, you don't know you don't but that doesn't make it the learning experience any less. It's just means no, but the thing is you don't this is a body-belicture She can't really it's hard to say So what you're it but now what you're what you're saying is that they should not have allowed the sport to grow That's what you're saying no not grow grow that way That the elite should always remain more money in the sport There's more people there's more interest you got to grow the sport There's not more I don't win them a hold on I disagree with that There's more money for the fucker promoters and everything But you haven't grown the sport with the people out there get this shit nobody gives you shit They'd rather watch that fucking great-duke kid or whatever the fucker's name is You know when rich pian and all that you know what IMean Let me give you an example MotoGP motorcycle racing there's six copies Six that whose name you hear every race first second third fourth that they're the same guys The same ones Valentino RossIMark Marquez the Vizio So he's at the same guys you see him every week every track The same six guys so is that sport growing one of the biggest sports in the fucking world It grows every freaking year, but it's the same six guys winning the same six guys So free To say the Olympians the same top six when it's the same top six every pro show It's the same six guys same six guys. It is the sport growing I don't think you can go you can't measure it by the by the how many practitioners there are you got to Remember by how many people want to see it by giving away too many pro cards John you're creating too many people that have the The key to get into that show That's a challenge It only the only the best is going to rise to the top though Right, that's the point on making so it doesn't matter Greg you're a hundred percent right It doesn't it doesn't matter how many people are they can call which competing for it It matters who are the top guys and why do you want to know who they are right and you know what into your To and I'm agreeing with you if you're talking about the top six guys in motorcross or whatever it was right Now now let me taste something if they if they had Fucking fifty guys going for that and one shot you'd be sitting and going I can't sit to all these guys doing that shit You would wait and watch those six guys am I right along? But I'm any guys you see you know again, you know Ed Beckley fucking earn revenue it's always talking Whatever you go get some out in the lobby go take a piss but now oh shit You know Jake Hotler's coming up He's gonna pose like seconds and you run out there and you watch him you right what I'm saying is They've made it so watered down that it's hard to focus on this sport because to every There's a new guy did you you put these guys on your shows I don't even know what the fuck they are and you know They're all super jagged you know trading like it and they're all fucking you know giant try everybody's fucking big Well that's why that's why active I have to feature these people because otherwise no one will know the back stories on these people No, that's why this that's why our ex muscle and sites like us are so important because we are the magazines now And when we feature someone on here, and that's why a lot of these you know the upcoming guys want to be featured because It validates them in a way that the magazine just devalinate us when we were coming Yeah, but I'm not putting it down. I'm not saying it what you're doing is bad. Oh, I don't know. I know what you say But that what you're doing is there it's necessary. It's necessary. Right. It's necessary. It's great But when I'm saying this I don't know who they are You understand what you're doing Sometimes you got to pay a little more attention, Greg Yeah You don't know who they are because you're not excited about no one who they are right It was if it if it's stimulated you want to well wow I want to know more about that guy because You you you watch an interview on our ex muscle and you found out wow we're from the same town Or we we were into the same high school and we we knew we knew the same girl and the It was a cheerleader or whatever so IMean Once you know more about these people what David is saying and when you know about them You know the back story when the characters are developed when you know them There's a greater chance that you're going to like them and follow them in care about instead of not caring You've got to make me want to watch them but the only way you're going to do that the only way you're going to do that first You're going to have you got to want to know about the sport so you got to A care about the sport avoid of any personality You got to care about the sport you care about the sport you're going to watch our Ex muscle you're going to watch everything on our Ex muscle you're going to write a new care I do care about the sport which it's it's become again it's hard to watch if they Sports expand even like baseball if they had it in another 10 teams it's But that's what you're saying is but what you're saying is the number of events Have water down the the blanket organization there's still only top 10 guys in the Olympic right But now the garden's got a lot more weeds in it. Where's the fruit? Yeah, it's still one of them that it that's what you want what you're saying you don't want to get to all that To get right I don't want to get to a weeds to get to the fruit you understand that's what I'm saying I can also what this like girls with long pubic hair you don't want to weed you all Dude I'm a 70's guy I like that Dude I like the bush bro a 70 I'm 70 guys Mr. G what's your what's your take on this? On the whole thing is that they should like develop a link at W to be characters and the guys have to be You have to be brought up to show them what forking Regular jobs family all the things that they had included going to trening like this used to show When the guys in the Olympics You can be seen with show the guy trening and how much tech aisle XC I would eat They show me all the food and stuff like that and very lift and you know Kind of the public character inside him so this way is gonna make you want to watch because that's that's the Ultimately how these guys want to make money they have that personalities they have to have a party without a personality If you just like above Them forget it that's why when we went to the company had the tren when we were at the Arnold stage They had oh you could have 10,000 girls next to us nobody did Everybody was watching us because we're in the team We're interacting and that's what needs to happen I We do have character development see the character now today's they go to YouTube What's gonna make them want to see that guy on stage is what I think with Dave's trying to say because they are there is character Development everyone of these guys has to wrong YouTube channel right they post their fucking meal every meal The eat on Instagram you know what you mean it you get to see their lives on oh There's no there's no formula for that for success because you can have some guy in every man herd I've got 3 million followers Right Who is he in every man herd of then you got somebody Seeing as somebody who's like a fucking legend they got like 230,000 followers And you know exactly what's that at all? 230 to show us that fucking Can't even get 10,000 for it's it's strenge it's a fucking odd thing because the internet I think is what's caused this is what I've been trying to say Well who's responsibility is it to promote these people But what is it the organization is it the Olympia people is IMean like the organization who's responsible Well, you know, that's a good question Dave because that that right there is one of the one of the elements we lost when we lost the magazine Yes, right that's what we're trying to say when we worked for the magazine If I want to see a bodybuilder he went to a show and he got the magazine now today It's all over the place and that's what I'm trying to say back when we were all together working it You know for the magazine it was a different era It's before there was YouTube it was before there was Facebook it was before there was an Instagram It was before there was TikTok and all this shit the these guys now put themselves on all these platforms I don't need to go to the Olympia to see like oh my god, there's Jay Connor or you know It didn't need to do that do you understand now they do that you know that They would have to go to show to see that Yeah, right a 16 year old kid nowadays is not going to open a magazine Okay They only know Instagram Tik Tok Facebook Yeah, but you're validating everything I'm saying I'm saying because of that But I'm saying it's and it's you can't He says that's the era we live in so how do you make bodybuilding great according to your depth? I think it is great still but according to your depth and how do you make a great using the tool set that we have right now I you have to get you there. There's no excitement in it Oh, I'm making you in charge. I'm making you in charge of the organization. What do you do? My rep is circus by doctor Zeus Wait, I IMean I I think everybody's right. I think George is right about the characters and but that's being done already on those platforms How do you get people to go to a show? You know what IMean? It's like when people say to me, GreGHow do you get dates to stop doodling during the show? That's that's the new thing That's the new thing IMade a very IMade a great painting I don't know if you can see this I'm gonna send it here. I'm signing and I'm sending it to you I don't have you can see it from where you are You'll see it when you watch what's the truth will set you free You know that that's the big that's the big for a conversation on the on the thing Listen great can you please tell Dave to stop do what is he doodling Dropping pictures of you guys I'm trying to on you that like to have like the guys in the courtroom They actually they they that like Sketch Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Um, anyway, I think we could beat the subject up to death. I just feel that unless you create excitement There should be more fucking excitement on stage归上正式的完全可以洪然好 pink我在grav和水如各位李大传就是全世界的是一個我是香港社團可言我一直不能很煩來撕走1套系列語片食巾台銷一個 knee拿著讓真的革命的 Communications也是這樣的王子回去還有不我跟你講為什麼要 被捍縮 圍縮不是vietok這些奏嗎別過去改韓郭嬰兒在事情我覺得許可的學習他永遠憧 prejud會的看不見那麼包括為☠ lovers們這一集什麼那個都跪唐神仁我是箱袁媽ycz對他們就是你從去招餘 κάν個東西沒人一想覺得有點差你把房子鍵扶著我想的是看破eken做秘書我想有白冠軍餘的書以及製造這個 Danny我們裡面就會在這些茶匯裝任徒你過符吃慁什麼 horrible事情克斯你有 feeding people subdoms是那我們格比的你可以暫住你其實知道你你一定用我不討論我 注意具為什麼在 Team Pmit他們 weg放在過程後逆基歧蒂柯與蔣恩我不認識做得全P都聽眾是小伙我可以比較全不讓他們 buds好我們差不多他沒有天聰,他說道ív是要有 Destion –就是聖鎮至於掌揼不過老吉太是作為償意以對聖鎮就是晕靜臘aut Work但是都系衝好總結布有點不錯而且通知閉難自由就是追實在不能聽收兩方咹水一個魴染升級未ED3W需不可以也一次玩的才會與飯 classify其中只乎跳躍乎輸原我調獎 Prix5 UIC幾乎好的ля再把於船 puis也輸明了更上次哇但基本上決定屬於背景供應度是第一個很容易過敬有點好你們感應比較低香港的球跟紀望讓多大山驚奈或者叫前決地將會被搭檔 fingertips或小距離最落似的在坊間看看貪照什麼採採取至於我們可以邏注對和我們經常還一預料同期等一下А大 Mask然後你的貨困在你 Architect行係左拍 65%你的踴鐵操站以前三拍舞牠是不是開始冷靜難跟大家講但 –對牠都能用而且牠發生一爪好像駕駛 Lift alumni站得中跟牠大一帥哇漫畫面 Optimizebins那種家庭刑人1 poquito人2教育專注弘讓本人的底中是説結 Muslim字版他被人他就是剛 portrayed或者什麼還是是pe有個魔女喜歡收藏我 zombies還還我在幸運機但因為沒有這些賶包沒有更 Biden但係你記得你賀給短些海可以設計一點在一下美國在進生金頭在 Maria 在便可我們在他他們已經 wanted to這是醉放潔的對FBE那種紐約給你要你們去笑絕對地牠是這樣的你會按深淩涉的時候但我的顏色色沒有避免也在被通知不代表我的 sponsor卻可以開始為了公結他們對這些度願意在做鑕駡是知死捏是在學校的學校他們在探騾到了我總產回到剩下一個起碼在食物上你在所有的腳上想你試過是間製造成為鬼印自然的原因你沒想過可以先燈手怎麼辦你真容易看那麼五樓圓圈的找我們第二切廣 opposing這做人的時候把現在看到花蓋以後既然好好享受就問了我的經濟問題是我認識你一杯喝糖做了瓜杯永遠就要品想點甜度大概 canonical或是台灣的相比他订队拋大碰但我跟你講但是呢大家找到 emocети你今天要和你誰把完成sharp就得到對吧譚誕中蔣誚親拜夥伴表明所有做完的可能還是好亦使他們員工的的是真正的別人也說將你們公与整個人兩位隊伍他們解釋回家名字 即使中國指臀這命當 gren認為他們看過走你是雖然如此地是不是香港個人本 cooled那向你如果我的錢給載到吧你當重心的留言這是要完成本貴錢的你有的關係這一點的人還有人在上位因為平常的 Prophet附時學習這個人得把 Nam Game打,他一直之間我撐了他他說柱子的很多手事不過我的娃娃問題ầ還有一個媽媽在看我的家裏我有點胸門不能按我你是 【月娟?】我沒人知道它是掉SD大 Raven LEAN並且交代了他的小白意思酒氣受傷會被 Polski對能不能与所以生感差不多就從現在賣不同的你對這個造型我保證會法 Minuten想試一下我學為什麼以後是 seals 我就知道 To appreciate bodybuilding另外 因為 賴製造的共產模糟響遠一點你的記輔有問她我想要想警 év節或劫夸somets,就是太延縣的你講吧今天的세人 landslide都在書中和 countless стран的人們的處理或蓮蓮該撐賴對,已經慘了鼓勵重 Keeping Computers小辯試用途中重點如果有在一起在 televisら paddle有看到路過起是在外面段還有在提著更大的世界往上連鱗南非命亦在跑我們還可以能獲勝新 innolvating例如那個你看而要順弄都只有我的Fierreacing有幾個新 express是從來沒有的人家在這些地方那邊是什麼想看著這 sauce絕對貼於自己就是十一四號伯題上是這種 carn放在哪裡對所以Fierre跟我說喵咯 Colombia他們都是 الج十一個年輕因為 Kampf這裡有一個是也就是說的這個 rain,憂鬆一下柄上去每個人走過去八至八年可能被什麼?韓硬 diu在臉上呢所以他說,這是憂鬆的其實這對標準,大家能分辨,我請給你們這一種都是在プレゼ詞 tiverся我們再想一下幕行讀的短暫時有一個最神經考演講到是什麼那麼我們講 τ編譯這回答是有一個修正身的跟你一間跟李廠如果大家如果算大鐘正常能完成可以這些ico function就可以不少又或者 ladder深刻是輸贏的完整什麼才拿在嗎暫度允限s但是政府是正在隨地 Kwk然後全水的國家在發娃你們說,不行霍入的話在發娃的上限很好的知道的蘇氏處於說確訓是一來口的與靜慎在度違反中國的產頭時他們都說這看不是地獄戲長,令食座的巫生小 Rhod,和你們兩째就會把 lamps一下把群別的執著所以他們覺得英國不關,他們想對依定的憲法 Rasen,他們質疑你們覺得你們不關robi gezell idé這位專門是合作的就 vast在其中一點可以自然過來資料而且動作很好大家在節目裡你們沒Ken你來告訴今天吃嗎填養就是過 filament我認為我有 nadie対 balancing還指籠值都能找 Kiss我不 greasy敵 cantidad我們還在在一起哇對啊所以 unfortunate後來直到北北練四uros一致來gun拍圍的我個人只對解护我選手變靁這時候還有多要好多我們就可以了壓力不要小中間您看很明顯的你可以繼續幫我來坐吧名 cash款塊 川普也是保中藜桂他說這些數據我現在說要跟你說你的質疑…他事實之所以你就吃了你說嗎這是一個,事實的他沒什麽央入但我她沒什麼量是的都會做我絕對讀了 Brexit 問我是第一女演出來的 有沒有時候亂約香港 hein我都會問到計劃Danny現在我會形成什麼別說不敢 blah than solamente你都 簡單為什麼這主題是這個很有名的你想出的我很想跟pingBabybeat好呀可愛不一樣rimination我們問個貴的貴,日本民有取得是我的孩子我也是講得我是和外國九成如果還買日正站沒arto我先是有一條我的孩子安樂為了我看生活你那個事件一定挨拘你我應該下午改 zum接下來開會ف你們沒回來了你想突變成章更更請寋清楚Anyway program請不要再說我的頻道謝謝大家我是最好的丟

=== FILE: MAKING BODYBUILDING GREAT AGAIN! [LjMzRxaWRZ4].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, stows from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle rant. Today's topic is going to be, if I was in charge, how I would restructure the IFBVNPC divisions that are currently out there. A lot of people ask my opinion. Now, I want to just start off by saying that I have the utmost respect for Jim Manion, the IFBV, the NPC, Tyler Manion, everyone who runs everything. I think the judges see Weinberg. I think everyone's doing a great job. I think the organization is grown by leaps and bounds, especially since Jim Manion is taking over the IFBV proly. I love that you guys are doing. This is just my own little fantasy world of how I think things could be better. No disrespect, but this is how I see it. I always say, like, I'm going to see how I see it. That's how it goes. This is what I think is going on. I think that I have been a little harsh on wellness, because I think that it really doesn't have a place, and I think it's a redundant division out there. However, I see the wisdom of it and the sense that in the Latin American countries it's very, very big. And women tren there because they want big, the legs, but they don't want bigger upper bodies. So in that sense, there's a built-in division of people that are already, you know, basically looking like the division. So we don't have to try to, you know, mold people into that division. It's there already. So you have to take advantage financially of that and for the fan aspect of it. And I understand that's why it was adopted, because it's already there. They're already doing it there anyway. So we buy this whole sanctioned in the IFB, the N-TNPC, so that it's judged appropriately. And it, you know, and that we have it under our, I guess, umbrella, or the umbrella of the organization that we're all part of here. That makes sense. So I'm okay with wellness. What I'm not okay with is women's body building and women's physique. They have evolved and grown to a point where they are the same, essentially. Women's physique started out as a slightly more muscular figure division. It was figure with a little bit more muscle, a little bit of hardness, but not too much hardness and not too much muscle. It is completely morphed out of that initial iteration of when Danlin Belly was the first IFB be women's physique pro. And that's probably why she stopped competing, you know, because she doesn't fit in the division anymore. She's like a too small. And that's fine. If the power is to be in the judges and the competitors, want to see that division get to the point where there's more muscle, there's more conditioning. And when we don't know more, can you see I'm talking about shredded, blue conditioning. That's what they're looking for now. And I love that believing. That's my cup of tea. I like perfect conditioning. I don't like to have to like half diet people for shows. So women's physique has basically become women's body building. Now women's body building now is making a comeback because of Jake Wood because Jake bought the body building Olympia weekend. He has been supporting women's body building, you know, for the last whatever is six or eight years. I don't even have how many. You know, he supports all the shows with wings of strength. And, you know, there's going to be a lot of money. The miscellaneous back. So now you got this body building division that has basically died over the last five years because there's been no one nurturing it and no miscellaneous. And no Olympia, champ, iris left, you know, once, you know, they stopped doing the miscellaneous. And no new people have come into the division because they felt like there was no life in it. So they just all went to women's physique. And then as women's physique competitors, got bigger, a lot of the women body bowls that were really good just dropped down to women's physique. And fit in perfectly. And right now the women's physique winners are just as big as the women body bowls, biggeres of winners. And to be honest with you, a lot of the times the women's physique competitors are better than the women body builder winners of the show. But the exception of probably the rising phoenix show, which will now also go all to be the Olympia. So it behooves everyone to say, okay, you know what? We have two divisions that are accomplishing the same thing. One division where we have older competitors who have been competing through the last 20 years and will never leave that division because why should they, they're comfortable there and they're doing better now because there's less competition. And then there's a new division of a lot of young people that are afraid to do body building because they don't want to be stigmatized as body builders. So here's the solution. You call it women's physique division but the title, the grand title, is called miscellencia. So you win the miscellencia is the premier women's physique championship title. And basically women's body building in women's physique get merged together into one division. You take the title of miscellencia from women's body building. You take the name of the division of women's physique so that you don't have to intimidate women's body building moniker on your own. Because people seem to like all the women's physique competitor. It sounds more feminine. It sounds more publicly acceptable. And that's fine. It might from a marketing perspective, it's probably it's brilliant. But miscellencia is the title everyone wants. Iris stock competing because she wants to be miscellaneous. She doesn't want to be the world champion. That sounds like a step down. She's 10 times miscellaneous. She'll be going for 11 in December. But she should be competing against the entire division of women's physique and women body builders. It's what you'd be one contest. Who doesn't want to see Shnake ran first-high risk-high on stage? It's like a heartback to when Linda Murray was competing against Iris-high. IMean those were great battles or Kim Shazewski versus Linda Murray. IMean that's what we want to see on this stage. And I want to see the best of the best in the division. At this point there's no distinction. The weights of the girls are almost the same. Some of the women's physique competitors are bigger than the bodybuilders weightwise. Because their conditioning is better. They may look a little small. But I'm telling you, when you get to that Olympia level, you're going to see big, hard girls up there in both divisions. Put them against each other. One division, miscellencia. I don't know. It's almost too logical to not happen. So I hope someone hears me and maybe takes my advice. The last thing I want to talk about is crossovers. If you compete in two different divisions, let's use George Peterson as an example. If GeorgEQualifies for the Mr. Olympia in classic bodybuilding, or let's throw that out. He's done with class in Maddo. HEQualifies for Olympia this past week and in the two-trial division. He won the Tampa Pro. If he gets another show now this year and an open category in wins and qualifies for the Olympia, Allah, Hottie, Shupin, what Hottie did last year, shouldn't he be allowed to compete in both divisions? Why not? They don't occur at the same time. Why can't if you are good enough? Okay, to qualify in two divisions, just like if you're good enough to play two professional sports, like Dion Sanders did, Bo Jackson did. Why can't you do both? They, those guys, were able to do both. And they had scheduling conflitsions, and they still made it work. If on qualified in two divisions, I should be able to do the Olympia in both divisions. If you want to limit other shows to hey, you know what, you can't cross over fine. But if you qualify for the Super Bowl of bodybuilding in two separate divisions, you should be able to do those two separate divisions. If you can qualify in two, 12, and classic, you should be able to do class in two, 12, why not? You earned the right to be on that Olympia stage of both of those divisions. I don't understand why you have to pick one of the other. It doesn't make sense. Now, in Hottie Schubensk's case, since he picked open, he probably was too heavy to make that two, 12. Also, but if he had been given the option to do both, maybe he would have sucked down to two, 12, and then jumped in the open as well. You know, he might have done his well, the open because maybe he would have been too flat, but that would have been his option. HEQualified in both, he should be able to do both. IMean, I don't see, you know, I don't see why it would be something that would be a negative. It should be you should be celebrating and raising up the champions that are truly gifted enough to be able to win two divisions in aromasingle year and qualify for the Olympia and both. That's big story. That's big news. We want to bring attention to the Olympia. We want people to get excited about the Olympia. How do we do that? We do exciting things like allow people who are prodigies to do two divisions. We do it by combining bodybuilding and women's physique because now we have a clash of champions. We have a physique champion, a bodybuilding champion, a 10-time misalmpia going against an almost unbeatable women's physique and limpia champion in the same division. And McCall and Miss Olympia, who's gonna be the next Miss Olympia? Well, the 10-time misalmpia winner will the women's physique champion that never got the accolades and never made the money she should have because she was in a lesser division. Now she's going for Miss Olympia against the greatest of all time. And if she beats Iris, she sets up a legacy of her own. Plus, who knows what other dark horses could be and the wings that might even sneak in there and beat both those girls? That's exciting. That sells tickets, that sells pay-per-view views. That is exciting. We have to create excitement. Hey, you guys did it in the fitness division. You somehow got a Delah and you somehow got an oxideaggress sheet of the comeback and challenged Whitney Jones for that Olympia title. That's exciting. That's a great move. Telling you, combine those divisions, allow people who qualify in two divisions to compete. It's just, it's fun. It's like when Trump came along with that football league and they made the instant replay, through we can check and you can do the challenge, the challenge, the referees decisions on the replay as well. IMean, that made sense. That was exciting. And then when those leagues fell apart, the NFL adopted those ideas because they made sense. They made the sport faster and more exciting and allowed the fans to get more involved. Think about it. I'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle rant.

=== FILE: MASSIVE GAINS POST CONTEST! #askDave [uaEAO30U734].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. I love you. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the species nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro, 30-year-to-year-old. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Alright, self-vision on rxmuscle.com. This is ass Dave better known as hashtag ass Dave. You're a 30-minutEQuestion, an answer show with Dave Palombo. All your questions, diet trening, supplementation, I FPV pros, news, whatever's on your mind, it is all on the tables. We now bring a Dave Palombo Dave earlier today. You got to speak to the impressive. And IMean impressive, Hunter, La Brada, you saw the comments. Obviously, just one this past week in Chicago pro. Many call him really in the crop of the new generation of bodybuilders, really at that top elite tiers of ambassadors and really one of the future superstars of this sport. You know, I've interviewed Hunter since, you know, he started his whole thing every time he's one of the shows. It's funny because he pointed out to me and I forgot that he had one every show except the Olympia that he did. Amateur and pro. And, you know, he's got such a level of maturity about him and you could tell that he's his father's son for sure because he definitely falls in his dad's footsteps. And I could just tell, you know, when they showed that picture, I think you put it on our Instagram of Lee standing with his dad, his dad, like just staring at him while you want the trophy up on stage. You could tell how proudly he is. And you know what, it's great because Lee and he's got another ambassador for LeBron and Nutrition now and his, you know, Hunter is kind of like the new guy now on the block. He's the face of the company. They just rebranded with a new line of LeBron approach series supplements that they're coming out with. So he's got, you know, he's got the business side connected to the bodybuilding side, but you can tell he's really passionate about being the best bodybuilder that he could be. And I think he has every intention on being Mr. Olympia at some point in the future. And you know what, I wouldn't vote against him or I wouldn't bet he gets him for all the money in the world because this guy is got a good head on the shoulders. He's got the tool set. He's actually got a better tool set than his dad had because he's taller. He's got a bigger frame and a lot more muscle. So if Lee LeBron had to play second at the Mr. Olympia, Hunter LeBronica win the Mr. Olympia someday, will have happened. We won't know, but I think he's got that tough, tough mindset, which is what you need because you can be great for a couple of years, but it's about longevity in this sport. And this doesn't take one or two years to win the Mr. Olympia competition. So I was very impressed with him. As I always am when I interview him and I think he's getting better and better and he's made an eight pound improvement from last year at Muscle Mass-wise. And he does it again next year. He's going to be very tough to be. He's obviously got a very cerebral approach. IMean, he explains the process behind every little thing that he does also very trensparent. IMean, one of the few bodybuilders that IMean, I think about it, almost every other day, he's posting a wide array of progress pictures. So very cool, very cool to follow. So if you haven't watched it, check it out. It's live right now on our YouTube channel. Full Q&A was a live show. So fans got to answer, ask your questions as well. Think about this. He's one of the few bodybuilders that's actually a young guy who's competing, who's in doors, who has a supplement in doors, but it's really his company. If you think about it, IMean, his dad's company, or as he calls his dad Lee, but let's face it. It's family business. He's working for himself, basically. Let's go to thEQuestions. The first two questions from the day of Palombo experience, the first question. Dave, do you see anything on the horizon that is new, we're exciting for gear supplements for our community. I think we get to ask this almost once a few months as far as what's new, what's new, what do you see on the horizon? Well, think about it. Think about what this new vaccine, the COVID vaccine is all about. It's a messenger RNA vaccine, basically, that delivers a genetic sequence to yourselves, which then enable yourselves to actually express this spike protein, which is then stimulate your immune system. Pretty soon, this is going to be, if there's the dollar signs are there, there's going to be vaccines if you want. You want to call the performance enhancing injections. We're going to inject vaccines, essentially, into yourself that are going to deliver messenger RNA to yourselves. They're going to tell yourselves, stop producing myostat. We know myostat and is a protein that inhibits muscle gains. That is perfected, which it probably has the technology's probably there. Once that's perfected, you're going to see guys growing and girls growing much, much bigger. I think the genetic manipulation of the genome is the next big thing. Because you know what, I always like these guys, they come out with these different protocols for taking steroids and GH and insulin. As if we had a big of a satar ready, there's going to be some new cocktail that no one has come up with. There's nothing new out there right now. The peptides are new to the marketplace, but they're not really replacing steroids and GH because they're just not as potent. But same thing with Sarm. Sarm's are much, much weaker. Once we have a tool set that is going to enable bodybuilders to get to that next level of muscle development, that's when we're going to see some amazing things happen. And I think the manipulatianavar genome is going to be what's next. I just want to make another point. This is one of thEQuestions from the day polimoxperians app. With that app is for those of you who don't know, it's it. You can go into your iTunes store or Android store and you can download this app. And it's basically having day polimbo's your coach on your self, on your pocket. So all the articles I've written and all the videos I've ever done all collected in one place. We put a workout of the week up there. I answer everyone's questions, who ask questions on the app right on the app in a public form. So everyone sees everyone's answers and questions there. And I also do an exclusivEQ&A video for the app every single week. So it's like getting another dose of ask date. If you're looking to further educate yourself and I'm going to tell you something, thosEQuestions are seriously a lot of them are really, really tough questions in the sense that they're specific. How to do this, how to do that. If you want to take your learning to the next level and constantly keep improving yourself, it's a great app for 29 bucks a month. IMean, you can't beat it. It's like a continuing education thing. And it's a tax write off of your coach. That's continuing education. You write that off your taxes every single year. Second question from the Dave Plumbo experience that it's about post-contest trening. So they want to know how they should tren in the first few weeks after a contest. I'll take this up further. How did you in your career tren coming off a contest? I'll tell you what I did. And I'll tell you what I do now with some of my clients. But when I would finish a show, a lot of people would take week two weeks off. The gym and my daughter from the gym, I was already off for almost a week. Because I wouldn't tren two days before the show. And then I wouldn't tren the day of the show and then I'm not trened the day after the show usually. So by Monday morning, I'm ready to go back to the gym. And what I would do is I would go back and I would do one body part. But I would only do like one or two exercise. So let's say I'm going to go back and do chest. I'm going to get under an incline bench press. And I'm going to do maybe four or five sets. And I'll probably leave the gym. IMight do some abs and leave. The next day IMay come back and do back. IMight do a couple sets of bent rows, three sets. And IMight do some pull-downs to reset. And I leave the gym, but I do a lot of just squeezing. And you'd be shocked. Your body is like in such an anabolic state that all the foods you're eating now. Because you're going to obviously eat a much greater volume of food, higher protein, higher carbs, for sure. Probably a lot more fats because you're probably going to eat some, you know, some dirtier carbs. You know, I was going to McDonald's a lot. I was eating some pancakes. Whatever I happen to enjoy eating, friend, for us. And it's like your body just sucks up all this nutrients. Because think about it. When you're dieting, you're basically starving your body. Your body's in this mode where it's like looking for anything that it can absorb, but you're not giving it what it wants. So it can't, it can't build or it can't store things. It can only mobilize fat from the cells and repair muscle. And that's really what you're doing when you're dieting. Right? Now you're not trening as much. You're giving your body a tremendous volume of nutrients that it needs. It's going to store things. But, you know, because you're eatinGHigh protein and you're giving your body a little bit of stimulus in the gym, even though you're not liftinGHeavy, you're stimulating. Everything's going to get stored as, quote, muscle. So your body's going to take that protein and you're eating and it's going to start building muscle in a much more accelerated rate. Because your body felt like it wasn't getting enough to do what it needed to do prior to that because you were over trening so much and you were under eating. And that's why you get this rebound. It has really nothing to do with the drugs. And I think that's a big mistake people make. They pound drugs like for four to six weeks after a show of things or eight weeks. And they think they're going to get a rebound because of the drugs. You got tons of drugs in your system already. And I've said this the lasT3 weeks and a row. It's not the drugs. It's the food. You can eat. You don't have to eat clen but you need to eat every two hours and give yourself a high amount of protein because that's what's going to build the muscle. Your body wants to build muscles. So you're going to give it rest meaning you're not going to tren every single day. You might tren for five days a week. You're going to stimulate the muscle in the gym but you're not going to over tren in the gym and you're not going to do an hour of cardio so that your body has a lot of recuperation time to build that muscle because you don't build muscle in the gym. You build muscle when you lay in your bed sleeping at night. That when you repair things all you have to do job wise is feed your body what it needs. Let's go to our Instagram questions again if you're not already following us on Instagram our handle is official underscore our ex muscle if you are following us there. You would see that last night, a high green sent deep plumber a couple of videos. We posted both of them on our feed. So of course that's going to go for dyspensibility possible, high green return. I really think that this guy wants to come back. I do. I don't think he would have reached out to me because he knows I've been critical in the past but I also know that I'm a very supportive of his career and as him as a person. I've known since he's 19 years old. We competed at the same shows and the same circuit. I was older than him. I was a little biT4 or five years older than him but we used to see each other almost every weekend. Here's a guy and then I reported on him. I did that video that's famous when I went to his house when he was living in the projects. So I know Kai for a very long time and I think Kai says, you know what? I think Kai is feelinGHe really wants to compete that this is a year he can do it. And I think he wanted to get an honest opinion from me and quite frankly he's he contact to me. I didn't contact him at all. He sent me the videos and then afterwards I said look you know is this confidential. So I keep this between us. He says no you can share the videos if you want. Now he went to the lab and he shared the videos. He had not really wanted to compete at this point. He was asking my advice as to how he should go about it and approaching that. So I do think he wants to compete whether he pulls the you know whether he doesn't or not is another story because I think he still on the side of whether he feels he can be ready in 10 weeks. I think he can. He basically hasn't done really much of anything in terms of supplements go. I think once he kicks everything into gear his body is just going to explode with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And I think we're going to see it. I think we could see the best. And you know what? One of the things that a lot of people I was always speculating on the last couple is I'm like why wouldn't Kai green compete when we had that vacant year where you know rodent wasn't allowed to compete and that's where Brandon Curry won. I said that would have been the perfect time to kite it win. But you know what kinds of an artist. He wants to have a dramatic everything is about drama with him and the storyline behind it. And wouldn't it be great? You get big Randy finally winning the Mr. Olympia. You know establishinGHimself is the new mass monster on the block and who can knock him out? No one can knock him out right? But Kai green can knock him out and Kai green comes in and this is the biggest challenge of his career who's obviously not a young man anymore. But if he would have come in and knock out big Randy and when the Olympia that would be the crowning I think jewel in his career I think because it would be a great story because he wouldn't just have a comment in one an empty title he would have beaten one of the better champions that we've had in a long time. So I think that we I think we might see Kai this is enough drama and enough dramatic we're poetic you know what do you have if you want to call it. Content for him that he can get his mind wrapped around this and I think motivate himself to be the best that he can do. Will he or won't he saga that we have seen since 2016? Kai becoming a two-week crowning conclusion this year keep it locked and we will surely have more on this. But again if you're watching us for the first time on YouTube hit the subscribe button hit the notification bell like we mentioned we had a hundred of the broad on live earlier so if you're following us you would have seen the notification you would have been able to jump on and ask Hunter a question as well. We plan on doing a lot more with our athlete interviews and especially now with the Arnold just around the corner Olympia Tweez after that with the athlete interviews we're going to be doing a lot of them we will do in a live form as you will have the opportunity to part take. Let's start off with Carlos Fitt and YC so Rally Winkler of course after the Chicago Pro announcing that he would be competing at Tampa Pro. Do you think really can make the need improvements to try and win at Tampa I think it is E in Valier show to win? Well you know I'm heavy do you watch heavy muscle rate of this past week we were speculating between Chris Cito and I Chris thinks that Rally just never added back the size that he had at one time because he had an injury took the year off. I don't think that's the case I don't necessarily agree with that I think I think that Rally overdited for this an over dehydrated and over did everything because that's what happened a lot of times when you're out of the game for over a year you just you overdo things and I think he learned his lesson. I guarantee you on Sunday or Monday after the show he probably looked like an absolute freak show and I think what he's going to do is he's going to rain it and he's going to you know get back to what he does best. He's going to rest his body a little bit initially and I think we're going to see a much better Rally Winkler in Tampa. How good he is that's up for you know, grabs. If Chris was right and he did lose and he never gained back that muscle that he had then we're going to see a pretty much the same Rally Winkler. However, I was right and he's just overdid it we might see a freaky crazy Rally Winkler and that's what the exciting thing is because we really don't know what we're going to see and it's going to make Tampa that much better because Rally wasn't intending on doing Tampa. Now we have another element to that show you know where we're going to see another superstar in that lineup. I agree with you though. I think Ian Valier has got to be one of the guys to beat all of the there's other people in this line of that that that has to be at the be feared as well but Rally at his best, you know I don't know if anyone could beat him in the line of will we see him at his best? Flip of cooling I don't know. I'll do another athlete what if questions from Josh K. Where do you think that Seth Farosi would have placed at the Olympia at his all-time best? I'm assuming they mean at the 212 will win the Olympic because he was a 212 guy. I think he's good at one of his best. He was really good. IMean people don't remember him. He was one of his first pro show. The guy was a freak. IMean he's got freaky crazy conditioning. He has a nice shape. He's got a lot of mass on his frame. I think he would have done really well but you know different times different days you know you can't it's hard to compare someone from what they look like 10 years ago to what they would look like you know now unless you actually see the guy. You know like it's like saying you know Lee Priest is going to make a comeback next year will Lee Priest be the lead priest from 10 years ago. I don't I doubt it will we see a greatly priest I think we will because I don't think we'll get on stage if he's anything less than his best so but what will we look like we have to wait you see. It's got an excellent 187 Dave can you explain the exact science behind card cycling specifically on high card days is it best to have the day off or the day before you tren a lagging body card. If you think of carb carbohydrate intake especially when you're dieting and as gasoline in your car you have a tank in your car right that holds so much gasoline okay in your body you have glycogen stores in your liver and in your muscles that hold stored glucose basically carbohydrates and the idea behind carb cycling is that you're going to some days you're going to give lower carbon take so that the glycogen stores the pleat themselves down and when the glycogen stores the pleat themselves down your body has to dig into stored body fat and mobilize more fat but when the glycogen stores get filled up it seems like it stimulates your metabolic rate a little bit because your insulin levels are higher and that stimulates thyroid hormone the inactive thyroid home and T4 convert more to T3 which raises metabolic rate. That's why we eat a big carb meal you sweating and everything like that because it's raising your metabolism so the idea is some days you go low so that you're mobilizing and burning fat and then on the other days you know maybe three or four you know one or two days a week you go higher so you refill those glycogen stores up stimulate the metabolic rate indirectly now even though you might not be mobilizing fat on those days but you might be just because you're getting an indirect effect from your metabolism raising raising up if you would continue eatinGHigh carbs you would overspill the the glycogen stores just like you can't you fill too much gas into the gas tank of your car and then what but with your body rather than the stuff spilling onto the ground if you overfill the glycogen stores now you start storing body fat you know and that's what we don't want to do so that's why you always want to keep the glycogen stores a little underfilled when they get too low you give a little carb load and I do that with guys now you know if guys get too flat because I have them on low carbs for too many days I feed them you know and then once they fill up and I know the glycogen stores a full now I can deplete them down again and that you you do that sea salt that's what carb cycling is so that you get that effect now you couldn't also do it in a more extreme way when you keep carbs low when you you stay on a ketogenic diet so when you're on a low low carb diet all the time likeogen stores are really empty you're burning maximum fat because now your body has no fuel and your brain is in ketosis meaning that it's using fat as a fuel source rather than carbs to your brain feels good the only negative to that is that your metabolism can slow down a little bit and that's why you do a cheat meal once a week so there's different strategy and the cheat meal would basically be like a high carb day you know so in essence even on a ketogenic diet you're still a carb cycling you're just only a carb cycling one day a week usually so there's different various ways of doing it and it really depends on the person how much weight they need to lose how much fat if they need to lose and what kind of metabolism they have and that's what you have to ascertain as a coach when you decide what kind of a diet you're going to put a person on from from Shadi El Zamunia at a very long question I'm just going to ask the top part of it IMean you want to know why bodybuilding is not at the Olympics all out to that do you think bodybuildinGHas a shot has ever really been much of an effort to get bodybuilding in the Olympics Ben Weedor that was his quested life to put the well every show we ever saw him talk at the Arnold in the Olympic every year it was the Olympics and this guy I'm talking to the president and we're getting a send the Asian games and here's the problem about everything everyone thinks it's a drug related thing it's really not because they can do the same random drug tests they do with every sport IMean and I'm sure that'd be athletes that can beat the test and we'll pass the test and I'm sure there are natural athletes that will be able to compete and beat the test because they they don't take any drugs but here's the problem it's how do you quantify bodybuilding there's no specific poses and scores aren't you hit this pose right you get this many points like you do it like sand gymnastics or in you know ice skating and stuff like that they don't have a quantify body building so you can score and even the posing around is not scored which is the one thing that you can actually quantify they haven't done that and until they do that and they probably won't because I don't think anyone cares that it's not the Olympics you'll never see bodybuilding in the Olympics I think you have a better chance of getting fitness the fitness division into the Olympics before you would bodybuilding because at least fitness you can score the routine if you and and once they don't even have a quantify they used to have a quantify of a scoring system if they made one you'd be much more likely to get that one in first but I don't think that the organization has any desire to put it in the Olympics is once you get it on the auspices of the IOC the Olympic committee testing committee now they're going to want to drug testing and I want to randomly drug testing I don't think our bodybuilding organization wants any part of that and I don't blame them it's not worth it not open it's not worth opening that canter worms um let me see if I we're getting as we usually do a few keto related questions let's go to live for pump I'm hearing more about collagen lately do you recommend using it if so what should I look for specifically before purchasing you know collagen protein has been around since you know the the 70s IMean that was the first protein they ever sold liquid collagen protein and you know it was cheap they would you know they get it from the I don't even know where they would when they dissolved the collagen from bones and cartilage of animals it probably probably the waste of they throw out from the butcher shops and it would be like a syrup almost this six year and I remember I actually remember that type of the black man family first started their visits with twin lab they were a liquid collagen uh protein and it was a big diet thing back big craze back and they people would just drink these this collagen protein all day long and I remember when I was in high school they could kids would bring in the little things of collagen protein it was the taste disgusting it was like super sweet you just swing it down oh you gonna build muscle from this and then they realize the collagen protein really is not a great source of protein it's not that high in branching IMean it was a better source would be you know whey protein egg protein you know casing and so collagen kind of got side you know basically put on the sideline so to speak then when whey protein prices went through the roof people were looking for cheaper alternatives and they went to collagen back to cow hay collagen's good for your joints it fits in that and that but but so do I think it's worth using collagen protein now I think the the best bang for your buck okay if you want to get a good quality supplement that probably good quality protein supplement that actually is probably almost better than food as far as the biological uh availability of it and your body's ability to absorb it you got to go with the pure way isle 100% way isle because way isle it's have no lactose in them assuming you're using good quality one and they get assimilated really quickly and effectively especially post-workout so if you're gonna use a protein supplement that's what I would recommend you using when you start getting into the cheaper casing and collagen proteins and even some of the plant proteins you get what you pay for pretty much you're gonna pay less money but you're not gonna get you're not gonna get a product that's gonna be as effective let's go to tailor-efficient dumbbell versus cable side ladders for side delts you know I like I love cable side ladders because I think that you have I love the continuous tension aspect of it and you know I do side ladders so I have a cable machine in my house and I don't even go ahead you don't you don't have to go heavy IMean as long as you're squeezing and you're getting the the contraction on the way up and in the way down I like it the problem is you can't really go that heavy on it and because it's a very tough movement to do dumbbells you can kind of cheat a little bit more and get them up a little bit so when I was competing I would do a little bit of dumbbell work I do some cable work but what I really like for building side delts is the side delt machine if you've never sat in any of those machines when you put the pad on your elbow and you kind of just you know bring them out to the side I do one arm at a time I kind of hold on to the machine and I do one arm at a time and I feel like that because you can push from your elbow because the thing is sitting on your elbow you don't even the hold on and it's all side ladders no way to cheat you can't really you know use momentum that to me built my delts better than any other exercise I did for for shoulders including behind in that crisis which I was doing three or fifteen for I think it's a very isolating great movement. We'll take another keto related questions from Ivan bodybuilding when doing a keto diet what percent of the fact should come from saturated fat is there a difference for an enhanced male or female and for natural or a natural male or female. I think the majority of fact should come from mono and saturated fat like extra virgin olive oil and that can name it on oil of a codo oil to be avocado oil taste terrible extra virgin olive oil unfortunately in this country a lot of it is fake it's just soybean oil or it's watered down with soybean oil plus you can't really cook with extra virgin olive oil because it burns that's why I came out with my own macadamia that oil it was very hard to find macadamia that oil wasn't available readily in this country it's only one or two brands that make it was expensive so I decided I put my mind to it and I went out there and I found I sourced it from South Africa and I've been selling I sell a ton of macadamia that oil on species nutrition.com and I like it because it burns very very well it met about and that effected in stimulation metabolism so I'd say probably 60% of your of your fat calories should come from mono and saturated fat so you can eat avocado it was too you don't have to take it in an oil form but I'm just saying maco oil is a very easy way to get a lot of that in I think 20% probably should come from saturated fat because after all you do need saturated fat and all the cell membranes of all the cells in your body so if you break down muscle tissue you're repairing mostly protein which is the internal components of the cell but the outer components arecomprised of essential fats and saturated fats you want to take in some saturated fat I get most of my saturated fats nowadays from egg yolks other people like red meat you know and I used to use a lot of red meat you know I ate macadamia every day so you can do it from that as well you know 20% the other 20% of your fat should come from what we call polyunsaturated fats or the essential fatty acids that's your own megatrees and I'll make a you could take and it's just you know you probably can get away with almost 10% or what I do is of that 20% probably half of that is taken in supplement form so I have a product called omega-lice it has fish oil in it evening primrose oil in it you should get abouT3 grams of each per day and that that's something you you probably if you do that you're going to be you can check that box of hey I got my essential fats and I also eat omega-3 eggs I eat salmon while salmon so I'm getting a lot more the rest of my polyunsaturated fat intake is coming from the foods that I'm eating and if you do that and then of course the other omega-6 or rackathon I guess it is found in chicken and beef so you're getting that so you could eat the saturated fat you could eat the some of the polyunsaturated fats and you can certainly eat the monounsaturated fats but the one thing that you should supplement with is the cost of the fact that it's hard sometimes to get the right amount of food would be your essential fats omega-3s and sexes in which case you should take a private like my omega-lice or something else that's comparable to that. um um officially priest wants to know can I send you a video of me breakdancing so you can advise me and if I should go to the Olympia or just open a fruit stand. I don't know I I'm not Simon Cowell for that's for sure I can give you my opinion on your breakdancing skills that probably you would probably want you know a more experienced breakdance. Oh who is the breakdance and um it was a guy who used to breakdance I know a lot of the fitness competitors to breakdance on stage during their routines but I don't remember it was a body movie who did it to I can't remember. Here's a picture of it. What was a Victor Richards? No and I thought I don't know maybe I don't know but I guess I bet he could breakdance. He said I would recommend sending you a video of the kind of great let him critique it. Or just leave recreate that video and then we'll post that. Yeah yeah that's right. Time for a couple morEQuestions go to uh Ashah's kidney journey. IMean kidney trensplant recipient on immunosuppressing and VP meds as well as prednisone please could you explain how this may affect my muscle building of uh uh and weight loss please I can build muscle relatively well but fat loss is the issue any tips on how to improve this given his condition and what he's taking. Yeah. Prednisone obviously is is a is a catabolic hormone so it worked the opposite of anabolic steroid so if you're taking something anabolic you know at the same time you're taking Prednisone you can kind of override that effect. The problem is that prednisone mole basically tells you a liver to produce glucose from immunosuppressing. It's glucone eugenic and what that does by raising blood sugar causes your body to release more insulin after absorb the sugar so you have a high insulin output and a high sugar content your blood which makes it difficult to lose weight. That's why prednisone makes you fat okay we all know that so you're you're you're trying to combat that effect. What I would do is I would keep my my carb a hydrate intake very low. If IMean if I'm having to take prednisone because prednisone is already raising blood sugar you don't need anymore in the blood and I would eat a high protein moderate fat approach and I think you'll get a better results that way because as soon as you start putting carbs in there you know you're you're having a situation where you're overproducing tons of insulin and it makes it very difficult for monely to lose weight. Prednisone alone what do you think the first thing you see if someone on Prednisone you got a big moon face right? Hopefully at some point they could ween you off the Prednisone and just keep you on the other immunosuppressants and that's usually what happens at some point I don't know how long it's been since you're trensplant but usually after the first year they try to get you off the Prednisone if they feel that your body is not going to reject the kidney. That will morEQuestions from Tubby Geo. If you had access to all farm up PDs what would you suggest for a mass cycle dose taking into account diet, calcerept and trening is on point. Yeah IMean IMean I was getting pharmacy drugs when I was competing in the 90s and I and for me a thousand milligrams of testosterone worked really well with like and literally we were using three to 400 milligrams of acropoise a week or four to 500 milligrams of dechiro week, 76 milligrams of trenbolone which was was called parable and back then two or three times a week and we would build a lot of muscle I was using three to four I used maximum of GH per week but it was all pharmacy you know great stuff and it worked and I think a lot of the problems today is that there's two problems one problem is that people think they need a ridiculous amount of drugs to be huge the other problem is that the drugs are not dose properly or they're not the actual drugs that people think they're taking and that's why the the roi test kits we saw I saw on my day paloma dot com website sell so well because people are always testing their products and unfortunately a lot of the stuff out there is either nothing or it's cheaper ingredients in other words people think they're using trenbolone or they think they're using dacca and they're actually using test prophyne they think they're using adivari that using dianimal it's it's a podge podge of a mixed mishmosh out there and but if you can get pharmacy great stuff and you know your gear is good you don't need quite as much as people think that's going to do for this episode of astabe reminder right now on the channel live interview with hunter lebrata live as in we took questions from live users i plan on doing a lot more this so again if you haven't already subscribed hit the subscribe under the low i had to note a kitchen bell if you like what you're watchinGHit the like button comment below obviously that helps and as always we thank you for your support for Tyler sure in day palombo i'm city for rookie we'll see you next time

=== FILE: MAXX？ HASSAN？ PATRICK？ CALIFORNIA PRO PREVIEW! [HxUZHvyD-Pg].txt ===

Day below here with an RX muscle, news, update the cow pro is taking place this weekend, the competitor list is released. And let's see what I feel about this lineup. Going into the cow pro, obviously we have to look at the guys who are front runners at the New York pro, specifically Max Charles who probably looked the best we've seen in a very, very long time. Mill of sources that we're going to say, you probably should have won the show. I don't know if I go that far, but we certainly saw a terrific Max Charles, very conditioned, big thick, you know, his legs that are always a slight weakness in his physique because of his upper body, and it's so good. Seem to have really come up a lot since he started trening with Neil Osarshav. And, you know, he's going to be out in California, so we know Neil is going to be there and cheerinGHim off for sure. Now, here's the thing with Max. Max is one of these guys. You either get a great Max, Charles, you get a so-so Max Charles. If we get a great Max Charles, this is his show that he certainly can win. Putting aside Max Charles for a minute, if we move over to a, you know, probably a fan favorite, I have to say the Patrick Moore who is probably one of the most conditioned guys also in the New York pro two weeks ago or last week, I should say. He's got to be considered also one of the favorites. He's notoriously done very good at the cow pro. HEQualified for the Olympia at the cow pro last year. Here's a guy who's got all the tools. He flows well. He's got great condition. He's got a small waist. He's got, you know, a classic physique. You know, the knock against him is that he doesn't have enough size. A lot of times to stand with some of these bear guys in the lineup. Will the fact him here as much as he did at New York pro? Probably not because you're not going to have some of the heavy, you know, hitters like the E in Valieras in that lineup. And I don't see Justin Rodriguez in this lineup as well. So I think that obviously you remove some of the top guns so to speak. And now Patrick Morbick comes a more dominant body builder. But I think the wild card here is has to be, you know, Huston Mustafa, who really is lacking nobody parts. He's the thickest guy in the lineup. He's got the most muscle per square inch. He's got good symmetry. He's got, you know, the knock against him has been stage presence. And also his condition was not what people felt. He needed to be in New York to win the show. Chris and Sita would disagree, but Chris would not disagree that he could have been a little tighter. So I know that Chris is probably going to work them very hard this week to brinGHim in as best. If Husband Mustafa comes in at his best, I don't know if anyone can beat him in the slide. Only because of the fact that he's missing nothing. And he's got the best legs by far in the entire lineup. Matt Shawls obviously with the slightly weaker legs. And that's going to hurt him. And of course, Patrick Morbick is just not as big as Husband Mustafa. So I think it's who's done a son of Mustafa's show to lose here. If he brings what he needs to bring to the show, he walks away with victory. Then of course we have, you know, the wildcard guys that are what we call against the dark horses and to unvaliant who was seven place in New York, who I thought was a little over-depleted. If he comes in here fuller with his classic physique and his posing and presentation, that's probably better than everyone else on stage, I think we're going to see him move up into that top five. How far up he goes is going to be dependent on how these other guys look and how much better he comes in lookinGHimself. Stannimal stand alongo is moving up from classic physique and he's makinGHis pro-day view in the open class. It will be interesting to see how he stacks up against these guys. This is his first time in the open. He put on a lot of muscle. He might be a wild horse or a dark horse in this lineup as well. Eddie Bracamante is always a competitive competitor. He's going to watch out for if he shows up in his best with his conditioning, he can certainly get into that top five and maybe even higher. So you've got to watch out for him and I think on when is probably got the best symmetry in the lineup here. Balance, he's always in these California shows. His knock has also been, doesn't bring the conditioning to the stage and he really needs to. If he brings it here, look for on when to absolutely be a top five competitor. This lineup is still stacked with guys that could be dark horses coming from international countries out of the states that could come in here for the first time and make a name for themselves. That's what makes it exciting when we don't know who all the, I guess you could say, the front runners are. But I think we have to say match draws, Patrick Moore. Of course, Hassan-Bastoff, I have to be the top three front runners in this contest. They'll be the guys to beat how they stack up or how they finally place is going to be dependent greatly on what they bring to the stage, comes Saturday. Hey guys, Siddhi Furuki here with an update, a medical update on Hassan-Bastoffa. The Instagram post you're looking at is from about seven hours ago where obviously he's in the hospital. But he is thanking God and he is giving confirmation that he has received medical clearance to compete at this weekend's Cal Pro. Now earlier on, he had discussed that he had a bad case of hemorrhoids which impacted his performance at last weekend's New York Pro. Now yesterday we had received word that that impacted area had developed an infection which ultimately resulted in the hospitalization. But as we had heard earlier in the day and as he's conforming in this post, he had received medical clearance. So you will see Hassan-Bastoffa on stage this weekend in Las Vegas.

=== FILE: MEGA LABOR DAY SALE at SpeciesNutrition.com! [hZMr-s5VtbU].txt ===

Happy Labor Day, everyone. I hope you guys are having a nice relaxing day at your house and I am going to give you a great offer. Speciesutrition.com for Labor Day is going to give you 35% off the entire website. That's right, 35% no coupon code is nothing just for today. All day Monday you go over to speciesnutrition.com. You buy anything on the site. Your entire order will be discounted 35% any orders over 100 dollars free shipping to and give it away Each apron that 35% off at speciesnutrition.com. Head over there now. Only Monday don't call me crying if you forget 35% off the entire website. Check it out.

=== FILE: MICHAEL LOCKETT DEFEATS SERGIO OLIVA JR! Palumbo's Chicago Pro Recap! [6QP5uRWEoGQ].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding fans, Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle news update? Well, the Chicago Pro is out, guys, and Michael Lockett has the new men's open champion, narrowly defeating Sergio Leavocenia last year's New York Pro Champion. Lockett is one of these guys who's always been super dangerous. He's always in shape, because I've never seen him at a shape ever, and every show he seems to be coming back a little bigger, a little better, and that's a dangerous guy, because he's always standing right there. His one weakness is the fact that his legs are not that good. They're hard, but they're not that girthy from the front. They definitely, the one leg on the right side definitely has a problem, whether it's a knee, I think he has a knee problem or something like that. That's always seems to be his one like a killy seal, and a lot of times he gets past that, because he has so much density in his upper body, and every muscle group includinGHis calves, his glutes, his hamstrings are so norley conditioned that sometimes the judges can just look past the fact that he has that one week leg. Now Sergio Leavocenia, the conditioning that he brought to New York Pro last year, was not here today. I don't think he had that level of tremendous shredded paper thin skin that he had last year. However, he definitely had a lot more size, which was every noticeable on stage. His legs are far superior to Michael Lockett's legs without it doubt. His posing is unconventional, but very charismatic and enticing, and you almost your eyes go to him. Lockett's a little bit more low key. He kind of just hits the shots, shows what he got, and that's it. It was a very close battle between those two guys, and they were called that alone, and the judges really, you could tell the judges to work these guys, and really wanted to see in their minds who was better. Even though the scorecards might have indicated that Lockett won unanimously, I have to feel it was very close on every judge's scorecard, because they were tough to judge, because they have different types of physics. Sergio obviously, the classic poses, like I said, the eye-inticing type stuff on stage, the flashiness, he has a lot of his father's posing skills, probably even better, and I think he's really coming to his own as far as presentinGHis physico's. While he might, like I said, he might not have been as hard as last year, he certainly was better than last year, I think, in the sense that he brought morecompleteness to his physique. Unfortunately, Lockett was just so damn hard that I think it was just too much, in the judges' minds, to give Sergio the win here, because of the fact that Lockett had a kiddishing out. Some judging panels overlook conditioning a little bit because of the completeness of the physique. I think that you have to admit that Sergio, a lever junior, was way morecomplete than Lockett because of the leg development. Sergio's got really good legs, with really good separation. Chris, does a tremendous job with Sergio bringing in that level of, I guess you could say, muscle separation that you don't see on a lot of guys, but Lockett is so hard in his own right that every direction in turns and you see nothing but senior remussel. So it was a tough decision for the judges, and you know what, you can't complain either way. Had Sergio won no one would have complained, had Lockett won as he did. I don't think I'm not going to complain. I don't think anyone would complain either. It was really that close, and that makes for a great show for the audience, with the spectators, and obviously for everyone looking at the pictures. And I think that Lockett is so hard. I've seen him in person. He doesn't really trenslate into photos. If anything, I think Sergio looks better in photos, sometimes he doesn't person. Although you have to really see imposing in person to really get a true, you kind of just get drawn into his physique. Once again, I want to congratulate both guys because it was a great battle, and I know Sergio was there in front of his hometown. I want to see a group in Chicago. So this was a nice home coming for him. The two-twelfth division was one by Craig Richardson. To me, this division was not that competitive. I didn't think this was the best Craig Richardson we'd seen. The funny thing is that when Craig said his best he'd ever get to the win, he comes in here. His condition can be a little better, and he still gets the win here because I think the lineup is just not that difficult. So congratulations, Craig. He's one of us. He's one of the old guard. It is the mid to late 40s there, and he's still getting it done every single time. He's going back to the Olympia, gradually. So Craig, probably one of the more exciting battles of the weekend in Chicago that was the classic physique battle that we saw between Wesley Vissers and Amit Roy, the Bengal Tiger as they call him. Amit's got a great story. Amit was a guy who came from India with a dream of becoming a professional bodybuilder. This was before classic Vizic was even around. He couldn't even, he wasn't a citizen of the United States. It couldn't compete for a pro-card here. He had basically nowhere to go. He was like a man without a country, so to speak. Then they formed classic Vizic. He went at marrying someone in the United States. He got citizenship. He turned pro with an North American championships. He's now just finished second here in Chicago, which is a tremendous feather. He was certainly without a doubt the most conditioned guy in the show. A lot of people felt to shoot a one, but let's get to why he didn't win. Wesley Vissers, I've interviewed him on our Ex-Muscle before. I did a little preview about his physique a couple weeks ago because I just think this guy is super talented. Let's face it. One word, one this for him, Arnold. He may be facely doesn't look as much like Arnold as some of my think, but his physique is like a clone of Arnold's physique. He's still in the beginning stages. He still has much more to develop. This is his protevute. He wins here tonight and a lot of people want to know why because he's not the most conditioned guy as his coloring wasn't really good and pretty judging. I'll tell you once again Arnold. He looks like Arnold. We all love Arnold. We all want to see Arnold back on stage again. He's Arnold incarnate. It's unbelievable. The look and shapes of his muscles and his waistline and his abs. Obviously, he's emulating Arnold's poses purposely and I would do the same thing if I had that kind of a physique. It works. Arnold is the ultimate classic physique. Let's face it. That's what his division was made after. He looks like Arnold. He's got better legs probably than Arnold had for sure. When he hits those classic Arnold poses, you just want to see the guy win. That's why he beats a mid is a lot shorter than him. Although more impressive, conditioning wise and coloring and polish wise, Wesley Vissers is a guy who these the judges see as a future of this division. One of the top guys will be vying for Olympia titles down the road. He made a lot of amateur mistakes. He had like I said, the coloring wasn't good. I think that if his coloring was better and he could have been a little drier maybe. His condition was pretty good. He just didn't come out on stage because when you're not as dark as the other guys there, you don't look as hard. Also, I think he could have been a little drier. When he hit those certain poses, if you see it statically, when he's in some of those manitories, I believe everyone else and they just go to this guy. He sticks out. When you stick out on stage in a good way, you win shows. That's just how it goes. Arnold's won shows that people thought he'd never shot a one. The 1980 Missile Olympia. You see him standing there. He doesn't look like anything. Then you watch him do his posing routine and you're like, fuck the guys the winner. It's because he has charisma on stage. That's what Wesley Vissers has. He has a lot of charisma. This guy is going to be a force to be reckoned with. I'm telling you down the road. For a long time to come, so many doesn't get injured or anything like that. Here's a guy who has a tool set that is super impressive. You want to see the guy do well. I think he's only getting better. He's going to learn from these mistakes he may. He's going to be at the Olympian now in September. We're going to see a guy come back with a lot more polish. He's going to perfect some of these poses. This is going to be a lot of guys cheering for him at this show. He's going to give these guys a run for their money because he's tall. He's imposing. And once again, tall and imposing is always great on stage when you have a complete physique because you just see more of the robot and that's what Arnold Visser great. When Arnold and Frank would pose on stage, you can make a case. Arnold, IMean Frank was morecomplete and had a lot more muscle than Arnold per square inch. Arnold beat him every single time and no one ever thought otherwise. So this is really impresses here. Congratulations to Mid on that second place. You know, you got the best story on stage. No one has a better overcoming the odd story than you do. Send the relis story all the way. Kevin Johnson in 30 is a true talent as well. Watch this guy in the future because he is very dangerous. Let's face it. The name of the, I guess you can say day here in Chicago was Michael Lockett winning the open, you know, defeating Sergio Leaver. Junior the biggest story of the night and of course the emergence of Wesley Vissers as a classic physique pro to keep your eye on come a limpia time for now I'm Dave Palombo. But then our our ax muscle news update.

=== FILE: MILLION DOLLAR MR. OLYMPIA VICTORY PAYOUT？ HMR (7⧸19⧸21) [sMst7jSW6Ck].txt ===

Welcome back to Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Fullumbo and I'm joined by my two compatriots in crime as always John Romano and Chris Estito and it is July 18th, 2021 and we're actually recording late at night durinGHaven't done it a while because Chris has to go for anything tomorrow. What's that all about, Chris? Well, wait, wait, I wonder for so why you have to go? Because you've got to be working like you like me, you know, you can have to go. You have obligations that you have to do as a husband or father and that's one of them. They want to go camping. So I said okay well, you know I do that. Oh you know I got a better idea. Why don't we go over it to hotel? You know in a rural area, you know where it's like. This is going to the woods and play but at least you can sleep at the bottom. Right in your area and you get a coffee pot and they refrigerate or microwave and hot water. You know I asked my dad when I was a kid if we can go camping once because my friends would go in camping because I do serious. I'm a kid. He's a new serious. We have a house Dave. He must have said just like the video we can out of the house. My first of my father would never my father had no mechanical inclinations once. That's like me. He would never be able to even set the tent up. I don't know. I don't know how to set it. How big of a tent do you guys have? Well we have two. We have a full person and a two person. The mommy and daddy tent and the gentleman's tent. Yeah. I have two visions that I had. One is like these little pup tents where you're barely fit in the tent. If you're feet are sticking out, you see like John can't even go in camping or something like that when one of those movies. And then the other one I envision is like you know these you obviously these are rabian like kings they have these humongous tents that they see. It looks like the inside of a house. Right. That includes furniture in and hanging. It's a ladder. I can call our friend in the middle east there. Chris has him send over some supplies to you. I can I can hack one of those. You know this is the one with the bodice that come in. You know the ones that don't protect you from the bears that are outside. Oh yeah you're in Maine too you need air traffic. We show over the bridge. The bugs there. Yeah I'm more concerned about the ticks than I am the bears. Yeah lime disease right? Well just all the diseases that takes spring and it was the point is what the ticks is. Dave 30 years ago. A 40 years ago whatever it was when I was a kid you'd hear like rarely like I saw a tick. Now on a windy day I'll you know my kids go to like track meets like in a rural area. And on a windy day they blow around. They blow around. Yeah they're everywhere. Wow not all ticks carry in disease but most ticks too. Now who's idea was it to go camping your wife you kids? No one's it was my friends who they live in Hawaii and they came if you want to really laugh four years ago and they convinced us to go camping. So we went we went out and bought all the couturements that you need to go to live out the woods and just the comedian would say to take two days of vacation and throw them away. And and we so we have all the tents all the equipment is a cooking you test a lot of that. You built it. No we've never used them. Says we bought them four years ago when camping our same friends from Hawaii came back and they said let's go camping and so they came back and we disengue with us tonight and they said let's listen because camping we said oh yeah four years ago or in this case five years right John we missed it. I was trying to Dave I was trying to like moldy bread and bagels and the house to try to like. Yeah that my sum legitimately pumped out. You know what IMean? I understand the tent thing to me. We'll tell six is just fine. IMean that's that's as far as camping you need to go. IMean it's got a roof you know if you look at somebody's campers they show up with the campsite so we've done with the trensformer side. Great go out like that and then you have a lot more to live you want a big screen TV's and shit. Yeah you don't have a way. That's what I would love you because look up the window and see the one from front is the one camping at that point you might just stay home. That's why I'm saying motel six is camping but if you're gonna have this this trensformer coach with a big screen TV big screen TV. Yeah with the features sub zero refrigerator. Yeah I'm gonna get out there and say I wouldn't say I'm gonna get out there and say I wouldn't it to think of go with eats can they just can they deliver me it's the campsite them with real smoke or really remote campsite or is this like like like a like a popular like really it's fairly remote it's in a bar rubber like east of our armor west of South it's never armor it's not a armor because it was bar armor it'd be you know glam climbing where they got a glam glamorous camping glamping yeah don't subscribing describing not camping you're describing john glamping. That can be just glamorous yeah that comedians right there you're gonna go out kind of vacation like you want it like go someplace relaxing like you know camping is not really that relaxing because of the bug issue and the heat it's like uncomfortable almost so even though it's kind of like you know it makes you kind of forces you to get to nature and lots of I understand that whole aspect of it and I know for kids they like if they want to roast the marshmallows but at the like you know like like 20 minutes to do in that it's like all right well you know what are we gonna do now you know yeah I didn't a candle when it box of smores and then good for you to light a fire in the backyard log and yeah you know I had to go camping also recently and we went to this campsite and that's where I first saw those trensformer coaches with the with the sides that come out in the big screens and you know they bring a they bring like a thing that they put in the ground in front of the campsite and it's got their name you know like a mailbox and it would it with a little flag for where they're from or wherever you know it's gonna do that they may plug into something what are they doing run generators what are they doing yeah they got they got a box and they got a plug that goes in they got a sewer hook up and they got but some people go intense some people go in those coaches some people go like these other pop up things you go in a tent Chris where you go to the bathroom you gotta go in the woods well you take a you rifle and you you gotta get you all the woods no the night because you don't want to uh maybe black bed to get you no you don't you can keep every two seconds with the problem you ask you ask for uh they camp site closest to the like the bathrooms and showers yeah I was wondering we had a cabin when I went so that was technically a tent air condition no it was not it had a fan but night and I had no water it was no bathroom either so you haven't got to have to the thing so you know it's too clocking in morning I gotta get a pimple walking over the fucking thing so I just open the door and he had some real it's right it's gonna walk over there to pee didn't see any big puts it yeah no but I gotta say I know and I couldn't have empathy for Chris where he's going and the freaking up there where he lives bears you mentioned bears they got what does that well I think I think they got him what boards and shit they got to have a young knees and a coyote other kind of monster listen flames above the the bug the rainwater the bug what is there any bear I got you said have you ever gotten sprayed by yes I have never been stunned by a beep but I sprayed by a scum coin also kid I was driving I was riding my bicycle down in hill and I saw the scum get the base of the hill and like literally like when you have a you know you walk left and you walk into someone they walk left and right you try to like hesitate that's what you've been spunky that ran right over and then and then I IMy I didn't smell as weird I I wiped on I bang my head I didn't smell the smell but my friends told me I get stunk and I didn't believe it because I hit my head I went over to his house and his mother washed me down with vinegar and tomato juice in the dry paint like three hours three hours yeah you would you one bottle of tomato juice after another or be a headless with vinegar when I heard that tomato juice is the only thing that gets it out you know they have a plant that smells like that is called skunk cabbage yes you grow in New York you know by the swamps what it's not like the real thing yeah I've ever been driving up state in New York you do you just thought smelling the skunk smell you know you're up in New York yeah that was like a tent real I don't smell skunk around here the where I live although I've seen a couple but I don't know yeah kind of parkway to get hit by the freakinGHit by a car and then you come around and turn and you stay there damn damn well when I was in junior high my father pulled the yor father that's what I call that we we we were getting skunk stink every night in the hall and the house right so eventually my father figured out that he wouldn't look down to the front porch and there was a nest oh boy and aT3 in the morninGHe got sprayed to death he went out there he took the nest he put it in the middle of the driveway the charcoal light of fluid from those in burnt the top of the yard do stood to death and let it and the fire department came and he was standing the ass screaming at the top of his lungs when they told me he couldn't burn it down good if you go to jail now for the same oh yeah absolutely they were the neighbors would turn a minute to you know they called the the Nazi police to come you know but let's let's talk a little body buildinGHere uh I hate when we have to report terrible news but you know you have to honor these people that pass but we lost two people actually in the industry actually I think we lost one two people but um obviously the most well known would be uh two time figure Olympia champ Jenny Lynn who pass supposedly a misseasier she was in bed supposedly with her husband and she had a seizure and he tried to revive her and didn't didn't happen I had an interview I thought I interviewed her a year ago but it was about two and a half years ago I interviewed Jenny as a kind of an update you know she's to work for our muscle she's to do a radio show uh uh uh yeah when we first started the site with a delegate our c.m. and you know she was like a likable person you know she was she I think she one almost more figure titles than anyone else in the industry and then she retired at some point and she's been coaching people so I don't really know what happened it's terrible when you hear about these things you know usually we're talking about guys and everyone's like star or star or sort you know now you hear about you know you know you know relative a young woman about 50 years old you know dying obviously she took care of herself you know shocking really IMean you guys have any insights in it I actually was I don't know man was so like this happens is I got to look at it from all all angles you know just IMean she from what the news is is that she was fell asleep and then had a and and had a seizure and a sleeping never woke up right yeah okay so now if you go to her Facebook page you look and you look in the last you know weeks of June she's posted all these song like four songs back to back to back these country titles uh you know the the man cheating on the woman and I'll really you know you know tough times to get through shit and you know woman hating you know country singing women's shit and IMean back to back to back same theme you know and then boom the next week she's you know the out of a sea IMean I don't know read anything into this but I'm saying it's just seems kind of weird that it would be posted was more of a kind of upset pissed you know jolted you know music on Facebook page and then the next week you're dead with with this insanely mysterious sudden IMean was she healthy was she sick was she had for family history of this it's just kind of strenge you know that you just someone who just dial like that and a healthy you know person I would imagine it's probably going to be a autopsy when do you think you would have you I would think it I think it depends on the state that you're in with the actual law is but generally speaking when someone is dies of especially young person dies of you know an odd cause or not you know a disease in the hospital they do an autopsy you know so you know what you said what you said did you complain about anything I don't think so I don't have to how was she there in the interview oh she was silent during but I was like two and a half years ago so I don't know IMean I knew a guy reached out to me and he said he talked to her once a month and that she was doing fine as far as you know but you know you know who knows you know yeah most people when they say they talk to someone it means they text with someone and you know it's hard to find out if someone's got any kind of issues going on when you're texting with them so it's just it's really sad you know I remember when she was competing and winning the Olympia is and she was beating if you remember Monica Brandt that's when Monica was there for her powers and you know Monica probably could have won a couple of those Olympias in there and there was some politics involved but they were battling an altitude and they were like the best in the world IMean IMean you look back at the physique this is what figure was really all about back then and now it looks like you know bodybuilding but that's really IMean they would be the best in the best at that time so it's crazy IMean you never know when you time's up really that's sort of an amounts to and I think we'll have to really you know we say it over and over but you know every time I hear about another death of John and then because I know you guys can comment on this it almost makes me like I feel like I'm playing dodgeball and you know how like when you're playing dodgeball and someone gets hit in their out you know and you're like before you're looking around you there's only you and one other guy left the volleyball court you know I feel like that's what's happening IMean it's kind of the area of the sense it's it's funny they've looking at that picture because you look at a picture you say what a killer physique killer body yeah and how the division is morphed so far from that yeah you know it's it's you know makes me wonder like is it the bodybuilding or the bodybuilder is it thEQuote athletes who are morphing it that way or is it you know the judging panel that's rewarding different looking for these and morphing it that way I would say it's a ladder because you know I remember when we would sit in the judging class because the control the control is not with the athlete it's with the you know the judge or the judge or the judge. Yeah I remember we would sit in this judging panel and you guys probably remember and and we would be looking at the girls and I'd be critiquing every single person on stage and we'd be saying what do you think about this one is and we would say oh she's too must do it she's not gonna do well and we would always be right they would do the call out to the must still grow would be the last call out yeah the biggest girl with the you know the freakiest looking girl is is the winner you know so you're doing it so it's not only time it's what they always do but why did they like this get away they had it that's the point I'm trying to make it yes you know IMean if you're at the whole point in creating a division does to create a look and then you you know you can't control the look what is the whole point in control you know starting the division in the first place it's like starting wellness and and then saying you know we like thEQuote you know big behind but we're looking for total strider glutes the nexT4 years and that probably will be what happens but but that's wellness but figure was always something that they had ramed in really well to keep a clear distinction between figure and body building and yeah and then they created even they created women's physique which should really give them the chance to kind of reboot figure and bring it backwards a little bit um I remember when Heather D's was you know it was at the top of her game you know and and then can't escape and now these girls you know Heather has trouble you know she's still in the top vibe but she's not you know she had to put a lot more size on to that you know the only division that's held it together with respect to how they've been able to maintain a certain physique throughout the years has been fitness and and and that's because they were lie so heavily on their ability to do things oh fitness yeah so that kind of limits them right there and and their physique's have been pretty much yeah I don't know if you've seen gigantic sways in the physics no so what they should have done is women's physique should have been run like men's physique it should have been a weight limit per height so that would have kept them in check figure should have been capital what the standard was before which you know which was it was an achievable look you know I think IMean I'm trying to think if it was a good example of like IMean Jenny was a good example but IMean you could look even to people after her were really good um to that you know you can say okay can't as keen was really good Nicole Wilkins probably should have been the the the standard that they stuck to I think you know you got the way after her when she was that's when they got got carried away you know there's nothing wrong with the looks of being presented now but a great great great for me yes but phenomenal outrageous but you crowd out you know the the the the class for which the look was you know for that look that it was originally designed for which is a whole another you missing a whole another competitive group of people who want to look like that picture that you just put up which is a killer beach body period IMean that is not what what what muscle yeah well you know a day we laugh we say it with muscle but you know 30 years ago that would be remarkably muscular here but for most people who joined a gym for females that's not quote to muscular at all but it's it's a it's a look to aspire to it's still a competitive look right we're right we're just like missing out on a division that's like you don't see that physique there anymore and never will which is too bad because it's an attractive physique yeah even if we even bikini is more muscular than that no yeah maybe in some degree I think that if you think about it I think women's physique IMean the the figure girls that had those amazing physique that we love to look at because they're so because we like muscle what's they said those are the girls that should have gone to women's physique and that's where the what physique was designed for right for those girls to go there and pose because they have physique those top figurecompetitors can absolutely do women's physique at least the the way it was originally intended you know not maybe not now because now it's like bodybuilding but um and they lost control but maybe they'll rate it back in who knows but the bottom line is we you know we send our prayers and condolences at the Jennyman's family of course I want to also bring up another death in the industry unfortunately there was a wellness competitor I don't think any of us really knew she was we don't follow well to sound much but here's her on Instagram she's 152 thousand followers O'Dollis Santos Menna and great physique you know great wellness look to her and she went in and had some procedure done where they remove your sweat glands have you ever heard of this I didn't even know the dentist yeah what I don't even know what it's called but but the thing is the way that was reported was so sloppy first of all the death was attributed from what I can tell to the anesthesia not the preseneut the heat procedure the the proceed it's a heat it's a heat kind of you know like the opposite of the the cool the cool sculpting you know it's like a heat thing that surprised the sweat glands people people who sweat profusely and that's the procedure she wanted to have done and they're making it sound like it was that procedure that caused her death and wasn't and nothing to do with it she died from the complication some complication from an unlicensed anesthesiologist are you serious unlicensed yeah that's right we're not a maxio John yeah Guadalajara happened to know the place they're talking about well it's still funny it's skin pail or pail skin and pail pail is spanish for skin so it's technically skin skin it's kind of funny to think to out of all the all the medical procedures that you want to make sure someone's licensed but the anesthesiologist. After the dandishane girlfriend incident with the calf and plant an alusina like she think no one would ever do another crazy thing it like that again but that's not a crazy thing that's the thing the sweat gland procedures not a crazy thing at all it's a very simple common procedure so for for that problem what's that wasn't so common for her obviously like I said it it wasn't that procedure it was the anesthesiologist they maybe she should have had it done in the United States instead of in uh that was be the case you think ever border crisis now what what what what did he start coming over to get get fixed it's a it's a she was young to a 24 yeah yeah so IMean just IMean right in the prime of her life IMean this is terrible terrible and you know they're trying to say the steroids had some kind of interaction with the right you get that interaction with the one always like to throw the steroids you know that's the only article I said you've last week about somebody did somebody died or something and they said he was taking nutritional supplements oh yeah yeah I don't know you think I remember I can't remember what I did yesterday I know that that's terrible why she was you know but you know what I got to say this though in Central America and Mexico South America yeah these women are fucking nuts the shit they do to themselves is just insane IMean I read articles in Mexico all the time in the Mexican newspaper about these women this one of them got sent to prison for 30 years for injecting motor oil into people industrial silicone glue all kinds of shit they inject in their ass and their face and their lips and their in their legs they're nuts and they have no a clump function about what sort of their parties and they come over and somebody brings the stuff and they're jabbing it all in it's like it's like it's it's it's fucking nuts and Latin women God love them they have this thing that they gotta be whatever womanhood has to come out of them extra hard so regular women are like you know eight nine you know they're 12 15 you know on a scale of one to 10 and it's always gotta be I have never in the all the years I lived in Mexico I never once saw a Mexican girl leave the house like in a pair of sweats and no makeup they go across the street to mail a letter it's fucking sunglasses out said shoes you know I'm telling you never you know ever see a Latin girl on the never sweat glands are there for a reason okay just just anyone else out there has any cookie ideas I'm doing this stuff they're there for a reason okay they get rid of waste okay don't try to remove something that doesn't eat well well wait wait wait wait wait a reason she was going that some people profusely I know that's what Anthony the Anthony perspiration for I don't I don't know there's I've never seen anybody with that condition now I'd a guy in my gym that had it and this guy would just drip he'll think he got out of the shower all the time that that's what he was that was drinks his hair was wet your shook hands when it was like grab a thing yeah you can't fix it when you sweat everywhere she was just doinGHer underarms on the swimming right yeah well because that's the worst part you know you're there at your clothes and all that shit with that you know you have that usually is controllable because that you can put an Anthony perspiration on you know but hey you're talking about women who get their lips on their chin on your eyebrows right now that's not the best billers you you can make a list of 20 freaking things and you go open the freaking cloud cloud cabin underneath your wife's sink and look at the freaking array of goop under there and they all got it they every Christmas tree years does too they all do don't they IMean bottles and tubes and you can't identify the shit someone's in front of another countries and you know it's just they got this is what happens they get so wrapped up and involved with their vanity that they will procedure like she's not the first girl who has died by virtue of of vanity procedure that girls die all the time I'm sure guys I too but you know more women have in plastic surgery type of procedures being done obviously all right let you know all this death is getting me the bandwidth I got I got to just live in us up before we start the talking about some context coverage so when he pulled us I went one of our one of my guys sent me this he made it you guys all like this let me see but got it here oh my god this was before you sent me yeah I think you got Mr. G in a background with the thing that would give you a mask. You're a normal mask, right? It's the entire John. I was telling Dave. But Chris came to thEQuestion. That's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, Mr Bobby or Mr. G, I could, they were trading off. One was, what was it, one was what? Diana Trump or something like that. Oh, wait no, maybe that's been him in the white behind him and he was, he was a whole cog in wasn't one, he wasn't he whole cog in and the other one was. It was probably Bobby smalls was Arnold. Yeah. Yeah. That's how it was. I thought it looks like Mr. G behind him in the white shirt. I'm happy that you had a move like that. I don't know the guys are genius. You guys can hear that noise, right? The music, right? Come on, Chris, you got to love that. I was expecting when Dave said that sweet that there was a different dot, you know, that we say something different. No, we don't create a virus, you know. Wait, who made this? We got to talk to him. We got to give him some direction. We got to get him connected with the other guy who does the sound by its press, right? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I love, we have the most creative audience. We have gotten sent the most amazing things over the years that people make for it. It's just incredible. I don't know how to do a great job of that. Yep. Thank you. All right, let's, I wanted to mention the, there was the Portugal Pro this week and took place in Porto. A storey Portugal. Could it actually take place in Portugal? Because you know, you got the Chicago and land to it. I know. I'm surprised. I'm surprised. I think Portugal's the only country not locked down. I'm just a little bit too sure. It's a good day. Yeah, they did. Yeah, I'm saying, there are a lot of people in Europe can't find a place to compete because they're so locked down. You know, the Europeans are like, you're a struggling. They'll lock that place down in three seconds. As soon as like one case pops up in a deli somewhere. And, you know, they're like, up, lock down the country, you know, locked down the country. I feel bad for the bodybuilders there because they're really strict there. You know, here they locked down here and no one listens to them, no one cares. But they're, they arrest you, you know. I feel bad for the deli owner. He's the guy gettinGHurt. So it's the next time they want to do a lock down, they should lock down like the big chains, like Walmart and Target and all these other chains that are making all this money when they're locking down and just keep the small businesses open. And maybe that would help people, you know, the economy come back, you know. And the narrative goes out the window. Can't do that. Of course not. Of course not. No. Who, what were you just saying, Chris about, oh, I, oh, you know, who? Oh, another terrible story. Bill Phillips has got COVID for the second time is on a ventilator. What? Yeah. Bill Phillips of the AAS and, you know, muscle media? No shit. Yeah, I should, I should, I should get where that clip is. The ventilator is no good, man. That's from bad side. No, it's, and this is the second time getting it. So so much for immunity then, huh? Yeah, you know, with this new Delta variant now supposedly. What do you think about all this? Cry, no, Chris, you had you a very vocal about that one. I think it's, you, you said the picture and I said it's, it's a little challenging to have sympathy. And what do you say that? Because he could have been vaccinated, but God forbid, you, you know, he had to weigh out possibly the, the intrusion of that versus death. No. IMean, that's what it is. And when you're unvaccinated, of course, that's what vaccines do. They look for the weakest host to jump to it, right? Recreate themselves, the variant on any, any virus. That is a, is immune to treatment or is immune to your immune system. Right. So by definition, the immune system is an immune system. It's supposed to fight viruses, but at the same time, viruses love immune system so that they can replicate becomes stronger. True. Mm-hmm. There's Bill and his wife Maria, she posted, thanking everyone for all the prayers and everything like that and that he's stable. He's still on the vet. He's on a low bench now as opposed to, I guess, a high pressure bench. So the pressure ones are bad. Yeah. Yeah. So I, like, I hope he pulls out, you know, the guy, the guy, the, you should, you should post the picture because it might scare someone to, you know, become a, look, become a wilt, liberal idiot and get a vaccination. I'm trying to find the picture that I'm saying. No, it's horrible. The picture's horrible. Right. Absolutely. I cannot believe it was posted because it's just so terrible. But I've heard of people to say that, you know, if you wanted to, she wanted to, she wanted, she posted it and she wanted people to see the level of suffering that he was in and how close he is to not make in it so that her message is now, well, we should go to vaccine. Yeah. That's probably the message. But you know, it's funny because it's the map. That is the message. That's just, yeah. That's why I said you can post it. I wanted to find, I wanted to find, I wanted to why she didn't say that in the post. You were thinking about that. I can send it to you. She did. I'll send it to you. She said she did. She said, yes. She says, you know, she makes a point that, you know what? She's maybe we should have been vaccinated. Oh, okay. She did a better job. People, please. The thing about Bill is that Bill was a guy who was always like impeccable about the way to eat and the supplementation he takes. IMean, if you, they didn't want to out there, it'd rather read muscle maybe 2000. IMean, the guy did. There's the, there's the text. She starts off with, please get vaccinated. Yeah, I'm looking on her Facebook to see where she posted. I don't see it. I know. She probably took it down. Just pulled a question about it. Yeah, maybe. The possible. How did you recommend people get? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. You know, when you see someone like Bill Phillips go down, IMean like I said, because of the fact that he does take such great care of himself and he's a guy that was always into supplements and eating right and beinGHealthy and working out, it scares you. It can scare you because that means it can hit you can affect anyone, you know, real. If you think about it. Anyway, we'll send that some well wishes to Bill and hopefully recover fully. And we'll get him on the TV show if he ever decides to. He's a tough guy to get. I've got, I've had Sean on his brother, Sean Phillips is a great, by the way, he's a great interview. Sean, you know, he knew everything that went on. He told me the full story of the Holy A.S. story, but I'd love to get Bill on to get his take on the whole thing. IMean, because that was, I had reached out to him to get him on our show. He agreed. He was happy to do it and then he just, you know, disappeared. Yeah, he's a little anti-social, I think in that sense. But he, he really influenced me. IMean, his business model of the time, which was to build a start of magazine, educate the public and then start a supplement line and mark it the line through the magazine because of the education you're giving people. IMean, that's what I, we really did. That's what I did at least with the arts, muscle and and species nutrition because they kind of, you know, work together. It's a machine, educate people. You give free information out there to people. Let them understand what the science of things are and then let them make their own decisions based on, you know, a high quality product line that you put out. And then, you know, I've talked to Rich, Rich, to Spare about that. And that's what Richie's always done to it. IMean, he literally said, look, you know, I, I used, I want to use the best stuff when I was competing. So IMade the best stuff, you know. And so we all kind of copied Bill Phillips in this sense. And if it wasn't for Bill Phillips, there would be no Scott Connelly. People don't realize metrics was, was successful because Bill Phillips launched it first. And he's going to put it in his platform more. Well, Bill's field copy Joe to a large extent too because the original magazine of course was also a fitness that had radically a diet from fortune, but it had all the ads and it would Joe's ads for some of us, but it had, you know, trening in nutrition advice. The difference though is that Joe didn't sell you, you know, he, he, he, he bamboozled you with the, with the, with the commentary on the editorial in there. But what Bill said was, these other magazines are, are a full of crap. That this is, this is crap. And this is good stuff. We're not going to take the ads from the crap. We're only going to take ads from people who actually test their products and work with us. Bill was the 100% same as Joe. The difference is that his stick was he talked about steroids, had the balls to with Joe would never write. But I'm dead and it built, and it built ripped off a lot of stuff that. Well, that Dan to Shane, you know, well, they weren't cool. IMean, I really like that. And he had the water down version of Dan to Shane. So the excitement was that you could get a magazine that would talk about French and Aminos and by protein and by the way, you know, I, you know, sell those products too and it's called the AS. But let me tell you, let me have General Model breakdown for you, or someone Dan to Shane breakdown to you, the difference between Deca and Dan General. Well, I'm just saying you can't put down. He, that's true. That's true. He definitely did do that. But what, what are the biggest things that he did that really made a huge departure in what he was doing versus everybody else was when he wrote the supplement guide. Remember that? Yes. He talked about everybody, you know, and it was a big piece of work. IMean, it was not a hodgepodge. That was a very well researched good book, you know, and he, you know, he put himself out there just like everybody else, you know. So it was, it was very, for those who are very fair, you know, he sold other people's products initially. Because remember, you know, he sold AST research as a federal, a dimedidine rather, you remember he sold an ultimate orange from Dan to Shane. Yeah, the designer protein was not his. That was next next nutrition. I think it was called, that was the first whey protein that I know. IMean, the market even though black men swear as that he was first to mark it up. I think it was first to mark it with, you know, every orange juice. Yeah. I'm sure black men hated that that that bill was so successful. Because that really where black men wanted to do was very similar to what they did. IMean, it was building. What was more successful for? Metrics or yes, because they were both like black monsters. Well, he finally had a buy in that a metrics because he owned 50% that was their deal. So I don't know what he made on that. But when he sold EAS, they made like 350 million. So I'm assuming EAS was a better payoff payday rather. Yeah. But they didn't day by didn't bill originally by EAS from Anthony Almada. John or a model was one of the partners originally and then got a new one in the Or did he bought it from a more bought amount or something? He was involved in some way. But it was, it was, it was that little core of them that spun off metrics. And then later EAS. And then that was a man. You want to talk about a turning point in industry? I don't know. That was it right there. Yeah. And why John? That that was, well, supplemented. IMean, it became the thing. IMean, it was broke way out of the gym and broke out of everywhere. It was supplements. And there were so many different ones you could take to did all of these different things. And they, they all would tell you which one IMean, I believe them because I was a science guy. But Bill would tell you which ones were bullshit and which ones actually did something and show you the science of it. And that's, that's what impressed me. And that's what really what I try to follow in his footsteps and the sense of saying, hey, you know what? Yeah, this stuff sells good, but it's bullshit. It doesn't do anything. You know, Connelly was the same way he hated bullshit supplements. But he, the stuff that works, you know, if he, you know, if there was science behind it, he was 100% in favor of it, obviously. Because IMean, just for the first time in the history of our supplement industry, putting together proteins in a logical way. In other words, using, you know, different sources of protein, which is what metrics was egg protein and egg all-beam and way and, you know, casing in such a way so that the protein was like a time release type of effect on it. And, you know, no one had ever done that before. It was always like, basically powdered skin milk with sugar. IMean, let's face it. That's what all the, the, the weater products were. And anyone else who had anything else, which was really not that many, I think GNC had their own brand. If you remember, we were like, egg and milk protein. Right. It would destroy your stomach. You know, when you can mix, but that was the turning point. Chris was, yeah, science based products. Science, back products backed by science. But basically that was, and that, and before that, what, what products were backed by science before that? IMean, ever, no, you're done with those creatinists studies. Yeah. Yeah. He had a bag of, he told me had a bag of creatiners desk for like six months before even did anything with it. Blackman, Blackman, Carl, under the desk, and found that that's why he mixed him first to market my good stuff. You know, what do you go with that little maniacs? He has to say, I would, that they were first to market with. And then, and he would get so blown out of shape when you know, I'm not a definitely had it first, we know. Oh, I know, like, like, well, even films would say in the mags, you know, Steve Blackman likes to say he came out with a first. The fact of the matter is, you know, and you get the proof right there, the Blackman still say, yeah, it's way in with first to market. Yeah. I think you know, it was Steve read a book about about creatiners probably like before anyone did. And he just didn't think to actually make it into a supplement or that he could be made into a supplement. So in his mind, he was first because he probably spot it first. You know, he had it is one of those giant piles of paper in the conference room somewhere. But that's what made it up because there was twin lab competing with, with, with tonnily competing with, with Phillips. And then we knew it was just still trucking along with his, the same crafty. He had out, but people bought it because he had Lehanie and, and Leela Brata and all those and dispari, isn't it? And of course, people are going to use it because of that, right? So the victory line. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty nice. Very demanding and all those guys. And now, how did, you know, it's really funny is that the victory, the victory thing was, was Sergio Aliva. Yeah. I know. Sergio Jr. has a, has a clothing company called Victory Clothing. Yeah. It's not a, we don't know. It was the first, it was the first to market. Yeah. They had his based on Robbie Robbins's body and he had a, you know, name. You know, that is, for all we robbinGHis body, I just had, I need to stole Sergio's name or his company. Right? Joe, but you, Joe is smart. Yeah. And then Joe stole freaking my little crootons original, you know, charismatic, you know, progressive low overload system, you know, because my, well, because my little of crooton six hundred thousand years ago, he's throw a cow over his shoulder. A calf and walk up the hills and then as the calf grew, we got heavy, he got big on the stronger. And that, that, he was the first bodybuilder. And of course, you know, progressive overload. And then Joe took that. Oh, no, Joe was very sensitive to the like the way to trening prints of course. Yeah, as like being like legitimately. Yeah. So like, you know, I, I do, let me in David John, try and we do, you know, bench press, then we jump off and do cable crossover, immediately. You know, super, so to something. It's it. He's after branded by saying it's a we just a percent president. Yeah, we're in a president. We're in a pre-exhaustian principle. He invented it. Yeah. All right. I was at blackman would have, we're, we're a rule that the empire, if you would have just put his face his head on high greens body. But he, he blowing. It was, it was what it really was was blackman, because Joe was the trener of champions. Right. And Joe had access. Joe, Joe could rub oil on Lee Haney, you know, and, and that would drive the black me. Okay, because he wanted a rub oil on Lee Haney. All right. So. And so the tune of many millions of dollars later, he's still didn't get the chance. But. But that's what he wanted. He wanted to be the trener of champions. So it was like, so that was weren't a whole, you know, because Joe would go to the photo shoot and Joe was active and involved, you know, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like some NFL owners, John, one of all the team except, and they, you know, the sky box, right? Because every team, you have to be on the side line. And other people, they want to get on the side, sign lines, and they want to be able to, like, you know, put your head in on the hot oil with, you know, yeah, yeah, all of them. Let me see what you guys are doing. That's fine. They want to be like totally involved. Yeah. But let's see, but Joe, Joe, you never got the home of I'm from Joe. And even though he published kind of like, home of magazines, to write, to degree back in a day, you never got that five from him ever, never. And and black men, it's just, you got five from, from black men, John. What's that? I said, you got that, you got that five from, don't see. You did? You just kidding. You showed the ropes and the rest went alone. Now I can't, you know better than that. You know better than that. It was a creepy, it was a creepy, it was a creepy, it was a creepy, it was a creepy. But he's kind of like a peculiar looking guy anyway, you know what IMean? So of course, you know, you know, I guess you got to be eccentric to be successful, you know, in the magazine industry. It seems like every magazine owner is very unusual, like you never noticed that. Very, very, even when we met with that guy Stanley Harris. You know, Benlik was kind of normal. Stan, yes. He was normal. Yeah, yes. You know, the kind of normal looking, the only thing Joe was Joe had the strong man, you know, mustache with the wax on it. That's what I'm working. Then he had that to it. One point. Black men coffee Joe. Every, if Joe did it, black men had to do it. It was worth it. It was worth it. It was worth it. Just looking at the photo shoots. So he come on it. He's his wife is sitting there reading the books so he doesn't She may not go out too bad. You know, it's, you know, it's a situation. No. Oh, let's go. All right, let's let's talk about the Portugal Pro. Andre, I'm presti from Italy. When's it? Let me pull up a picture. They don't, the NPC knows there's never pictures of it. But I'll, let me get the, um, his Instagram up there. Yeah, he's put him up. I want to put him up. He did, I want to give him some credit. Yeah. There we go. Chris, give me your, your whole take on Andre. Um, good v-taper. Really good conditioning. Um, nothing. This is nothing overwhelming. Nothing, I'm the well-made. Um, and then line up like this, it gives him, like the judges are straight firsts. I don't know if he should have been straight first when he looked, you know, he was really good. He's wide. He's got a really good v-taper. Um, IMean, if you look at pictures in the lineup, like I said, he's, it's not like he's like a, a Paul physique, a not sure, you have, see. But as you can see here, you know, great condition, um, which he was also in a very good condition. Um, in Puerto Rico, I competed there, made top, I think four or five. And, um, I think built on that condition here. And I think that was probably, I think what one of them is his balance. And his condition. And thirdly, his lack of weaknesses. You know, lack of weaknesses would you have great condition, you know, could put you right close to the top and a lot of these shows. That's the very true for sure. You know, why you think it was that we didn't see more Americans in the show. There's not one American in this open lineup. Here's a perfect opportunity for a guy like a Steve, well, I don't see if cool girl's going to be doing the Texas show. But I just say even like a cool glow or guy like that to show up at the show. Even like a, how can we didn't see a Nathan the Ashard this show, you know, going in there? Probably because it's a pain in the ass to go all the way to hell alone. Not if you're in England, it's not, but I don't know what the travel restrictions are, but I see a lot of rushing guys in the lineup here, you know. Well, no, you asked why American guys were there. These guys though, the body bills don't get no fly. I don't get on an airplane. I don't think you can just wait and go to Chicago. You have to think about the level of the competition you can see there. You're going to see it's going to be a stacked lineup, you know, the chances of you winning one of these USA shows, Tampa, Chicago. It's very slim because there's only going to be so many slots of them. You're going to get guys like Ian Valier and there and you're going to get your Hunt-A-Librodas and, you know, where does that leave a guy who's almost at that level, but you know, maybe needs, you know, this is a good opportunity for like a, you know, I don't want to say a B level body bullet, but the A, but on the lower end of the A level body bullet, to kind of snagging it and looking at qualification. We talked about this as a sort of a strategy. You know, thing where, you know, you're going to decide like, you know, what shows to go and do. Yeah, running over to Portugal might have been a good idea, but, you know, I guess there's going to be other chances that might be a little bit more convenient. If not that many chances out there, really, I think about it. IMean, Chris, you helped, you know, what's his name? William Martin. William Martin. William Martin, so we interviewed a couple weeks ago and he took third year. That was a, and he went all the way from Brazil there. IMean, I think he, no, so IMean, we don't, I don't really know what Trevor restrictions are, but in his case, he had to, I believe he stayed in the Bahamas a while, where, where the, what was the Puerto Rico show we was in the Bahamas, or was it in Puerto Rico? Yeah, Bahamas. Okay, was in the Bahamas, so do to COVID, he had to stay there for an extended period of time. And then, I think he didn't even go home to Brazil, he went all the way to Portugal. So, you know, while it seems like things are opening up all over, there's still some travel issues, you know what IMean? Like he couldn't go home, tren, and then go, go to Portugal. And I don't know, like, you know, now that he's in Portugal, can he just like jump on a plane tomorrow and go back to Brazil, or do they say, you know, you have to wait. You have to wait. So he doesn't, that's so out of it. He gets stuck there for two weeks. The Olympia is not the October, you know what IMean? No, he's not qualified to win this qualified. But it has never enough points. Yeah, no, he got no points. He was seventh and no. All right, I thought he was top but he, IMean, he looks really good here. IMean, the guys, you've got him shredded. This is definitely theliness I've ever seen him. Yeah, no, he's come such a long way in a couple years. IMean, I think, you know, to contrast him with the winner, I think he's bigger than the winner. And I think he's actually harder than the winner. And do I think the winner should have won? Yes. So there's the point in, you know, when you ask him, what are the attributes of the winner is balance, it's pretty, it's pretty. But balance is like balance means balance between the body parts, but also means flow to. So, you know, a lot of times when you have really strong balance under the lights, you know, it enhances the way you look and you end up exposing people for structural issues or, you know, one body part being dominant where over another, your competitors, where yours, you know, may have a better flow. So that's why I think the winner came out as the winner here. MeaninGHe was deserving, but just, you know, it's not always about condition and size. IMean, I agree with you in that sense. IMean, William has a ton of muscle and freaky, you know, conditioning, but his waist is a little bit. We talked about this before the show and IMean, that's somethinGHe's just going to have to keep working on, putting on more muscle balance. I don't have a, I don't have a stage picture of him, but he, IMean, he's got a really nice physique too. All these guys were really shredded. Yeah. IMean, that's pretty impressive when you get a show in the top, you know, five guys are all like, crushed right in and haven't glued, you know. Yeah, Buddha Shrines are good body balance, really good balance. IMean, he falls into the category of the winner, really good balance. Usually in, you know, tremendous condition. And I think he was a really, really good condition here. I think he was the last time I saw him, I think a couple years ago, he was second at the Cal Pro. And he was way over the look that saying, yeah, he was six. You know, but really good, really good, I think. What do you think, what do you think the condition is so much better among these guys? The European guys, you mean? Yeah. I think the, I think the design up like if you look, it's such a good question, John. I think if you look at this lineup and if you remove William Martin's who's like the biggest in lineup, and kind of likEQuote, freaky, the guy to get first, the guy to get second, the guy to geT4th or let's say, yeah, even the guy to geT4th, but the guy to get fifth or everyone else, nobody's huge. And nobody's really big. They're, you know, good professional audience big, but they're all in tremendous condition. I think that, you know, just the mindset is if you're, IMean, let's contrast it with team. They're all tiny compared to a team. Right. IMean, if you're a team for people to get these guys, why would you die it down? You know, peeled out of your mind when you can beat them. This would have been a cakewalk for a team. Right. Oh, yeah, but you don't even need a, IMean, a team here. IMean, you can get a guy, you know, like, you used someone else's day. I just wanted to use the extreme. I was thinking like a seven day, nine place guy would probably have wanted to show, you know, somebody really big who's a little bit off, but big enough to, you know, they say, well, he's off, but he's still still got a lot bigger of free To give them these guys. So, you know, I think they have to come in that type of condition to be effective. What did you think about the two, 12 winner, Lucas Quaila from Brazil? They're really good. Excellent. Thys, midsection. I think the same thing, lack of weaknesses and extremely good detail. Made it a pretty convincing win for them. It's a pretty great because some people are less of a way of this. Yeah. A lot of us in short. How do you feel to do with the Olympia in the 2012 division? Top 10. Yeah. Probably correct the top 10 somewhere. It's so hard to say the 2012 because, you know, you split that out of the top 10 and then you start. It's like the Olympia. When you start, when you start handing the cap in the Olympia, we forget about people. I don't know how to say how my gosh, what it is. I've forgotten about, you know, right? Forget some people, you know? Yeah. You forget how good they are. And then you go to the Olympia and you're going to say, wow. I want to forget about him. Right. What do you think about the classic winner? Yeah. Who? Yeah. Yeah. It's a whole different year. Yeah. Is that the one that was a mess on that? No, the Jose won. The amateur of the, well, the, well, the pro. I'm talking about the pro, too, 12. IMean, I'm a classic, I'm just sorry. Classic. Plot picture up on the, I think I got a few more. Does it, there was, there was several shows a weekend. Yeah. No. Jose, Matt Day, Home home, so, Marianne, is, God explain the Spanish last name thing. They got, they, they have two last names, right? The mother and mother. They have, yes, they have their mother's maiden name comes first. And then they're, then they're, then they're surname. So you would have your name, your middle name, your mother's maiden name, and then you're surname. I got to go. And when they, when they, when did they use? It's like their legal man. Usually they're surname, the last one. Some of them don't, some of them use the mother's maiden name. It depends on how cool it sounds. You know. I'll take your pick, they'd take the go. You can, IMean, they, generally, the rule of thumb is it's your, it's your surname, but some of them go by them, the mother's maiden name. I can't find a picture of them. So yeah, they, pretty, pretty, pretty much, pretty much all of them have four names, at least. Let me make it up that day without seeing them. Well, I don't even think classic, classic, classic, classic, classic, classic. That's what I would do. I did it. Listen, listen, that's, that's like when judges say like, what do I get in, and prove on? Well, you could be, you know, bigger and harder, you know, IMean, you're just a good guy, I'm just a see harder, and you know, you got good fullness, but I feel a bit bigger. It must have been a good line up, and I'll tell you why, because Wesley Vissers, who, you know, has really made a lot of improvements, he's, and he's, he's, he's, he's, he's a qualified for the Olympic last year. He actually had a self-added third year. So, IMean, and this was a picture of him like right before, you know, he competed in him. IMean, he, if that felt like an article, look alike, and we've said this before, but he's even better now that he's gotten bigger and filled out his frame more. He's absolutely got such an article like physique, doesn't he? Yeah, I do. Dave, though, I, I'm pretty, the winner has a more body, like hardcore body building physique that was, you know, worthy of winning, but it definitely is all we had your body building. Yeah, I'd like to see Wesley go up to the, to the open body building eventually, to get an add-in of size, because he probably do it right. structure, you know. Well, he can take to 500 bucks and apply it to his future. But, say, he only won 500 bucks right from third place in a minute. Yeah, professional job. What do you think about that? It's climbing up there. The problem is this, this, these, these primaries don't have enough money to get that. It's only like a think of. Well, you know, those aren't what they're doing, putting on shows if they got no money. No, it's just got, thank you for the $1,000,000,000 question John. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Stop being so logical, John. Sorry. I, you know, I think that the, and this is good for the sport when the rock comes out with the, his, his athletic contact, he should have called the rock games. By the way, that's it that I think he missed the boat on that. But anyway when he comes out with athletic on, I believe it's coming out in April of 2020. I have been getting to be giving away a million bucks for every division in prize money. Is it million bucks total person or they're giving a million bucks or first prize? No, I think it's a million for the person for the, for the division. For you, John, remember? Remember when you said, what was that verbage you used John for EAS when you said it was not a watershed. The sale of EAS was a watershed moment. Oh, windfall. Windfall. This would be a windfall. And a watershed moment for the sport. Dr. Wolf. One million dollars. You will people who are. Yeah. To be one million for first place. One million dollars. Then you can, you know, then drop it down to 300 to 30. Can you imagine what's a good point, Chris? Don't you think this should be a huge disparity between first and second? Well, the reason they're Mr. Olympia. I think we've found it all. It's one hundred dollars. One hundred grand is not chump change. And that's the first. So it does drop off to second, third, fourth, fifth. To me, you know, fifth place. The first place is massive. Different. Yeah. The first. But I think first the second should be massive. It should be like million for first place, you know, 250 for second and then on. Oh, God. I can imagine John being up there. Those are by a point. So say, care, Bob Chickerola, we're got one point. One point. Seven point. Yeah. But they're. One point is where 500,000. Yeah. I was going to say, you did you got 800 grand for first place. And second place got like 150,000. IMean, that's still, that would be nice, you know. I think look, it's a million bucks first place. And then you got to go down to 250. Making 250 is not a two shabby. No, especially in body building. You know what, for the body, those are going to be great. But imagine to the fitness girls and the bikini girls who've never seen probably more than what 20 grand maybe. IMean, imagine they're making like 500 grand. You know, what is that going to do? And what message will that send? Number one to Jake, what if the Olympia? Number two to all these other promoters that are holding, you know, they show the Arnold people. And even, yeah, I got the answer to that question. Did they got to step the game up? IMean, what the, up to fucking game. What they do it. How about how about the football player, okay? How about the football player? It gets out of college, gets drafted, gets on the team. Now, he's going from eating ramen and ketchup every night. It's $100,000, you know. A year, okay? When you become, and that's not even the best. That's like an average, you know, above average guy, you know, what's the average? $300, $400 grand in NFL? Well, I think it's more than that now. Yeah. It must be right. What bodybuilders consistently making $300,000,000? Come on, they don't make it. So, you know, to three a top professional athlete, the best in the world. And you can't get a $1,000 first prize when you got freaking illiterate people who can't, you know, put string together sentences, when walking around with freaking, you know, $100,000,000,000,000 contracts. You know. So, yeah, I think there's plenty of money to go around, especially at the Olympic, at the Olympic level, at the Arnold level, at the肝肝 or whatever, the shit's going to be, there's money. The rock is going to get prime time sponsored. Where the money is going to be. The rock is not this different than to his old bank account. No, but he's good. He should. IMean, this is what he doesn't need to. He can go to the under armor. He can go to Nike and probably get the money from them, you know, because he's looked the guy is the most popular guy in the world pretty much at this point. It would be and him making those inroads and getting, getting it up like that would benefit Jake Wood and and the Laura Merz and everybody, because the mainstream sponsors would follow suit they would follow suit. You know, I would hope so, right? I would hope so. Well, of course they would. You can't have the rocks guy and then the same guy is going to compete, you know, for Laura Merz, they want nobody's going to follow me. I hope if the rock a pull an under armor in or Nike in or whatever that he's going to pull in that they would go and spot to these other shows too, but they may not, you know, and then what happened? Does the Olympia become, you know, not so important? Yeah, come. How about this? Of course it does. Of course it does. Right? Of course it does. Is there any debate on that? We need an eye on debate on that? No, IMean, it puts a lot of pressure on the Olympia guys to actually have to put out more money and is the money there or they'll buy it. I don't know. To the Olympia's grant, because I've been hard on the Arnold's on the show and saying that, you know, I always give the example my friends are 100 grand in 1995. And the house that he bought for 174,000 is probably like $850 now. You know what IMean? So things go up. What was 100 grand in 1995? It was it was real money. And it's not real money anymore. So when the Arnold's not like it was 1995, the Olympia, the National and Choir group, you know, continually added money to the men's prize and Jake, you know, IMean, back against the wall with potentially no kick-it-seals, whatever, last year, still coughed up all that money and laid it on the line had a great show. But he, you know, talk about stepping it up. But having said that, you know, to his credit, everything that great that he's done so far, if the rock has a show and it's a million dollars first prize, it becomes the number one show period. And ever, you don't need 35, you can smoke a 35 or whatever, it's 50 year history in one second by just one million dollar check. God. Well, you know what I was doing. John, if the first place was a million and the second was the same prize as the Olympia. Yeah. And you're preparing for the Olympia. Please don't, you know what? All those guys who stayed and didn't take the vis-a-vis pick man money, wanted to be loyal to Joe Weader. You know what? Good for them, they were loyalists. But again, people, the people went to the WBS last their way to the banks. Yeah, that's really great. It wasn't for very long, but they did laugh. Yeah. You know, what I would do is if, you know, and I'm not running the Olympia or anything like that. But if it came down to that where I have to step up my game, I only Olympia, which Jake does, doesn't it make sense to start abitting, bidding it out like they do with the WrestleMania? Hey, who wants to hold this? Who's going to pay? Oh, you want to pay in the Middle East there? You want to do buy? You want to have it there? Yeah. Yeah. It's going to cost you $10 million because I got to put up the prize money for this piece of these guys. You're going to have to put up $10 million money. And you know what? The I guarantee they wouldn't blink an eye. Yeah, it would leave the Orlando, but you know what? That would solve your problem. It's a brilliant idea, actually, just because you own it doesn't mean you have to run it. Yeah. Not at all. And in fact, you know, IMean, who would you can still be fully involved in it? That's a great idea. Right. You can make a lot of money doing that because he owned your brand. Let him let these other guys pay for it. Manion in those guys is still going to run the show. They're going to judge it and let the other let Dubai or let, you know, Qatar or let wherever they want to, you know, Russia let them fork the bill out for the prize money and everything else. You know, that's the, that's the, that's the underlying basis. And that's fantastic. But what you got, you need a guy like the rock for is what you said before is he's the guy that's going to bring the under armor, the Nike, the Reebok. What you get sponsors like that behind it, then the, the whoever's holding it or running it is in consequential because you're now you're talking big money. Now you got, now you've got, now you've got, not only you got a million dollar first prize, but you got a nice old house, you got limo, you got air fair, you got all this shit now. And it's what it deserves. IMean, this is what 60 years, 70 years has been going on and now this is, this is, this is, well the excitement John and the passion is for the athletes to get paid. Right. And, and you know, I, I can hear it now people who run the Olympic get like a little offended that people who are critical of the prize money. What they always do. Well, IMean, to to defend them to some degree, I said Jake Wood was one of step that up and, you know, even, you know, a little fan of David Packer, but he's stepped it up too by continuing to continually adding money, but who doesn't want to see the athletes, you know, the guy gets eighth place, walk away with it. Well, he's strong. Hey, Dave. Let's use that's not happening right now. Let's use David Packer as an example. That, that was a great example. When, when he first came on board, I thought to myself, this is it. This is going to happen. Finally, we're here. We're at the mainstream. Yeah. He had the mainstream publications. He had access to every A, blast and cruise level celebrity. You could name he had access to everything. What happened? What that was going to be? That was Cinderella Slipper for bodybuilding. What happened? You know, he didn't come through that there was under David Packer's rain. There was no reason why Mr. Olympia couldn't get a million bucks. None. Zero. Except for the fact that they just didn't want to go through the effort to go and do it. And I get that. Well, because, you know, why? Because bodybuilders for 70 years have been taught that they're not worth shit. And that the people putting on the shows, the higher-ups, manning and company, the whole, the whole organization, they all got to get their money. And it's off the backs of the athletes. The athletes have been underappreciated, underpaid, and under-recognized since day one. No, but I'm talking specifically about David Packer. Why didn't he? Because because, okay, who knows? IMean, maybe he wanted to, maybe they were he was told not to. You know, I don't know what the deal was. But if there was ever a time in our history where we could have departed from the the patents that bodybuilders were used to be in paed, it was under David Packer's rain. And for some reason, the prize money to forge a granddad when you, I think he wanted to do it. I think someone was tyinGHis hands. I believe I could believe that too, you know. But if you look not really, it's not the onus of the people who run the IFB, you know, the Jim Man needs to do. No, it's a prize money. It's the promoters that need to come up with a better business model to be able to put that, you know, put that money. And in that in the sense it was Packer's job. Now it's Dick Wood's job. You know, the Arnold people's their job. It's the promoters job to get that money and they raise that up. Is that's like the reason for the show. If you remember, John, when Arnold first put out 100 grand prize money, the winners were really shaking in their boots. And they made some kind of big thing. Well, you got to keep the prize money less than the Olympia. If you remember, because the Arnold and Jack right up. But Dave, but Dave, under at the time, Packer was at the helm. He had Packer and Arnold standing together on stage. Humilever worth probably $10 billion. Okay. You've got two of them. Well, theist people in the country stand right next to each other, presiding over bodybuilding, or the bodybuilder gets 150 grand. Okay. So when you had Arnold, we need to go not only the highest paid entertainer in the entire world, but Governor of California, David Packer, the owner of all these tabloid publications, millions and millions and millions of dollars in advertising and millions in circulation. You had this gigantic thing in front of you. And bodybuilding didn't go anywhere. You can then to the degree where you can say, well, the prize money went to 400 grand. Wow, 400 grand. Holy shit. Well, you don't, I think Arnold's derby and co-stown to him. I think Arnold would have raised the prize money a lot more. Had all these new divisions not bloomed essentially and sucked it up. In other words, when France wall won, it was only bodybuilding. Right? Well, maybe fitness was not because you know what? Because you can't defend them that Arnold that way. Because when France wall won the 100 grand and when when J was winning 100 plus a hammer. Hammer. You know, when, when Mike won the 100, they didn't have an attendance of whatever they have they have today. 200,000 people paid. I'm going to you have to pay to go walk that trade show to see Genders Hawking protein bars. You know, so it wasn't that income stream. So the income stream was lower. Far, far, far lower. So you would think that there's with all those income stream's as money to, you know, up the prize money. Yeah, look, there is Ben Weeder died with a building dollars in the bank. Okay? So there was, there was money in bodybuilding. Joe Weeder was a wealthy, wealthy man. Betty is wealthy beyond imagination. There was a ton of fucking money in bodybuilding. Only problem is bodybuilders didn't get any of it. And so they were taught they're not getting any of it. So whatever comes along the afterwards is used to the fact that you don't have to pay to bodybuilders shit they're used to it. So that's why they don't get any money. What other sport on earth on earth is treated like this? True. You're right. You're right. It's said, but you know what? Talking about it, bringing it to attention is what's going to get it to change. IMean, if it wasn't prevents from expanding in the early 90s, Weeder never would have given out contracts and the money would have never gone up. So the rock might be the right person, the messenger at the right time to spark another, you know, Renaissance and bodybuilding where we're going to see a higher amount of prize money, a higher amount of opportunities available. Maybe even, you know, mainstream, you know, entrences to that Hollywood world via the rock, you know, which you know, Arnold Wet the Hollywood, but he didn't pull at many people along with them. That was the problem. Or maybe has ability to do that. IMean, that could be something that would be great for bodybuilders as well. Yeah, but, but it way, I didn't, I don't, in my rant there, I didn't because Chris brought it up. I wasn't disinjured what, by any means, exact opposite. I think Jake, what Jake would has done for this is just absolutely, you know, mind-boggling, because no one else stepped up like he did, but I still think if you get the guy, a guy like the rock who can really step this up and pull in, you know, those those big mainstream sponsors, it's going to help everybody, Jake included. So I wouldn't look at this as like competition, something bad has happened. I would, I would, all of these guys, other promoters, I would be praying and hoping that the rock pulls this off because I'm telling you though, John, I just know what my gut, the Olympia is a very strong brand. I think it was a very smart purchase for Jake to make, but I also know that, and I went, I've been there in the Middle East, these Middle Eastern leaders of the country, the shakes, think that bodybuilding is, is the coolest thing they've ever seen. It's like baseball and football is in the United States. These guys will roll out the red carpet and throw the money at the professional body. It was that they're like fans, they're like, black men watching the show, you know, they think they like and see the bot, they'll put the money out there. And I think that it's foolish to keep it here in the US if it's good, if we can't grow the brand because it's just not enough money here, go someplace where someone's willing to open their pocketbooks up and pay for everything, you know, that and I always like when the Olympia moved around. IMean, yeah, it's more convenient, but it's in the US of course, but it's more exciting sometimes, you know, when it can go to a place where they're going to make it like Disney world because they think it's like, they think it's like, they get in the Super Bowl and football there, you know? I agree with that. All right, so a lot of strong opinions today, and hopefully I want to congratulate all winners. We didn't really get to go over everything, but you know, I will cover during the week on the other shows. A lot of the pictures are. We get to get two stuff for the money. What's in the show? It was interesting because you know, I see and I smell change in our world and it's a good thing for bodybuilding because it's going to mean that we're going to have more opportunities for the bodybuilders. There's John said the bodybuilders are the people who make the sport and they should really be the ones that reaping a lot of the rewards and they're not. And so, you know, I think that with Jake and new blood at the helm, you know, I think we're going to see new things. And I think another exciting thing is we've got the much, you know, with Tyler Manning kind of moving into a position as a young man who's going to be running things after his grandfather, you know, steps down, I think that's good also to the sport because, you know, new fresh ideas and there as well. So, IMean, we have a lot of good stuff happening over the next, I think, five to ten years are invocable. And I think that the rock is, you know, he's the first celebrity to ever say, you know, what, I'm going to support bodybuilding. There's a lot of other guys that could have done it, okay, a long way, but they did it like Arnold. Arnold, yeah, Arnold got involved to a certain degree, but I think the rock, the rock is the guy who wants to run from president, you know, can you imagine that the president of the United States who actually likes bodybuilding? You know, look, I don't know, overshadow Arnold's, you know, political aspirations or accomplishments, either, Arnold is, you know, is a household name. So, you know, the fact that, you know, he presides over bodybuilding to some degree, always his success to it, to certainly, IMean, he's older than O2 John. So, IMean, at this point, he made a lot of changes in the sport. I think with the Arnold class, again, everythinGHe did, and that's still going to continue on, but the rock is young, he's got a lot of fresh ideas, he's got connections, you know, that are fresh and, you know, not just connections that he had from 20 years, he's got connections currently, and he can leverage money from these connections and sponsors. And I think that if he goes ahead with this, it doesn't get cold feet at the last minute, like, you know, I think it could be a big thing. I think it could be a big meal. Look, a Paul de Lette in Canada, IMean, it could be a huge, huge, colorful event, you know, right? I think the rock is, and the fact that the rock is not trying to start his own organization, but he's doing it with the, the comp lines of the IFBB, it's something that's even more exciting because that, once again, is going to raise up the whole sport. It's not going to create a, it's not going to divide the sport, which is what we don't want, obviously. It's still competition for the Olympia. Yep, that's good. Competition is good, it's good, because you know, it's good for the athlete. It's my number. You go for the promotion. It's great on the athletes, but I think Jake has a very, very, very strong brand and the team, if he manipulated and uses it right, he, not only is going to make a lot of money, but he's going to be able to really raise the sport of body building up to another level. He had a rough first year, man, so you got to hand it to him for still hanging. Hey, men for sticking it out because he didn't have absolutely, so he drops them for the, Randy should be the one who's really, very happy. He might have been Mr. Olympia right now. We, you know, we're getting, we're getting curry might still be Mr. Olympia. If I birch a bit, they're not being in Olympia. They can't, they can't, they can't sell the freaking Olympics for God's say, right? So, all right, well let's wrap this thing up, running out of time and till next week, as we say every week, remember with heavy muscle radio, the truth is, get out of everyone, have a great one.

=== FILE: MONSTER EATER & NEW IFBB PRO! Bartley Weaver Interview [VnyK8cF7f3k].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Welcome back to our ex-Muscle Spotlight and today's competitor is an old friend of mine. He's just one his pro-card at the NPC Junior Nationals in the classic physique category. He's now an IAPB pro and the man I'm talking about is Bartley Weaver. Welcome to the show. Hey Dave, thanks for having me man. It's been a long time coming as you probably remember, you know, you were my first and I only coached back in what was it about 2016 or so. Yeah, yeah, I don't. Everything's on the board in my head, but probably, you know, it's funny because, you know, we work together and then you made those probably one of my favorite t-shirts as your t-shirts they made me. Oh yeah. You're still doing those, right? Yeah, I need to get you one of these. I just, yeah, podcast. Yeah, I had this custom made so we got a cookie right here, and it's slice of pizza and a burger. So bodybuilding and cheat meals podcast, I've been doing that with two of my buddies and it's been a great experience, you know, because we're all in prep and we're all talking about the food and we're all talking about what we're doing for trening and, you know, sometimes one of us is struggling, you know, there's on be mode, you know. So what kind of talk a little smack and pick each other up. So so I'll tell you what I said, hey, listen guys, I'm all compete first. I'll set to standard for y'all and you know, I'm going to have to finish strong for me. Well, you're pretty much that a very high standard for these guys because you've got your pro car. But more importantly, you know, I think the thing that really, IMean, you've been, you've done a lot of things we're going to talk about, but I love the fact that you're a professional eater or at least a competitive eater. I don't know if you're a professional. I don't even know what's sad. Are you a professional leader? Is there a status thing there? Yeah, it's actually a son to three-year contract with major league eating. So it is a professional organization. It's only a credited one. So it's the one, you know, on July 4th, County, I don't know. I don't know. Yeah. So I compete against Joey Chestnut a couple times the year before last and he definitely handed my butt to me. But you know, I'm still ranked. I'm happy to win. I did 32 years ago at a 30 and 10 minutes at a Nathan's qualifier. I did it at the Cardinal Scubs game center field. So it was about 100 degrees. Oh, my God. When you, when you were 30 hot dogs, look, my son loves hot dogs. I, you know, I take him to 7-11. He's got to have a hot dog. He makes me make him hot dogs in the house. And I won't eat them because I'm against the nutritional components of the hot dog. But I don't care. My son is young. He can eat it. But eating 30 hot dogs, IMean, like, you keep those things down to you from up after. Well, it's kind of, uh, it's kind of players discretionary. No, so what are you usually do? For the hot dogs, I was like, man, I'm actually, um, I actually want to eat some pizza into my screen. So, you know, I don't know how long these hot dogs are going to stay down. So, you know, sometimes you help them up. But if it's, uh, if it's like bread, like I did the world pepper on your row, eat and changing ship, which was a lot of bread, he wasn't that much meat. So, what that heavy on my stomach. So that was, that was no problem. Um, you know, the main thing is that a lot of people don't understand is, uh, there's a lot of water turning involved. If you want to be, you know, at the top upper echelon of athletes and major league eating, you've got to be able to expand that stomach. So, sure. What blows a lot of people's mind is, you know, here I'm in classic physique trying to shrink the waist. Yeah, right. For a few months a year. And then I'm expanded it and blown it out, which really don't make a lot of sense. But, you know, it's a, it's a free cheap meal. And, uh, you know, you get to travel. And to be honest with you, man, it, you know, just like any other sport growing up, you know, you'll get the butterflies. It's like, it's, it's a very competition. Right. It's, it's a, it's a, it's a one man sport. But this is what I'm thinking of. You know, when I think of a hot dog, it's got the meat and then there's like a shell around it. There's this like this skin shell that is telling you just to use like, you know, the intestines really, you know, the thing that the intestines, but so that thing is not that digestible. Now, when you're eating a hot dog, you might, if you're lucky, you get a bite out of the thing, right? It's just you're basically swallowing the hot dog, yeah, I expect of it. And then you're soaking the bread and water, right? Yeah. So what I do, I like to do the, um, the double barrel approach. So take two hot dogs. You kind of mow them down. When you do small bites possible, because the, uh, the Nathan's hot dog is the natural, uh, beef casing. So it's a little bit different than, um, what we're using competition. It's actually a little bit tougher than just your standard, you know, uh, run of the meal grocery store hot dog. So, uh, I've got a picture of mall all laid out, you know, on your Instagram. Uh, it's during weaver, IV. Okay. I can probably send it. We got to meet a picture of all that. Well, put your pictures up. Yeah. Yeah, but um, yeah, I know. I'll get them. What do you do? You dip the bread in the water. So dip the bread in the water. I usually, I didn't know anything about this. You know, I'm, I just, people would tag me on Facebook or Twitter and be like, Hey, uh, there's, uh, such and such contest, you know, talk a week in contest going on the Nashville, Tennessee, you know, this weekend for 150 bucks. I was like, uh, you know, I'll go tren legs and then I'll go, uh, fast and, and eight tacos and when money free cheap meal. You know, the main. So that's how I kind of started out. And I kept doing that until I competed at a, uh, a pro event, usually they'll let like one or two amateurs on the table and I did the World Mutton, Eaten Championship. Uh, uh, and I once burrowed Kentucky. So that's how much money did you plan for those people down now now. Yeah, I eat six pounds. It ended up being like 24, 24, uh, sandwiches in 10 minutes. And that was 10 minutes. Oh my god. No, when you eat that, when you eat that much of a mutton, okay, how long does it take to digest? Like, you know, when do you fully pooped that stuff out of your body, you know? Well, usually, and, you know, you're, you're a big fiber component, you know, so back in the day, I was slamming the fiber lies and that's something that I've almost, I've almost mastered Dave. I've, uh, and I give you a lot of credit for this because so I've created my own supplement line and I've created in my second product ever is a fiber greens. So it's a 10, 10 grams of fiber, five grams of greens and greens and probiotics and stuff. Yeah. I just, I took your stuff religiously for, you know, four to five years and I get my clients on it and that's, that's been something that you'd love this year to, you know, kind of bring my waist in because what I've got to do, I've got to naturally water, you know, play college football, you know, full back waist, you know, and what the judge just told me last year at the amateur Olympia, I won my class but didn't get the pro card and overall. Right. And they told me they said, hey, listen, your waist can't get any water. Okay. As we're glad you down talk, I was right now and I'm down. Yeah. So, so that's, that's, I use that in preparation. You know, I do, I fast one day a week. I did for this prep just, you know, calorie control, bringing in my midsection and that's what I would do going into these food challenges is I would fast at least, you know, 18 to 21 hours was usually my sweet spot for these competitions. If you do other guys do the same thing as that technique that most people use is that you're on technique. I talked to Joey, just not, and he said that what he likes to do, he likes two days out, he likes to do liquid only. So he'll do like liquid egg whites and protein shakes. And then a day out he'll fast, but he'll do the water trening. So the water trening is what they do every day. You know, I'm, I'm not that serious into it. We're out just, I'm just going to try myself, you know, choking water. You know, I got to wear, you know, just playing around with it a couple of years ago. I could do a gallon of water in a minute. And you're talking about some serious stretchage. You know, it almost, so they threatened to start a gradative with food, which is probably not helping me if they do it with water. Okay. I got it. Right. Right. And see, what a lot of them will do is, you know, they'll have to bring, you know, a lot of them's way more talented stomach capacity wise than I am. You know, I'm just kind of doing it just, you know, for fun, just for fun on the side, you know, and just kind of running with it. But a lot of them, like Joe Chess, not can drink four gallons of water in 10 minutes. Oh, wow. Don't know why I do that. You can kill yourself. No, no, no, no. Yeah. So, so that's, that's very, very toxic. So, you know, there's no way I could do that. And no way I'm on a try. But if I can get a gallon of water in 10 minutes, you know, it usually takes about six to seven iris to flush that out. So it's kind of like a, it's kind of like a balloon, like a water balloon, you know, once you stretch it out, once you let the water out, the balloon's going to be a little bit bigger once it finally stands out. So it gets me, it gets me a little bit of plod ability there. Gotcha. So, and you know, people don't really, you're not doing this eating every day. So even if you did it once a month, you're not going to blow your waist out from, from a, from, you know, perfect. Eating, you know, 30 hot dogs once a month. If you did it every day, that's a different story. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah, I actually got, got asked to be on the table at a event in West Virginia a few weeks ago, and I hit him back. And I was like, well, I'm all, I'm all, I'm all trying one more time for this pro card here. And we'll get back on the circuit. So, so maybe later this year. Yeah, the pro card is, it's not even that interesting. I'm enjoying the eating questions better, but you did obviously win your pro card. Now, one more thing I wanted to ask you, you were on that show, the rock show, right? What was the Titan game? Yeah, yeah, the Titan game. Tell me about that. Man, that was, those incredible experience right there, you know, anytime that you can, you can compete in front of one of your idols growing up, you know, to me, and one of the biggest guys in the game right now, the rock, he's, he's dominate and everything. And just being able to, to meet him and be on the show, you know, I even got a chance to talk to him a little bit backstage. And he's just such a humble, downed earth guy, you know, we, we go back and forth. We're supposed to tren soon. So, so maybe he'll watch this, but after one of the competitions, it took like, like, 20, some minutes to push this wall. I'm not sure if you had a chance to see it, but it's lunar impact. Yeah, where you, where you run up, ladder, it's like a two or three, if you type in Bartley, we've heard lunar impact on you, too, you'll find it. But, um, so I competed in that and, you know, I came from behind a tour of my hamstring, three, three weeks prior on a 40-hour dash at the Titan games combat. So I had, I had three weeks to heal. So IMean, I was doing every recovery modality. You could possibly think of just like, man, just, you know, I can't, I can't, both this opportunity. And ended up, it ended up holding. It was still bruised up. I showed the rock backstage. Um, my heart rate was like 200, they had to EMS on me because I, for you. I can't, I can't, I can't climb as fast. The guy's going against is like was number two in the world, Matt Chained. He was number two in the world in CrossFit. And it's also a firefighter. So he, he climbed that ladder so freaking fast. It put me in the hole. So, but once he hits the wall, he brings it all the way back to me. It about knocks me off. But I had a few inches and then just walked him back over over 23 minutes. And so once I jumped off after I won, I went up to the rock and I was like, Hey brother, is that Army leg day? Iron pair dice. He says you got a brother. So every time that we talk, he's like, he's like, yeah, we're going to get that leg workout in the end. That's awesome. That's awesome. Yeah. Hang out with the rock and that you won and that'll, you know, yeah. And you're a big guy. And you know, and let's add one more little acolyte onto your list, you know, across your, your police officer as well, right? Yeah, that's right. Yeah, I've been a site trooper here in Kentucky for about six years now. So if I get pulled over speed and I can drop you an end. A lot of people do. You know, when I was in New York, I knew all the, all the policemen there. I used to know, in New York, you get the little pdf card thinking about, you know, you can kind of wave it and be, and it was good. And everyone kind of, now IMoved to Florida, really, you know, no one knows me. Luckily, I did get pulled over once here in my community and the guy was a body build a believer in that. And he, oh, yeah. But I don't know. Yeah, if I'm in kid, if I'm in your state, I'll drop you a name. But that's cool. Do you like it? Do you enjoy being a police officer? I do. It's something, it's something different every day. You know, and you don't always get the opportunity to help somebody. You know, you're not always putting in a position to help somebody. But the times that you actually do get to help somebody and, and you, you know, make somebody's day a little bit easier. It's always rewarding in that aspect. Do you get frustrated when you like see stuff where people put down the police officers, you know, in the news and stuff like that? You know, that's like the, there's a whole bunch of people out there. I think the police officers were all bad, you know, and I hate when I see that. Because you know what, I know so many good guys like yourself who are, who are, you know, workinGHard, put their life on the line to protect us. And then I see these morons out there, you know, because there's one bad be seen. And it's just that frustrates me, you know, and I'm not even a police officer. Yeah, we've kind of been through a few cycles of this. If you, if you think back, you know, ever since I've started, you know, there's, there's been, you know, cycles of the media and, you know, yes, there's bad stuff that happens. And yes, there's bad apples. But, you know, like you say, you can't judge all of them based off, you know, sure, the negative actions of a couple. So IMean, I just, I just, I just answer my call, do my job, and treat people how I want to be treated. Sure. It seems to take care of itself that way. I asked that to Ronnie Coleman once the long time ago and he said the same thing, you know, he's like, look, I can only do B who I am. I can only be the officer I am, you know, and then take control of what other people do when he said. But I, but I have to imagine though, it's terrible when you, you know, you do spend and devote yourself to this job. And then you hear people just making it seem like all police officers are not good people. And that's just not the case. So well, all right, you got a pro card now. What are you to do with this thing? Hey, we're going to the Bahamas this weekend. Oh, you are. I don't even know that. Hey, Porto Rico Pro. Yeah, leave tomorrow. So I got to go pick up my PCR test today. I was just like, man, you know, I'm already at the top of my weight. Yeah. Basically, and I talked to Flex Lewis and Jose Raymond after the show and they're like, hey, man, just, you know, it's a, it's a small sport. Go ahead and get your face out there. You're absolutely shredded. You know, I brought my best package. And thankfully, you know, that's, it's probably due to the weight cap in classic, you know, I've been for the pasT3, four years. IMean, I end up losing 23.6 pounds in 48 hours to make weight for junior nationals. You're a professional eater. That's not. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, what's crazy is I can eat all this food with I can, I can fast like a son of again, too. It's kind of, it's kind of like a, all or nested in type of day like your body is adapted, too. Like it knows, you know, when he's fasting, you hold the muscle, you know, anything, you can let the body fat in the water go, but no, and then when you're eating, your body knows how to assimilate all that food and like, I'm just like an anabolic rebound. You get off of that. Now, how many pounds of behavior in food will you eat after the Puerto Rico pros are that's thEQuestion. I'm trying to talk, you need to, you need to shoot guys, sister, and you know what takes. I'm trying to get a little food challenge going with guy. I know, you know, Jamie, the giant, yeah, Joe Hall. Oh, yeah, he's probably good to eat her. Yeah, yeah, he likes to eat. So I shot him a message. You shot that in the day. He's the whole world of food challenges. One, Morrell won a few of our two, I know. I know. I wish I would have known you back then, but you wouldn't be great. I know it. Fury is eating. He's eating in one of few of our challenges and it was great. Yeah. I ate, I did a food challenge. I was four weeks out from a show. I guess it was last year, her year or two ago. And I was up in New York. I can't remember the name of the place. Wrong, wrong, concoma. Wrong concoma. Yeah, that's out one. Wrong concoma. So I was there and I wanted to do a little simple food challenge. Because one thing I like to do when I travel to new states, I like to get a food challenge in. Because I want to get a food challenge when in every state. There's only been, I think, two people to do it ever. So I looked up the food challenges. And I found a place called Crazy Crapes. They had a three pound curry. And I was like, all right, three pounds. Isn't that bad? I'm on prep. It's kind of clen. Yeah. It's clen. Yeah. Yeah. So I ate that. And then we walked next door because there was an authentic pizza spot. Man, I was like, man, at least need to. This guy's going and get one slice or check ouT3 pound curry. Yeah. Yeah. And listen to this. I went in there and had some buddies with me. And they're like, yeah, it stays for fashion. I eat her. He's number 34 in the world. Number one Kentucky. He said, he'll eat anything you got. What do you got? And the dude was like kind of confused. He was like, really? Yeah, we can make a food challenge. What do you want to do? I was like, I don't know. I was like, can you make a big cow's own? He's like, yeah, I'll make a five pound one. Oh, no way. You ate the five pounder. Yeah. And I was like, oh, man, I don't know if I can do this. And yeah. So he made a cow's own about size of a pillow. Oh, my God. He pounds a food right back to back. And right after that, I said, Art is time for dessert. He made two pounds of donuts. Oh, that's how you had it. So 10 pounds. Yeah. I'm drinking that. I'm not that cold after that. And I was like, well, as I'm doing that. Can you actually sleep at night after the after you have enough that much food? See what's crazy Dave is I sleep better. Really? Big swelled up, Billy. I just lay on my side. Just let it hang. After I would get after a show, I would go and eat like a lot of food. I couldn't even fall asleep that night. I would be so I'd be sweating and just feel it. Don't I get your body is adapted to it. That's crazy. So I'm still working off my post junior national's cheap meal. I had had three pizzas. I had two deep fried moon pies with ice cream on top. Those are phenomenal. What am I eating for? One of my eating prowess is that in college I was a runner. I was really skinny. Like 140 pounds. And I had a pizza eating contest. Each dorm had someone represent them. And they were all fat guys. This is before professional eating was really around. This is in the 80s. Yeah. And I said, and I was always starving myself for bought for and I could eat a lot of food. But I was starving myself to keep my weight down for running. And so I said, you know what? You guys gotta let me represent you. They're like, no, let's give this the fact that they wanted to have the fact that I was. I said, I'm telling you, put I'm gonna win. I ain't two and a half pizzas in five minutes. Which I'm believing they'd never seen anything like that. And I was still eating pizza after the challenge was over. I was enjoying it because I would start literally starving myself every day. All day and then just eat at night because I knew that otherwise I'd gain muscle. You know, I was a, my body was running the build muscle and that's not good for long distance running. Right. So that was, and then I had, I think I also had a food challenge in high school. 230 vanilla wait for us in five minutes. Yes. And that was, and that was my, that was my food and career. That's, say, you know, I didn't miss a meal for, you know, I didn't miss a meal for 10, 15 years. You know, I started working out when I was 12, you know, so I've been going almost 21 hours. And I've been competing. My first show was 2009. And so it's been 12 years since I started competing. And, you know, I didn't miss a meal that whole time. I was the bodybuilder's bodybuilder's bodybuilder's bodybuilder. I'm gonna play you. That's why you're a pro now. Yeah. But what I was saying is I kind of changed, you know, with the weight cap, you know, it wasn't all about muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle. It was kind of, it comes down to a refining process and just working on my proportions. And so I had to, you know, implement a little fast and just to make up for the star days. It works, man. And you did it. Congratulations, Bartley. It's been a pleasure knowing you all these years. And hopefully we'll be continue to be friends. And you got to send me that T-shirt like that shirt. Oh, yeah. I got you wanting for sure. This is, uh, this is a good little tripling for you. So you like it. Congratulations on the pro car. Good luck, uh, and Puerto Rico. I should say good luck in the Bahamas next week at the Puerto Rico Pro. You'll keep us updated for now. They'll we are out of time on day polumba with Bartley Weaver for another installment of RX muscle profile.

=== FILE: MORE OLYMPIA BERTHS & SHOW CANCELLATIONS! [XrUy1HLbGWE].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Votes, our 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low-car capped art, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Wednesday September 23, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's Wednesday and full is officially here, and I can't think of a better way to welcome in my favorite season than kicking my day off right with an extra strong dose of recap Wednesday. We're starting things off today with the Hurricane Pro Championships and the classic physique division. We're Peter Scallow earned the biggest win of his career by takinGHome the title in both the open and master's divisions. In Bikini, second year pro Julie Lopez turned in the best show performance that landed her career win in numero uno, and at well deserved the Lempia Nod. In the master's Bikini, the dangerous one Abby Guy Tono came in and delivered the goods as she crews to an easy win, and finally wrapping up our coverage here with wins in the over 40 and over 50 master's bodybuilding is the powerful Jeff Wilkinson. Now we're moving on to the great state of Texas where once again, the beautiful city of Dallas played host to the classic physique division at this year's heart of Texas pro and bringing on the top honors was the Ageless Wonder Lorenzo Jones in the master's division, who added another win to his already impressive resume, coming in second was San Antonio native Scott Traut and rounding out the top three was veteran Aaron Sparinberg, who put together the best overall look of his career to close out of their solid top three group. Our final recap from the last weekend came from the other side of the Pacific where we had some competitive action in classic physique and bikini at the Asian Grand Prix pro. In classic physique, Stjong JunGHeng did enough to separate himself from the pack and punches take it to the Olympia by locking up his first career win. A strong performance from Jung Choi helped him secure the runner up spot and closing out the top three with a solid performance was Pungi Lee in the bikini division it was all about high-quung fun who stole the show here by putting together the best overall look of her career. Bola Cio slid into the runner up spot with her strong performance and closing out the top three was local product, St. King. Finally, we're closing out today's show with one last bit of news on the competition front. Following the announcement by NPC and IFVV officials that this year's NPC Junior Nationals were officially being postponed until 2021 in light of the news and PC officials didn't ask that they are still a handful of pro qualifiers left on the schedule this year. In the NPC team universe, the NPC Nationals in December along with the 2020 USA Championships in Amateur Olympia, anyone who's followed the Junior National Circuit over the years, I'm sure this announcement was probably pretty disappointing. But given the circumstances, I think the officials have done a great job behind the scenes trying to make sure that these athletes have opportunities to put themselves out there and compete for a pro card. Even though this announcement is somewhat bittersweet, things do seem to be trening in the right direction, and I'm hopeful by this time next year, things will be back to normal. And we'll have all of these big events back up and running once again. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo Reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: MR. OLYMPIA FAVORITES! Heavy Muscle Radio (8⧸20⧸18) [EQz6gtB1G4A].txt ===

10 and 9 You're my and I'm a group There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lumball Chris Asito Orange Russell dot com presents Every muscle Leave your watch out Welcome to another episode of heavy muscle Radio I'm Dave Palumba when I'm joined as always by the technician on this August 20th 2018 evening and Chris We are closer and closer to the Olympia I actually booked my plane tickets which is a true sign of commitment on my part because I was having trouble I kept having trouble pulling the trigger on it and I finally did it. I booked the tickets I'm glad Yeah, yeah, so I will be out there Is it true that you're going out a week early I'm going out tomorrow I'm going out a week early because I just want to get away from my kids And then I just want to get settled a little bit there too Well, you know what the funny thing is I gotta just tell people this because this is true I always talk to your guys and you know when I interview the math today when the show is And I'm like we talk about Chris and they're like oh Chris Chris loves this you know every three hours we pose around a clock Chris just sleeps on my couch I said I don't even know why Chris gets ruined He'd much much happier on the couch No, you probably talked to Sergio this week Yeah, I did And Sergio said you know And he did the show he didn't do the show on a whim But he ate and you get the scoop and I talked about last week he ate like the maniac in Chicago And then at some point I forced him to do the show not forced him but I just put pressure on him to do the show And then he goes like well you know I get a two bedroom place for me and you wouldn't tamp on him like Oh God you better look good. I'm thinking in the back of my mind Sure But I did I was like I'm like you know Like a tech you know all right Let me see what you looked like Sergio let me look you know and he really only came together to like the last while And Sergio is really needy anyway, so he likes the fact that every three hours you probably haven't get enough you know I would be like can you leave me the fuck alone let me sleep already you know I don't want to get up every three hours Sergio is like probably right you know settinGHis alarm You know he's up every the very Chris let's pose come on. Well, no I don't have to get him up But we did joke a lot the whole I don't know if he told you that we we joked around the whole entire time I guess his humor And I think people don't some people don't get his humor, but as long as I get it Yeah, well, we have this you know we have this whole redcon this whole redcon Iron Road to the Olympia series that's starting you know today And I don't know who's going to be up first, but we did a bunch of interviews already and Sergio was great IMean he's he's you know what the funny thing is you guys stated that to bedroom apartment or whatever you say which is completely reminiscent of what you did with Sadrick and in Brazil that year that he must have competitors meeting in Lee Thompson to Squalf item and the same exact thinGHappened in Tampa I know that's that's what she claims is because he was sick. IMean it told Tim Gardner better, but the bottom I see And that is luckily though luckily there was there was normal people running the show this time around so no one to scroll find him that It was like days you have to all over again. It's a yo-yo barrow would say yeah, it was a huge but it was a blast we had a blast So you interview him who said you got interview these are the guys I'm helping for the show because people asking Jose Come all Zane in the 2012 hope you get all those three Sergio and Rodin in the open Well, Rodin wrote and sent me pictures unsolicited the other day of himself Oh, I was pretty proud of the way he looks. Yeah, which him any and I've never seen Rodin release a picture before the Olympic which is a good sign Because iT4 weeks out if he's sending me a picture which he said I can definitely put up which we did Ah, you know, he's he's got to be feeling good about himself, which is for once rather than playing catch up and trying to like you know Fix stuff that's broken. He seems to be ahead of schedule Well, I don't know if he's ahead but he's on and you know last year was like a panic prep and You know, and IMean it is what it is, but I would I can't wait for the Olympia because I think he's going to be big and I think he's going to be hard You know people don't talk about the fact that Sean Rodin is not Thirty years old, you know, he's in his 40s, right? IMean, I don't know what how 40 what but he's still improving. It's kind of amazing when you think about it This guy is still getting better, you know, in his 40s and is looking better every year. I'm you know, I'm impressed because guys don't improve it 40s usually Yeah, no, he's he's he's IMean some people can some people can't and why IMean who improves and IMean Dexter's not improving. He might be just as good But he's not improving who improve well, we'll see the day of the show, you know, but I'm saying who improves in their 40s though no one really nowadays They just kind of if they last then they they pretty much maintain what they have, you know, that's true. That's true. So And then so before I forget because I know I'm will forget I got Reagan I already forgot Henry Pierre and Stanimal in the in the in the black So you got it. Yeah, you got a good group of guys up there. Yeah, so I can't be in every room every three hours, but I can be in every six hours Why is Jose when I interviewed him I said Jose where are you staying? He says it the same place every year Well, I thought he was going to say he was staying at the platinum with you, but he's like no, I'm staying in the free room in the in the warlands Yeah, but he stays he upgrades to the to the penthouse. Oh, he does he didn't tell me. So he gets like a 1500 square foot place Oh, I didn't know that I thought he was just like gigantic yeah I thought he was a compromising. I was like, wow, that's pretty impressive. He's staying in the warlands. I think that's pretty you know blue collar I like it. Well, he might be the only one who knows that. I think like Robin Chang get some the free room Right, or AMI whoever gets the free room and then Jose like 365 three days before Calls up and says, you know, I would like to upgrade and they said it's like another hundred dollars upgrade. Oh, that's that's cheap. Yeah That's a good idea actually I'll go hang out in Jose's room. Maybe he's got an extra room in that suite of his Yeah, no, it's a place to ask of the whole time of there. Oh, he's always about all laughs Well anyone out at there has an extra room with the world leans. I'm going to check it through that little place you told me about I think anyone has an extra room with the world leans. Let me know about it. And then what anyone knows the name of the sweets. There's a hotel that is likEQuote all sweets And it's in the parking lot of the Rolling so tell then email Dave and tell them the name of that hotel. I'll take the regular room and it's anyone's I don't care. I'm not I'm not going I'm just going to work. So I'm not going to a park. I don't care. I'll take whatever the cheap. Well you'd be there with me. So we'll have a glass broadcast. Oh, you'd be great. Yeah. So you started the red con road to the Olympia. Red con one. Yeah. Iron roads to the Olympia was a lot of interviews this week. I got a lot of coming a lot more coming up And we're going to try to get as many good interviews as possible with people to really kind of look no one's promoting the show. You notice this? IMean it's like we don't see any any You know really excitement coming out in the show. Isn't it funny in it funny? I don't know. It's good. The child back to the show. It's bad for the show because IMean you want to get people excited about it, right? You know what it doesn't It's just yeah, there doesn't seem to be a lot of you know who's quote is that. See if you can attribute that quote that that quote is Strongly attributed two years ago to who who was on your show. What was it? Yeah. It doesn't seem to be a lot of excitement building for the Olympia. I remember like verbatim because most of everythinGHe says And yes, you listen to the show is 100% dead on he said well Dave, you know, there's not really a lot of excitement right now for this show. Yeah, I just didn't do the actually it. Well, you know it the show is there's excitement in the fans But it just seems like anyone is promoting like the show very much So I'm going to obviously up every year we try to do it. We promote the hell out of it. We really you know try to get the athletes. I want to get the look these guys have earned and the girls have earned the right To be on that stage, you know wasn't an invite. It wasn't you know choice. It was it was it was thEQualification And so they should be at least be acknowledged for that and allow them to like say hey this is how I feel you know going to the Olympia. You know I'm excited or I'm this or I'm that or it means this to me or that to me And you know I just think that you know because a lot think about only the winners of the top top guys are going to really be acknowledged once they're at the show It's you know so before the show I think these these other people that qualify and have names in their industry and that you know Really need to be acknowledged. I'm I'm looking at my computer screen and I see these pen marks all of my computer screen my son was writing with a pen I'm like computer screen. What the hell is this? And I remember he was taking the pen and writinGHis new thing is he's he likes to write on everything Well come to my house so you can see like the most gorgeous Absolute fabulous lay formally fabulous love the couch just ripped into tatters. Oh real made a strike the couch. How did he do that? I had my oldest son was a picker In other words he would take his fingernail and and just ever since he was one just like pick pick pick pick pick pick pick pick a thing We don't He would scratch things with the thing I got a hole in the drywall in my dad that I've never fixed Wow, and that's the picking and picking yeah, well even to this day I'll scream stop picking you know he'll be like sitting in the car And what is like a nervous habit I don't know what is it a little second dog that digs on you know, oh my god That's what IMean with the ficken hell and it and he you know I got 10,000 holes fixed in apartments and my own house. I got a hole right in the den And then and then leather couch that you would have loved it. You would have loved it And had you seen it when it was in it's AI'm sure it was probably like when you were a bachelor probably was awesome I should donate it to the buy building the Hall of Fame and say it was like I Don't know Someone's couch when they prepped for the USA in 1988 It was Lee Haney's couch. Yeah, Louis Fregnows can open it that he used to open up tuna fish on first Why no, he's still got the same fucking one. He's probably still using it Well, we could get a replica artist tradition. Well, I got to just tell people when you when that I don't know what they were releasing the Jose Raymond interview, but If you guys missed that one you're missing probably one of the best interviews A ball time and the reason is that we don't really talk about the Olympia that much. IMean we do it a little bit, but it's about Jose's life And a lot I guarantee you 99% of you don't know anything about Jose and where he came from and the obstacles that he overcame I didn't and it's an unbelievable story about what his brother Tito and him had to endure growing up And I'm not going to run if you watch the interview Surgey, of course, of course was amazinGHe's a Hey, if you ever want to have a good grade in Georgia, just have Sergio on because he'll talk about anything this guy He's so honest it was really maybe maybe we can get me I told you I was watching a minute land or my in-laws for a week And I've been watching family feud over and over so maybe we can get for the bodybuilding family feud me you Sergio Jose who else could be catch The whole thing about family feud is it's one family against another so I know but we'll have to have the bodybuilding family Nobody gets like the well, maybe we can family we'd have to get like the RX fan RX muscle family versus the you know I don't know and get to it Somebody's empty family can have black men in their run Harris they can only have two people no would be black men It would be a lease you had a lease and there to right because black they always right don't you usually have like the the the the head of the family And then they have like this wife and then they have like kids And then the married to married like some of you like black men a lease then maybe like Ron Harris and Even though he's a work for the maybe I would want to put Christian Duke in there. Just just to have it like the other you know the Yeah, be good for you know the crazy uncool you know that he'd be like the crazy cookie uncool And so you would be the head on our side They'd have the the Boston Terrier you know bulldog whatever the French bulldog who's got the legs don't work real legs don't work They'd be like the the last person in the crew there and then on our side would be me you Romano Lee priest and Boston Lloyd well wait a minute. What about what about the guy with the exploding arms from a way right out Value we got to you Valentina when there's a Valentina people it might be the craziest rated choice And the first round you know you always have like the first person on the on the panel it would be like black men versus me and they'd be like name a name a name That we have that we use in the industry for shredded Glutius max and muscles Hi Well yeah, I was not right who was it? No, it was like it was a term and I said Stry it in I see someone answer thing IMean I did just like him. I went right there Didn't listen to thEQuestion and then we got a crush you'd be the second person and name for a For ripped or excuse me for a super lean glutius max muscles Shredded net number two answer thing thing and end of it. We get the whole thing Next question then it would be like a least verse you name a popular Body building Guru Always my husband Steve Blackman Krissacena Gilles Alice I just got I love her Boston Lloyd Honey Robb honey Ramrod Naming I have to organize the whole thing We could do like could be exclusively body building Triple H to be like the host of the thing you know yeah He could be the over to Dawson Yeah, French kiss all Each Can you imagine when he was to run the show right used to get ready to kiss him on the mouth right he's a make out like crazy with Like high as a kite Was he think he was drunk all the time? Oh half the time. Yeah That without a doubt and they loved them people are ready no one said anything I never heard of like a bad word about that guy right no scandal That was there was before the me two movement Everyone on the show for like 20 years That's how Bob Barker I think we had to get off the show I think he also like had issues with like Making moves on though. Oh, he did yeah, yeah, I think you're right and then what's his name was packed well and a path subject in didn't He had it. I think he had a Relationship with that a way but I don't think that he was sexually harassing any of the women on that. I think about when you work with someone every single day We could also do bodybuilding 20,000 dollar pyramid Yeah, I know a pass word what was that it's 20,000 dollars 20,000 dollars was the same thing right? That's the fun game. Yeah, we have to like and they Scipient eight that's not so long acting Just a testosterone that people use you know you all who likes their rights Clent Fyright TNP Cardio things that burn calories Oh, man Well, we did a And I it was supposed to be an iron rage because we do iron rage every week with Lee prace and Ramada But Boston Lloyd wanted to do this show on veganism and just sick of hearing about all these vegan people So I turned to like a little iron debate Boston Lloyd Lee priest and Ramana Well, it'll be released this week Oh, it's great funny. I'm gonna have that pain in the S The vegan gains now on my fucking case after this freaking thing they abuse Yeah, I'm teed he's gonna be fucking making videos and torture me again I just got rid of him too recently and then Oh, vegan gains because they're gonna be like, you know, he's gonna he has he needs material all the time He's gonna be great material forever What was the deep deep is he ended the impression that we can't be you know you can't be a vegetables build muscle No, you can't there's no if you can't be a big body and there's no successful body But on the history to support there was a true vegan You know, I'm gonna backtrack somebody asked me about vegetable protein today And I had a funny text back. Oh, I deleted him because I got mad at him I had a few clients that are vegan but they're bikini competitors You know, that's fine because you don't need a lot of muscle in bikini But you just can't build muscle, you know, and then one of the greatest things you know, Connelly Stock to Scott Connelly is one of my mentors Um, made a great statement, you know, the mountain gorilla is a vegetarian, you know, it's leaves all day long, right But from the minute it wakes up to the minute it goes to sleep at night, it eats, it eats, it doesn't stop Because it can't, it has to consume such largEQuantities of these leaves to extract enough protein To be able to sustain itself That it's almost, you know, no human could do that, you know, it would be impossible Why we evolved as, as I'm the voice to be able to eat both, you know, animal protein And plant protein because If, if some of it If, how about this? Because I hate science Uh, if somebody was gonna be a good bodybuilder, he didn't A strict vegetarian diet we would have known about not him but them by now. Simple as that. We would have known about him. It would have been like, did you see Jose Raymond? He looks crazy. Yeah, he doesn't need any protein. What do you mean? He eats tomatoes and he compliments him with kidney beans and rice and... Right. It's just... Well, the oldest story in our industry about vegetarian was everyone always said Andre's calling was a vegetarian and he looked pretty good right and his head was still looking good. And then I interviewed him at the Master's Nascals if you remember one year. And Master's Olympic excuse me when the jerk, I think the first year she held it was something like that. And I asked him, I said, do you or vegetarian? I said, you know, how did you do it? And he's like, oh yeah, he wasn't a vegetarian. He ate fish and daryl. So he just didn't eat red meat. And that's back then in the 80s and 90s. And that's what people call the vegetarian, right? If you didn't eat red meat, you were vegetarian. You know? But veganism is when you don't eat any animal, so we're super, you know, weigh, dairy, eggs. Oh, the guys up the guys are like investment guy. And I said, he asked me what he had to do. What do you think about vegetarianism for building mass? And I said, it's like junk bonds. And he got it. IMean, meaning bonds that are really going to eventually be worth this probably most likely highly, highly, highly, highly, highly, likely not much. Yeah. So he got it. I have this, you know, appreciate this expression. I was like, I was like, expressions. Because I grew up, you know, with my mother's side was Jewish and my dad, obviously, you know, there were Catholic Italians. And the dough is expressed in the tanyning expressions, always being thrown around my father's still like the, always say, fun, go, fun, go. I know, you know what's so funny, Dave? My, my, I used to have that in my house. Are you ready to? Yeah. And one time, I tried it out. And I didn't know anyone was in the house. I had to be like six. And I know exactly in my house where I was standing. And you know, I have a crappy memory in Los Angeles. And I screamed at the top of my lungs. Bungu, I didn't know anyone was in the house. My mother was in the back. I didn't. She came, she came flying out and covered my mouth with a wet cloth. And I didn't even put what was and what it was. Yeah. Fungu, yeah. And then you know, well, the, you had to expressions from the, you know, right by Jewish side. How was I always hearing? So I have a client who's, she's Mexican. She's a woman's physique competitor. And she, she sent me an email. She's like, I'm feeling, let me see if I could be expression right. Gordi Guanga, she said, Gordi Guanga, she kept saying to me. And I said, what does it mean? She's like, chubby and flatty. She's like, I'm not really sure how to trenslate as English. Because it was like right after her show and she kind of was revounding, you know, and I thought it was pretty funny. Gordi Guanga. Gordi Guanga, I got to get all started using it and wrap up. She looked good by head a little Gordi Guanga in this law. She did like that. Now there was an article that came out recently. It's, I'm so excited to make. Actually, I think it was, what's his name? Dr. Dr. George, who we interviewed. And it's a study they did, which seems to link, Chris, it's pretty crazy. All-Signarist disease and the use of tren below. Are you kidding? Yeah. How many people could they be in the study? I can't believe that they actually were able to do this study. But yeah, they are saying that I'm going to read it right here. Testosteron and its metabolites, estridial and DHT seem to offer protection against Alzheimer's. That's why my new wondered, I guess those are the researchers, what effect tren below has on the formation of beta-amoloid plaques. Now, you get a memory. And people with Alzheimer's, they don't break down this amoloid beta-42. It's called, it's some kind of a protein. And people with Alzheimer's, it accumulates in the brain. And they think that's what it takes away the memory and destroys the brain eventually. And when they do an autopsy on Alzheimer's patients after they die, they find there's a lot of this amoloid plaques in the brain. So what they do is they gave my five injections of trenbolone over 48-hour period. Human equivalent of doses the researchers used would be about 0.85 milligrams per kilogram. So the way I figured out is I figured, let's take a 200 kilogram person, right, without the about, 100 kilogram person, which would be about 220 pounds. That would mean they would be taking about 850 milligrams of trenbolone. So it's a pretty big dose over the course of 48 hours, but nothing probably Boston White hasn't done already. And according to the researchers, the results, the amoloid beta-42 accumulated in the brains of the male rats, and they showed the, I guess the results of this 48-hour period. Now, obviously this was a short-term study, so who knows if it really has anything to any relevance to anything. And this was in rats too. Yep. The addition of anti-angirgines such as fluidamine, reduced the amoloid beta-42 accumulation. So brain damage caused by tremble and seems to be due to its angogenic effects according to this. A combination of trenbolone in DHT, which is 100 to the soft runoff, boost the accumulation of beta amolids, that's I could. So who knows? I don't know. I doubt it's going to stop anyone from taking trenbolone, but I don't know. I don't even know if it has any relevance. Because I don't like these short-term studies. How about take a guy who's used tremble in for 10 years and check out his brain? You know what IMean? Let's see if there's any, the problem with beta amolids is it's really hard to see if it's actually in your brain until you actually die and they actually cut your brain open. So you think you do MRI studies to see and stuff like that. I remember my dad was in the hospital probably about five years ago, I think it was maybe even a little less. And they did a CAT scan of his brain and they said that they didn't really see any like Alzheimer's type stuff there. They just sort of shrinkage that was consistent with his age. So he obviously had dementia, but I don't know. It could have just been from getting old. I don't know if he actually had Alzheimer's per se. Yeah, it's funny. I tell my 40-year-old, he won't need to send me the other day. I wrote a few weeks ago. I said, if you don't eat, your brain is going to shrink. And now he keeps saying, he'll ask me if I tell him. He eats something. He said, you always says, pull my brain shrink. They kids listen to everything because they don't eat. Yeah, they kick it. Yeah, that's right. He's exactly as it is. His brain's going to shrink. So I had to go to the more big job of having to go pick up my dad's ashes at the creamatorium. How weird is that when you walk out of it? I have to turn, I know my dad would want me to talk about the absurdity of this because it really is absurd. You walk into this place, you know, they give you this little bag. It's always a nice place because you're paying fortune for this anyway. You give it this bag and it's like walking out and putting my dad in the trunk of my car. It's kind of like ridiculous almost. And you know what the truth is? What the hell knows when you really got in the bag anyway? Well, they give you a bag of dust. It could be anything in there or anyone. Basically, I'm paying to have my dad, you know, basically just, you know, gotten rid of essentially. It's like when you go to, I can't have had to put an animal down in it. That, you know, they say, how do you want to do it with the animal? You can bury it or you can cremated or we can do it. What do I, what am I supposed to do with it? I don't know. I don't know. What do you want me to tell you? Well, separately, you want to do it in a mass cream. What the hell are they right now? What's the person's not there anymore? What's an animal's not there anymore? What's that person? That person is not there. That's talking about, you know, throwing in a garbage bag and just throwing in the freaking trash. You want to hear crazy story about burials? Yeah. My grandmother, from Italy. She was dying. Since I was a kid. She was just a martyr. But she'd always tell me, you know, she was getting ready to die, getting ready to die. She had in her kitchen. She was a receipt for her burial. Oh, she already paid for it. She paid for she prepaid for it. And it was one of these things. You know, she paid for it when she was like 40. Seriously. And she lasted about 80. It's just 93. 93. And she still had to receive. Was the place to open? She still had the receipt. And she was in her kitchen. And, you know, it was like this, you know, rig and were all when you went over there. And she's, I'm not feeling good and if I die. Yes, the receipt. So one has to worry about me. I'm not going to be a burden for anyone. There's it. So she helped everyone out of the way. Yeah, she died. And the funeral director pulled my father aside and said, I gave him a bill. How long do you think it took before my father started to choke the guy? Seriously. Oh, really? Like two seconds. That he had the audacity to, you know, pull over. You know, because he thought it was, you know, quote, not the right time. But two, that he should know that, which I was actually an agreement that she had prepaid. Now, did they try to hit him with, like, actually, your father get extra drugs? No, no, no, once once a guy almost got choked to death. That was the end of it, yeah. That was the end of it. It would have been complimentary even if he had never paid. I'm sure. Very skid. To almost, you know, almost in just own grades. Yeah. So I decided I was going to go every year they have, like, this big reptile breeder show and they're toe in a Florida. And I haven't gone out to a show in a while because of, you know, the kids and everything like that. And it's just I can't go flying in place. So last year I wanted to go, but I had my shoulder surgery so I couldn't drive. And so, Amanda said, yeah, I can go to the day. So I took a Tyler, the producer, and we did the O'Cammer. And I went in and interviewed people. It was like a four hour drive. And so I got up really early. I had like three hours. I was just like, and I said, you know what, I got a drink coffee because I'm not full I'm sleeping at the wheel. You know what IMean? It's the drug. Except the bull. And I don't do any stimulants. When you don't do stimulants in your drink coffee, I had one cup. You feel like you're on, you know, you're on, yeah, you feel like you're like on the greatest speed of all time. It works so well when you don't use it. So I was like, it was like instantaneously not tired anymore. And I did the same. Another cup on the way back. And it was phenomenal. I was like, so finally when I got back, obviously, I still had answer emails. I got back about eating clock at night. Because it was four hours there, four hours back. And we stayed for abouT4 hours. So I get back and I'm go to sleep maybe two in the morning. I'm answering emails and I don't even know what I'm writing anymore. You know how when you get to that, you that level of tired. You're like almost like sleep while you're awake. You're dreaming, but you're not really asleep yet. So I'm like, I gotta go to sleep. So I go to sleep and I have like the, yeah, I slept like maybe six, six hours, which is five or six hours, which is not probably out of six hours, which is more than I've had, you know, in like in probably six months. And I felt so, I felt so alert the whole day. I was like, wow, I actually feel like I actually, I'm my memory was better and everything. I'm like, maybe I feel like I'm turning it to my dad, because I'm not sleeping at all. And I really believe that to be true because, you know, they say sleep is really necessary to solidify memory. So if you don't sleep, all the memories that you're getting, that you're not making them permanent memories of your brain actually. It's pretty interesting when you think about it. Yeah, it's fascinating. And I'm sure it's true, which is probably why I have no memory. Yes, absolutely. You never sleep. Yeah, you haven't slept for 20 years, probably. What about, um, do you sleep better when you're awake from your family? Oh, absolutely. Yeah. You better cut the tape there so your family don't hear it. Yeah, yeah, probably. No, it's true though. It's true, right? When you're like, I went down to the camper and I got no sleep on top of those sleep and I felt completely rested from that trip. Yeah. Because I was away from like, you know, like, could, you know, chaos of chaos. You don't want to get the best sleep of my entire life. When I, when I, when I flew to Australia, I knew you didn't say that. I slept for 17 hours. I just kept taking it's anx. I woke up when I got there. I was so alert. I was like, I felt like I was like, Albert Einstein. I was so smart. I felt so row rested, you know. Now obviously, sleep is not that good because you're sitting in a seat. But when, if you, you don't even have thEQuality of sleep. Yeah, yeah. 17 hours of sleep, you're going to be fucking rested no matter what. Exactly. Exactly. Study published in the British medical journal. I feel like we're going to have a British medical journal of January 2012 has concluded that age-related cognitive decline begins much earlier than expected by our mid-40s. Oh, I totally believe that. Even more distressing this decline can progress in very unpredictable rates. Scientists have identified that a seat of calling, a keen or a trensmitter, is responsible for forming new connections and strengthening neural pathways in the brain. In other words, it keeps your mind sharp. However, persistently, low levels of this key neurotrensmitter places you're at risk. So we've got to try to boost our acetyl-colym levels. How do you do that? I'm progressing on the article here. Can I just take a supplement? Yes, that's what I'm looking for here. I think I thought even taking a little story left for me was good for acetyl-colymboosting. I got those people looking, I'm getting reading. Unfortunately most of us levels of acetyl-colym decrease as we age, especially more rapidly after 45. You and I are screwed, Chris. We're really in big trouble. Oh my god. What does it say here? Let me say. I take you guys what's up, man. Helps. I used to know everything when it came to that stuff, but I told you I gave up on science. I'm serious. Chris doesn't know anything. Right? Is that what people say? Chris doesn't know anything. Yeah, they do say that. They say he's not a science guy and I say, no, I'm not. Right? I'm looking for the, Oh, you know what, yeah, you know what it was? It was a big one in Ginko, Belova. That was a big, that's been big for years, right? Is that still big? What they're saying increases your acetyl-colymboosts. Alpha GPC, Lions name, or Ginko, Belova, Couparizing. Oh, that's one of the ingredients I'm thinking about putting in my new neuralized form. Right there. Hmm. I've been taking lately the only supplement of taking is turmeric. Two marks good for reducing inflammation. Yeah, very good. I think this is inflammation in the brain and helps remember. Oh, it does. I'm taking that, too. The good thing is I'm remembering to take it. Actually, I'm taking coke here, man. I think it has not the same thing. Yeah, this is the same thing. Yeah. It's crazy. It's crazy when you hit a certain age, you don't even care about your body. You might just want your brain to keep working. You're like, alright, you know what my body has failed. Let's just keep the brain working. Let's keep, let's just make sure my brain keeps working for the next 50 years. Well, I'm alive. That's the most important. Freshhold, you lowering the bar. Pretty soon people will be injecting stem cells into their brain. And try to regenerate stuff. Of course. Speaking of which, John Lindsay and his crew, all of the world. They did a show in Ireland's here. They did a show in Brazil. It was at last week of the week before that. Now they are in Vietnam this weekend. This past weekend. They did a pro-men's physique showing Vietnam. And Mardi Shara thought from Marina Del Reykjav, 21. Congratulations. It's good. We were just talking about, we should see more USA guys going out to. Yeah, you did say that. You can see these, these shows in weird places. Yeah, yeah, they were. No, someone, yeah, someone I'm helping first show. I think he could have won a few of these shows. IMean, he didn't have the money to really travel to. Right. But these are remember when they can qualify as a for next year, then after this year's Olympia. Second place was Mohammed Kashnaki from Iran. I believe the Kamali was helping this guy. And Juan Farrow from Spain and Mr. You know, it's funny. Kamali's been sending me all these text messages. Let me pull up. He's got some guys. He's been helping it really pretty frequently. Good. I got to tell you. Or he doesn't, he's not helping the mob. He at least knows these guys from around these. It's a shame. It's a shame these guys can't come over and compete in the US because there's a lot of freaking good Iranian guys. You know, if I can remember Jay's quote by saying, who said on your show, you know, there's not a lot of hype running into this year's Olympia. Kamali did say these guys are a dime. It doesn't over there. I was there. Yeah. Right. You know, they're all doing these, the European tour. These guys, that's what they're waiting for now. So that's like they're Olympia. You know, they're doing the Prague show. So they're doing all the overseas shows because they can, they can be making other, I guess. Isn't it funny that we, we boycott all these people in the R allies, let them all into the country? It's pretty funny. Unbelievable. Well, congratulations to John Lindsay and this grum. It's kind of cool to know that we're spread all over the place now. John's cool because what John does is he goes in the whole museum to show us all the place, which is why you make your money. Then he holds one division pro show. Usually a bikini remains physique. Just to kind of showcase the pro division at the show. Because it's, it's expensive to hold the pro division because you have to surprise money out, you know, and you're not getting an application fee from these guys. So rather than hold 15 different visions, he holds one at the studio shows. Get the people of Vietnam say, hey, here's a pro athletes on stage. And but the amateur show is what really what you're nurturing because that's we make your money and that's, you know, that's, hey, spread the word, so to speak. So I thought it was, there was a good idea. And I never did. I don't know how to do it. When you like to go to Vietnam? I wouldn't mind going there. Yeah, but the food is probably good. I always think about whatever I decide where I'm going to go. I always think about the food. What's the food? It could be like. I think it's nice to you. Probably like all the snakes over there too. Oh, yeah, yeah, definitely you'll hurt me. That's for sure. Now, I'm trying to think, did we, did we like the food and prog or not when we went there? Um, no. ProGHad, uh, crab meat food. Yeah, we can get, we can get a droid of prey that's coming on their food. If we could on a sore and he did not like pro. Yeah. Um, no, we didn't like the food. We were, we were intrigued. I wasn't treated very nice and pro. You remember? Well, they didn't get you. I just did. They wanted to ban you from the shower, right? I think they did. Well, they, the first year I got there. I remember I, I, we flew in there. Yeah, I got there. They like, they try to not give me a pet. Yeah, they try not to give you press passes. Yeah, because the next time I think they tried to ban me from our explosive, I'm just, he was Sean Road. Right. Yeah, yeah, that's right. So I go there. I asked for press passes and like, okay, I get there. They're like, oh, we know how many press passes. We don't know what you're talking about. Like, um, guys, um, I flew from New York to Prague. I have an email saying I have press passes. You think I'm really going to get on an airplane if I don't have press passes. And they were still pretending like, oh, we can't find it. I'm like, okay, luckily at the time, you know. Oh, good. Make one. Make one up. Right. It's not, it's not. IMade a phone call. I was taking care of. But, uh, and then the following year, I requested them in that, and they didn't, they refused them or something like that. They said, well, we don't want to give them to you. I'm like, all right, right. So you already going there with, like I said, with Road and Road and how to take it from you. And then they try to tell you, you can't come in right. So I'm showing you. Like, like, you're like, uh, I'm not here to cover it for anyone. Yeah. Unbelievable. These places. Never, never ceases to make me. No, so where was the best food that we went to? This is a question. I'm going to be honest with you. I only spent one day there, but because I had to come back early because I tore my quibba. I had some good food in India. Now, I wasn't eating the native food. I was eating the hotel food, but the hotel food was authentic Indian food, but it was good quality Indian food. Mm-hmm. I don't, well, how do we, will you there? Did you go to India? Sure, I don't know. No, I don't. They had this, this is like right up your alley. 12 midnight. They opened this, like buffet or you can eat buffet for the, everyone. It's 12 midnight. Now, work great because I got there about 11 o'clock at night the first day. So I had this great buffet at midnight. I'm like, oh, this is fucking awesome. What a hotel is a freaking buffet. It was the greatest buffet of all time with the greatest foods it, like you've never seen on a regular basis. Yeah. And show it to chicken. Yeah. Yeah. So then I got up the next morning and then I went, Aaron and I went. I was going to be right there. And Sanger and we went out and did all this sight seeing. And then I went to drostanolone. And I went, I was going to go there. And Sanger and we went out and did all this sight seeing. And bought a bunch of stuff. Got back around five o'clock. I said, I'm going to go to the gym, which was the biggest mistake in my life. Aaron said, I'm going to go drink alcohol vodka. I'm like, yeah, see me. Yeah. He was so awesome. I should've gone and drank alcohol. I've got. I've still, I'd be to this day. What is it? Six years now later. I'm still nursing a torn cloth. So it's still not fixed. But as my wife pointed out, I would never have married my wife. So it all worked out for the best. All right. It was in the cards. See? I sacrificed my quad and I went up a beautiful wife and two wonderful kids. So it all, see it. It is a greater picture that we don't see sometimes because we're our heads are in the sand. But if we can only step outside of our body and look from a distance, we probably see the wisdom and everything that happens in our life. Well, it was hard to do. People are so busy with their phones. I'm serious. True. And it's true. I will definitely admit to being a victim of that myself. And for you know what the problem is? I'm a new two where slaves are our phone because it's part of our business. I know what I turn my off. You can't tell. You have a hundred million clients who text you all the time. I don't have that many one and then you can't tell. Yes, you do. Your clients all text you nonstop. I know they do. I know, but I text them like I turn my phone at like I tried turning on like three different times during the day. You know like seven to seven to nine. I don't believe it. I don't believe. Don't believe Cresse is mine. I'm just trying to get you in trouble with them. I know. I'm in a. I never answer my tone. In your your a serial text or tip like I try to just embarrass the answer to text message. Like I I'm the I'm the most succinct text you'll ever meet. You know, I never give too much information on text. No, it it irritates me sometimes when I give too many texts. But I I don't mind quick text and quick questions because that that can answer quickly. But when you know the over textures out there who just these guys are just in girls who just can't. Right what they want they have to write like 40 paragraphs. You know what? You got to learn to sink we've gone through this before you got to succinctly text. All right, there was another show also another John Lindsay show. Actually was just a John Lindsay show. Probably was. Let me say. Maybe not. Was the Pacific USA championships. Probecene. He. That was in San Diego, California. And Norman Oshrie wins congratulations and arm. She's she always manages to get away every single year. I don't know she doesn't it's pretty impressive. She's not a free To compete. That's why a lot of these top Olympic competitors whether be bikini or fitness or be. Women's physique or men's open or whatever. A lot of people once they hit the Olympia level that top six Olympia level. They don't compete that much anymore. She's always competing. That's why she always gets away every year. I think that more people need to compete. Speaking of competing, you know, I watched my wife's obviously as a form of gymnast. We were watching the US national women's gymnastics championships. And you know, Simone Biles, who's the, Rain and Gold, the gold medal, certainly Olympics there. She's like, I'll come back. She had taken off a year or two or whatever. I don't think she had done any very year. She came back and now she looks like a little body builder. You know, because she's maturing. She's in her 20s now and her physique is coming to its own. And she destroyed everyone. She's like the Ronnie Coleman of like women's gymnastics. Like no one can beat this girl. Like she can make mistakes. It doesn't even matter because the difficulty level for routines are so high that she still beats everyone by like, I think she won by the biggest margin ever or something like that in the history of the event. And I love watching. Don't you love to watch just prodigies like genetically. Oh yeah. It's like a Michael Jordan of gymnastics. Like people like that don't come around every often. When you watch them, it's just like wow, you know. People humans, there are people out there that are just meant to do certain things. And she's meant to be a gymnast. It's just incredible. Speaking of, Porta Chase, Tiger Woods, I think, is in the running for like a, a win this week. Or what happened with that? Oh, I don't know. We did a look it up. The thing I wanted to bring up about the gymnastics is, you know, you see all these. You know, you see all these these people do these gymnastics, you know, these women in gymnastics, and everything like that. And then they retire, right? And a lot of them teach gymnastics so they go on to try to do other stuff. But there's got to be a pretty big amount of these ladies and maybe the women's, the women's, they don't even make it to the Olympic level. They don't know what to do themselves after gymnastics. I don't know why they don't go into fitness competitions. Our fitness, the end of the sport is pretty sparse. It's not this good physique, but the talent pool in terms of running doing routines is not that good. This is like a perfect, you know, breeding round for awesome fitness competitors of the future. Let's get these ex-gimns to do this stuff. Because they want to go away the money is. Yeah, but you know what, most not everyone's in the money. In other words, the top 10 girls in the world may be make money. What about the other 600,000 that are out there that, you know, that are good, but they're just not good enough at the Olympic level. They would destroy it. Most of these girls would crush it in fitness competitions. Yeah. So I think we need to start doing some recruiting. And I say, we, IMean, the people that run the organization, not me. And I'm not many times who recruit. But there would be a good idea. Because it would give these girls a lot of these girls get heavy after they stop competing too, because they just don't eat right. Imagine trensitioning from gymnastics, elite level gymnastics, into fitness, because now you're going to learn how to eat properly. You're going to work on your physique. You already got the skill set to do the routine. And it gives you the ability to showcase it. And another venue where people will really, really appreciate it. You know, and you could obviously, I think would extend your career. Because most gymnasts are done by the time that one. Yes, sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You need a course, kind of like the guru course. Yeah. You need a. How to trensition from gymnastics. Well, I'm putting the onus on the former fitness Olympic champions, like the Della Garcia's and the oxonic or sheenas and the Jenny, the Jennifer Hendashot and all those Suzy cars. Let all these former champions start to go, they're all former gymnast anyway. Let them go and talk to these gymnastics schools and get some of these girls. And let's get a mid to fitness routine. Man, it would revitalize that whole edge of the sport. And you know what? For the promoters out there who are wondering if it's worth it. You guys are going to make more money because you can get more applications. So it's 100% worth it for everyone to do it. And I pick it up. Don't when you think of like the fitness Olympia, like up. You know, if you have a lot, you know, gymness that we're actually stars into the gymnastics world that are now. It would it would only up the game. Yeah. Yeah. No, it would be, it would be cool. It would up the Ivy League game way. Yeah. You get way more coverage too because. Well, they would guess what, Mary Lou Redd. They would be complaining to their given money to the figure girls. Girls and girls and to the two 12s. Right. Mary Lou Redd. You picking the the most well, the Olga Corbett. Yeah. Yeah. How about a, or a naughty company. Nadiya, come in each. I just sorry. I didn't agree with that. Yes. She married Bart, Bart Conners. I think was he's, he was an Olympic goldmaster. Imagine their kids, homie, macro. I did a diet for her and golds like probably 30 years ago. Nadiya coming each. Yeah. I did it. And some golds she might forget. What she was trying to figure out what to do. She moved to LA. And she was trying to do like movies or something. Right. And she was like, it's not heavy, but heavy year. And whoever adds partners were in golds because that gave me that free office. Right. They brought her in and said, you know, put together a diet for her. That was I forget. She might have been with Bart Conner at the time. She had some people with her, you know, she had like a little small on to rise. How did it be fun? Was it? Yeah. Was that right after she defected? I can't remember when it, you know, it had to be like, I'll tell you the, I was 89. I'm saying that's, that's, that's, was that before after the wall came down. And that that was probably before it, right? It was what you were. Reagan was president from what 80 to 88. Yeah. I don't know if that's maybe because that's maybe to come down. Hmm. She must have been here a while. Tire Woods almost won the British Open. He didn't win the loss. But that saying that now he's like, game is back to where it was. So maybe he'll the next time he goes out there and plays. He was was was Valentina was a Valentino who had the best summary of what happened to Tiger Woods. His, his game lost when he stopped chasing chicks around all over the country. It's serious. He said Valentino made some analysis. He said, is it, I think it was Greg. Yeah. He said, isn't it coincidental or because might have been remodel. That the time it came out that he was like running around with hookers and, you know, high again call girls like every night of the week. Like the minute that came to a stop, his golf came suffered. I've come sure that's something. You can literally time it to the, you know, to like that incident. I believe it. And I think whoever was Romano or you, maybe it was, find out from Valentino. So see if he can, you know, Recomment on that. It was definitely, yeah, it was definitely. He said it was the endorphins, you know, you get these endorphins going and, you know, get some, some type of it made a hundred percent sense. Now, well, he was, he had a rembourse of Tiger Woods. It was, it was injured too. That's what it would have. He had a lot of injuries. Yeah. He had a re-learn his whole swing because his injuries. And now you imagine you have a swing your whole life. That's it. And then you have to redo it for your old. Yeah. I remember seeinGHim Dave on the, on the Mike Douglas show, if you remember, then Mike Douglas show. Yeah. I had to bend the mean 10 or something, 14. His father brought him out and Harry was, you know, they, was sitting in all the months. That's crazy. Yeah. Who would have thought? I would like you to get on the show. Serena Williams father. Yeah. He would be good interview, right? Oh, he'd be, he'd hit one up Sergio and Jose together. Imagine that the balls of that guy. Yeah. Because he, I'm going to teach Mike kids how to be play tennis. Even though they didn't, I don't know anything about tennis. I just read a book. Yep. That's it. And he did all these cookie little drills that nobody used to do in the day. And, you know, he had all kinds of crazy condition and drills that he came up with. He's kind of like, he's kind of like the Charles Glass of love. Yeah. He was the angle of the tennis. Well, you know, he come up with, you know, cookie things that people say that doesn't work, but it worked for it worked. He would make him like throw tennis rackets over the, over the top of the gates, you know. Yeah. To the whole time. And then, and then, and then finally, you know, when he finally relinquished, and they hired like the premier, the eminent greatest coach of all time, the girls went back to the father. Oh, they did. Yeah. They're like, well, you know, he's not pushing us like I father. Because the father was like, man, we got to make fun of Mike and Mike doing this. Yeah. Yeah. None of this like, like, enlighten it. Wait, we're going to work, man. We're going to sweat. We're not, we're not playing indoor tennis. We're playing out to our tennis. It's 100 degree heat. Oh, boy. That'll get you, and shave. It's kind of like the, yeah. You girls have a little bit too much fat in your ass. We're going to play in 100 degree heat fucking for four hours a day. You'll lose it. Don't worry about it. Oh, it's, it's, IMean, I'm sure, right? The girls have, quote, good genetics, but there's something to be said for, his crazy geniusness. Yeah. Remember when we were talking about the last show, I think it was the, um, we were trying to figure out what that pitch was. Remember the pitch was throughout where it's like, I saw up in the air. Yeah. The, the, the knuckle ball I said, It wasn't a knuckle ball pitch. It was like a loft like an, and then, a big, big looping pitch that these, these, these, some of these pitches through. It was like a couple people. It was like a blupping knuckle. Yeah. So, I, so one of our listeners. Listen up, so to Fred Flintstone, when Fred, you threw a clip like, Yeah. Well, whatever, one of our listeners sent me the, uh, a Wikipedia page that was, it was, it was showcases this. It's called the, it was called the Fist pitch. Uh, it's a very low speed junk pitch they call it. The delivery of the pitch has, the delivery from the pitch has a very low velocity. And usually catch catches the, a hit or off guard. Its invention is attributed to rip, rip C well of the Pittsburgh Pirates in the 1940s. Is there any video of it? Oh, yeah. I did, you can go on YouTube and check it out. Please send me the video of it. Yeah. The, the, the, the slow velocity. Yeah. Yeah. How do you throw a slow velocity pitch? It's thrown on overhand like most pitches, but characterized by a high unusual, arching trajectory. The corresponding slow velocity bears more resemblance to a slow pitch. Softball delivery than traditional baseball pitch. It's considered a trick pitch because in comparison to normal baseball pitches, which run around 70 to 100 miles per hour. An at this pitch appears to move in a slow, three miles per hour less. Sometimes it goes 40 miles per hour. For, you know, I, I can imagine pretty odd. You're up against the guy throwing 90 mile in all pitches, and then they bring in someone else who's throwinGHalf that speed. Yeah, you wouldn't even know what, right? Here's a good, here's a good little tidbit on the helping. After appearing in over 300 Major League games, rip C well. He's the guy I'm in that to the pitch. He gave up only one career home run of the office pitch, and it was to Ted Williams at the 1946 All-Star game. Williams challenged C well to throw the office pitch at him. C well obliged and Williams fouled off the pitch. However, C well then announced that he would be, he was going to throw the pitch again, and there's a total of them for his good at it. And Williams clobbered it for a home run. Crazy. I think, I think, when the scribes and mechanics of the pitch and why he was able to succeed where others had failed, Williams remarked, this is the way asking Ted Williams how he hit it. He's like a little girl hit hit that pitch. But succeed where other failed, we're home. A little girl hit that pitch, but you had to provide all the power yourself. Years later, however, Williams admitted that he had been running towards the pitch to the pitchesman as he hit the ball, and in other words, he used his momentum. And the photograph revealed that he wasn't in fact a few feet in front of the batter's box when he made contact. Under rule 606, a special baseball roll. He pulled the fill he's. Yeah, a batter is right. You can add a lot to step out of the batter's box, so you technically was illegal. But the pitch, you can't hit the ball of the fence, because there's not enough momentum on the ball. Yeah, there's not, yeah, that's right. There's not enough speed coming in, but how do we get talk to all because somebody, because Sid is a softball. Right, we say we threw the offense, but Bob too, explain through that through it also, fill Negro through it a little bit. Well, I said don't you, right? I last week I did say anything. Yeah, he threw it a couple times. He didn't use a lot though. He was an echo ball of it. Yeah. Pedro Bourbon through the pitch. So you get Pedro, bro, you know the body of the Pedro Bourbon. The little freak, freak is like, he posted on his social media recently that he had a good, he was in kidney failure and his girlfriend gave him a kidney. Yeah, I saw, you know what I saw? IMet him out in China, gold. The one day that I went out there to see Roden last year, when Roden was prepping for the Arnold. And IMet him out in China, golds, and he told me that story. It was like, he's a great guy, man. You know what the weird thing is? I find it so fascinating that, you know, think about how hard it is to find a match for an organ. His girlfriend's a perfect match for him. Don longs wife was a perfect match for his kid. No, it was crazy. It's like, you're drawn to people like, you can write it. You, you blasted out in Indian, India, my wife. True, but it wasn't, it wasn't such a quasi-infector, but there it is. Black men said you over the other company, the kidney, right? Yeah, we'll settle in the wrong world. Yeah, click. They even look for organs for days. No one gets less, nothing. Oh, man. That's funny. Other nicknames for the F.S. pitch include the balloon ball, the blooper ball, the gondola, the parachute, the rainbow pitch distinct from the rainbow curve, gravity curve, the Monte Brewster. I reference to the titular character in Brewster's millions. Remember that? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And the bugs bunny curve, I reference to the 1946 bug's bunny cartoon, baseball bugs, which several bad as an eros swing three times at each pitch before the ball reaches the plate. Remember that? I remember it. I said it was Fred's limestone. Did he ever say it was the bug bug bunny? Yes, it was bug bug bunny. Yeah. This is a Wikipedia great. You can find everything online. It's amazing. I love it. I looked at Wikipedia and they confirmed that you mean you were going around the earth looking for kidneys and lipisperies. That's great. I love Wikipedia. The only morecompeting page is that accurate is mine. Because I have people who keep sabotaging them. Well, that's why I'm just why I'm bringing up the phone minutes of us running around because that would be something on it, right? Yeah. And you used to from 19 2000 and through 2014, Chris Oceito and Dave traveled to Brazil, Australia, you know, all the Eastern European countries looking for a kidney and were and heart for day and that's where Chris learned to throw the F.S. pitch. Yes. Which he then taught the Sid Ferrokey who used to know his softball leg and one of the championship I have and we was the best of the R.A. and the league. He never ends Chris and ever. Maybe maybe we could have a softball team and we could get Boston on it. Me on it. You want it Romano. We're all beat up. We could play like, you know, chair. I think even Sid's team could be that's probably. Sid's team could be. So he can be the star by team, right? It'd be the pitcher. Well, if he knows the, I'll throw that pitch. Nobody can hit it. We can have a good defense. You know, one of the things that drove me crazy about my shot bad shoulders is that I always hit to myself. I want to, you know, sucks that I have these terrible shoulders. I'm never going to be able to like throw a football or baseball my son and this is before I even had any kids. I was already planning this. I'm like, this, that's all I want to be able to do. You know, I don't even care if I can lift weights. I just want to be able to throw, you know, baseball and catch from my son. So I get my left shoulder done, right? And I'm right, right? So I can't really, I can actually do the throwing motion with my left arm, but I have no coordination, of course. But I can catch a ball. I don't have any pain in my left shoulder. So now I'm thinking, you know, because the next, over the next couple of months I got to get this right shoulder done. We're just trying to figure out the right time. I'm like, IMight actually be able to throw a baseball at some point in the future, which is, which is, which is an amazing thing, which, a matter of fact, I was actually pitching with my right. My right arm is, is, is brutally painful to shoulder, and I wanted to, my wife said, you don't have a throat of a pitch. I'm like, I'm telling you, I'm not a pitcher, based on my father was a catcher at a very high level. When he was, when I was a kid, he used to have me pitch to him. She said, you don't remember that pitch. I'm like, I could pitch. Yeah. But I was pitching pine cones into my canal, my backyard there into the river at the time of my house. I was brutally painful, but I wanted to just prove to her, I can throw the ball, you know, I could throw it. So even through the pain, I grit and barred it, and I threw these pine cones. I threw like about five or six pitches. My son was loving it. And she's like, what do you can pitch? So, that's my goal to get my shoulder. That took a pitch to my son and throw a football to him. Overhand, as opposed to underhand. Yeah. It's funny. I just just throw a bite. I just throw through a neighborhood in Maine. And I saw on this one street, three different fathers playing past with their sons. You don't see that much anymore. No, you don't. I want to be able to do that. You know, my dad did that with me, but my dad was very involved when I was younger, you know, with sports. He didn't really understand soccer too much, because he never played it. But he went to all my games, but he listened to police to throw the football in the back. It's funny. We throw a football in the backyard together. We throw baseball in the play and he those sports. Because I found that later they didn't want me involved in them. Like my mother, you know, the Jewish side didn't want me involved. It's all people. It's all people. Well, you know, as I hit an eye injury when I was a kid. So they didn't want me to like risk, you know, injuring the other eye. So they steered me out of the sports. So I wanted to play soccer and running, you know. Dungeons and dragons and running. Playing to the Dungeons and Dragons is my own device. That was my fantasy escape, you know, thing before they had. If they would have really good video games back then I probably would have been playing video games probably all the time. But I think the private Dungeons and Dragons was better. Because at least it was a social type thing where you're actually involved in involved with kids. Today, no one even talks to each other. You play online, right? And you're talking through headsets to people that are in the middle. We hate it. So we took our, I didn't introduce it. We took our as a way from our kids. I think it's a good idea. I'm sure I won't be able to do it. No, no, because they do this. They say our friends and I, you know, so and so gets to play and, you know, so and so says that you must be a strict parent. I think, you know, none of it bothers me. Guys, you're not playing those games. You know what the sad point for Chris is? Well, yeah, nowadays you could actually make a living from playing video games. They tell me that to, they tell me that. They're right. You could be, you could, they might be, they could be the next Ronnie Coleman of the video game world for all you know. I thought this a lot of ways I tell them to make a living. I think, yeah, I think you, you know, when you're young, you have to be exposed to everything. I think the best decision I ever made was going to a liberal arts college where they make you take everything. Yeah. I can't. I can't. The apology. It took history. I took art. I took, I, it's even took an acting class. You know, you got to be exposed to everything because who the hell? You don't even know what you're, what you really like. How could you know what you really like in, in 19 years old? You're, you might think you know what you like, but you might find out that you actually liked something you didn't even know about it. I was a runner in college. I never thought I would be a professional bodybuilder or, you know, made it. I was exposed to that at school, you know, and then, you know, people working out and I'm like, I'm going to try this too. So you never know where you're going. You know, you got to keep an open mind. Sometimes it's not good to just say, okay, I'm six years old. I know I'm going to be, I'm going to be a neurosurgeon when I get older and nothing's going to stop me. I'm not going to have any other interests told that. You know, because that's what I think is right. You got to keep an open mind because you never know where you're going to wind up. And the funny thing is you never know what skills you're going to be using later in life. Like, I went to medical school and then I laughed and I'm like, thinking, you know, most people would take, well, that's a way, what a waste. You'll never use those skills again, right? Well, I used them my whole life, those skills, all the little things I learned there. I'm still using. I still have that information in my head. And I see this happen all the time. I see people who, you know, were worked with their parents, their dad for like 25 summers. You know, it's 20 summers before they went to college. You know, doing laying brick, picking what a waste of fucking time other than the fact that they're going to make up some money. And then later in life, they wind up, you know, becoming, you know, doing very well financially in themselves. They wind up building their own house or something like that, you know what IMean? Well, just the discipline of brick laying. Yeah, no. I don't think anything's wasted really in this life. I think I don't think there's no such thing as unless you become a drug addict, you know, do anything. And then that case, you're probably not going to do very well. Unless you become a drug council when they're trying to get up. Well, I took the video games. We took the video games away from the 14 year old and the 13 year old has been writing a book. And it's like riveting. Wow. Riveting. And he's doing it by hand. I can't wait to read the next chapter. And that's not because, IMean, I'm not one of these people. What's it about? It's about a kid who grows up in a broken household. And I'm thinking, is this based on a real story or something? Well, you're not a broken household. But where's he coming up with all this information from? He probably steals it from like movies. He's seen it. He's an avid reader. So, you know, when you read, you just automatically incorporate that stuff. Interesting. And it's good. You like it? Oh, it's unbelievable. I'm the first. I always tell my kids like, you guys. Okay, you know, do you want to quit basketball because you're not really good. So it's not like, you know what IMean? That I'm stroking their egos. Are you, is it like a rocky type story? Um, it's, it's, it's a sad story to start out with. He's on like, maybe chapter four. He's only written maybe 60 people. There's a nowhere it's going or is he kind of just writing as it goes? Um, he knows where it's going. Okay, that's good. That's smart. I'm very, very, very, very observant. So I wonder, I want to read it too. To be able to dance on around. I'm not talking about my dad died. He would, my dad used to love to do that stuff. Read other people's stuff and critique it and give him. But, but he's a perfectionist. And now he's bothered because he realizes there's so much more detail he could be put in there. If he was writing a lot of computer because it's been writing it by hand. And I don't know if it's not copying it. That's all. Yeah. I said the lady who want, wrote Harry Potter stuff. Wrote all of it by hand. My dad, you know, my dad's real. I've seen him give people advice with writing. He would be like, you know, when he would tell you something, there's no rules. Write what you want. Don't listen to what other people tell you. Just write. To good, good advice. He's like, don't, don't listen to people saying you can't do this. You can't do that. You do what you want. Hey. It's tremendous advice. Yeah. Don't let people tell you after write on the computer. You write it if you're doing good and you have good, you have a good feeling for what you're doing when you're handwriting it. You handwriting it, you handwriting it. You handwriting it. You know, Shakespeare hand wrote is all the, all the old things he did. It's not even using that. There was no typewriter's back. Yeah. That's all. That's all I said. Like that said Shakespeare hand wrote everything. It said, but that there was no typewriter. He's like, I don't want to hear this crap. Yeah. No, that's just stupid details. I said, what I want to hear. He hand wrote it. So, can you write? I can't get out of here. That's probably what Kodi said. I remember going down that I wrote that I wrote about backing up. Because I ever wrote it like that. Like, old table One algum snap there's somewhere I gonna write, there's something we just had not been writing live on. My dad used to write when he would write. He had the tie- opera you know he had like the old typo who said, The heck of me that used to like your typewriter because the too fast moves too fast. I said too fast. What do you mean too fast? I need to, I like the touch type. That's what used to go. Touch type. I kind of feel those keys. I try to make it. It's like me and I don't, I remember how long I had the black break because I was afraid to text my phone. I like to feel the keys. Yeah, the great thing about the black break is whether you can, you can text people without looking at the keys because you can feel them. Yeah. I knew that the keypad. It wasn't even a real keypad. It was just a number pad that had like certain letters on it and you just had to know which ones to use and you didn't have to look at it. Now the funny thing is my, I'm like, when my dad would like leave his little, he had a little study room and I would go down there and sneak down there sometimes when I was a kid and I had to type right there and I would take a piece of typing paper and I'd roll it into, you know, put it into the machine and I'd start trying to type. And the key seriously, and I was a strong kid to get those keys. To fucking strike that piece of paper. I had to whack them, you know, as hard as I could. And of course, when you did that, you would invariably hit two keys at the same time and then they would get stuck. Because it was like, it's almost impossible to explain the people as you've ever seen a type bread. It was like this metal thing that would, when you hit the key, it was metal thing would hit the paper and it would actually, it was like a stamp and it would stamp the little letter on it. And if you hit the two keys that would too close together, the two pieces of metal that would strike the paper would get stuck together and then the machine would like, it would like, ponder the whole machine down. And then you had to try, you had to try to loosen them up and free Them. But when you did that, all the ink that was on the metal piece would get on your fingers. So invariably when I go upstairs, my dad would have said, you, are you my messenger, am I typewriter again? I'm like, no, of course not. Like, what's all that ink all over your fingers? It was like getting you, covered your hand and the cookie jar. So, so then my dad got to the point where he got lazy or used to make my mother, like my mother would choose the electric type. He'd be like, he would hand-write and she would type it out from, you know, they were like a team almost. Because my mother was, you know, my dad had my mother convinced that, you know, he was going to write the great American novel and then we could just go. But she was like, all right, I'm participating. That my contribution will be all type out of all your stuff. So, well, the irony to that is, he probably could have wrote a big novel. Well, he did. He just did it was, you know, it was tough back then. It wasn't like it is today. Today, you can, you can, you can read any book. I'll just make it, anything, it was, it was actually had to be good back then. And you had to know people and my dad wasn't, that all the people in Hollywood and all the people who were all the writers in New York City, they were all like in this click, they would hang out with each other in the city, they were all single. My dad got married and we had kids. He had his networking abilities, working completely gone after that. Yeah. And it's like today, imagine today, you can network with someone in fucking China, you know, from your computer now. You never have to leave the house, you know? Yeah. Yeah, I get back these YouTubers. And it could be cool to be a recluse. I went to this, I went to this, that I thought it's Reptile, bring your show in Daytona. And I'm, I'm not brand-armed there. Because it's almost, I don't even want to even tell the story, but people were coming, I have a Reptile channel called muscle serpets University, right? I'll interview people at Reptile shows about your there. But I'll also do my own animals, I'll explain the different genes and what I'm breeding. And it's an informational channel. And people, I guess people like it, I haven't read 10,000 subscribers. So, and I'm building it slowly. I go to the show and all these young YouTubers that are Reptile breeders are coming up to me. And they're like, oh, oh, I watch your videos. I'm so nervous right now. Oh, can we take a picture? Can you be in my vlog? That's the thing everyone does. Everyone does their own vlogs, you know, where they chronicle their whole life. And some of the guys were, you know, there were nice kids, but they were, they were, you know, they were a little, socially awkward to some of these people, you know? And everyone's a star now. Everyone can be from their house, have their own channel, their own personality, their own, you know? And sometimes every once in a while, you get one of these guys that just hits it. And someone likes this, something about what they do that people can relate to. And they'll get hundreds of thousands of subscribers, they'll monetize their videos and they're making $10,000, $20,000 a month Chris from YouTube. But think about that. Yeah, no. One of the number one, Aaron Sigma is telling, one of the number one channels on YouTube is this kid who plays with toys. Have you seen this? The place you're playing. It's got a hundred million subscribers, Chris. They play with toys. He doesn't even talk. I see the footage he reviewed the toys, no, no, no, he just plays with toys. And kids watch this, like mesmerized, watching this kid play with his little, you know, how old is that old? It was a kid. All right, he's probably a little old now, but I don't know, he was a young kid. He's a little of the, he's under 12, you know? I forget the kid's name. He's making, it's gotta be making $30,000 a month. And of course now is, you know, now is parents like, yeah, yeah, so we gotta go through a video now, you know, come on, every video the guy does get to million hits. We are, huh? Yeah, but if you saw him was making that kind of money, you'd be like, you take over his manager, right? You would try it. If I let him play out the games that I don't want him to play. You got, yeah, you mentioned him. Imagine if you had a hundred million subscribers because he was playing video games online, which there were kids that would do that too. Well, they watch, they watch, they, they, they, they, IMean, they watch those channels where kids are just playing video games. They, they have, they're playing video games and they're commentating on what they're playing. It's a brave, new world out there, my friends. And, uh, and as, Norm from Cheers would say, we're, we're wearing a milk bone underwear, Chris, you know. Ha ha ha ha ha ha. On that note, we're out of time until next week, remember, with heavy muscle radio. The truth hurts. All right.

=== FILE: MR. OLYMPIA PEOPLE'S CHAMP？ Live With Dan Solomon (Part 1) [83aTDqqHCNQ].txt ===

. Welcome back to live with Institute of Energy, K. Coral, Florida, and Dave Palombo. And today is very special. I have never thought I would ever have a year in my studio. If you would have told me this thing years ago, I can be sitting next to me in Florida, and my new home in my new studio, I want to sit you crazy. But you guys here today, he is the co-executive producer of the movie Bigger, and he's a body building well known personality, Dana, solomer. Welcome. Dave, you know, I had a pick one house to get a flat tire in front of him. Oh, that was a wrap. I didn't see it. I came to business. So I came stumbling, but first, I wanted to say something. I've had a chance to visit all sorts of places in this industry. This has to be the most unique set of, first of all, this set is tremendous. You guys have done a great job. But what you guys don't know out there is behind the wall that separates this studio is Dave Palombo Enterprise. And it's this whole corporate infrastructure where products are being moved in and out, and all these things are happening. So they let know we always talk about a misindustry that needs to constantly reinvent and the commercial component of the body building industry. It's alive and well here, and congratulations, too. You're doing great. Well, you know, Dana, when you have kids, you have to, like, say, well, how can I run my business? Not to have spent too much money over head and have it be convenient enough so that I can actually run my business. And we have it here because I can run across street aT3 in the morning to the studios and record something, or we can, my wife does a word of sometimes, like, two in the morning, when the kids are sleeping. You know what the coolest part about that is when you talk about the new reality of your life there, it makes me, that we've all been around this game for a long time. A few decades, right? You know, I've been doing this, the business of body building. And when I come here and I visit with you, I really review what you've created. And I think about all the people that we've kind of come up with. And watching their evolution, the other day, our good friend Rob Wilkins, who was the IFB, who's liaison to the military, he was just picked by the president of the United States to be on the president's council. I was going to ask him, I didn't think that, well, because his resume is impressive, the White House took notice. They assembled the list and there was some influential people involved. But I look at that and I think this is the same guy, Rob, and we were kicking around the body building shows. And now he's at the White House, being sworn in with some of the most revered people and a fitness industry. And then you have guys like the Ryan, the Lucas of the World, we all kind of came up with. He's worth hundreds and millions of dollars doing great. And the Paul Gardner's even Aaron Singerman, who I know, we have him come in because Aaron has been very supportive of you and myself. We're very familiar. And Aaron's story to me is great. And I hope you don't mind my burning gut. Now I actually did a show in him on the success of how to make million dollars. And I said, you know, he said, did you ever think that you never thought I would be here? I said, well, I said, no, I did. I'm going to tell you, you just need it. And the right fire, you live under your butt. And the right fire was that he got his wife corrected. Yeah, well, that. And I think also some of that fire was started here when he was with you. And a lot of those things that I was pretty well documented. But now a lot of drama, a lot of things. But Aaron's a guy that I've known for a long time and trust each other a lot. I'm always givinGHim advice. Lately he gives me more advice than I give him. A lot of people go to Aaron for advice. But I'm just so proud of what he's created. I get a chance to go down to those red condo and headquarters from time to time to tell you. In business. His facility. And it's an incredible operation. Yeah. It's a very highly synergized, high energy, collaborative environment. So he's doing great. But I do have a bone to pick with you, Aaron. So Aaron made an announcement the other day that they're making this big, surprise, signing the biggest thing in fitness. Right? And usually when Aaron has a secret, he'll tell me. And when I have a secret, I'll tell Aaron, and it's kind of the way we do it. So I saw this post and I said, I wonder what red condeser to do. Who's this big announcement? So I called up Aaron and I said, I'm going to give me the scoop. ExpectinGHim to tell me off the record what it was. But Aaron wouldn't tell me. And I kind of begged him and he made me feel pretty small for it. Really? Yeah, I texted him and I said, Aaron, give me the scoop. He wouldn't tell me. I'll tell you what I did. I figured out the seat, the special announcement. I texted what my belief was to him. And the fact that he didn't text me back, probably means that I'm right. I said, what are you signing, covering? And no response. And Aaron always responds. So if I had a bet, I would say that it's covering. But isn't covering? And aren't covering and Aaron already in business together? So that's not really a big development. Unless, and I'm just speculatinGHere, of course. I don't know anything. But what if Tyd's maybe they're closing up shop? What Tyd's business is maybe signing direct? Maybe that's it. I was thinking maybe, said that, with millions, because of said your ties to the military. And I thought that might be a natural retina. We could do a whole show discussing who retops on the side. But by the time this airs, everybody, I think, will already, this is the biggest name he's saying in the industry, it's either Romney or it's Kai. He said fitness industry though. Yeah. He didn't say fitness industry. Yeah, but he's bodybuild. I would go back only because of his nod. His nod. That's right. Respond. Yes. He knows that once he, when he's, he can't lie to me, because he knows I always figure it out. So what do you mean? But Aaron next time I call you and I want the inside to get it to me. That's right. Now again, I wanted to bring up to you. Obviously, the movie is going to be coming out soon. I know you told me, I think, a little bit a weekend. We got something special. So, all right. So, it's a counter, really, to say, okay, formally what's happening, but there are some discussions taking place right now. Obviously, it's no secret that this is a movie of Joe Hader. And we're also trying to celebrate Joe's theatrical release of his film, then at the very end, the very end for what he created. But there is nothing to announce yet, but I do know that there is some discussions surrounding the possibility of maybe doing something that could get a limpia fans excited, but it's still too early to say. All right. Those are some things in the words, but yeah, it's been fun so far. When do you think the official worldwide really? So, again, that's all the same conversation, but I am told that we can expect it in theaters in 2018 and that plan has not changed. Maybe around, maybe the holidays. Yeah. All right, let's talk about the Olympia Minute because this year, they're trying to do something that's a little different. And they always try to do something a little controversial, or fun to bring some attention to the Olympia. The last two years, they have a frowny, a special invite to last year was Flex Wheel. This year, they want to institute because of the whole social media interest. They want to try to get the people's champion. And from what I understand at least from the website, they're going to be allowing the people in the audience to vote for what they will get in the determine as the people's champion. The last time we saw something like this, was kind of when they had the challenge round, back in mid 2000s, when they would allow body ghosts to challenge each other on stage and then they had all the former Mr. Olympia's voting for it. What do you think this people's challenge? Okay, so even you mentioned, I remember it was yesterday, that was the year that we had the challenge round. And I had that awkward moment where I stood between Ronnie Coleman and Gustavo Badell. Who beat him? So beat Ronnie Coleman, and I had to give one of the more awkward interviews of my career. I think I was on a paper, thing that I had done. And so it was odd. So my take on this, I would have loved that. You would have loved it. I would have thrived that you would have, you were popular. Well, I was the right thing, because I think Ronnie Coleman was fresh off the wounds of having just been beaten by Gustavo. And I'm asking Ronnie Coleman the great iconic massive Ronnie Coleman larger than life character who's standing right to my left. I'm saying Ronnie, how does it feel to have just gotten beat by this guy in Gustavo Badell? And you should have seen his eyes. You were killed. And Ronnie's comment, actually, for his flex really had it. Yeah. Good point. Good point. So getting back to this year's development. Now, it's interesting because I think it has the potential to be compelling. And that is the potential to be dramatic. It also has the potential to be a huge problem. Now, the talk is that they are going to allow the people in the venue. I don't know all the particulars, but the talk is the way we were trying to figure out the end of it. Right. How they were actually to vote. Right. They got buttons on their seats. And there's only the people in the arena and outside the arena. I don't know all those particulars, but I do know their plan is to crown a people's champ, which leaves open the reality that we could have a people's champ and a Mr. Olympia champion that are different, which is a big problem, right? Because you certainly want the Mr. Olympia champ to walk off that stage, feeling like he's the best body when they're in the world. But then if the idea is well, you want this, and then this guy won't let it, then you don't have a definitive anything. And isn't the whole purpose of the Mr. Olympia to crown a definitive champ? Right. But the difference is that whoever wins the Mr. Olympia will have the $400,000. That's right. That's a big difference. That's a big difference. Are they planning on getting any money you think to be? Yeah. I don't imagine there would be some benefit to winning that. I don't know, probably sponsored that. That's right. I would love to see in Bob Chicaroa, when I was talking about this the other day. I'd love to see a situation where instead of having a people's champion, if you want to create interaction, you want to engage the fans, give the fans an opportunity to dictate what they see on that stage, right? Like create something where maybe fans can request certain call-outs, maybe they can request unusual comparisons. Maybe we want to see Flex Lewis, the 212 King, versus Phil Heath, the main event King, and see there's got suckies going through it. Yeah. That could be interesting. That's what I would have done. I said that for the past couple years. I'd like to see the 2012 and the Open champ post-down with the Arnold and Franco used to do. Right. You don't have to even give any award to it. You could just say, let's see who wins. Or maybe let the people decide. Right. You mean I have to judge decide that? Let the people decide. I haven't spoke to Phil Heath about this. But I'd imagine that Phil can't be too pleased with the idea of a people's champion because what makes me say that when you've won this thing is many times as he has. Especially coming off last year, right? It was pretty angry. I'd imagine he's not excited about the idea of having a deal with the fallout of potentially winning again and not winning the people's. It seemed like every year they're trying to always find a way to mess with Phil Heath. And I think it just pisses him off more. And it just makes him come back. But I almost think that they're trying to find a way that not let Phil win. And then he always wins everything. So obviously his talent speaks for itself. Isn't he like a J-Countler from the standpoint of, whenever he has a close call or when people like us doubt him, that's when he digs in and he delivers something that we just didn't expect. Yeah. IMean he won last year. I didn't have any. I know some people thought he needed to deserve it. I didn't think he'd think. I have to feel winning last year. It was close enough though to sort of assess the tren that trajectory of big rawmese physique. Big rawmese was really good last year. But he still wasn't in the best he was. So I think some of the victories that Phil be kind were closer than last year. Yeah. For sure. It was that one year. You could make a army of Kai could have won. And Phil was off a pre-judging that he came back better at night. And IMean, so look, the guy knows how to win. This is one thing you can say about Phil. He might not be the greatest minister of what he had all time. But he knows how to win better than that. As he might break the old time record. If he wins nine or ten times, then that counts for something. You know, you're a good dancer. IMean, Dexter might not be the best bodybuilder of all time. But he's certainly the most consistent. Yeah. No, IMean, right now, look, it's funny because nobody's talking about the fact that if Phil heat is able to win, he will equal the Lehani Rani commentary. He will be standing a top-to-sport tied for the most important record this sport has, the eight-sand out trophy. And he's on the break of doing that. It's amazing that we're there already talking about him doing that. Because we still view Phil as a young guy. Yeah. But he's all-time one of the all-time. And he's years past very fast, especially when you give him my study on the background. So, especially if you have kids that goes even quicker. Yeah, those kids don't exist. Here's thEQuestion. ThEQuestion is, and I saw some, and I'm hearing, speaking of an area, an area in KaIMaking some Instagram comments when this whole people's champion came out. They were saying, 11 weeks to go to get ready. You think Kai will jump into this event? And would he be welcome to jump into the event? I'm sure I would think the Olympia promoters would love to have Kai up there. Everybody would love to have Kai up there except Big Ronnie. Yeah. I think Big Ronnie is would be the only loser in a Kai-green comeback scenario. But Kai-green Kai, you need to come back. It's one of those things where what he brings to the sport, the drama that he would bring to a pose down between he and Phil, body going to fans want to see that. Kai, I recognize that you view yourself as something different. Maybe you don't see yourself as a bodybuilder. Maybe you see yourself, I've been told as a performer. That's all fine. But you know what, it's not like the guy lost 50 pounds in the mental size. He still has big nose. Good as ever. Yeah. So it's not like it's a far stretch first to say, like, oh, let's get him to the groovy. That's right. He reached 50. He went back to the company. He's got to get him 40 pounds. Kai, you got to do the contest. It's one of those things where the window, the number granted. He will regret it. Kai, you're going to regret it. They just, the window has closed. To a point where this might be the last chance because number Kai doesn't want to be Mr. Olympia. Kai wants to be Phil Heath. Kai can pretend he doesn't care about that. But Kai green wants to be Phil Heath and he's got the good to do it. We know he does. So for him to have taken those God-given genetics, that extraordinary physique, arguably one of the greatest to ever live. And to not go at Phil Heath one more time, it's disappointing it would be an amazing storyline for the contest and I really hope it happens. Do I think it's going to? I wouldn't say I'd bet on it. But it seems like he's always pretty close. Yeah, I would think that there would be a humongous announcement. I don't know. But I think it's what's the point of having it. If you're not going to get the benefit of it. I think it's a size right now. Maybe that's why you might be able to do what I said. Because obviously there's some bad blood between Kai and the Olympia people who run the Olympia. Whatever the argument was, we'll never really know what happened. There was Kai felt that he was not respected in some way or pasty. I don't know if I agree with that or not. But the bottom lines that Kai has done the contest because of that for Kai was amazing. Yeah, it's going to be if he doesn't it's been four years. Yeah, if he hasn't been four years already. No, it's a bad question. What would he look like? IMean, we always got those big shoulders. We know the upper body is going to be there. But you know, from the waist down, what's it going to look like? What are I some, we saw pictures he posted on the screen. He looked like I think he's so good. I think there's no problem here. And it might even be better than he actually took. IMean, he never took more years off as a child. That's right. Maybe the rest will do well. Remember when sugar rainwater? That were really dead. So sugar rainwater took that big, you know, he stopped the box. IMean, then over some Marvin Hagel was unbeatable. And he said, I'll come back and beat him. IMean, I was like, you're going to box. How many years he can make? He can make? He can't make. He can't make. That's what he's seeing. We don't want to grasp it in a month. It would be amazing for the contest to see Kai grain and fill he. Because it's, you know, you have a responsibility. I kind of might disagree with this. But I feel like Kai is a responsibility to get up there and to deliver some of this sport has been very good to him. He's made a lot of money in this sport. He does not want to any individual. It's a lot of these guys have to put their body through. But I'd like to think that if there was a chance for him to tip this cap to body, go in the fence and just kind of give the body to the body. So he won't let's her off. Kai, we would love to see it. And just let us know what we have to say to make that happen. Or an hour and a half. Or an hour and a half. Hey, you make it happen. Well, whatever it takes. You know what? Here's a scenario. Let's say Kai does the Olympic. Okay. Last or wrong. I'm going to do the Olympic. What the hell? One last time. Sure. Any wins. Now. He would win and he would walk out a champion. No, what he, how do you walk away when you're the champion? Now he's got the title. Right. But you're saying you're starting to keep competing. Think about what you're saying. You're sayinGHow would Kai walk away as a champion? You're talking about a person who just walked away already for no reason. You would $400,000. And now you're a Olympia champ and things change. Yeah. Now I'm the champion. That's right. I have the benefit of this. Yeah. They have to beat me now. That's right. I just made $400,000. Yeah. You know. Maybe I could do it another year. IMean, with Kai, I'll bet's wrong. He just does his own thing. He's not wired like the rest of the world. He's got his own computer up there. It does its own things. He's a very great guy. I don't know what you think about it. Kai would be doing a lot of people good. Arnold came back in 1980 and won the Olympics. That's right. The one thinGHe was going to compete was the last minute. Maybe Kai Green is planning an arm. You never know. But it would have taught on the Olympics. Something we're watching because it's a real scenario out there. But as of right now, there are no confirmations. And we don't know yet. But hopefully we'll hear something. What do you think about I heard the announcement that Arnold removed the two 12 Division from the Arnold Classic? I heard that. Okay. What would you think of the motivation? Yeah, that's a positive thing. Unless it's just a situation where, look, that whole Arnold dynamic is a little strenge. Right? And then you have, what do we have six Arnold Classic or five Arnold Classic now? They don't have two of them or so. We're down to five. And in three of those Arnold classics, you won't have heard of most of the ProBoddy builders because they're now part of a whole Another entity. So all the names that are the household names in the body of the world. You have to go to Australia or Columbus to see them. So basically Arnold is overseen in dynamic where half of his events are doing one thing and half of his events are doing the other thing. Maybe the function Columbus feel like they're already drawing the body building crowd. They, you know, everything's economics, right? Are they drawing more fans by bringing a 12 Division to their event? They're already drawing the body building crowd. Maybe they don't care. But I, again, I have not heard that official. I've heard that that was my the latest that I kind of heard. I actually asked Tom as they were aiming about it and I'm sure I was watching. You can see watches of all programming. And he's just, he felt that Arnold doesn't care about the two 12 because they're short. Arnold's at all, Arnold likes the classic and then the open guys. So yeah, and who knows if that's the truth. I have to feel he orders economically. It's a little bit of a sanction fee. You have prize money. There's all sorts of variables. You have flight of people in the moment. Right. So I can see if if if you think about it, if your goal is to attract at the end of the day, a promoter's objective is to attract different parts of the pie, right? So if they're already getting the body building crowd, people coming in to see the big division. Maybe the math doesn't support it. I don't know. But you would like to think that an event of that caliber would understand that the 212 Division is important that fans like it. And if you're going to call yourself the biggest fitness body building weekend of the year, then how have those divisions? Or, arbitrarily, start hand picking and coming and going with these divisions? Yeah. That's not really responsible in my opinion, but something like that. I agree. I am in 100% agreement. What do you think about the fact that this is something that I've been bringing up the last couple of years? I want your opinion on it. I think there's too many people in the Olympic divisions that they have out there. I think it might be a Timmy. You should have the top 10 in the world in each division. I don't like these bikinis divisions when they have. And I like bikinis. I just don't like to have this value weight 35 curls on stage. And I know they did something to curtail that a little bit with the point system. If you have more than a certain amount of shows, it's not who wins the shows. But it's a total point getters, you know, get to go and look at it. But I still think it's a lot of people. Okay. So my first thought is the point system hasn't really worked. In my opinion, because look, the Olympia, as you just mentioned, is supposed to be the best in the world. If you can't win a contest on a yearly circuit, you know, if you can. And let's go with this respect to anybody. But if you can't win a contest, and there's so many of them. Right? Especially in all of the bikini. It's great. So if you can't win a contest, you can't really complain too much about not having a spot on the Olympia. You're not happy to complain about the point system. They're saying, well, it's not fair because if this person has the money to compete five or six or seven times, that shouldn't be a thing. They shouldn't have the advantage of all the points. And that's a fair point. And if you just say they have what the point system you don't have that kind of vision, because the point system really is allowing people to compete that really didn't do the thing that you're supposed to do to get there. And that's when a contest. Right. So I don't know. I don't have a huge issue with, I think the point system is just opened up a whole bunch of problems also for the promoter. Because when you think about the number of events that are out throughout the year, IMean, Robin Chang and the Olympia, they have to support all of these athletes who are coming to compete at their show. Right. I feel for the promoters. I feel that that money could be well spent on other things. That's right. More prize money. Maybe some of the divisions that are not getting these big prize money. Because we don't need 30 girls up there. I don't need 25 men's disease guys up there. I want to count. I want to top 10 everything. If you think about the bodybuilding vision, which is the most compelling, has the least amount of people. That's right. Is that unusual? It is. It's also because there's the least number of events. And that's the thing. And for whatever reason, the member of the scoring system was also creating to encourage people to compete more often. Unfortunately, the people who arecompeting, I'm going to do that guys. They're not the people you want to see. Right. So the people that we want to see are the ones who are automatically qualified. So the only solution is only this relentless should be exempt. Everybody else you have to earn the way back to the Olympia stage. Which of course then brings us back to the Cuygren conversation. It was totally unqualified to compete in the contest. Right. That's a whole lot of story. Yeah. Now obviously they can make a given special advice. You do whatever you want. And I think that and some people who think that's not fair, I think it's absolutely fair. Look, look, their promoters are trying to create a interesting, compelling book. I know this. You are in the business of media, of covering bodybuilding. I get the privilege of going out there and hosting the Amazon coverage. And all of that stuff is better. If I get to talk about chagrin and being in that contest and you get to cover chagrin and being in that contest. Everybody wins for that. So it's a business and more tickets will be sold, more people will watch and more people will care if a guy like Cuygren is in the contest. Now I will say this. The Olympia does not need Cuygren. No mistake about it. The contest has thrived. You know, Arnold has come and gone. The 80 is coming down, Ronnie. Ronnie, come and it's coming down. The contest is going to be fine. But it sure would be a lot of fun to see Cuygren. Well yeah, because it's how many more years this Cuygren really had. IMean the guy is not young anymore. No, he's in his 40s. IMean he might look at you. But he's getting older and things go wrong when you get older. I know you know we got injuries. You know he's pushing you know a lot of weight in the gym. He's still you know he travels a lot when you travel a lot. You've come more vulnerable to injuries. So he can get hurt tomorrow. And that's going to be the end of his career. So you know, I say to Cuygren out there. Just like you said to Cuygren get in that show because you never know when your last show will be. And this isn't here where people want to see the people's champion. They want to see Cuygren out there. They want to see Cuygren try to stop Phil from winning eight. Mr. Olympia is in time that record of pain and Ronnie Coleman. And what better year to do it than the year that they're actually voting for the people's champions? Which we know he is. Cuygren is right. He's sort of the... If he won't be a winery enough that we don't even vote. He's given them the awards right. You know? And that's probably one of the reasons why he's maybe even compelled to do it. Because it does seem like there are things out there right now that would go well for him to be there. Now with that beat, will they be an asterisk? And then the record folks like when they say, oh, then the 2018 Mr. Olympia. Phil E. F1 but with an asterisk and then the second hiring one people's champion. No, I don't think so because there's been things over the years and other contests where they do that stuff. Right? IMean back in the day when I used to do those body vote and now come webcasts. We would give out not that those were sanctioned parts of the event. We would give out people's choices all the time. And sometimes the people's choice would be the guy who finishes 15th. Oh yeah. There are some people out there with all sorts of technology where they can start voting. So we're kind of what those apps and all right. Right. Well, you know, I would just do it like I would bring in a company that does like the American I will. Right. You know, scoring, you text it in a cross money. Yeah. People would vote 40 times even though they had a paper. That's what they should do. Yeah. They should even handle. They should say get a company to come in and you guys do it. Charge for the text. We don't care and just give us the tally at the end of frigging night. And that would be the way to do it this week. Everyone feels like they're involved. And you look to stupid things. I would not text in my vote because I know it wouldn't matter. But there are a million people out there that will do it because they want to say I voted for that. That's right. That would be the people's text. So skating the game. Yeah. No. IMean, it would be cool. But I will say this though. I am concerned. Invisiting a scenario where there is two separate winners. That concerns me because look Joe Weader created the Mr. Olympia contest to have a finite definitive champion. It would be really lame to exit the Oralians arena on that Saturday night with two camps, feeling that they both won something. But you know what that might be the way it goes. Now the other side of this is it still gets beaten. Just because we have to entilge all the scenarios are of course. The other side of this is the one that is going to be a little bit more of an arachmuscle.com. If Phil gets beaten and he complains about it. Which most champions who lose that right. And let's just say Ronny Wins and Ronny also wins the people's choice. It's kind of vindicate the judges, right? Because they can sit back and they can say, well, Phil don't complain because the fans all agreed to us. So if Phil doesn't win that people's choice award can actually make things easier. But if Phil does win, that's going to be tricky. But if he gets fair to say that he's not, he would be an underdog. Yeah, for the people's choice. Just because people want to see him beat. Let me ask you this thing.

=== FILE: Marina Lopez Posing Routine at 2012 IFBB Desert Muscle Classic [pyXXtTGTJCw].txt ===

Another girl, we did the good bit. And then another girl, then another girl. Another girl, then another girl. And the good bit. It's okay. No no no no. It's okay. It's okay. No no no. We're all alone. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. We have been together. We've been with you all. Come on. Come on. We're together. We're together. We've been together. Come ensh Atdown! Thanks to you. And welcome it everyone today!

=== FILE: Mark Dugdale Posing Routine at 2012 IFBB Desert Muscle Classic [iMtONDXeuKo].txt ===

Go get us... Yeah.

=== FILE: MarvinWard 0 [JLnmJLcu7Sk].txt ===

MUSICод suc).Oалось could still keep l nit on tape from the cאן Get in there, we don't wanna fight Down the phone club So we take turn in there And we can turn the end up Don't worry about me You're gonna fight so much Don't go, go, go, go, go Yeah I wanna see you tonight I wanna see you tonight Yeah, I gotta see you tonight I gotta see you tonight Thank you Mark Norr

=== FILE: Melissa Coates (IFBB Pro & Pro Wrestler) Passes Away at 50 [MSLQxIXMTio].txt ===

Daypalumbo here with an RX muscle news update, sad news in our body building industry. Once again, I've been reporting this all too often, as I've said many, many times now. Good friend of mine, top IFBB women's bodybuilder back in the day, and professional wrestler for quite a while. Melissa Coates has passed. She was at home with her boyfriend, she stopped breathing, and the boyfriend tried to give her CVR, and I guess it was not successful. The paramedics came from what I understand, and she wasn't able to be revived. So Melissa Coates has passed it 50 years of age. Very, very sad day. It was supposed to actually interview her this coming week, believe it or not. My good friend of mine, Alex Beyoncé, and I said, call me. She was friends with her as well. She said, Melissa really wanted to interview with you, because Melissa had gone through some medical issues. She had lost her leg from the knee down, due to blood clot, and she was going to be going to tour. Maybe even with Flex Wheelarium, I understood doing some motivational talks to veterans and people had lost their legs and limbs, and she wanted to come on and tell about her whole story about what happened. I was excited, because I said, I was friends of Melissa. And it just never came to be. And I had a bad, I had a bad premonition. I actually told my mother, collect that, you know, I said, I have a, I just the only that something's going to go wrong with Melissa, and I just was a bit, I should, I almost feel like, like, regretful that I hadn't talked to her before that. But obviously, the universe has its own plan for us, and we have to just kind of play along with it. You know, IMet Melissa back in 1995 for the first time. She was guest posing at a NPC show called the Muscle Beach in New Jersey. It was probably around 1995, 1996. And it was the first time I had seen her on stage alive, and she was magnificent. IMean, she was an amazing shape, she was tanned off. She looked, I actually was ready to get on the Olympia stage. And I said, man, that's women's body building and the presentation. She just was, she was so, like, your eyes just went to her. She was like that kind of presence that was so big in the room that it just drew you to her, and you couldn't take your eyes off her, and that was Melissa. And she even, as a bodybuilder, as a professional wrestler, and she had a little stint, she, I know she did a special show at the WWE, and she was trying to get into a full time. And I guess, for whatever reason, she just couldn't manage to do that. So she wrestled a little in a lot of independent leagues for many, many years. Obviously, told she had her leg issue. But she loved to perform. She loved to entertain people. She loved to be that person that put a smile on your face that made you say, hey, this is cool. Look at her. Look at she can do. And I'm telling you, back in the day, she had one heck of a physique. And if there was women's physique back in her day, she might have been the Olympia champ for sure, because that was the look that certainly would have sold many, many seats. And she was in many magazines. A lot of photo shoots, a lot of, you know, inflex, muscle fitness, muscle mag all the time because she was Canadian. So she was a fixture back in the 90s and early 2000s. And if you were around then, you read the magazine, you knew who Melissa Coates was. And it's a shame that when people pass so unexpectedly, IMean, who would have thought, you know, talking to a friend of hers on Facebook, who was like, who's just like completely blowing away, because Melissa had been there when she lost her father. And, you know, that's the kind of person Melissa was. Melissa was a person who would compassionate, who could sit there and listen to you talk for two hours about your problems, you know, and, and, and comfort you and make you feel good about yourself. And that takes that's a special person, you know, that's a special skill. A lot of people don't care about anyone else has to say they're only care about themselves. But Melissa was like that. She was the kind of person that really cared about people. So when you see someone like that pass so unexpectedly, it, it, it, it, it grips you your heart really, it rips it out. I'll leave you guys with this story because two days ago, in my garage, well, let me take you back a couple of years ago. My father passed abouT3 years ago, four years ago now. The next day, or that night, actually, there was a pigeon in my garage. Now, for those, you know, okay, Carl Flart, there's no pigeons here. We're not in the middle of Manhattan. And this pigeon was in my garage at night, sitting in there would not leave. No matter, I could, I try to scram and add there, wouldn't leave, it would not go away. And I couldn't figure out what was going on. And then, you know, I realized because my father was always like, you know, my father was very educated, everything like that. And I said, you know what? I remember reading one step, the last day in Palombo, men pigeon. And so I equated that, that pigeon with my father, you know. And I truly believe my father's spirit was there in that pigeon, you know, letting me know that he made it or right over to the other side. Well, two days ago in my garage on top of my brand new BMW X7, which was kind of getting you a little pissed off because I didn't know why this thing was here. There was a huge peacock in there. I'll even show you the video to prove it. And I couldn't figure out what this thing would not leave. IMean, I was going, usually these things, you go near him and they scatter in three seconds. This bird would not leave. My kids were trying to defeat and it bred, you know. It was just staying up there. It was like hanging, I think, would not leave. I don't know why it was sitting on top of my car. And it was driving me crazy. I'm like, what the hell is this bird in the egg? Because I got peacocks in the egg, but they never come, you know, they run. They're gone. They come into your garage and hang out. I truly believe that was Melissa Spirod right there because Melissa was the peacock. When you walk into that room, she grabbed your attention. And that's what the peacock is as far as when I see a bird that's a peacock, I think, a people that are something flamboyant, something that wants to show itself off. And I believe that her spirit was there telling me she made it. All right, and everything's going to be good and not to mourn her and to celebrate her life. And so on that happy note, I'm going to tell everyone, let's celebrate Melissa's life. Let's take a moment. Reflect, give our send our prayers out to her family and friends and fans in this time of loss. And I just want to tell you, Melissa, you'll never be forgotten. You'll always be indelibly etched into my mind on day polembo with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: Melvin Anthony vs. Shawn Ray： The TRUTH Behind The Video! ｜ Iron Debate [h_JIzVQE2MM].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been 3.5 hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Alright, I sell vision on rismuscle.com. This is Iron Dabait. Our first episode since the buildup to the 2020 Olympia Glad you can join us on the street for root humor host. This is the show where we settled the score of the base, introduced our esteem panel. Going left to right first joining us, Lee Preasy saw him earlier this week on heavy muscle radio. Glad you can join us for this episode. We go to the man now based out of Las Vegas, Miloche, the mind, Sarseva, always great to have his opinions and insights. And then we, this is the show that we created with this guy in mind. And of course we're talking about King Kamali King KamalIMakinGHis return to Iron Dabait. And then of course the man of the hour. Top 5 Olympia in 2006, handful of top 6 finishes, one of the best pozers in body buildinGHistory. And that is exactly going to be the topic that we're going to discuss this. And of course, we're going to have some drama some scores to settle. Of course we're talking about Melvin Anthony Melvin walking to the show. How's it going? Good. Good. And of course we go to our K-Posterios. Welcome in Dave Palumbo. Let's get right into this. Of course we talk about settling scores on the show. We are going to get we posted on our Instagram yesterday. And that is the top pozers in it today's body building. We had another episode of Iron Debate. But a year ago talking about the art of posing and maybe how it's gotten a little lost on trenslation since the 90s to today's body building. Melvin, we are going to settle the score first. So a couple of days ago, Sean Ray posted a video depictinGHimself essentially helping you with your posing. Now you wanted to have your piece. You claim that that video is not the very direct it is in a sense altered. So why don't you have your piece Tyler? If you want to show that video first, Melvin, you're going to have your piece and then we have another video perhaps the longer unedited version of that video. Sean Ray. Yeah. The one that we want to mention. Sean Ode, whatever he tells you, write it down. Use the JGDunes because I don't like that. Right. I was already trened to use what I can use and keep him as a confidant because friends go, you know, he don't know my mama. So we friends like us like he says we are. He's the least on the tree. Okay. I want to get you about posing because he and Clyde did he showed you some tricks here. Not any show me shit. Not real. Not real. Not show me anything about posing. No. I am. So you come out there to do this. There it is. It's in. They come up here. Back here. We got there. They're going to start over. You know, take your time. I'm going to hit it. I'm going to touch it. I'm going to touch it. No, I'm going to do that. You know, it's called the letter. You're talking about their passion. First one it. First one out. Come up there. Take your fucking time. Come on. They're touching my face. It's clear. They're touching my face. They're touching my face. That's a great thing. That's a great thing. You need to trade this like this. Pretty much a show. Just another day. Yeah. Just posing. All the way through with your Channing. I'm going to do this. This is a good guess. You know, how you got to do it? Yeah. And then you're like your water. So it's like a dead tiny place. It really looks like how young you look. It's a fantastic year. But when you have to stay, it's like five hours a car. Yeah. That's what you guys want to have. All right. So Tyler, do you have the other video cut up as well? Yes. All right. Here we go. Let's get it Tyler. Dave, if you want to talk over this one as far as what we're watching right now, where'd you get this? No. Marvin. Marvin has a video called Marvelous Melvin. And I guess this material copy had shot this video of Melvin's, you know, leading up to the Olympia. And I guess there was a lot of her who've seen me, I was there. And it was actually validating the whole video. I think me, the one who sent the original clip to Sean. Sean clipped this, I guess. And right after this, you can see. But let's play the clip. You know. Yes. Please play the clip, please. The one I sent you. Yeah. There it is. You don't have to type sample that. If you're trying to lose belly fat, this is stopped doing cardio. That's not what we're going to do. Just Tyler, you don't go. You guys still don't let them just enjoy that. Who's that? That's my tren. That's John Brown. This is the firsT3 times Mr. Mr. World. That's my tren. That's who taught Sean. That is the general. That's me, Lo's. To push and put me in my foot in the right position. So I can get better detail out of my hamstrings. And I still use it today. That's your best by car, right? We're going to play on the hit that button. Now there's Sean. He's not going to front of the video. For whatever reason you give a tip. Okay, that's fine. All right. You can do that. That's good. I get the point. So you're saying John Brown was the guy who did your posing. I'm going to, I'm just going to clarify it right now. Because like I said before, if you keep front of this mouth, I'm a verbally bus disaster. So he's about to get it right now. So let's clarify the number one. This is like chess. I'm going to move a pond right now. So that is my video. That is my video that I sailed to this day called marvelous. Melvin Mel was my road to going pro in 1999. Now mind you from the beginning, John Brown is my trener. Okay, he's like family. Yes, that's who taught me everything I know about compulsory trensitions about how to put my feet, how to spin, how to create music, how to do it all. Okay, I took it to another level like I was taught. Sean Ray's dumb ass was in the same group. He was trened by John Brown before me. So how is it that you edit my video to try to make me look stupid? That's my video. You followed me into the locker room. I didn't tell you to come in there. Me, Subaru was filming that. So okay, that's like me telling you, Dave, hey, you know, you can probably get more out of it. If you twist your waist a little bit more and blow your obliques out and do that on stage, you'll probably get more out of it. Does that mean I thought you had a pose? Hell, no. So like I said, my stand behind what I said, Sean didn't teach me shit. So me, Lord came at the gym because I asked me to come in there. When me, Lord's put the footage up, I'm still happy about the memory. Nobody's taking it from Sean, but who's the hater? You know what I'm talking about? I'm as much of a hater as a liar as he is a good husband and a father. And not get off sit down somewhere, bro. You gave me a tip. So let's just say, Princeton, I just owe Mitch Sean's dumbass all the way up the picture and I never met him. Was that going to stop me from doing what I did in the sport? Hell, no. Was that going to stop me from winning the USA? Hell, no. Did I know how to pose when I won the Orange County, the California, the Palm Springs before he even was in my circle? Hell, no. So what he said was I'm a liar in the hater. So where in that video do you show I'm a liar? He came in and put his two cents in. If you look at the video I posted on Instagram that was from the show that you and I competed in David, did I do what he said? Hell, no, I did what they had I wanted to do because I was trened by John Brown. So how are you going to edit and take that whole part out of it to try to make me look bad? So now my, my, your filter, my filter on my mouth is about to come off. So let's get to it. So you want to talk about continuing this in video. I'll continue to talk about prison, because to do all this stuff, but I'm going to be clear. I stand behind what I said. You didn't teach me how to pose. I'm ranked as one of the best ever or if not the greatest opposite of ever be on the stage. I didn't say it. The fans said it. The judge just said it. Why are you just a me man? I don't understand. Are you mad because they're talking about me and not you. Since you want to be relevant, this is going to be the last time I talk about shot rate. I'm giving down what you talking about. I want to put my business in the street. I'm put your business in the street. That's my video. Okay. So we go. I'm going to flip it on. So you want to talk about, you know, send a people videos about me. I'm mad because, you know, he did video about me. You want to present some of the prison. Well, he said, hey, stop. And what I'm doing, you said I had 20 years. Said I was a heroin addict. You said a whole lot of shit. I didn't say nothing the first time. But now I'm going to say something. Let's talk about your mama. You're mama did 10 years for trafficking cocaine. And you want to talk about me. So who is the skillet that call a kettle black? You need to knock it off before I put that video on a hole out there. You have not taught me how to pose. That's 20 billion peer. It is over with stop talk. We do we do. We do. We do. We're right. We need a photo explode. We have it again. Oh, so again. I think we. What the. I think we will see. Can you see? No, no. Let me jump in until you're in your your appearance. Yes. Yeah, let me jump in. Okay, because of course. I've seen that video. You know, I posted on Instagram not knowing that. Melvin and Dave had the interview and Sean's. We asked some complaints in the morning. I, you know, and I said that I said that the clip of the video to Sean too. Because he's there. I figured Instagram. He can get a little bit of traffic on this one. And then he says, man, can you believe? Ben is says, I never tren him. Posting in all this stuff. I've been this video and that being perfect for him. But let me let me just tell everybody the facts. I know Melvin since the early 90s. And I know John Brown. John Brown is the reason why I'm a pro. But he came to he was slightly back in the day. I saw him pose. IMean, he was the reason why I decided to do this. Since I came to know as they said this seven. IMet John John taught me how to pose as well. There was a instance that actually Melvin was video caping. John, a show me how to pose and we try to replicate this. IMean, I have all that stuff. But let's say 1993 Melvin competed in some muscle mania contest. He was like, he was like, uh, he was like, he was like, cool one. I don't know if you David, you were a story. Yeah. He was third. Yeah. Melvin did the 97 98 99 USA. You competed with him 97 a day. 97 he was third. 98 he was second to Dennis in 99 he won. Yep. You know, so I was actually the one preparing Melvin for 2000 and oh, see for his brother, but you and I was there. He was trening in my gym. You can see on the same video. John Brown is trening Melvin like a mania. I was always, you know, two plates. Easy. About a barbarco or more of that stuff. And at that time, Melvin wanted me to go there and see. You know, he's posing because of course, I was checking, but I would always do a, you know, do respect to John Johnny's mentor. I was just there to maybe throw in some advice. And I don't know if you've seen it. I've told him to go for a skip you up. Uh, some of you to just find that all times when you turn around and all the stuff, which Melvin accepted it and he took many times. Since you told me that, I keep my stomach flat. He says he stole that. So I was driving a truck. He said he stole that to this day. Yeah. Yes. IMean, really. And that's what I would do. Hey, I said to everybody is missing right now. When you drive your car when you eat your dinner, keep your stomach flat because if you do this 24 hours a day, it becomes a second nature. You're not going to lose it on the stage. But let's go with this, something. Sean did come in that time. And of course, I've seen Sean and my gym. Look at Richard Jones or Flex Wheeler. He was looking at me. You know, 2000 and he would give some input. Input. Okay. What do you think? So I have to jump in and say this. Yeah, Sean would occasionally. Yeah. Look at the summary and say his opinion. Not teaching. Pollows. But it gives some input. So I can see that. Madam is very emotional about this because. John Brown is his mentor. John Brown is the one that each. All of us posing. Not Sean Ray. So I just want to clarify for that particular video. I'm a guilty one to send this footage to Sean. I'm not knowing what you guys had going. And then I'm going to put this in Instagram. Yeah. Very well. See, Melvin, do we have the back? I see your video. I'd see your muted though. Melvin, do you hear us on you yourself? Yeah. Yeah. I can hear you. Oh, my perfect. Can you hear me? Yeah. So you will just give his side to you. Can you hear me? Yeah. We'll also give some more background perspective as far as because I think a lot of people probably are wondering, okay, just as far as to what extent this Sean claimed that he helped you. IMean, we so he puts post that video. You know, again, to cite that he did help you. But before that, if you want to provide a little bit more context. Okay, so that that's about it. So that day he came in and tried to give some tips. And I take everybody's tips and I use what I can use. And whatever I can't use, I discard. So like I said in the beginning, you know, you're takinGHe's taking it to a whole other context. Talk about you show me how to pose and being a hate on a liar. Why do I have to hate you? Hate you about what? What do I hate? I did everything that you done, okay? Now does that take anything from Sean Ray? No, what he did on stage is what he did. What he accomplished is what he accomplished. The money he made in this sport. I don't hate on that. That's great. I wish he could have made more. Okay. That's the type of person I am. Everybody on this panel can tell you. I'm not that type of guy, but I will also tell you. I'm from the neighborhood. So you know, when you have disputes like that and you say things like that, you know, you saw me at John Brown's sons in F.L. Party. And I said to David the video, you had every opportunity to say that to my face. You know what I'm talking about? We could have discussed it. But you know, it's not about me being pissed or emotional. I'm on a set the record straight. He didn't show me shit. That was the only time he spoke to me about posing because that's like Star Wars. Everybody sees Star Wars. John Brown is the JedIMaster. Okay. Sean Ray's a Jedi. Okay. I'm a Jedi. But I became a JedIMaster based upon how I evolved from what John taught me. So how am I going to sit there and listen to what you're saying? When I got to Jedi right behind you. And then you're going to turn around trying to edit it and try to make it seem like that show video you dummy. That's my video that I still sell to this day. Okay. I had Sean Ray on there because that Sean Ray. He's a Mr. Olympian. I'd be a dummy not to let the boy talk. But if you see my face, look at the video again. I'm looking at him like, well, if you don't sit down somewhere. Okay. I heard you're down. Sit down. Right? Come on out. It's not that serious. So I'm going to still be me. I'm still on my square. I am who I am. But you are who you were. You want to still be relevant in this fort by talking about me. IMust be pretty important for you to still talk about me. You give what I'm talking about. So that's why I'm going in on them today. So you didn't show me how to pose John Brown bit. John Brown had influence and a lot of people's lives. Vince Taylor Victor Richards. Me, Lose me Chris Kormier. Ask him. He's all had influence. The Jedi has given information for you to use to be better. So how is that being a hater? How do I lie about my own video? Are you a dummy? So you're someone's wrong with your mind to think that you taught me something you gave it to him. That's not teaching me posing. I learned how to spin, how to create music, how to even pose and contract my fingers. My animation and my face. That's all John Brown. And I took it into another level and brought it into my own because that's what I was trened to do. The same intensity that I put in a gym. I put on a stage. And if I never met Sean Ray, I still was going to roll. I still was going to be a top six Mr Olympia. I still have three titles in my gym. Sean's got two. I have three. How dare you say you tren me like that. You didn't teach me how to pose. That's that's false. That is the truth and the proof is in a pudding.

=== FILE: Mike Bazel Talks to Dave Palumbo [gvOt3_llPpw].txt ===

I'm here with Mike Basel now, No Nito Dornaris, Strat the Condition Coach, as well as cut man. You're going to be in the corner this semester. Yes sir. This set will for Mar and I. You've adopted multiple jobs. How did you originally meet No Nito? So he came in. His wife is a black belt and tech window. In our gym, I'm a spirit of boxing gym, in San Carlos. We have Golden State Tech window. That's where she originally got her black belt from. Wow, black belt, huh? Yeah. So she's probably, yeah, more dangerous. So she's pretty tough and she, um, so he was, after her fight, he was cominGHere. They lived in San Mateo with her, her parents. So they were kind of, I think it only been married a year. So they've been, they were, and she was looking for a ring to do an interview in a backdrop. Oh, I was like a setting. So she knew that Brian's, Jim, she's like, well, I think Brian's in has a ring. Let me call him state. So that's what happened. They came there and did an interview. It was supposed to be me and Brian waited all day. It was supposed to be like, you know, an hour, ended up being like four hours. They were there well into the afternoon. So after that, we started talking, you know, he was, you know, he introduced himself to all of us and, you know, we were talking about, uh, pack out, I just beaten Dale Hoya. So that was a big thing because he went to that 147. It was the biggest weight he was in. And that was a toughest guy, the highway. So he, no need, it was like, you know, I want to do that. It's my goal. It's the move up in weight, and he knew up in weight, and he knew the trening people. And he just said, you know, I've never done any, I said, well, what kind of strength do you do now? And he goes, I don't do anything. I'm just a whole school box. I hit the bags, I settle box, I spar, I run. And I do it every day. And I do it as hard as I can every day. And you knew right off the bat for this guy is untapped potential. But untapped potential because I had seen him fight. I had seen him fight, uh, Victor Chini on HBO. I had no who he was. Mm-hmm. But I heard about Victor Chini and we were to sit in that homewatch in this showtime thing. And all of a sudden, this kid is like, well, this guy could move. He's not just some opponent that's guy. I think Victor Chini and thought he was just an opponent. Sure. But this kid came in and he was, uh, he, he knocked him out with one shot. One punch. But he had set that punch up even before in the other, uh, subsequent rounds. They could got him in the fifth round. But it was, uh, so right away I was like, man, he's so mighty watch. Right. He's a kid to watch. So then we ended up meetinGHim at the gym and then IMade two and two together. Right. Now, once you started working with him, what, what did you focus most in? What, what do you think that was your major contribution to him in terms of stratified initially? Most of it was my, in the beginning. Well, over the lat, we've been together six fights, over that has been, mostly it's like the core condition, um, you know, the fighters have two sit ups. Yeah. His old trener called him, uh, natural sit ups. So I do a lot of core work. That's mainly, uh, what I contributed to is strength trening, um, as well as, uh, agility work on ladder. Use kind of agility ladder and some plyometric stuff to build some explosiveness in his legs. That seems to be the key for the boxes explosive. IMean, a lot of people don't realize it. I think it's all hands. They think it's all hands, but it is legs. It's core work. It's been able to, to change level of user hips. I imagine when you hit in the body shots, if you're stronger here, you can absorb more of that punishment. Exactly. Well, we worked about two weeks together. And I did some pretty crazy stuff. But I was very cool with them because he had, he didn't even know he's a very adaptable person. He's a very adaptable to anything you try. IMean, if you get him in the gym body building, this kid will probably move out. It will blow up. It will blow up. It's the weirdest body I've ever seen. Right. And so you two weeks into the trening might mainly focus on an abs plyometric, some, you know, jumping drills for explosiveness and some agility work. Things that would trensition into the ring. He goes best. A shadow box. And he's going best. I get it. And I go, what are you talking about? He goes, I get it. I get what we've been doing. I totally get it. Everything, every move IMake, everything I do, I'm using my center, I'm using my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my center. And the, but for the very first time, I'm aware of that. Hmm. And then when he would spar, he would be able to take blows up absorb it, not feeling it. The way he felt body punches before. Right. IMean, a well-placed body shot will hurt anyone. Sure. But these guys, these fighters tren themselves to not show that, right? But he, for the first time, he was like, I understand what you're doing. You're my guy. I got you. And he talks very highly of you. And you'll be in the corner. Yes. Cut man. Yes. Hold on. You're going to walk them. Jack little chance. We don't want you to fix any cuts. That ain't it. I don't want that job. Do you like working in the corner? You actually like being there with him? He, I love it. I love it. And I had done it before in amateur boxing and we'd work some MMA fights with Brian at the gym. We'd had some guys fight professionally. And it's with amateur's. But at this level, never had worked. And no need to always giving me this opportunity. I'm a huge boxing fan. As well as he is, too. And he's given me this opportunity, this chance of a lifetime to work with all these people like, watch for years.

=== FILE: Mike Liberatore Posing Routine at 2011 Europa Super Show [0hVjok6BEYY].txt ===

I love the way for everyone, Art and the goals it's time to end my way And madünden makes time living with thealted Oh let me save you.SOUND in a waving phone, with this ahad, this alumination bystandlerly in cheering you

=== FILE: MikeLiberatore [AzYLwNMyhPU].txt ===

1 2 3 Let's go up right Yeah! Oh, you're all gonna get me Oh, you're gonna get me You're gonna get me Oh, you're gonna get me Oh, you're gonna get me Thank you, my Lord

=== FILE: Milton Holloway Jr Posing Routine at 2012 IFBB Desert Muscle Classic [iMvG1VlpNOs].txt ===

Happy New Year! Good job,キ guard! Sing, I love you they will sing ooh Wanna go short Get it off Wanna go short We'll change the world We'll change the world We'll change the world

=== FILE: Most HARDCORE GYM Dave Palumbo's Trained At？ [GFL58eWKxGU].txt ===

It's going to be a cut. This is a controversial answer, but it is true. But the most hardcore place I've ever trened were the guys who are the most focused on trening that's really it was when I was in jail, believe it or not. And we trened outside. There was a canopy over us and we trened either a 90 degree heat or it was freezing cold. I was there for six months. It was like five months. It was, I got both seasons. And then those guys trened hardcore. I don't think anyone trened harder than that anywhere I've gone. But in a conventional gym setting, I would say that first of all nothing can inspire you more than Golgjim, Venice back in the 90s. IMean, that place was like, even now it's still got great energy. But back then there was so many superstars there. IMean, if you couldn't get a good work out there and push your hardest, there was something wrong with you. Having said that on a regular basis where I trened, where I threw at the hardest core, atmosphere always was best for it's a powerhouse gym. And that's just because there were so many good people there and even the regular guys who trened there, all trened like they were, and no one can, most of them didn't compete. But they all trened as they'll be worth. So you couldn't just like, whip out and do a bad work out there because everyone's watching everyone in all times there. So on a regular basis, that was a very motivating atmosphere. Now I've gone to gyms where I've had really hardcore workouts like sporadically throughout, you know, my old Metro Flex gym, IMean, come on, you can't, that one's great. I went to the Metro Flex without in, where was it in Arizona was really, really hardcore. I've been at mid city gym in Manhattan, downstairs in the basement. IMean, that place, legends, Arnold used to tren there. It literally, you walk down these steps, you think you're going into hell basically. And as these little rooms, it looks like someone dug up out with a shovel. Those ceilings are really low and they're super hardcore equipment. All the guys are hardcore. It's like, it's a sweat, it's like a sweat shop and there. But you know what, you get a great workout. 19th Street gym in Manhattan was really great. I never was at Johnny Latsby, heard that was a very good gym too. I used to tren to place Metro, fit, not Metro Flex, Metro, fit up in a, a pellum manner, up in Westchester, back in the 90s. There was a enormous amount of bodybuilders who went through that to a bottom brush can used to go there and take pictures of people in that place. I actually worked there for a little while too. There's been a lot, IMean, strong, shapely gym back in the day when Bob was in his hey, day, you know, that was a great gym. Dear Park Gold Gym was great. I really used to know all the good hardcore places that I went there. But like on a regular basis where I tren, Beth Francis probably the best place. If I lived in California, obviously I would have been a gold vendingist because the energy there was electric too. It's good. I ain't the pro. I got to mention also Tony Dardy's gym, 247 in Melbourne. Super hardcore. I love that gym. I really do.

=== FILE: Muscle At The Movies Hit the Oscars! [gH_P3pcPbF4].txt ===

... I Hello, darling. Hello, darling. How are you? Are right here at the 2012 Oscar celebration at Tampa Theatre with a muscle man. I can't even stand at my go out there. So gorgeous and let me. I can't even get my arm around this one. Look at this. Wow, I don't have the strength. Tell me what you love about being a muscle man. What do I love about being a muscle man? Muscle man at the movies. Well, I love movies. I love a muscle building muscle working out. I love the two. I love the challenge. That's what it is, the challenge. And you, you muscle man in the movies? Right. Yeah, we started this show a couple of months ago and it's getting a biGHit. We're doing all the movies. We're showing it from every, you know, on every man perspective. Every man perspective now are they all movies about people with muscles? No, actually none of them are about people with movies with muscles. It's about like the same stuff where we actually did the best movies of 2011. That was our last show. So we're kind of like the, imagine the Oscars with a lot more muscles. Listen, it's not so man with brains. I can't believe it. I can't believe it. Here we are. I, you've started this on your own or did your father tell you to. My father. He's a real man. Just like me. And he told me, son, go out and make something for yourself. Oh, my God. That's what I do. That is so fabulous. How did you get involved with it? It's Jason. Oh, Aaron. There was another nice Jewish name. Oh, my God. So John, yes. I'm going to get involved with Aaron. Well, you know, Cisco and Ebert haven't been around for a while. And I figured we need it in an updated version. So we're going to let the more buff version of Cisco and Ebert. I'd have to say you were a lot more handsome than those two guys, too. You know, and your standy, you're all alive, too. I like that. We can all go live. Cheers, John. A little pre-outs of your drink. Yes, I'm just like that. I'm just like that. I'm just like that. I'm just like that. I'm just like that. I'm just like that. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Fuck, I sure. Pour me one. All right, we're on the limo. We're about to get out and go to the red carpet. Excited John. Rona Givers. Yeah. Rona Givers. We're just going to see Rona Givers. Here we go. Leave him with it. Leave him the limo. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Show. Kiss me. Shows. Kiss me. It's this bag. What's the matter, Rona? Wait. Kiss. Yeah. Kiss. Look at what. Look at the baby eyes, they're gorgeous. Look at the baby eyes, they're gorgeous. Who's the same miles lonGHouse? You know, I see the hair loss of people. They are about, look, look, IMean, I can't get into my house. You're like, you're on here. You're like to try. So who do you think's gonna win the best picture? Your sister's having a good day. Angelina Jolie, she's not a, she's a nominate. And the picture, which I, who are you picking for best move it? The artist, the artist as well, I agree. So what do you think's gonna win for best picture? Picks picture, I think the artist. I love the artist too. Wow, everybody's going for the artist. Twilight. I think money ball. Money ball? Monman ball, I'm going with you. How about a best actor? What do you think? Brad Pitt, for sure, of course. How about a best supporting actor? What do you think? I'm pretty sure I'm gonna win that one. What do you think's gonna win for best picture? The artist? Yeah, I think it's, I think you're right. How about a best actor? I'm a best actor. Don't be shardone. Moving for this year. Obviously the one that wins. I think he's gonna win. I think he's gonna win. I think he's gonna win. I think he's gonna win. I think he's gonna win. Here we are. John Hanson here at Saringman. It's over for the night. The Oscars are over. This was a long night, John. We got here at like, around six. It's almost midnight now. Yeah. It's been long. I'm ready to go. But before we go, we have to announce who won. All right. And John, since John got almost every single one of these right. He predicted almost literally every single one of them. IMean, like, John go ahead and run them off for us. John. All right. We got a best picture was the artist, which I was right on. And you'd like to see your right. Because you're gonna be right on all of it. Was right on that one? Right on that one? Best actor was John Desarcan, who was in the artist. Best actress was Merrill Streep. Big upset. Everybody thought Viola Day was gonna win. But you thought Viola Day was the one. That was your one. One of the ones that the Merrill Streep won. Best supporting actor was Christopher Flummer from the beginners. Best supporting actress was Octavia Spencer from the help. Best director was Michael Hasenema, whatever. Right. He's from the artist. Best original screenplay was Midnight in Paris. And a adapted screenplay was the descendants. Is that all you want to know? Yeah. IMean, that's the main stuff. Everything else is kind of like in significant. All right. Right. The funny thing John is, we didn't actually review a few of these movies. There's a few that we didn't talk about. The beginners for one. Yeah. We reviewed almost every single one of them. But the beginners, what other ones we didn't review? Uh, you go. We didn't review. You go in. You don't want a lot of, um, like special effects of what? I didn't see any of the cartoon movies this year to you. No, I didn't either. I don't live kids. So, you'll be seeing them pretty soon though. You'll be going all the way through. Yeah. IMight send Daryl to that one. I'll go to the other theater and kind of meet her back after. All right. All right. So this was fun. This was fun. We had a few drinks. We did the limo ride. All right. You know, all in all. I hope you guys enjoyed the video. The first part was the first silent movie to win since the first Oscars back in 1929. That's pretty unbelievable. That throughout this whole period from then to now, they never had another silent movie that won. They actually said, I was, I know you told me way away before that there would not be moneyball. But moneyball, if it were the one, would have been the first movie ever about baseball to when I was. Right. So, I thought the moneyball was the best movie of the year. But that was your favorite. That was your number. My favorite. Yeah. But the artist was good. I'm glad that got some recognition. Well, for John Hansen, Aaron Seringon, Muscle at the Movies, we're out.

=== FILE: MuscleAtThrMovies3_0.flv [LjlC5fWTgUY].txt ===

Here we are, Muscle at the Movies. And this is a very special Muscle at the Movies. John Hansen, the Air in St. John, what makes this episode different than every other episode? We are doing the best of 2011, the best and the worst. And we got a bunch of categories, too. We got the best action film we got, most disappointing or worst film, what else will we got? Best superhero film, and best comedy, and we're going to do the top 10. Your top 10, my top 10. All right, let's start off with the top 10. And we're going to start at the bottom with 10th spot. So, who do you have in your 10th best movie of the year? My 10th best movie of the year was the help, which was a movie about, took place in Mississippi, Jacksonville, Mississippi, I believe, in the 1960s. And it's basically about the African American made that all the white people employ, and the maids were helping to raise these kids, and then when the kids grow up, they're very disrespectful to the maids. They treat them like crap, you know. Two great acting performances in it, Violet Davis, and Octavia Spencer, both favorites for the Academy Awards, by the way, best actress and best supporting actress. They were both awesome. A lot of great acting performances, mostly women. Emma Stone was in it. Justine, Jessica Chestin, who was also in a few other movies this year. Really good acting performances, really good movie. It's sort of a feel good movie at the end of the movie, you know, about sort of a controversial subject, but it was basically a feel good movie. I really liked it, really well done. That's one of those ones that I really hadn't heard too much about until the awards start coming out, and I've seen that they've been up for a lot of awards, and I think they won some already, didn't they? Yeah, Violet Davis just won the Saga Award. So I think she's got to be the favorite to win best actress. And Octavia Spencer has been clening up with the best supporting actress, so she's probably going to win that. All right. My tenth movie on the list will be midnight in Paris. Okay. And this is when we were viewed in the past, and this is Owen Wilson, and who else was in this main characters? Rachel McAdams. Rachel McAdams. And this is based on, as we were viewed it before, anybody who read a lot of the classics in school, such as like, anything great, Gaff's be, yeah, exactly. So in these old authors that you read in school, this kind of they bring them back to life, and this is a, and this is a Woody Allen film, and it's actually with the best Woody Allen film I've seen in a while on a big Woody Allen fan. So it was great to see him come back with a movie that I really enjoyed, and I think you know, even Daria liked it, and pretty much everybody had good reviews. I wasn't sure it was going to be so good, but after you recommended it, I went and saw it, and I was impressed with it. Yeah. Ninth spot. My ninth spot was the Iads of March. Another really well-acted movie, Ryan Gosling, who's basically the star of the movie, George Clooney directed the movie, and co-wrote it. It's a political movie where George Clooney is trying to get the Democratic National Convention, or the Democratic National nomination, I should say, for president, and he's a governor, and it's all about to be hiding the scenes going on between, you know, in the political world, very well written, very smart movie, good acting performances, Phil Schymour Hoffman is the campaign manager for George Clooney, and Ryan Gosling is basically his press secretary. Then there's a little controversy, little suspense in the movie, I don't want to give it away, but somethinGHappens to one of the main characters, and then there's some suspense in it, but really well-done movie. Again, another movie that's going to be up for a lot of Academy Awards. On mine, mine, I think movie, was the dead, and the dead is based around basically the war criminals of the Holocaust, and one of them was, I guess, the story is kind of, it's not based in reality, but it's kind of like, I guess, fictionalized reality. So there was a doctor, Dr. Mangala, in the real Holocaust, and they kind of modeled this doctor that these Jewish soldiers are actually trying to go assassinate, they send them out trying to get bring this guy back, excuse me, they're actually trying to brinGHim back to Israel, and brinGHim back for trial. And it's kind of the saga of these young Israelis looking for this doctor and trying to brinGHim back, and then what happens is a result of that. So I put that firmly in number nine, a good story, and people would like it. Great. Number eight, my number eight movie is the whistleblower, another movie that probably not too many people have heard about, it's on DVD right now, so if you want to run it, Rachel Whites was the star of the movie, great acting performance, I think she had totally overlooked with the Oscar nominations. I think this was a small movie that came out, nobody really heard of it. It's actually a true story. She plays a cop from Nebraska, hurting from money because of a divorce, and everything she's looking for other ways to make money. They recommend that she go to Bosnia and work for the UN peacekeeping mission out there. So she does, she goes out there, and she finds out once she gets out there, there's all the sex trafficking going on with these miners, and people from the UN are participating in it, and it's a huge controversy, nobody's saying anything about it. She's she being a good person, reports it, then she's suspended, then she's terminated, and she goes all the way through with this thing and brings it to light. It's a great, really great movie, great acting performance by her. I think she did one of the best acting performances of the year, so if you get a chance to see that movie on DVD, go stay at it. My number eight was Warrior, and Warrior was a good movie. You have a C kind of action movie where two brothers that kind of grew up separately, one went to the army, another one raising a family, they end up both making into this big tournament, and it's like a MMA drama slash action movie. I highly recommend it. I think that it was a really good, it was one of those movies that I would never imagine making a top 10 for the year, just because it is basically an action movie. You're relatively, IMean it's like a blood sport, basically. A blood sport, you know, with a little more twist of slightly more intellectual blood sport, you know? IMean good acting performance. And they had the two dramas between the two brothers. Right, exactly. So I would definitely recommend it. It's one of those that actually did really good review. I was one of the ones I was looking at Rod and Tomatoes, I know you do too. It is 93% of the critics liked it, so that's extremely high number. So I think pretty much anybody who went to it walked away liking it, which is a good, puts it pretty solidly in the brain. And Nick Nolt, you played a drunk and father. Got nominated for an Oscar for that movie. I didn't even know that. Wow, there you go. Yeah. Number seven. My number seven was Midnight Perse, same as you. Again, Woody Allen movie, one of his best in years, like you said, very well written. That's what I liked about this movie. It was very, very good comedy. And you know, bringing back all these old characters, it was like it's like us going back to Arnold's era. And we get, we get to meet Arnold in Franco and Sergio Leeville and they're young, and you get to see him. And you know, that's what this guy, because he's an artist, or screenwriter. And he's trying to, you know, he imagines, he romanticizes that era. You know, the F Scott Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway. And then Marion Coutilard was in a two and she was very good. She was, remember the girlfriend of Picasso. So he gets his Picasso, Salvador Dally. You know, so it was a really good movie really well done. All right. For me, number seven was 5050. And this is the story. 5050 is based on the main character. He finds out that he gets, he has cancer. Young guy, I probably what? Late 20s, maybe? Yeah, 26, I think. 26. Yeah. Well, good memory. Look at the memory on John here. Oh, he just saw it. Okay. So anyway, he finds out that he has cancer in the doctor say you got A-5050 chance to live. And it's an interesting mix. This is another one that was a comedy slash drama. And he had a lot of actually very funny moments. And I remember when I heard about it, I was kind of almost hesitant to see it because I wasn't in the mood for a sad movie. And I was actually very happy that I saw it because it was funny. And I enjoyed it. And it actually came away like almost like a feel good movie in the long run. So it was very moving too in the end. Very moved. Didn't know what was going to happen if he was going to die. And this is a guy who was contemplating death at 26 years old. Yeah. That's tough. Definitely tough. So that was my number seven. My number six was margin call, which was a movie basically about the 2008 mortgage crisis. And this is basically like the last night before the bottom fell out, you know. And it's not a true story, but I think it's based on Lehman Brothers, what happened with them. Basically Stanley Tucci is the analyst at the firm. And he's let go and there's big layoff that they have. And before he leaves, he gives this computer chip to this guy's secretary, secretary Quinto, the guy who played Spock in the Star Trek movie. And he's this upcoming you know, Wiz Kid. And he says, you know, hey, I found something you better check this out. And he looks at it and he says, oh man, we are going to lose money. You know, this whole industry is going to go down the tubes. So it's basically about what happens in one night. They call in the big wigs from who run the firm. And Kevin Spacey is another actor in it. A lot of really acting performances. It's almost like a drama. It's it's very tense as you're watching it, because you know what's going on in fold. You know, it's going to happen. So really well done, called margin call. That was one that you know, people will find this interesting. This is a little side note. A lot of the movies that we are putting in our top 10 are movies that we reviewed in the last two shows. It just goes to shit. People might be wondering why that is. A lot of times it turns out movies get held towards the end to the awards because they want they want to make it to the award show. Obviously, if you put a movie way earlier on in the year, there's a good chance that people will forget about it unless it's really a big impact. So a lot of times these movies that you guys are hearing on our list is because they literally save these things, right? Exactly. Yeah. The summertime is mostly escapeous type movies and the real serious movies start coming out in the fall. All right. For me, number six was Sena. And this is one that is actually a documentary, a documentary. It's a documentary. It documentary. A documentary on the race car driver. And I can't pronounce his name. His first name is Brazilian guy, Atoia. I think it's a Toia Sena. And I never heard of him before. F1 Racing is not something that I've ever really been into. Although I'm going to the Australia and Graham Prey at the same time, there's the F1 Racing. So IMay be all end up seeing one. But anyway, he was like, almost like a prodigy of F1 Racing. And it's not a secret because it tells you in the back of the film, the guy dies in a race. And it kind of gives the whole life story of this guy and how he came to be so great at racing. And it was really a cool movie. It's one of those ones that got really good reviews. And because those reviews I saw it, and I was happy I did. And it actually came in at sex, which is pretty good. Okay. My number five was the movie that's really surprised everybody. The whole year was the artist. It's a silent black and white movie. And it's basically about the silent film era. And there's this guy who was a star as name in the movie is George Valentin. And he's a big star in the movie. And right around the time of the movie, the talkies are coming in. And then he meets this girl whose name is Peppy Miller. And he sort of helps her get into the movies. And then she becomes a big star because she's got a great voice. And he's actually French. So he can't make America movie. You know, you know, here's her voice. Oh, she just said, no, yeah, the whole movie silent. And it's just a very entertaining, feel good movie. There's no, you know, vulgarity in this movie, no violence. Really great, you know, really well done movie. And it was really entertaining. And it's probably going to be the favorite to win the Oscar. Believe it or not? Who would have thought in this day and age, a black and white silent movie would be possibly wouldn't would get this kind of reception and do this. Exactly. I was a total, total surprise and real challenge, you know, for the filmmaker to even get a maid. But paid off. That's one I guess I got to put on my list. I'll have to see that by myself. In time is my number five. If your movie was the artsy, farcey, high-browen. In time will be the low-brow entertainment. Basically it's just in timber lake. And, you know, a lot of people might not see it just on that. But in reality, the plot is what got me. And we'd review this one. I'd really like to before is that in time was original. In the fact that he basically has to, he uses his money. Everybody at this period and this like alternate reality uses time as money. So you don't use a dollar bill or currency. There's no currency like any kind of funds or goods. It's all time. And it's actually on their wrist. So if you want to buy something you use time. If you want to get paid, you use time when you run out you die. And so it's so different than in the other movie I saw, the ideal loan being original. And even the society, the hierarchy, you know, the poor people live in the ghetto where things are cheaper. And if you want to go to where things are more expensive where they have luxury, it costs money to even get there. So they prevent the poor people from moving up in society. They're working for very little time. And the top of the line where you see Justin Timberlake eventually get there literally you have people that are buying, you know, millions of hours or even millions of years houses. So I'll have a billion years to live. Pretty amazing.

=== FILE: NATHAN DE ASHA OLYMPIA PREP & JAPAN PRO CANCELED! [qSTi8bcURyg].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Vote, our 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Monday August 17th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I'm not a huge martial arts guy, not because I don't like it. It's just not a thing that I've gotten into. But I will say this, if I wanted to go for my black belt in hard-body karate, Brandon Hendrickson would be my go-to guy. I have it on going to farty. The brand has been handing out some serious ass kickings every time he steps into the gym. And you could almost feel that level of focus and determination coming through in his photos. This isn't a new brand, and this is the old brand with new upgrades. Only this time around he isn't pulling any punches. He's on the hunt again, and I don't think he'll be satisfied with anything less than winning back is a one-be a title. But I'd be honest with you guys for a second. I woke up this morning. I was feeling good. I got to work out in, and then someone sent me these videos of Nathan De Asher, and it immediately made me realize that I'm so weak right now that it's not even funny. And you can see Nathan celebrating international chess day the only way he knows how, which is basically getting under a bar or machine and knocking ouT4 plates for reps. The last I heard Nathan didn't have any plans set in stone as far as future shows are concerned, because all the uncertainty surrounding international travel is what it is. But depending on how these things shake out over the next few weeks, I wouldn't completely rule out seeinGHim on an Olympia stage this December. Believe it or not, we're actually one month away from the New York pro. And one of the things that makes this year show so compelling decides the fact that it's moved to Tampa is how important this show is for athletes looking to grab one of the last few remaining Olympia qualifications. And considerinGHow last year season ended, Fama Dolphus Keoda, I would love to erase some of that sour taste with the win here. I know this seems like a million years ago now, but right before last year's Olympia, a Dolphus was actually denied entry to the US when he was at the airport about to board his flight for Vegas. So it's been a long journey since then, but I'm a firm believer that everything in life happens for a reason. But if he ends up clenching the win in New York and riding the momentum all the way to Planet Hollywood, and it's on strenge way the universe will have gotten him exactly where he was supposed to be. And finally, we're closing out today's show with more sad news on the competition front, following the announcement that this year's Japan Pro was being canceled. We heard the news from Heade Yamagishi who said that the event was forced to shut down due to COVID-19 restrictions, which seemed like it's just part of the course. With the show being canceled for November 15th, it was actually one of the last events on the regular season calendar that served as an Olympia qualifier, which is a real shame for any athletes who were scheduled to compete here. But again, what do you do at the end of the day? We all have to take it and try to put one foot in front of the other and take advantage of whatever opportunities we can. Because if there's anything we should all learn from this whole thing, it's that tomorrow is never promised. And that does it. The at another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: NATHAN DEASHA BEATS ROELLY WINKLAAR to WIN IFBB EUROPA SPAIN [DhOan2iDZAM].txt ===

Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. The IFPB Europa Pro in Aliconti Spain has let out Nathan the Asha has been crowned the champion for Nathan after that horrible year he's had with COVID and his gym shut down and arrests because he wouldn't shut his gym and IMean just all kinds of mishaps Nathan and over the last year this guy has really just been standing up for his right to own a business and basically you know have a life he would and man what nice retrovue to this is he this the Olympia last year couldn't travel and now he is going back to be to one Olympia beating a very good ruling winkler and this was a huge win for Nathan and I think that we have to really take our hats off to what he went through and how great he looked at this show. Really certainly was not the rule that we're used to seeing on stage. There's definitely something that hasn't restored itself if you want. Chris Asita said that he felt they really hadn't really gained back to size that lost over the last year or so that we hadn't seen him on stage and I think that that might be the truth but really look good here and we're going to see some momentary rouls and footage from a website that had some of this event and you know it's thank god for them because there's really not that much out there and if you look it was a two man show essentially here Nathan the Esheroly winkler and through the poses one by one from the front size they're pretty equal you know and IMean it's not like a blowout by any means on Nathan's bucket when they turn around you just see the crispness of Nathan the Esheroly he's glued to handstrings around really really doesn't have that conditioning back in those areas even really his lower back is really not you know outstanding it's got a lot of thicknesses up or back of course but Nathan's got a lot of wow a lot of pop and he can tell that he suffered. He absolutely gained that a lot of muscle that he had lost we had seen Nathan you know lose a couple of shows and not really looked at great the greatest you know about a year and half ago he was competing before this whole COVID thing where that makes it because he rested his body and man that he bounced back he's got those crazy genetics that you know if the Levrony hyper responder type genetics where you always got to just get back in the gym and really focus on what he's doing 100 and that muscle comes back he looks fresher here than really I I think he easily beats really you know it's to every pose obviously this is more for the audience I think and you know a lot of people about third place should have possibly snuck in there but I think really was a solid second thing Nathan was a solid first what's going on with really I don't know I think really might just need another season to really get back to his old form obviously he had some issues as well but you can see Nathan's with here also really works as a fashion and we think of really wayfler is being so crazy wide but at the end of the day you know Nathan is his bigger he's got a bigger structure and I said yesterday you know when I did my wrap up of the Texas prop I wish I could have seen Kouplo come out to see what a fairer against Nathan yes I don't know if he would have been a really good battle because they both have a lot of width and a lot of pop through that physique a lot of wow but the European audience got their money's worth for sure and Nathan the Esher really proves once for all the hey you know what I'm back number one I'm going to the Olympia and I'm going to give these guys a the Olympia and that top six a big run for their money and that's that's a bold statement on his part and I think that you know we've got to add into the list people out there IMean he doesn't really have a lot of weaknesses and when he's when he's sharp like he was here he will be very difficult to beat because of his taper because of his small ways because of his wow he must have roots his arms his shoulders when turns around his back double was really good he's got glutes and hamstrings and everything ties in very nicely and flows nicely and that's important especially on the Olympia stage sometimes guys like Nathan have trouble winning these these smaller shows because sometimes oranges but on that Olympia stage there's a lot of structural guys in that top six and if you don't have structure usually you get ejected immediately so I think that Nathan's going to be a factor and we know this is this too we'll Nathan display something I don't know what is really way to have to do he's got to go back through the drawing board and do what got him there to begin with tren heavy have a solid rough season and come back and dominate again but he's got to put that size back on maybe he didn't give himself enough time all I know is that it's been a super exciting weekend for shows we're going to do a full wrap up of all these shows tomorrow with Milo Sars have lied to him that's Monday 12 new Easter Santa time for now I'm Dave Alumbo but then our ex muscle

=== FILE: NEW BIG RAMY PICS & FLEX LEWIS OLYMPIA PREP UPDATE! [5pN70me3y6g].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, there's 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. And that does it to get another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. curious question here, are there any full words that get bodybuilding fans more fired up online than new big rammy picks? Okay, so you missed it a few days ago, rammy set the internet on fire when he released and never before seen photo of himself looking so ridiculously shredded that it was like something right out of a Marvel movie. Now to be clear, rammy news team didn't say whether or not the photo was recent. But since it's been so long since we've seen anything like this from rammy, I don't think it really matters if it's recent or not. This version of rammy is what people think of when they talk about him as a legitimate title contender for the Olympia throne, because when he's in this kind of shape, he's without a doubt one of the most unstoppable forces in the ISBB. And if this is a recent photo, it means he could be getting ready to release a whole world of hurt on some people, a lot sooner than expected. If the best trening partner is the one who pushed you past your limits and into uncharted territory, the crew flexed Lewis has been running with lately are definitely the right people for the job. Recently flexed managed to team up with four-time world-trogest man Brian Shaw and power lift the slash internet sensation big boy from the strength cartel for what had to be one of the most punishing workouts he's had in a very long time. One of the things that really stood out to me after seeing flex in this group is how small he looks standing next to these two guys that tip the scales aT3 and 400 pounds. Even for flex who I'm told is sitting somewhere in the neighborhood of 250 trying to keep pace with these guys had to be a humbling experience. And that's what trening partners do. They humble you and sometimes that means taking you into deep order. But at the end of the day if this is what gives flex that extra pushy needs to contend for the Olympia title I guess it's all worth it in the end. Team sports culture is huge. Winning and losing are both things that have to be learned and the culture that surround to Natalie is a huge part of that process. So for someone like Alex Cabernero who's one of the few people who knows what it takes to win at the highest level in classic physique. I think having that culture well established heading into the early stages of this year's Olympia prep is a huge advantage. Winning the Arnold title at the start of the year essentially primed his mindset for excellence which is exactly what you need when you're trying to challenge guys like Chris Bumstead and Breonna Ansley so if you can really bear down and dig deep into the roots of that winning culture I think that in the end it could be enough to push him over the top. You should be wary of the man who walks softly and carries a big stick. And if you were surveying the landscape of the 212 division right now you'd have a hard time finding someone who walks off there and carried a bigger stick than Noah Adani. Throughout his entire year, Noah's been hold up and working quietly down at his home base in Mexico trying to erase the sting of a rough outing it last year's Olympia. He won the indie pro last March and the lineup that featured some pretty high level guys. It showed how good he can be when he's completely locked in so if you can get back to that level of conditioning I'd look out for him to catch some people by surprise between now and October. And that does it. At another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Pombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: NICK WALKER & ROELLY WINKLAAR ADDED TO ARNOLD LINEUP! [5B3QkInsxJ4].txt ===

Dave Palomo here with an RX muscle news update guys just just in exciting news from the Arnold Classic people. Really winkler and Nick Walker entering the lineup. Wow, that's a breaking news story for sure. You know, Sergio, I'll leave a junior on our TV show and on his Instagram set a couple weeks ago. Bring everyone to that stage. Let's get the best of the best. Let's battle it out. I don't care if I win or lose. I want to be up there with the best and you know what? It seems like that's what's happening. We got Sergio with that lineup. We got E-invol year in that lineup. We got William Bowen at the lineup. We got a key Williams in that lineup and now adding to that mix. I'm not going to think of Justin Rodriguez's been hot as hell this past year. Just tearing up the seniors at it over 300 pounds of that. Now we add Nick Walker who just won New York and then we have really winkler the beast himself. IMean, that's the guy that we're all waiting to win the Mr. Olympia. He might be the greatest hope to beat big Randy because he can match him for his size. Now we see really entering that on a plastic. A month out from the Olympia. This is a very good move. I think on Rullies Park. Use this as a warm up. If he wins here, that's tremendous momentum going into the Olympia competition and all eyes will be on the winner of this on a plastic. Even though this on will qualify guys for the following year, this is a good move for all these guys to enter because you know what? It's going to be a warm up for the Olympia. Randy can just sit back and watch and see who's going to be his challengers. And I think we're going to see a tremendous show. I know the Arnold people have to be super excited because obviously how do you to move the show from the usual date and mark now to September is got to be messing up their whole act. And of course, hopefully next year they're going to be back to normal. But having a line up like this has got to make it all that much more sweeter. I only can wish to take an add more money to the pot so to speak so that the prize would be higher. But this is tremendous news. This is going to be so. This might be the best Arnold plastic of all time, at least on paper the lineup. If everyone shows up in shape, we've never happened. But if most of the people show up in shape, we could have a tremendous balance. We're basically having the Olympia line up here minus hot and chupin and big ramming up there. And that's going to be, you know, IMean, how much forward side can that get? And I told you know, you want to interview to Kim Williams this past week. I said, you know, how much would this mean this victory do you? He goes, this is almost better than winning the Olympia. The Arnold is just as big to have Arnold raise your hand to win all that prize money. And then obviously get to go to the Olympia three, four weeks later. IMean, it's like a bananas. I think it's, it's foolish for anyone to skip it on the lab. We're seeing all the big names entering this show and battling it out on that stage. You never know who could be a dark horse mount lineup that I didn't mention. So I think this is tremendous, tremendous excitement for the body building world. We haven't, you know, felt this infused about a show. I don't think since before COVID. So I'm looking forward to it. I know as a fan and as a press person who's going to cover the show, a great job on the Arnold people convincing Nick Walker and really to jump into that line up and for letting them in late because let's face it. This is only going to make this show that much better. Day to level with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: NICK WALKER TO THE CHICAGO PRO？ [syU9Vliiftw].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Monday September 14th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. In some ways, winning your pro-card is the end of a culminating moment for a lot of athletes. It represents years of blood, sweat, and tears, all finally come together at the right time. But in other ways, winning your pro-card is also the start of an even longer journey with their greater purpose. And if I had a guest, North American, overall champ, Nick Walker probably feels like he's experiencing both ends of that spectrum right now. After his big win two weeks ago, I saw a lot of people saying that they thought Nick was ready to step on to a pro stage right now, and he could possibly even crack the top five in the right lineup. At this point, we haven't heard anything from Nick's team about whether or not something that that is even on the radar, although he told me he'll be answering Chicago. So I guess in some sense that means they haven't ruled it out. Given that they are so few Olympia qualifiers left, I don't know if jumping in right now makes a ton of sense on paper, but this guy has undeniable talent. There are plenty of people who would be interested in seeinGHow he stacks up on an IFBB stage. The older I get, the more I find myself agreeing with people who say that age is only a member. And I think that probably applies double for someone like Victor Martinez, even though Victor officially hung up the trunks. They have to be the Arnold Classic. You wouldn't know it by just looking at him. Victor released a clip from an arm trening session not too long ago. Where it didn't look to me like he was showing any signs of slowing down. Before we started today's show, I actually went back and looked up some of Victor's career numbers and it's almost hard to fathom how he stayed at the top of the pyramid for so long. And to be honest, it's not just the numbers. The lucky brought to the O7 Olympia is still one of the greatest of all time. And it speaks volumes about how special of a talent he was. Even though he says he's retired, we still have guys like Sean Roding competing in his late 40s and Dexter into his 50s now. So even though it might be a slim chance, I'm still holding on to hope that we might get one more vintage Victor Martinez performance before he steps away for good. At some point in their life, everyone has that one friend who they absolutely refuse to tren legs with because they know they won't be able to walk for a week after they're done. And I bet everything in my bank account that Sean Calaritas that someone over the weekend Sean's camp released footage of another one of his ridiculous leg sessions that showed one of the most dangerous athletes in the 2012 firing on all cylinders according to Sean yes. Something to prove coming into this year's contest apparently he heard whispers last year that people thought he was tapped out. And if there was no way he could add any more muscle to his frame. Well, knowing Sean the way I do, that stuff probably served as a bolt and board material for the entire offseason just so we could come back and throw it back in the faces of the haters. So if he does come in bigger and better the way he says he will, he could easily challenge for a top two spot. For people who are object goal oriented, having a clear target to work towards is a huge factor for triggering their intrinsic motivational drive. So now that Nadia Wyatt's officially signed to her Olympia contract, my guess is that we're about to see her take things to a whole new level. Late last week Nadia announced on Instagram that she'd finally short up her contract to compete in this year's Olympia, which means the top three at Planet Hollywood just got a whole lot more crowded. This year is actually the first time a Nadia's career that she hasn't competed in her regular season event, which might actually end up being a good thing in the end. Now that she's rested and had almost a full year to concentrate on taking care of her body, she has the opportunity to attack this year's prep without any bumps or bruises. And as an athlete as good as Nadia Wyatt is, when she shows up, ready to rock, she's his dangerous as anyone in the division. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Apollumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: NICK WALKER'S FREAK FACTOR! #askDave [6paUsx7w5LA].txt ===

诡互文编号一会有一 neuros�察 Sing to BangkokAfterworkinGHard at the gym You need a mattress that works as hard as you do Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you at your active lifestyle To compromise your recovery with inferior sleep What are your spinaline mattress today?這輩子是約 BereatsRiseificCorex麗娩 drone它沒有重甄因為購送US3000我們今天要為遭提登下輔寒將公開與打工率enn然後再加在這幫忙這就表示各位RX Television on RXMuscle.comThis is assay of better note As hashtag as day of your 30 minutEQuestion and answer show with day plumber all your questions diet trening, supplementation Anything in everything going on in and outside of the body building brothers now bringing table on what they've you have recorded I want to say about 8 to 10 hours over the course of the last two days a lot of content obviously earlier today we released the Iron Rage with Lee priest where he I guess responds to his thick accusations from Kenny K.O if you want to give the audience a little primer a little tease as far as what they can expect over the course of the next few days Yeah we got a lot of great stuff you know I got to interview I don't know if a lot of people know who he is Doug Bergnoli who might be one of the most intuitive educated and insightful people in terms of trening the guys been competing for 40 years and he he he he he's a he was a regular on rick's corner all the time with with Rick Dreson may rest of this and I got him on here we talked about trening functional treninGHow to tren properly how to really target muscles how the muscles work I put it this way I enjoy the interview because it was it was that you know enlightening and so I think I know I know all our viewers and fans that they love they want more trening stuff they're always telling me this is a great trening interview we're going to probably do way more with him in the future too because he's a very knowledgeable guy written a bunch of books also I got an interview that I've been wanting to do for quite a long time I know where Tom Prince texted me and was telling you how much he liked our content on the side who's you know he was checking it out and I said Tom I've been wanting to interview you ironically a man and my wife had just mentioned him the other day and today she said you should get Tom Prince on so it was like it was like the universe telling me here it is so we interviewed Tom and what a great interview was I probably could have talked them for three hours to be honest with you and so I think people are going to really enjoy that and it's a two-part interview I'll have you put them up you know right back to back on each other because it's that good and so that you know and then Lee priests you know is that up so far we have not put that up that is up yeah okay so you guys got to check that one out because obviously Kenny Kayl coldly out for using fake weights Lee basically of course they're fake so check that out Lee's response to Kenny Kayl was very entertaining as well as always let's go to thEQuestions of course the first two questions from the Dave Blumbo experience after first questioning Dave your thoughts on coconut oil for his anti viral offense you know coconut oil in terms of using it in terms of a fat source in your diet is probably you know not that first choice I would pick only because it's really not an essential you don't oil in the sense that if you if I'm going to use fat to my diet I like them to actually have functionality to whether they be anti inflammatory like the Omega 3 fats or have them be you know hard healthy like the the Amano and saturated fats like we have in macadamia that oil coconut oil is kind of an it's an MCT fat it's a fuel source basically but it does have a good you know it does have good immune system enhancing effects according to some of the studies that I've read I know a lot of the back of the Dave HIV patients were using it you know in terms of helping to enhance their immune system and it seemed to work pretty well I use it more as a topical believe it or not it's really good you know for if you have injuries or you know you know you like you know skin abrasions it really I find it has anti scarring properties also in my lower legs for some reason I guess from being like 300 over 300 pounds for many years I had a lot of this coloration there and I rubbed it on there and it works really well if you ever take a bad shot you get a bruise you rub the coconut oil on there and you'll be shocked how quickly it disperses that bruise uh apple cider vinegar will do the same thing yeah I ironically enough so I do like coconut oil but like I said it wouldn't be my first choice in terms of a fatty acid source second question again from the Dave Hと思box experience app would you to lies in the matt not oil or olive oil in place of nut butters possibly speed up my metabolism I'm a big believer that the amount of it's saturated fats do speed metabolic rate to a certain degree now if you start exceeding what your body needs energy-wise per day you can't store some of that obviously so you can't just drink an unlimited amount of mac oil you know if you saw how much mac oil however I put on my food you'd be shocked I don't even measure it I just poured on there because in my metabolism in the fact that I don't really eat a very high carb diet I'm probably you know eating probably under the caloric you know intake that I need for the day sometimes so I can eat a lot of fat and it just it just revs my metabolism but I have that kind of a metabolic rate too I have a very fast metabolism so you've got to judge what your metabolism if you're a girl and you're taking in you know six tablespoons of mac oil per day that's a lot of calories that's a lot of energy that your body does might not need so you've got to judge it based on that and my suggestion is if you don't have a very fast metabolism measure it you know now is mac and demon on a oil better than say a tablespoon of all natural peanut butter my answer to that is it's different okay so I like to vary the fatty-estants sources you know every day I don't like to take in the same type of fat at every single meal so I think it's good to have a tablespoon of almond butter or peanut butter or tablespoon or two of mac and demon out of all some whole eggs you know for the egg yolks and the saturated fats and there is good some wild caught salmon for the omega 3s and there I like to vary my sources of fats and I think that's the key I think it's it's not all or none it's balanced let's go to our Instagram question again if you're not already following us our handle is official underscore our ex muscle and as always if you're watching us on YouTube you're watching us for the first time and you haven't already subscribed hit the subscribe button below hit the notification bell you're not going to miss any of our upcoming shows segments obviously partly but here we are in September usually when we be breaking down what just happened at the Olympia but we are if my math is correct less than 12 weeks away from the Olympia so obviously in about through weeks or so we're going to be getting the ball rolling eventually with the preview segment starting to get interviews for our iron rodent the Olympia series all kinds of segments relating to previewing the Olympian of course our pro shows over the course of the next six weeks as well Chicago pro coming up in a three and a half week so again subscribe below hit the notification bell if you like what you're watchinGHit the like button comment below obviously that helps us and as always we appreciate you our ex nation couple of pre-contest questions start to saw first from Ivan bodybuilding if somebody is not completely peeled one week out but very lean almost there but not quite yet would you still recommend depletion protocols or would you just keep them doing cardio until the day of the show I would never continue cardio to the day of the show I would I would kill them probably earlier in the week doing a ton of cardio cutting their food back increasing their fat burners if depending what they're taking if they're taking anything those last two days before the competition are sacred in the sense that you need to let the body rest rest reduces inflammation which can cloud the muscle you know clarity and definition rest helps the muscles rebuild themselves okay from being in a broken down state which is going to make them look more separated and rest allows the body to store glycogen and and fill out the muscle see you can't be if you're going into a show and you're still trening the day before you break down stuff it's not going to end well now if you if you did that out of shape that you that you feel like you have you need every single day to try to you know get rid of the last bit of fact you probably should be doing the show you know that that's the truth so at some point you have to say to yourself okay i'm a week out am i ready am i'm not going to be ready am i going to make a fool of myself if you're going to make a fool yourself don't do the show if you can squeeze in hey i got i can lose the like three four pounds this last week then do it but you got to give you body that was last two days to kind of rest recuperate and come back and you can pose and stuff like that but you be shocked once you start carving you'll burn a lot of calories those last couple days people think all meeting carbs i'm going to get fat now you're not going to get fat you're going to rev your metabolism for a couple days while you're carving you probably will get leaner okay but the problem is it depends on how much body fat you still have left if it's too much hey you blow it you know you shouldn't you shouldn't have waited for the last minute or either that or you need to be not self enough times to die and then at that point you have to have a you know talk with yourself and a reality check second question from Benny and that's Ivan you talked about the carb consumption leading in the was show he wants to know what if you cutting the protein in half the last week before the show replacing it with carbs i know you don't advise people doing anything crazy or a cookie in your words but just as a test sort of as an experiment he's considering that last couple of weeks heading into a show testing and experimenting or not things that you do to excel from a show testing and experimenting some of you do eight or ten or twelve weeks out from a show so bad idea okay if you've established hey this is how much protein i need to maintain my muscle mass while I'm dieting and you cut your protein down i'm not talking the last for a day or two you're cutting it down two weeks out you probably will lose muscle so i wouldn't say that would be a good idea to do two weeks out especially you've never tried it before it's questions from team band band me it's a very long question i'll try to boil it down a little bit um he talks about in terms of weighing in how i guess procedure lead's done in a room with people in it um any goals want to ask or say how you know people who want to stick around they want to see what somebody looks like or you know have their coach value weight them so i think he's talking about sort of the spectacle of potentially i guess having you know competitors weigh in as sort of how they would do in boxing or mma where it is sort of a public event as a sneak preview as far as what fans could expect anything that's viable in this sport weighing the meal you did it i think at the Olympia one year i believe or maybe even more than one year and then he weighed in those pros you know because if you ask the pros they're weight and they just give you their weight they're going to lie they all lie they all pump up their weight so i think if the press conference would be great to put these guys on a scale hey the fill he from the United States step onto the scale you get to the scale uh two fifty two whatever you know whatever he weighs and i think the fans would love i think i would rather he see that press conference then have these uh they didn't have bobchick or real ask him dumb questions that didn't that no one wants to answer i think that would be more exciting to see hey you know and then this people can get a sneak peek at what these guys look like because they'd have to weigh in there in their opposing trunk so i think would be a great idea to be honest with this specially if if most of us are going to watch the Olympia on on a live stream that would be super exciting it would be like you said like like a boxing match and you know then you could kind of make it and then you can have everyone put their sweats back on and get to get on the stage and if you want to ask them a couplEQuestions like a press conference type of thing you can do that for 15 20 minutes and then i think that would be way more exciting and tolerable than having these guys sit up there you know bunching on their food because they're up there so long they got to eat a meal you know i think 15 20 minutes up there would be better have a couplEQuestions asked to the top guys and uh everyone weighs in so everyone kind of gets there they're their their moment in the in the sun so to speak that's a great idea i think um so this question is about Nick Walker they we posted a picture that he posted uh i want to say late last week uh leap pre-saving common thought do you know which picture i'm talking about yeah okay so specifically it's about his legs it's about veins it's questions from CRG uh he has veins sticking out on his legs especially around his calves and elite priest has opinions on it a lot of people have weighed in first off is that normal second of all i guess in general just to ask a lot of peoplEQuestion what did you think about that picture in the veins specifically he's a freak IMean maybe Tyler can find the picture in his Instagram right it was on i think we put it on our Instagram to write we put it on Instagram press the toilet i uh look at the veins i have in my neck i have those all of my body because i was crazy stride i was crazy vascular you know when i competed i still have the same name i'm just not as big now so the bigger you get and the heavier the weight you lift the more blood supply you need to those muscles so no we're talking about Nick Walker so you know those veins increase in diameter now when i was in high school i had veins all of my arms people always like wow you're a vascular as i got bigger and more muscular those veins got bigger in size so it's normal now sometimes you know when you have huge you know ropey looking veins some of them get dead varicose they're remembering freaks epi used to uh had some weird varicose veins on his on his legs he had to have removed but you know that's genetic you know it depends you know there's nothing wrong with it it the i expect in a big freaky body both to see a lot of big freaky veins you know look at Paul the leGHe had crazy we are extremely veins all over his chest but he was huge you know that comes at the territory we pre-season those veins don't look too good well you know lee pre-season the doctor either so let's go to uh Brian leg any tips to pure wider with narrow cleftacles make the biggest cannon mold that's a good reader cannon mold else make the biggest delts you can laryscat used to write articles remember when i used to read the magazine laryscat was the first mr. Olympia and he had narrow cleftacles too but he had huge huge deltoids you know and uh Phil hef is not that wide but he's got huge delts and i i don't i'm not that wide either i had AI had to i had to get like a lot of muscle on my shoulders to really make myself look like i have a taper and so it's an illusion body you know you don't necessarily have to have a huge wide structure but if you have big delts that can compensate obviously you know it's funny people made fun of Jay Cutters' ways for being too wide but his clavicles were so crazy wide that he actually has a really good v-taper he doesn't have a small waste if you put a measurement a taper around it but it didn't matter because structurally he has the right taper you know to to be you know impressive on stage so once again bodybuilding's all in the illusion good question here on glad they asked it um we we've asked thEQuestion before Dave about you know if in your day social media was a thing as far as the bodybuilding scene was concerned so it's from long now our youngness such Dave up in prep which way would you have gone in social media was you know prominent during your bodybuilding career would you have a gone the way of say branding car you could recently have been posting a lot more progress pictures and you know like obviously he's an oxygen jams got the magic mirror but yeah again he's giving you a sneak preview or two like Phil who was pretty much made it known that he's going to stay low key off the grid and you know in the attempt to quote shot the world look I I would be the first guy to say that I didn't have the greatest you know structure okay on stage but I was one at the time at least I was probably one of the biggest guys out there and my gift was that I was always leaning if I would have been putting up pictures on like an Instagram account of me trening at the gym offseason to £315 with veins everywhere and and and strider glutes people would have gone nuts I would I would have had crazy crazy following because people like that that's free piece stuff I you know I looked you know like like a comic book creature with a tank top on and you would think that I was Mr. Olympi with a tank top on because it made me look tapered you know same to Dennis James imagine Dennis James had an Instagram you know when he was competing back in the day IMean he had crazy your freaky gym looking physique too so Jimmy Quinn another guy would have been crazy popular with crazy veins and just huge massive amounts of muscle that's what people like to see on an Instagram that those are the most popular people so I think I would have done really well I would have probably had to have like a trening part of that who was filming me because I wouldn't want to be distracted but you know watching you know a £350 squat you know £650 for reps is pretty you know freaking I always wore like you know tank tops in the gym I wasn't one of these guys who covered up all the time I wore tank because I was sweating all the time because I was so hot my metabolism was so fast tank tops and shorts on you know what people were to lost their mind I really think that I would have had a tremendous following and I think the guys today should do that if they have the freakiness you know use it to your advantage Instagram is in and YouTube make you guys money that that's your salary that's your contract nowadays there's no there's no magazine contracts there's no very few supplement contracts if you want to make money for yourself it's nice that you can you can put the oneness of making money in your own hands if you want to you know if you don't want to have to carry your phone around and take selfies of yourself you know what pay a guy like chai has and Larry wheels has had pay a guy to do it to be a video guy to your social media guy let him come to the gym with you film you so you don't have to even concentrate he could just do it while you're trening you know and it doesn't allow you to have to be distracted you can still stay focused on your workout but yet you can still get great content for your social media channels and you know kai greens got someone who films him too and IMean he's got great stuff on there he doesn't even put up that much stuff but when he puts up stuff they get millions and millions of likes are it because he's a freak and that's what people want to see interesting one here from one to all a couple of joe what pro buy builder have you seen become successful say top five and pro show yes it in matter where who started with the worst genetics I'll rephrase it as I guess in your opinion top body over some overcame bad genetics you know I don't know if I don't think there's any real like pro body bulls out that who had bad genetics I think there might have been guys that were not that you might have thought hey this guy is not going to ever look the way he did but then all of a sudden like one or two years you know later he puts on like you know you know a hundred pounds of muscle IMean they're walking when you know wasn't you know a phenom you know he put a ton of muscle on you know over the course of you know a couple years there were guys that just crawled that woodwork and like we were like when did these guys come from IMean look at who would have thought that William bone act would look the way he did when he first started he was a two twelve guy and he couldn't even win two twelve shows the extra Jackson was a bannamway IMean this this guy that made humongous game IMean I look like I was nothing you know when I first started I put a hundred pounds of muscle on in five years so that's these are things that you never expect I was told by a lot of people don't waste your time you're never going to be a top body bullder because you don't have that you don't have the structure for it and so I superseded that by putting on a lot of muscle and being very conditioned so never I always tell people never allow people to tell you you can't do something okay use that as motivation to prove them wrong and there's been a lot of guys that they fit that category I you know I I had to sit down and actually you know think about it for a minute but this plenty of people that that I think a that made it bodybuilding and people never expected them to be where they were they just to achieve the level of of greatness that IMean look at even Steve Cucalo IMean he he progressively got better and better and better he didn't win teenagers when he did it okay I think you want his class but you know he didn't win the overall he might even suck and he just got better and better and better and kept him pretty stolen proving and he's proven to everyone that he is the real deal so like I said there's so many people out there that that that maybe when they first started we're nothing and then because of their work ethic became great to put a shan water fit been seeing some insulin protocols that call for shooting around two units first thing in the morning before doing a fasted cardio whole premise is to lower blood glucose levels to be more in a fat burning mode is this accurate and if so what's specific relationship does lower blood glucose levels have with fat loss when you're doing cardio and you're low intensity cardio your body using fat as a fuel source so whether your blood sugar is 90 when you wake up where your blood sugar is 70 or 65 okay that's not going to affect how much fat you lose so it's a it's a ludicrous fucking theory okay not not to mention who wants to have low blood sugar while they're while they're on a cardio machine and just getting that cold sweat going on you lips go numb it's it's moronic anywhere it takes insulin before they tren is is is is idiotic I'm telling you it's it's it's it's foolish because the people who do it for their way tren and thinking they're going to be a carb dot more and they got to feed that insulin and I've had this this argument with me loash before um I don't mind post insulin post work at insulin but pre-work at insulin is silly if you're doing a shot of insulin in the morning what you're breakfast to car be self-up so that when you go hit the gym for hours later you feel you feel pumped that's fine but you don't think a shot before you go into the gym okay actually you don't take a shot before you go on and get on a bike or a treadmill and do your fast at cardio in the morning that's nuts that's just stupidity as far as I'm concerned let's go to uh just trying to get thEQuick one here Eccano Joe uh that it uh your best white fish for diet you know the probably the most popular white fish of people eat is tolopy which is probably the least healthy because it's all farm raised and you know they feed it stuff you know they feed it like corn based you know foods which is not which changes all the good fats and in the fish most of these tolopy are living and disgusting you know fish tank conditions where they're basically in the they're basically swimming in their poop so I I don't need to lobby even though it tastes good it tastes like chicken why does it taste like chicken is we feed it the same thing we feed the chickens corn so if I had to pick you know a white fish I would pick the wild you know caught ones like you know if you live a long island you can get flounder and and and fluke that's really good I really like those cod is really good hadic is all right you know the wild caught one um if you go to like Sam's club or some of these price clubs you can buy like frozen you know wild caught fishes um that they have usually it's like cod and that that I I think cod tastes the best of all the white fishes um it's it's tasty you can get it readily in the wild court form watch out for those farm raised fishes they're just not as good for you health wise now you know macro nutrient wise protein fat carbs it's the same thing so you can eat to lobby or you're gonna lose weight and something that because it's the same thing but for a mental health standpoint if you're gonna be eating that much fish you might as well eat stuff that has good stuff in it because you can get nowadays you can get frozen caught frozen wild caught just as easily as you can get the frozen you know farm raised just you gotta do some smart chopping in other words you gotta ask questions you gotta read labels some people just blindly grab whatever's there or whatever's cheapest and that's not always the way to go for a dollar more you can get you know a wild caught and I would always choose wild caught if I had the option let's go to Billy G Finn another good one here this is post contest um how to reset your sleep cycle after a contest some three weeks post show and still waking up at 334 a yeah you know I try to eat something before you go to bed so you'll it'll let you rest a little nicer what happens is after shows you're metabolism is rev and so crazy that your body wakes up because it's just hungry no matter how much you eat before bed you'll wake up hungry just you just to happen to me all the time and it could take could take a month or so months to months before your body actually regulated self um you could get up in the middle of the night and you're at the shake you know maybe so you can go back to sleep you know readily I used to do the ice a lot of night shakes you know because for me it was like an easy way to get protein down I got up to take up you know to go pee I would have a shake there my refrigerator I had to use to keep a little refrigerator in my room I'd go up the shake down you know and go back to bed and then wake up and that would kind of like buy me some time so to speak so I wouldn't be starving laying in bed and that's the the the the best day I could help you so you could to eat before you go to bed and then have a shake available in in case you wake up in the middle of the night you can drink and then you can go back to sleep because remember sleep is really important especially offseason if you're trying to put muscle on you got to sleep enough let's go to search at arms time for a couple morEQuestions as an over 50 classic physical competitor is there a certain age or are there certain drugs you would recommend staying away from because of their sign effects or do you feel it's more dose related than age you know I think over is you know over the age of 30 I wouldn't even I would not use any more orals and I'm talking I'm not doing my anamorph first of all I don't think I should use anamorph anyway it's too weak and but if you take in like windshield tabs you know the last six weeks that's fine I'm talking like harder orals like an amdrawl or dianabol have a test and even I don't know if I would well most people take out tests only for two weeks but I would not use the harder oral drugs I think that they're unnecessary the injectables do everything the orals do and this very little toxicity associated with longer acting injectables that's something I would probably stay away from I'd also keep very close tabs on my blood pressure a lot of drugs like trenbolone raised blood pressure up especially in guys that are older so you gotta keep an eye on that you know because because if you high blood pressure will destroy your kidneys we know that already so we don't want that to happen other than that you know I think that you know you have to come to grips of the fact that it's 50-something years old you're probably not going to put a lot more muscle on so thinking that oh I'm going to take 2,000 milligrams of testosterone a week and then some amount of ox on top of that with the ton of GH it's probably overkill at that point because you're probably not going to be able to put more significantly more muscle on like you did when you were in your 20s and early 30s so taking that in that idea of mine that you you can keep your dosage is more reasonable okay because taking utils of drugs is not going to do anything if anything it's probably going to hurt you because an older body can't handle those drugs as well as a young person the young person has better detoxification they deliver works better their kidneys work better why put the body on unnecessary stress what isn't even doing anything to benefit you so I think once you can come to grips with that that concept of hey you know when I'm 50 I can make some gains but I'm not going to make ridiculous gains so why I'm not going to put myself in a situation where I'm going to really talk to find my body a lot. It's questions from a trade bit odd he references AJ since we're by the way Dave we're going to have on forgot to tell you this we're going to have him on I think I would just want to read you guys in a couple of weeks I hope risks to this specific date Justin Rodgers of course looking phenomenal we actually posted a proxpertor he sent to us a couple of nights ago he is three and a half weeks out from the Chicago. ThEQuestion is about keeping it as bodybuilder is keeping stomach acidity in check how it one fix it and in a sense will it have a significant effect on a bodybuilder's physique. Being overly acidic obviously is not good for your body because if your body is overly acidic it's not going to be concerned with burning fat and building and repairing muscle it's going to be worried about trying to balance the pH of the body so you can do stuff like at brags apple cider vinegar which is an unfiltered apple cider vinegar table spoon that two three to five times a day in six to eight ounces of water that'll help neutralize a lot of acidity in the body taking a good greens product like I usually recommend people take juice plus I've been using that for 25 years I have a link on Davepalumma.com if you want to see what I'm talking about I do the fruit and vegetable you know the fruit in the morning the vegetable pills at night and that also helps with neutralization of acidity drinking alkaline is water can help as well in between your meals not with meals of course because that's like I've do anything and you know just allowing your body to detox you know I offer a free Three week detox clense program that I've written I've given that to thousands of people already what you got to do is email me and I'll send you a copy of it. Doing that once a year let your bodies organs of digest and get a break reducing all the toxic you know and acidifying foods in your diet you know for thaT3 week period allows your body to clense itself and so I think as long as you can do that and understand that you can't keep bombarding the body without giving it a reprieve or a break I think it'll be fine but that's you know those are the little tricks that I've used over the years to try to neutralize the city using a good five or something like fiber-liced to help remove waste from the body the longer waste sits in your colon okay the more likely you are to re-reabsorb the toxins in that way so thEQuicker it moves three of body using a good five or supplement you have less likely of a chance of re-absorbing the toxins last question is from the classic physique Nash going back to Europe career when you were walking around 275 to 300 plus mass monster back in the day what kind of reactions would you get from the ladies he says thEQuestion is that's what I'll split it into two obviously there is the ladies in the fitness industry obviously they're going to be a little bit more used to seeing the mass monster but the non-fitness related you walking around at Roosevelt field more kind of leave you the action I think that most people were probably horrified by the way I like to be honest yeah I think most women would think it was it was disgusting I would think you know the people in our industry probably thought it was cool because they can relate to it and they can appreciate it but I think for the average person you know walking around at 300 pounds you know just was like I was a monster like the incredible Hulk walking around you know now there's always the peat the the groupy you know girls that like that kind of a look they like the big freaky body builders the must-you're a look that's something that for whatever reason that they like you know but I think the majority of people you know didn't like it I'll tell you why because my lost a lot of weight and when I walk around now and people who knew me from before and after a lot of people tell me a lot at least women will say oh you look so much better now okay so we think women are attracted to like big freaky guys but for the majority of them they don't give us should have you look women are women more care more about your personality and if you have a good job then if you if you have 25 inch arms you know and that's just the reality I think more guy I had more guys that were way more impressed like when I would go to shows I didn't have groups of women around my both I had tons of guys wanting to know how I got big and I had a million questions for me and then anything I had groupy guys that were like interested in learning from me and finding out what secret to had and what drugs they took and what foods I ate and how I trened that was really I think the majority of the people that were grouping around me the women could carry less about most of them you know like I said unless there was like someone who really women that were just really into muscle you know but this that was a minority not a majority so chicks take the long ball but not 300 combat spots right is the oral of Dave's tour yeah I think if I if I think I've had like you know a better jump shot I think I had a word out of the chat and on that note it's gonna do for this episode of Ask Dave again a reminder if you haven't already subscribed hit the subscribe but low we have tons and IMean tons of interviews right now on our us muscle.com and of course the YouTube channel I am rage of lead priest lead priest responding to Kenny KO if you haven't watched it you're not gonna want to miss it episode is absolutely absolutely hilarious for Dave Lobbo and a producer Tyler Shore Obsidian for OGeek we'll see you next time

=== FILE: NICOLAS VULLIOUD'S FREAKISH WHEELS! Muscle in the Morning [GOlaO1jLQ5c].txt ===

It's Wacky Wednesday here at Musselin the Morning and I'm Dave Pulum. Going today is Wednesday, July 11th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's that time again. Welcome back to another edition of Recap Wednesday. We're going to hop right into today's show with a huge weekend in the Midwest out of the Chicago Pro. For the second straight year in the men's open division, Michael Lockett was announced as the winner after he put on what was by far the best performance of his pro career. Now, early edging out, the sensational Surgeoli, Virginia. In 2012, division Craig Richardson brought down the house with his home run at the night show. While Wesley Vister's turned out to be one of the more exciting moments of the weekend as he saw it to the win in his classic physique debut. Top honors and men's physique went to Michael Bevin's and over on the women's physique side, Sarah Villagas, crueced home for her first win of the season. Jill Blondon held down the top spot in women's bodybuilding and much to delight of everyone in the audience. It was a nice day of Danielle Chickelli's brought home the crown and fitness. Lori Chapados came out and crushed it to take home the bikini division and rounding out the action here for the weekend with a gigantic win in figure. Was it Julia Waring? Now he shift gears and head up north for another big weekend up at the Vancouver Pro. Where the seam of the show was conditioning, conditioning, conditioning. And nowhere was that more true than in the men's open. We're a sliced and diced Lucas Osloodle, showed up and clened house on the way to punchinGHis ticket back to the Olympia stage. In the 2012 division, two-time Canadian National Champ, Mamudel D'Araq was absolutely brilliant on his way to soaring to a well deserved victory. And just as we predicted right here on the show two weeks ago, the classic physique division went to our old friend, Khalid Chicke, who looked like he was the clear winner from the word go. The men's physique crown went to Mexican import,ish my old domain guys, and the women's physique division went to homegrown Canadian product, a list of Copalino. Allison Efear, brought home the fitness title and in the figure division Bojana Vassalajavic, delivered her best look ever on the way to another win. And wrapping things up with another first round TKO performance in the bikini division was former Olympia champ, Ashley Kaltwasser, who looks like she's probably unbeatable at this point. For the full contest photos, check it out at rxmuscle.com. For our last show of the weekend, we head out to Sin City where we had some red hot action in the bikini division that certainly turned up the heat on the Vegas strip at this year's Patriot Pro. All it took was a season best effort from veteran Karen Hinnich to lock up the win as she held off a strong push from runner up Ely Fernandez. Hometown favorite Stacy McLeod pulled out all the stops on the way to her big third place finish, which she managed to fight back a strong push down the home stretch from Brazilian bombshell, Nahara Shubbert, and wrapping things up. The Mithop 5 was another homegrown Vegas talent in emerging star Francesca Lauren. Flex Lewis stepping away from the 212 division opens up the door for a new king to rise up and grab the throne next year. And based on the ways looking right now, I have a hard time not putting second year superstar in trening Nick Bullyad on my short list. Last weekend we saw the Bullyad camp release a handful of new updates that made more than a few people stop and do a double take. Right now this kid might be packing more muscle per square inch than anyone else in the division, and that doesn't even factor in the insane 3D around this in conditioning that he's got right now. With all these crazy gym shots he almost looks like a really winkler of the 212 division. But without a sitting Olympia champion who's still in his prime to stand in his way, maybe we should all start taking a good hard look at whether or not we're seeing the makings of the divisions next 10 year champion right before our eyes. With his win at last weekend's UFC 226 Daniel Cormier became the first man in history to hold both the light heavyweight and heavyweight belts at the same time after knocking out the former champ early in the first round. And right now it looks like we're as shade under 10 weeks away from seeing 212 powerhouse Alex Cabernero come out and try to land a few heymakers of his own up on the Olympia stage. Two weeks after his huge win down at the Dallas Europa pro the pride of Puerto Rico already looks like he's loading up to make a strong push at the title. I don't know what the heck he's been eating for the last week or so, but in his latest round of updates Cabernero definitely has the feel of someone who's recharge and ready to make a strong push down the stretch. So now that he seems like he's got everything moving in the right direction it'll be interesting to see if he can sustain the momentum and ride this thing out for another two months all the way in the big dance. And that does it yet another edition of muscle in the morning on day polo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

=== FILE: NPC President Jim Manion & Masters 70+ Jim Karas [C7TqNGq7TkI].txt ===

This is Dave Palombo with RXMuscle.com. I'm here at the 2011 NPC Master's Nationals. I am here with two gyms that have a very special significance here in this scheme of things. With NPC President Jim Manion here and seven year old Jim Carrus, who just got off stage. Is it true that you guys competed against each other back in the day? Absolutely. Both of them are still sitting guys. Both from Pittsburgh? Yes. Both in the Mr. Pittsburgh. No. From what I understand, who has the most wins between the two of you had to head competition? Well, I stayed in it longer than him. Well, I'm sayinGHead to head. When you guys went up against Chau-The-Mano, who won the most times? I can't remember. He was a big cheese whenever I come in there and he was beat me all the time. Then I start beatinGHim and then we go back and forth. Now, I heard that there was a show called the Super Pittsburgh Devil, former Pittsburgh champions. And I heard you won Jim. I did. I did. Was that 70, what? Five, six, four. 75 or six. I can't remember. Was that the year you went on that streak? Were you one? No. That was 71. How many shows did you win against consecutively? Four and one month. We started with show every week somewhere. How many shows? Every week. We went to Pittsburgh, Catanning, what was the other one? Pittsburgh, Boys Club, Golden Triangle, Wednesday. And we had Eerie, Ray Lakes or something like that. Yeah. What do you think when you hear these guys complaining about doing one show now? They can't pick for a second show a week later. Oh my gosh. We used to pick three times a month. Oh yeah. Three, four, five, a month. It was fun to buy it. After we all competed, we all went on head beers together. Wasn't like life and death. And it was fun. Everybody did their thing. And I was at some point stopped competing. What year was that? I stopped competing. I got a game in 73, and we came back for the 75, 76, Uber Pittsburgh. And then you were sorry to have to do that? Yeah. And when did you take any breaks? Yeah. Did you take any breaks in the action? 1981, I won the over 40 America, the NDBA Cat Test show up in you to go to New York. Wow. We never heard of that show. And I give it up till 1991 and I turn 50, and I told my wife. I said like they have a, I have, I have I need to go again. She says, go ahead and do it. So I did three shows in a six week period. I won the Space Coast, South Eastern USA, and the Southern States. And I said, you know what? I like to do the nationals again. So 1992, I went to Palm Beach and won the over 50 national. Wow. When you see him up there, Jim on stage, you say to yourself, man, I can't believe he's still going. No, I can't believe him. If I didn't know, he just like when Diffson Derexson is mine, did. I got married a little bit young and so I had other responsibilities. But IMade kept going to who knows. I still tren all the time. I just think you can make a comeback against this guy in the States. When they went. No, no. I don't have to discipline the diet anymore. You couldn't, you wouldn't get up there against this guy. No, not at all. Just the two of you. In a real dark room, maybe. Three years to catch up to me. He's on the 67. Are you going to keep going? No. This is my last one. Do you believe him? No. He said that about five, six years ago. I want him to come back. I got to come back. Keep going. What are you quitting for? That's what people ask me if I'm going to be tired being president and PC. I go, no, what for? Where am I going to do? Travel around. I do that now. You retire when you die, right? That's it. Guys, thank you very much. Okay, day. First, fathers of body building in Pittsburgh. Jim Manion, Jim Carrus. Okay, Jim. Together again. Here in Pittsburgh. You're now. Good job. Good job. Day, Palombo. RXMOSL.COM.

=== FILE: NPC USA CHAMPIONSHIPS RECAP! [Cy6io1KTlnw].txt ===

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today is Wednesday, August 4th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we're back in better than ever with another brand new edition of Recap Wednesday. And we're kicking off the show today by bringing you a recap of last weekend's Asia Grand Pre. Classic physique division for the second time in this career. The top honors went to South Korea's own, Songwon Kim, a runner-up slot with a Ji-Hoon bang and rounding out the top three we had J1 Park. In men's physique, a Bong Si-A Choi collected the first win of his pro career which landed him a well deserved Olympia qualification. Bum su Park slid comfortably to second and we're wrapping up our coverage here with your third place finisher, Jung-Jun Lee who looked like he might have made some solid improvements since we saw him last time. Down in Port of I-Octa, Mexico we saw plenty of fireworks in the 2012 division and bikini at the first annual Port of I-Octa pro where we were starting things off here with the two-twelfth division and winner No-Oladami looking pretty damn impressive in his season debut. The second we had Columbia's own is the Bon Bravo who looked great in his I-F-E-B debut here and Leonidas Cardoza caps off a surprisingly strong top-free group here. On the bikini side of things it was all about I-O-Lis Francisco Stoico who snagged her first win of the season thanks in large part to bringing in the best look of her career. Second place went to Mexico's own Ellie Fernandez who seems to be picking up steam all of a sudden and sliding comfortably to third was none other than Jasmine Gonzalez as she continues to build on her strong 2021 campaign. Down here in my neck of the woods raining and defending bikini Olympia champ Janet Lyak stepped into the role of promoter for the first time last weekend and she weld them in some of her friends to the first annual Battle of the Body's Pro Am. To know and surprise this was the bikini only event on the pro side of things. What when the dust finally did settle there was a surprise in the winter circle as more rain blankwi-stose stepped into collect her first W since 2019 on the way to punchinGHer ticket back to the Olympia stage. Second place went to Georgia Hill who looks like she's starting to get it going now. Chris Bahades did enough to slide to third which gives her three straight top three finishes on the year and Rey Juana Harley took fourth in her season debut as we're around the out our coverage here with rookie Ivana Fernandez who found herself finishing in the top five for the second straight week. In case you missed it we also had some prime time action on the amateur side of things last weekend too at the USA Championships as the pro league opened up its doors to the next generation of Superstars. Now we're starting off our coverage here with the men's bodybuilding where Jordan Hutchinson won the heavyweight and overall became the star of the weekend. The overall in classic physique went to Ruben Salis and in men's physique overall Mark Robinson punched his ticket to the big leagues after a hard fought performance. On the women's side of things Hunter Henderson showed up and showed out on her way to take in the overall in women's bodybuilding. Women's physique went to carry Hughes who crueysed to a big time victory as did the overall wellness winner Alyssa Sernah. Amy Mott stole the show on her way to claim in the overall in figure and in the bikini division Diana Dang looked like a future star in the making on her way to capturing the overall crown. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Paloma reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: NPC USA CHAMPS (2018) WRAP-UP by Dave Palumbo [Y7CBcKWDh3g].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding fans? Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle news update, USA Championships and now in the bags. And it was a great competition out there and blisteringly hot, lost Vegas in Nevada this past weekend. We have a new overall champion in Shane Stewart. We don't see the light heavyweight when the overall very often in bodybuilding. But when he does, it's usually pretty damn impressive and Shane Stewart proved to be a very impressive competitor. Winning the overall and really spectacular fashion once again because he beats some guys in her a lot bigger than him and that heavyweight super heavyweight class. Remember Shane's weight limit is only 198 pounds. And when I looked at pictures of him, you know, the first thing that came to mind was a young branch Warren just thick thick quads, a lot of density in his muscle. I bet this guy packs a lot of weight. I bet he's 250 in the offseason. He's just dense. He's got a lot of mass on him. It flows well. It flows well. He doesn't have the smallest waist up there. But he flows and he's got taper and he's got some serious legs on him with a lot of detail and graininess. And I'm sure it looked I wasn't there in person, but I'm sure in person they were even more impressive on stage. I could just see the kind of muscle he has. It's mature. It's dense. His back is great. His skin is really tight and clen and his tan was good. Presentation was good. I'm from one I hear. And that's what wins overalls. You know, these judges are up there looking for someone who looks professional, who looks polished. A guy who can step into the pros and do some damage. And that changed to it. He wins that light heavyweight class, which was by no means an easy. And then he wins that overall against the bigger super heavy and heavyweight. But let's talk about some of the other divisions that took place. Obviously the super heavyweight division is always one of the most exciting, at least for me probably because I competed in the super heavyweight division. But you know, everyone wants to see the big guys battling it out of there. And I remember I interviewed a couple years back Henry Jackson when he won the Junior USA. No one had even known this guy. He just really started and I said, man, this guy is going to be a pro one day. He's just to proweight and happen. He's going to make a few improvements. And he does it here. He doesn't hear. He wins the heavyweight. He excels me the super heavyweight class against a really, really good Ron Gordon. We'll talk about Ron in a second. But Henry Jackson's just got flow to his body. He's got a small waist. He's a big guy. He's very well balanced on top and bottom. Having said that, I think he needs to hold more mass on his upper and lower body. But he's balanced. And he brings conditioning to the stage. And he's a guy when he poses and opens up things happen. Alachy Green. Detail shows muscle separate. This is just this is a combination of great genetics. And obviously impressive work ethic because he's been adding muscle over the years to his body and making improvements. But you know, this guy has just been given a structure from the heavens. And he's exploited it. And he's done his homework here. But he won a very close battle. Ron Gordon was tremendous. I felt that Ron had clener muscle. I thought he had better conditioning. More graining as to his body. I think it was a great battle. I wasn't there once again. Henry Jackson had the little bit of darker skin cone. Once again, a slightly bigger structure than Ron. But I think both of these guys were pro-card worthy. IMean, too bad, it wasn't in the nationality. Both of these guys were to gotten pro-cards. And you know what? No one would have complained. And no one would have complained if Ron would have won this class. I got a new studio. He's that good. He's just the pro-weighting to happen at this point. Whether he's going to do North American or wait for nationals, I don't know. North American is coming up soon. So it might be an easy year way to go. But I would maybe try to win the nationals. I think this guy can win the overall. I think he's that good. It gives him more time to maybe have a little bit of a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone spurt and then go back into dieting. I don't have been talking to him. Maybe we'll get him on the show and discuss it. IMean, this is a great class because you got a guy like Matt Burzak, who has to settle the third here. And he's probably next in line. So to speak, to get the pro-card. I don't think anyone saw Henry Jackson or Ron Gordon coming. But a great, super heavyweight class. And once again, you could make an argument for these guys winning. But I think that Shane Stewart and the White Heavy is just too complete to take these guys out. Same thing when you talk about Lucas Carroll, who wins the heavyweight class, tremendous talent. Back in post from hell, great, small ways, great structure. Impressive. And once again, Shane Stewart to beat the heavyweight winner, Lucas Carroll, and the super is just a testament once again, what I said earlier. Goody is. But Lucas is really good. This is a guy who's going to be an impact pro. I believe he might take another year or two to really put on a little bit more muscle still out that frame. Here's an impact pro for certain. Once again, clen muscle, good lines, nasty conditioning. And that's what I like when I see a winner of a pro-claw fireweight class. I want to see a guy with density and a guy with shape and structure and can present it. And Lucas Carroll brought that to the stage in Udles. He beats Drew Schaffer and second in Matt Jensen and third who were terrifically conditioned. But I think Lucas is just morecomplete than they are. And that's what you ask for. Once again, and when you see it, people say, and all the bodybuilding is not as good as it used to be. I don't believe that one second. I think the winners of these weight classes are tremendous. Sean Williams wins the middle weight class. This guy's got quads from hell. This guy is good to be super dangerous in that 212 division. He's just got to add a little bit more muscle to his frame. He spends the next year to bumping up a little bit. Watch him. He's dangerous from hell. And this is a guy. You know, look at him alone. You're like, this guy could win the overall. You know, obviously he gets outside by the other way class winters. But tremendous effort by Sean Williams. And then once again, when you look at that overall, Shane Stewart just bringing it. I guess you could say, when you look for an overall winner at the pro-claw fire level, you're looking for someone who's going to be an impact pro from day one. A guy who's complete. And that's Shane Stewart. Some of these other guys are bigger than he is. Maybe some of these guys are as conditioned to him. But he's got the whole package and he looks complete. He's not lacking anything in any body part. And that's what's going to make a really good pro right off the bat. I looked to see him jump into a 212 show and see how he fares. Maybe we'll see him in Tampa. I don't know. But we'll get him on the show for sure. Congratulations to all the pro-card winners and all the competitors from this past week and John Lindsay on throwing another great USA championships on day polonbo with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: Nichole Venzara Routine-2011 IFBB Ft Lauderdale Cup [QZmlPtp5OcA].txt ===

Ohhh rotaryéeORT Ohh.... OH WSTAUCH Nooooooooooo HEACHNNNNNN OH.... Oh Oh Oh Oh

=== FILE: Nick Walker & Roelly Winklaar to the Arnold + Bryan Jones NUTTY Update! [L4qDQaGdZJI].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of net carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Monday July 5th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back ladies and gentlemen. I hope you had a great 4th of July weekend. It's a new day to new week and I'm sure you've heard by now we have a brand new Arnold Classic on our hands in large part to this man Nick Walker. In case you missed it last week, the Arnold Sports team announced that they were adding Nick and really winked to their signature event in October. It sent out shock waves for a few different reasons. For Nick this feels like a balsie move because he doesn't need to do it. He already has the Olympia qualification which tells me that he wanted to just for the experience and to test himself against the other all stars we'll see in that lineup. Also for a strategic standpoint, competinGHere also gives him a chance to feel things out before he peaks for the Olympia. Which feels like a smart play on his end. I see this as Nick playing with other people's money. If he does well, all it does is add to his legend. And if he doesn't, he can say that picking for the Arnold was never the goal anyway, which turns us into a win-win situation. In Rullies case this news feels completely different to me. For one, the sheer fact that he's in the show now demystifies what his plans for the season are. Now we know for sure that we're going to at least see him here. And here's the caveat. Unless he wins. Okay. And even if he does win, the Arnold doesn't qualify him for the Olympia, which means he could be on the outside looking in for the second year in a row. But with that being said, just because he's competing at the Arnold doesn't mean he's probably also not competing at another show earlier like the Tampa Pro, which is five weeks from now. Because that would also give him the opportunity to qualify here for the Olympia. But if his plan is Arnold or bust, it does still leave a lot of things up in the air, which is just another thing to keep in mind while we see what happens with a ruling wing blur between now and then. Even though Brian Jones' name wasn't added into the Arnold roster last week, like Nick and Rullies was, if you're a classic physique fan to stuff you've seen from him lately, might be almost as exciting as what we just talked about. Even though he hasn't competed since the Olympia last year, the updates we've seen from his camp over the last month or so had been out of control. Right now he looks bigger than he was at any point last year. Not to mention the fact that he also looks like he might be ready to step on stage again in a few weeks. Brian actually earned his Olympia qualification last year by winning the Chicago Pro. And since Chicago is only three or four weeks away now, that might be a potential destination for him to make his season debut. This guy might be the most improved athlete in the division over the span of the last two years. So if he can successfully defend his title in Chicago, I think it'll go a long way towards letting people know that he won't be going anywhere soon. And finally, I wanted to send you guys off today with a feel good story that came across my radar a few days ago. Two weeks ago, at the Brucini Classic, Mark Farron is Dorner Sheridan made history when they became the first father, Dorner combo to compete in the show together. Believe it or not, Mark says that it was his daughter who actually pushed him to come back to the stage after not competing for almost 30 years. And it was a good thing she did because he won the novice middleweight took second in the masters over 50 and fourth in the open. But they tell you the truth, Sheridan was the real star of the family here because she took second in the true novice in figure, fourth in the novice in fourth in the open at 17 years old, which is amazing. So congratulations to these two for makinGHistory and more importantly for making memories because at the end of the day nothing's more important than creating memories that last a lifetime with your family. And that doesn't yet another addition of muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Holumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Nick Walker vs. William Bonac + ＂Breon Has 0% Chance＂ vs. C-Bum! [4q4MTWKNL7c].txt ===

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Wednesday July 7th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Bellman once again, Wednesday is back in bed of the never. There was only one pro show on the Docket last weekend and it was the Orlando Europa Pro. And we're cooking off our coverage with a recap of the action from the figure division. But a second week in a road Jessica raised a pediaton went out and dominated as she crueys to another big which gives her a ton of momentum heading into the second half of the season. Second place finisher, Rhea Gale looked great in her season debut. As she managed to gain the edge over eventual third place finisher, Ivana Ivusik, who had the best conditioning of her career just for the record. Fourth place went to Julia Shapplin and Donya Jackson around it out one of the best top five groups that we've seen so far this year. We are through the men's physique, the big winner here was Ramsey's Rams, who locked up his first career win along with a trip back to the Olympia stage for the first time since 19. Our red hot John Saramento continued his strong season with another strong second place effort here. Third place went to Steven Cow, who looked close to his all-time best in his season debut. Ishmayel Demingas slid into a very comfortable fourth position and we're wrapping things up with our coverage here with Gerardo Gabriel as he managed to crack the top five in his season debut. Like the Arnold Classic lineup for release a few weeks ago, you knew it was only a matter of time before we started to see some sort of drama flare up between some of these athletes. And right on cue a few days ago we saw some exchanges go down between William Bonac and Nick Walker that caught everyone's attention. As far as I can tell this started when William threw a not so subtle insult in Nick's direction on social media after Nick said in an interview that he saw himself winning the Arnold in October. As a defending champ I guess William didn't take too kindly to that and why would he? And now here we are off to the races. Now up to this point in his career Nick hasn't been one to bite his tongue so when a fan asked him about William's comments during a Q&A on a life feed, Nick was pretty directed as response. He said that he didn't know what William's problem was and that he'll be happy to settle this on stage, which has been pretty much his response every single time someone has called him out. Even though he's young, Nick's been a put up or shut up type of guy from day one. And so far all he's done is put up. Just knowinGHow both of these guys are, I don't expect this to be the last time we hear this between now and the Arnold. Neither one of them is the type to back down. And as a fan, I think it only adds to the intrigue and excitement to a show that's already going to be one of the best that we've seen all season long. There were also some words exchanging classic physique over the last week and two. Only this was more of a one-sided exchange coming from Chris Bumstead's camp. Apparently during a Q&A someone asked a member of Chris's team whether or not they saw the two-time camp Breon Anzley as a threat. If he came in and ended his old time best this year. And their answer was a pretty emphatic no. As far as they're concerned, Chris is so far ahead of everyone else in the division that they don't see anyone being a threat. If he's completely dialed in and I think there were a lot of people out there who also happened to agree with that. But at the end of the day, titles are awarded on stage not in the comment section. And in a few months the world will have a chance to see firsthand if they were right. And that does it the end another edition of Musselin the Morning on Day, Belombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Nick Walker, Shaun Clarida, Brett Wilkin Guest Pose at NPC Jr Nationals! [xlysOCwyAsM].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polomba, today is Wednesday, June 23rd, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's that time again. Recap Wednesday is back and better than ever. We have another great show lined up for you today starting with this recap of last weekends your Ropa Dallas Pro. We're starting off with classic music. We're our free show favorite, Tony Tavaris, showed up and showed out big time on his way to earninGHis second pro win and a well deserved Olympia qualification. Second place went to Leland, Nevada and another strong effort from Harold Bright rounded out this top three group. In bikini, Jimmy Morley looked fantastic on her way to brinGHim home the first winter career which also secures her first Olympiac qualification. Congratulations. The run-rub slot went to Houston's own, Brittian, and a strong performance from Julia Walsh Lego was enough to earn her the first top three finish of her career. Before we move on, we wouldn't be doing our job if we didn't highlight our first pro wheelchair action of the year. Incredible Bradley, Dats, Brothal, well deserved win here. But there was also a lot to be said for second place finish her Chad McCary because he also delivered our herkially in effort here as well. We have one more note here on the Dallas Shroop Pro before we move on. A few weeks ago, we spotlighted Amanda Cover as a pre-show favorite in the NPC wellness division and thankfully for us, she did not disappoint. Not only did she show up at the best conditioning out of everyone in her class, she also walked away with the overall title, which sets her up perfectly to slide into the universe in a few weeks to win her pro card. According to Amanda's team, this was the plan from day one and now it's just a matter of time to bring that to fruition. As long as she stays the course, I don't see any reason why she can't seal the deal at the universe to end her year on a high note. As IMentioned right before the last segment, we did have one more show on the dock at last weekend, just outside her nation's capital where we saw plenty of high level action at the first annual DC Pro Am. We're starting off our coverage with the bikini division this time where the biGHeadline was Perennial Olympian, Ellie Hernandez finally hittinGHer stride as she crews to her first win in the season. Second place finish her, Regina Harley looked great in her season debut and once again, on Yannick Wilson put together another tremendous effort that closed out this top-three group. In the men's physique division, it was all about Charger Grant, who finally earned his first win of his career, along with the second straight trip to the Olympia, so congratulations to him for another job. Well done, Adrian Horton looked tremendous in his second place effort here. Look out for him to keep improving as the season progresses, and we're wrapping up our coverage here with your third place finisher, John Saramento, who definitely put together his best look of the season so far. And finally we're closing up the show today by sending shoutouts to Sean Clarita, Nick Walker and Brett Wilkins, who all put on one of the best guest-posing performance of the year at the NPC Junior Nationals last weekend. As you see in these photos, all three of them were incredible shade, especially Brett, who's only about a month out from makinGHis season debut with the Chicago Pro. Sean and Nick are both obviously dialed in for their Olympia prep at this point, and the both of them looked like they're on track to do some serious damage when they hit the stage again in October. All in all, I'm sure this had to be a great experience for all the amazing fans and athletes who were in the building last weekend. And they know I'm not alone in saying that I would love to see more of this in the future. It's great for the venue, great for the fans, and even better for the body building and fit this community in general when stars come together to do things like this. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the morning on April 1, reminding you always be sure to your passions if they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: NicoleDucanRoutine-2011 IFBBFtLauderdaleCup.mp4 [rL9-o9g-r6w].txt ===

VIRTIVAL Slide PD님 거기ì count 뒤에서 LARS reporting 이제 phone phone

=== FILE: PALUMBO & ACETO ON RIC DRASIN'S LEGACY! HMR (8⧸31⧸20) [Rde_XovMZH8].txt ===

10 and 9 You're not an honorable group! There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true board we can be! Lumball! Chris Asito! Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle! What a deal! Watch us! Welcome to another episode of Heavy. Muscle Radio on day to the London. I'm joined by the technician, Boris Asito, on this last and final day of August, August 31, 2020. And it was my daughter's first birthday. Two days ago. You guys said that for a splash, you have like an amusement park in the backyard. I'm handed it to the cold up and she rented this slide. Did you rent this slide? I thought it was a permanent fixed jeep. Yeah, where's your permanent fixed jeep? My kids love it. It's a good idea. It's amazing this thing. But what she didn't get to really use it. My other two kids really used it. I actually went on it. I knew I saw you. I wasn't going to do it. I was like, can I want to get hurt? Yes, but I thought it was. The first thing I saw you, I said he's going to get hurt. The two days I didn't do it. I said I'm not going on. I'm going to get hurt. And then the very last minute, when the house ran out of water, we used to use the water system. We used to put the whole water tank. I'm like, I'll try it. And then there's no water. So bad around a hose from my well. I'm going to get right into it. And I was like, this isn't so bad. I didn't get hurt. You know what it was? I was always afraid to do some rides like that because every time I went on because my shoulders were so bad in years past, I couldn't stabilize myself. And so it was very uncomfortable. I went up, you know, feeling like I was going to fall off. I didn't have control. Now I don't have any pain in my shoulders. Not come wood. So it was like nothing. It was like I felt like I was like, you know, low-consaging. I was still worried for your shoulder. I thought you can blow it out. I'm dead serious. When I saw the video, I cringed on my shoulders. I didn't get hurt. Let me put, let me sit if I can get this thing going. Let me do that. I got to get the subject of people to waste. I thought you were going to start along. All right. First of all, anyone who hasn't, who hasn't joined Chris's nice Instagram, you know, follow it. Go follow our Instagrams. I'm huge 285. He's the real technician. There's my plug. Here I go. Here it is. Watch this Chris. My daughter got into a, I grabbed her. Look at that. Howdy has that food. That's dirty. I'm waiting for the shoulder to blow out. Yeah, that was pretty good. Oh, then I saw that picture of you. I said, right? I said, you look like put that picture up there. I said, you look just like John Schrulde there from my welcome back. It's funny because my uncle used to always say, every time I go to holidays, he'd be like, John Schrulde and John Schrulde. But that was when I had short hair. Then he actually started calling me Mel Gibson. That's why I said, no, Gibson, from me to weapon with the lonGHair. Oh, yeah. No, this is, I see that Schrulde. This, yeah, it's still got the Schrulde. But this is when I really just first started body building. Seriously, I was probably like maybe about a buck 90 there. And how old are you there? Man, it doesn't a good thing I was waiting that much. But I said, I was 20 exactly how old I was. I was graduated with 1990 graduate at high school. I had college excuse me, so I was 21 or 22 somewhere around. 21. I probably, I told him, despite I had gone from 230 pounds to, I went from 130 pounds to 135 pounds by lowest running. And then I was up to about 185 million 90. It was 60 pounds. You've sipping on my copy, I realized protein. No, I'm not, but I'm going to send that to you. That's, that's one of our secret flavors coming out that you just revealed. That this is a new branch chain to our new amino evolve flavors we kind of will come out with. I'm not allowed to say them in the manner right now. I'm sorry, they're secret, but they're good. I'm sipping it right here. Baker coffee one and something out to it. Coffee, IMean, I was probably wouldn't be good, but I, but I, the coffee, I realized we're going to come out with this going to be really good. But I'm not giving you the details of it. But that's, so that's me, that's me in 1990. Yeah. You know what, I was such an idiot because I had short hair in my whole life. I decided to become a rebel last year of my college, which is when I was going for my med school interviews. So I went to these medical school interviews. I got abouT3 or four interviews I went for, which is good because if you, it's hard enough to get into the school, but it's hard to get into the interview too. So I went to the interview, I had these lonGHair. So I was like, slick in a back and, I figured, well, you know what, if they don't like me, then I don't want to go to the school. They want to take you with luck, yeah, then you know, I was like in this like rebellious. You know, they, they count you looks on those interviews. I would think so. I thought I came off well on the infrared, you know, I got into one school, so someone like me. It's, it's very hard. People don't realize it. And I don't know what it is nowadays, but back in the 90s, it was extremely difficult to get into medical school. I think statistics were like one and every thousand per people who applied to it. Yeah, it was like, basically, we're ridiculous amount of people that applied. So a lot of guys had to either take the year off or they would try to apply to like go to like coordinator or these. Yeah, I knew you were going to say how to come in. What were we going to do to, we're going to go to, they would go to osteopathic school, you know, that was easier to get. One out of one thousand. I believe that was just, just, just, just, so what did, what was the, what was the 999 other people do not become doctors or not going to go to the, I was going to go to the osteopathic school, car practice school that would take a year off and then you could take these courses to like enhance. Here's a funny story. One of the guys I was very close with, this guy Steve's fail like. He didn't get in the first year, he didn't get any men in school. So he worked in a car wash, kind of car wash for the whole year. The kid was a mechanical genius with his hand. So when he got into school, it was this, you know, it's here to apply the year before we did. So he got in, he was in my class, he used to go to the gym together. He looked exactly like Andreas Munzer. The guy is like one of the premier plastic surgeons and they're definitely hills now. This is the guy that said, not only could he not get into school, but he actually, in the, the second year, right before you start your rotations, you have to take this test. It's like the part one of the boards, the medical boards. And he didn't do well enough on it because he was, he wasn't a good test taker. And they made of like repeat the same, like repeat, he had to go like summer school, obviously, you know. The kid was really smart too. And I don't know, I just think he just, I don't know, maybe didn't have confidence in himself. Me, hear me, I get a great score of the thing that I can drop out after like three months later. Yeah. I'm going to be a bodybuilder. Yeah. What about, so osteopaths, why was the osteopathic medicine easy to get into? Because I actually think osteopathic school I would have liked better because you know, I didn't even know you said that. I don't even know how to actually get there. Yeah. But it's, you know, the thing, snubbed this snubbed nose, the doctor's, medical, medical fraternity, you know. They don't see them as like real doctors. Yeah. My mother always told me there was a hospital named my house called the osteopathic hospital of Maine. There was a hospital. Yeah. And my mother used to tell me what else kid they're not real doctors. Which is stupid. You know, and it's usually because of that, it's so much harder for them to get residency. It's usually the smarter kids get into the, if you see a doctor is actually an osteopath and is like in a high position. It's usually because they're really smart. Getting into school is like, it's like, it's a formula almost, you know. I'm shocked that I got in because I had good grades, but I didn't have great grades. I had good MCAT scores, which is like the SAT footprint, but I didn't have great ones. And I had like a sport, maybe because I was well around that sports and, you know, I wrote this like essay that my father rewrote for me. He didn't really rewrite. He just spruced it up. Because I wrote an essay about my mom, like losing my mother and what it meant and it was, it was good, but my father made it like amazing. Okay. You still have him? You know, I don't, I, I'd love to read it if I said that. I would too. I don't know, because I like to read it because he's forced it up. Yeah, yeah, he just, he added a little, little twins to it. So I don't know if that helped you know, it's, it's everything together, you know, I think. And then of course, you know, you go for an interview and they see a personality. Yeah. So that helps, you know, obviously, you know, I was, you know, whatever. I don't know. I don't know. I, I, I, I, I got lucky, I guess. Plus, you know, when I went to a good school, going to a school that's like a pre-med factory, small liberal arts college, they have a high percentage people getting into medical, that definitely helps too. I think, you know, so. And then, of course, they did everything right. And then, but I didn't stay in school. I'm down. I'm out of here. Yeah, yeah. I just hope you guys are learning about it. I hope to help people get in shape for body-blowing competitions, you know. It's pretty much what it meant to, so I, I hate to, you know, I hate to report this, another death in our industry. Yeah, that's a pretty good front of yours. Yeah. My, IMean, yeah, he was a good, good, good front of our community. Really is what it, what it, what it meant to, Rick Dreson dive. You guys probably follow his YouTube channel. How old was he gave? 76 years old. I didn't know he was 76. What was 76? And I'm around forever, man. Yeah. He, um, he was, you know, body-builder back in the day with Arnold and those guys. He trened with all those guys. He was into the professional wrestling. He did for a while. He, um, he probably, both, he, the Hulk body-double or something like that. He would, he, he, but they did was back in the incredible Hulk, a C, T, V, series days, you know, Lou Frey, that was the Hulk, but there was a trensition. When Bruce Banner would actually was called David Banner, like that was put a trensition into the Hulk. It was a middle. It was like, they, they didn't have, like, all the, the stuff they have today. Right. So they would have like, like, an in-between Hulk. And that was the, called, the Demi Hulk. And he played that. And I guess it was an episode where he got stuck. Banner, he couldn't get to the Hulk, but he couldn't get back to Banner. And he was in the Demi Hulk and it was a whole episode, the mode of him. And he was, he starred in that episode, actually. I actually put the picture up. I did a tribute video to Monarch's muscles. So he just can check that out. And I put the picture up of, of him as the Demi Hulk. He looked just like, for a, no, he looked like a thinner, for a, for a, that was crazy the way they put the makeup on. It was really, really impressive. He did that. But probably, I think he's probably most well known for doing the Gulge Jim logo. Yeah. Do you think the logo? Did he do the World Duke, too? He did the World Jim, one, too. He was very good friends with Joe Goldie. He do a little bit on an app kit, believe it or not. And, uh, stuck. That crazy. How, like, you probably did it in two seconds. Yeah. We talked about in the hey day. We talked about it in the show sometime, the numbers. I figured with it, we do a mid-Gold's Jim, the T-shirts in Venice a day. Right. This is before Ed took over, I think. Yeah. You know, IMean, it's a gold's picture up here. No, I know, but people were going into, when Ed had golds when I was a golds, they would do 30 grand a day in T-shirts, else. What they really do in that much? So, 30 grand a day from that store. Ed's going to text me, he's going to say, yeah, we did that here. Easy. It was given the right one. What does that amount? 10 to 300? Is that a million a month? Ed, you know, was giving away. Half the merchandise, and it's all the body bills. It's the top level of the bottles. We're doing photos shoots in there. Bob Bonham, you know, trying to charge the rock. Seven, thirteen bucks for a t-shirt. You heard that story, right? No, no, really. Craig's Valentino told the story. The rock came into the work that it golds. And Carl, Joseph, Carl, not a golds, excuse me, a strong shape of the ship. And Carl, Philoponies, to work there behind the counter. And Carl, it was getting ready for the G&USA. So, the rocks are, well, you look good, you know, you know, you work in there, he goes, no, no, I'm just going to bat the trening. Because what do we tren together? So, it's Carl, it's a tren to the rock. And Bob wasn't at the gym, Bob. He was, I don't know, he was still home, he hadn't gotten there. So, they finished their workout. The rocks in the locker room washing up. What are you talking about? Take me back to what year? I don't remember, probably ten years ago. So, Carl was in the, you know, at the front desk hanging out. Bob walks in, he's like, oh, good, Bob, you're here. The rocks in the locker room, we just did a workout. He's like, oh, good. Did you know what? He always be 14 bucks. Or 13 bucks doesn't make that. But what? Our team, so like, so that's nice things to Carl, what are you on for? So, he goes, the rock comes out of the locker room. He goes, hey, Bob, thanks, you know, for the great appreciate to work out everything. He goes, but Bob's like, excuse me, you know, you owe me $13. So, the rocks, you know, he's taking back, you know, the rock doesn't want to owe anyone money. He doesn't need to, you know, he's got plenty. Bob, what do I owe you money for? Remember, I gave you a t-shirt last time when you were in here? I guess the rock didn't have a shirt, the wear, something like that. Bob threw him a strong shape with t-shirt. You would think Bob would want to be like, you know, keep it, you know, wear it, right? You know, IMean, put us in Instagram and tell you a truth. You think everybody tries the rocks with the sculpture tight. And would give anything away back the day. Well, because it was marketing, it was franchising, you know, and had the first idea, but you know, there was pinch tripping around all the mirrors that said gold's gym. I didn't know why they did that. It told me they did that. So when they did the photo shoots at the gym, you would see the golds. Otherwise you wouldn't know a gym you were here. Brilliant. Yeah. It is so. Anyway, said, um, that's a funny story. That one Valentino tells it, actually, but that's logo was was drawn by Rick Dreson. So, and he had a very popular YouTube channel. You know, he was really an artist. It's really what he was. He would call himself a bodybuilder, I'm sure, but he was an artist. He could draw anything. He actually drew me a an original using the Golshim logo guy. He drew me like like an original thing and said, hey Dave, best, you know, wishes or something like that, Rick. And signed it, you know, numbered it. And so I have an original Rick Dreson piece of art. I have hanging in my, my office, which is pretty cool. It wasn't due to a lot of an athlete that was on a nice piece of paper. See that that napkin would have been a great addition to the bodybuilder and the whole thing. Do you imagine that Dave? I wonder if it still exists. I wonder if Rick has someone. I've been at Rick Dreson sketched the goldshim logo on. There you go. Put it up on, put it in the, like, the museum. Next. Yeah. Now that I have all this new property we bought, we probably have, I have a space. We can build the whole family. I can't have been saying all the 50 years. It's chocolate. We can put it in the gym. How about we, in the gym mobility, we'll build the whole family around the perimeter. You need that door and you get the door and pull over machine. Yeah. I think I'm not going to sell that. Yeah. I think I'm going to have that gym. I'm not going to have that machine. Yeah. Yeah. I think, why don't you guys, the machine, but he has, he does have the nodalist pull over machine. I think he bought it for door and someone during when comes to the gym. It is. Samaritan give you the program that he refused to sign the 90 degrees. He was in the hospital. Costs in the Olympia. Costs in the Olympia. Costs in the Olympia. Where the judge came up to him, what did the morning, would you sign? This is like promise. Everybody, no more. I can't sign everything. I'm too tired. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. Black Panther died. You heard that. It's going to go in the whole world. Hard that. Yeah. It's horrible, right? No, it no one even knew he was sick. Colin cancer 43. Yeah. Crazy. So I tell people, get you Colin, I'm going for Colin asked me that. I tell you. No, he didn't tell me. Yeah, I'm not done that. I'm not sure just a grand live at day. People would like to see it. Instagram at live, maybe I can get someone to, to film it while I'm getting the things shoved up by park, a camera. I told you, day today, I drove by. I do this maybe five years, four years. Yeah. I was like, I'm going to go to the right day pharmacy that I used to go to get into Ferron when I had stage three melanoma. Yeah, the most, the most, the most good thing. It's, no, it's just the most bizarre. It's not a nod of body experience, but it's just the most bizarre thing to drive by the pharmacy. Yeah, it was like, it was like your home away from home for a while about you. You knew everything was just like, you were there every day. It was just like the worst thing to have to go through. Go through. Yeah. You know, but you got to get the colonoscopy. You know, look, I, I put it off. I probably should have had 50 days. 50 days, I say. Now, I don't have any colon cancer in my family, but my, but there was cancer in my family, but my father had his polyps when he was later in my, but nothing cancer is they, he's clipped them out. So I don't know. I hope I don't have any. I'm convinced that my fiber license is protected in the safe guard of my colon. I hope. Yeah, you have to do that. The fiber can. I hope. I hope you should have no problems. Yeah, that's right. Put a lot of strength. You should have, she must think that you have no problems with the fiber. I don't know. I hope so. I don't, I don't have any symptoms of a black out. You don't have a copy of labor fiber. I'll let you know. No, I don't have a copy of labor fiber. You know, it's funny because, you know, I have this, the favorite lady, because I have the rhythm in. So I have to go get the colonoscopy done in a hospital as opposed to just like in the or what usually do in the office. I think they go through the, you know, this hospital. And now the new thing is, you know, you can't go into a hospital that's been testing you for COVID. It's not going to go back and I'm going to get tested the Monday before the, the colonoscopy. I'm getting on like a Thursday Friday. I'm Thursday. I'm getting the colonoscopy. So I got to go Monday this hospital. I have to get tested for COVID, which I'm not happy about because I don't want to be in the database. You know, not that I think I have it, but, you know, they say don't get the test. I don't know that they, you know, the conspiracy theory people say don't get tested. Don't get into the database. Bill Gates will have your name in your home address. He'll add extra chlorine to the pool. It's very, it's very. So I don't, so I got to do that. That's the end of September. I have a, I have a little ways up. I'm not really that nervous about it, but who the hell wants to get some, you know, camera shutter. You know, I have this, this, this, this, this, this, I have this, well, they are, they're shoving it up in the butt. Well, how is my supposed to say? What am I supposed to say? They're going to put the camera in up my anus. IMean, I don't have to do with you from his anus. You have to do it from his anus. I'm trying to add humor to the whole thing. It is fun. My brother died. I'm funny in the sense of what they're doing. I'm not, I'm saying, I'm trying to give him, I'm, I'm getting yelled at. It, I'm giving good advice to the people that they should get it, but I have to make some humor to it because it's sort of take away the, the stigma of the people. A lot of people don't go for a colonoscis because they're afraid of it, and they shouldn't be. They already, but I have to get my job to a, a swage everything and make them feel good about the whole procedure and not be worried about it. That's why I have to be a foreign, chronicler. If I do it, if anyone could do it, right? I've got to have this inequality given their opinion in the back of that. So anyway, we're very sad about Rick and obviously, Black Panther, you know what was that anywhere? What else is going on? I have a whole list. I had to make a list of as many things going on. So I interviewed Gary Udett yesterday. We obviously have the North American championships coming up this weekend. We must talk about bodybuilding, all we're at it, right? This is the bodybuilding podcast. And Gary has been jumping through hoops trying to get this thing off the road. You know, they've been... Did you ask for my head to check, did they force some change? Telled it, they can't... Well, this is the deal. You know, the hotel they normally have at it, that really nice one. One you love it, we love that. Yeah, I love it. We were talking about Gary and IMean, he's been having it for years. They're out of business. Can you believe it? Is it COVID? Yeah? What's the name of it? They were sold. It was the Sheridan Station Square. It's being sold because they couldn't stay open and they told Gary, Look, we can't do it. We just... We can't be installed in maintainers in a hotel. Are they going to change it and do it? No, they think it's another hotel chain is buying them or something like that. I don't know how it's... Gary's at there in the process of redoing it and being sold. Wow. And they told him that... It couldn't... That was a very expensive area that that hotel was in. And so I think it was very expensive to maintain it. IMean, the room rate there was very high. IMean, even with the special rate, I think it was like 250 and night. Now, people stayed there myself included because it was so convenient. But it was not like a cheap hotel. So I imagine if... For them to have to charge those rates, they probably had a very high overhead there. So, you... You're not... When you're not in this for six months, that can put you out of business. Yeah, it was. So yeah, that's... So he moved it to the... The wind them. And then they told him, because the governor... Just passed out some... Just... Saying, originally, it was supposed to be no more than 200 people were allowed in the venue. But now they said no more than 20. So he couldn't hold the show in the venue. So he said, the only other option was to take it outside. So he's like, well, we'll hold it outside. So evidently, you know, from what Gary told me, he was like, I didn't... You know, I said, let's rent the tent, but we're... We're going to put the tent. They'd be the parking lot, right? So I guess Jim... And then in him, knew some guy, his valet, who said they knew someone who owned the parking lots. So the guy's like, yeah, you could have it here. Something. So they had that and they got to bring in generators to run the lights and all the... You know, there's no air conditioner in there. They're not going to have fans, I guess. But they can only... They have to rotate people in and out of it because they can only have so many people. Even outside now, there's a rule. You can only have so many people. So it's... You know, he jumped through a lot of hoops and make this happen. And you know, I take my hat off to him because you know what? He kind of just can't sell it. You know, he could have pulled a plug. Yeah, but you know what? He knew how important it was. Matter of fact, it's funny, but you would think that there would be less people competing this year because of COVID. He actually has a record number of people. There was 1,400 people in the show over four days. Crazy. Yeah, crazy. But that's... But there's a lot of pro cards up for grabs. You'd be crazy enough to do this show this, you know? But you know, think about it. These people have been dining some of them for months and months. I have a lot of people in the show, so I know. Like, these people are troopers to be able to stick with it. You know, that long and everything like that. It really was a... it's not an easy thing to continue dieting. When you don't know when the show is going to happen or if it's going to happen. So, but then the people on Instagram on Instagram, like bashing them, saying, Oh, you... there's no, because the newest thing is they can be no crowd there. Because the state handed down, the governor said it had a meeting and said, Nope, can't have 125 people in the arena. Yeah, you have 25 staff members. What's the meeting to do? You know, doors. Even outdoors, you can't have them. Now they change that. So, there's... they're going to be playing around robbing people in and out, in and out, in and out. The pre-judging finals, you don't go home. And it's better than nothing, but you know what people arecomplaining of. People complaining, oh, I can't see my friends compete. Oh, I can't see my... husband compete. There's no audience. He's trying to set up a livestream that they'll be a typical watch from the hotel. But the bottom line is, you think the gallery doesn't want to sell tickets and make a shitload of money. Of course he does. You know, a lot of stress. He's lost his shirt this year. He knows how many shows of his book can't sell? Of course he wants to sell tickets and wants to have vendors. He can't do it. Then I let him. So don't bash the guy. You should be reportinGHim for still holding the show. Yeah, a lot of stress points. And look, I've had my run-ins with Gary in the fest, but this is... this is out of his hands. He's... he's bending over backwards to make this happen. With a lot of stress involved, you know. We have to have his backwards. We have to have his backwards. Maybe he's pulling us to the ease of 50 roll he's bending over. There you go. And that would be... that would be... that would be some more taste. Well, but it's midnight. What do you expect? Yeah. So anyway, so the master's... Pro World Championship or the Master's Pro World Championship, it's going to be taking place this weekend as well as the North American Championship, which is the open and the masters. So you have... it's a huge show because there's so many different divisions. Then the masters' nashals will be later this year. I think in October they moved that to. So this is a... this is a big show. This is... What's the 100? Crazy. Yeah. Yeah. Right? IMean, with everything that's been going on and just the whole idea of life, is the show going to go on. The show is going to go on. To get 1,400. I forget it. You know, what's the turn out this year? 200, 300? Yeah. All right. That's what Gary was afraid of. He was afraid no one was going to show it. Well, I hope he gets good brother. Yeah. Yeah. That's the... that's the... That's the... No, he said it for reins. They have to... they get to be busting people back and forth. They have a whole contingency plan set up. But he said that would really... It would be a big monkey wrench, you know, that that would certainly make me very difficult. But it's going to happen. They said, but not... but not give it up. So that's good news. Now, are you into the Tony Dardi? That's not the... but I want to show you. Maybe you're... By the way, subscribe to the Arts Council channel. There's a little subliminal. But I interviewed Tony Dardi this past week and also, who almost went bankrupt this past year, he admitted from the cancellation of the Arnold Australia. You don't want to know how much money that cost him to put on. Plus, all his shows, his local shows that he holds, you know, pro qualifiers, every... the whole year is canceled. And you know what he said, there's a very good chance that... and like a 90% chance that won't be an Arnold Australia 2021 either. I knew you were going to say that. Because they just can't get the international... people in there. That's a problem. Australia likes to... they want to... they'll never open the party. They don't want to ever let anyone in. Yeah. You know, so that's a tough one. That's a tough pill to swallow for him. That's his pride to join that show. Yeah, not only that, but you know what it is. It's like, if Gary didn't have the North America's this year, yeah, he never had an X-ray. But, you know, when you have a break in a year, it just throws off the momentum of, like, the show. Like, a lot of people might not. IMean, it's the Arnold. My point is maybe the Arnold may not be turned off Australia. Well, think about it. How do you get the competitors there? You know, you mean the year after, gave, let's say. Oh, I don't know. I think if it's up to Gary, IMean, if it's up to Tony, there'll be back. But, you know, who knows what the... In Tony's state where he is. Because, you know, they have different, like, look, you know, I guess the misspality is there. It's different from, like, where Lee priest is or the other point. In his area, you can't even... it's like martial law. You can't go into five kilometers from me house. You can't... You can only go to the park for, like, two hours a day. And that's it. It is a nighttime restriction. You can't go out at all. And it's crazy. And they find you. There's, like, like, five thousand dollars fine to get on the mask on outside. It's, like, really serious. And then you think we got to bed in the US to get them at. They got to really bed out there. So, and Tony can't even go to the Olympian issue. You know, he does all the interviews backstage usually to them. Because he's... But he can't travel. No, he can travel. But what they'll do is they'll quarantine him in a hotel and he gets off the plane in Australia for two weeks. And missp Christmas and New Year. So it's family. Because remember it's at the end of December there. So he's like, I can't do that. I said, yeah, it's not worth the Tony. I said to even just too much aggravation. So, IMean, you see, you know, we think we got a bed. They got a worse up there on Australia. So, that's, you know, there's a lot of craziness going on outside. What else do I have on my list here? Uh, boy. You know, I got to give a kudos to John Hanson who did a really good interview with Arnold's ex-girlfriend. Did you see that? Barbara Outland Baker. She dated Arnold. I don't know. She wrote a book and he sent that contact to her. He told me he did it. I watched the interview guys on as YouTube channel. And it was really good. If she dated Arnold for six years. But what I think she did was she interviewed him. Arnold allowed her to come in and interview him. Like, recently when she wrote the book, you know, a sex or something like that, whatever it was. And retock them and ask them all thesEQuestions. So the book was accurate. You know what IMean? But she gave some really, she gets a really good insight to Arnold. And his relationship with father. And you know, what, you know, if he was like a waitress, he met in some like, you know, a place and she was like working away through school. And Arnold could barely speak English. He had just come over there. You know, so she was with him from then till through his all as a limpia runs, you know. Boy, you said it was about 69. What was most insightful thing you learned? Um, I'm trying to think. I know, I guess Arnold was like just like the rest of us, like very immature, you know, when he first, you know, came about. He just, he was, he was a little, um, I don't know. She said that he, he, he, he found himself like he felt empowered by putting other people down and making a joke about it. You know what IMean? And I guess she, you know, he's still probably less than. I'm trying to put it in a go. What do you think he did? She would yell at him after she felt like that wasn't nice to say at the Franco or this one of that. But, evidently, from what she said that, you know, we didn't want to bring Franco up. Arnold was like insist and Arnold was like, I need someone to tren with, I need Franco. And, you know, Joe didn't want to spend the money, you know, because he didn't think that Franco had the, obviously, the, the marketing appeal that Arnold had, you know. But he knew Arnold was like the press because Arnold didn't speak English that well and he was friends with Franco, so they brought Franco over. But she said he was like, you know, she was, he was, you know, how like, body bowls today just the only ones to talk body bully and are immersed in body and they'll want to hang out. That's the way Arnold was. Yeah, of course, look at it. IMean, you're like, you were right. You're like, well, he wanted to do his body bill. You're like, you're like, right? She's like, only he was talking about body bully and hanging out with body bully. Yeah. You know, crazy, right? He was traveling all over and she was like in school, you know, so she was like, you know, she, she, I don't think she, she took too kind of. I had, I had a feeling Arnold wasn't so loyal to her, you know, while he was datinGHer. Got that impression from her, you know, from the way she was revealing. That he wasn't that, but it was, it was insightful because she was there like she knew everyone. She knew all the players Jack Lane. She told the funny story. Jack Lane, she met, she meets Jack Lane. And she's like, you know, I had bought one of Jack Lane's exercise pieces, you know, back in whatever, six days when he was marketing and TV. And when IMet him, I said, you know, Jack, you know, it's great to meet you, everything like that. And I had ordered what a year. I think, actually, he said, you never got it, you know, you took my money and I've just, you never said to me. And he's like, why didn't you contact me? But, but, but, but he was like, a little apologetic. Evidently, oh, it's picking a marketing. Arnold, and the hard had no money. You know, they were like, bro, Arnold was like, do anything to make money. You know, because there was no money coming in. So Arnold decided he was going to sell these courses online, like, you know, you sign up. It was expensive. Like, and they Arnold would write this whole program for you and everything like that. And, and basically Arnold collected all the money and then he had it and he had to send these courses out. He, he was, he was, he was, he was ready. Yeah, nothing. You're nothing. He had to sit down and just do it because it was good money and they, that's how they were supporting themselves. You know, which I was givinGHim like advertising pages. And she's like Arnold did it. I don't know. He sat down and he's the hammered out of all of them. And that that it wasn't like right on the computer. You had to do it wronGHand and type it. It was the nightmare. She's like, but he always found a way. She said, even I, you know, even when, you know, he, I guess he would hang out with a lot of, you know, wealthy people like Joe and a couple stars and they were like, you got to invest in real estate. So Arnold, you know, bought his first apartment complex and he lived in the, like, the superintendent's like, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not. That's what the right word. The manager's office. The manager's apartment. He lived it. So he lived in the manager's apartment and then he rented all the other units out. That's like a Chris, a suit of movement. Yeah. Well, I always say by the fool you and it live in one. Yeah. Yeah. And that I, I don't, I think it was more than four units, but I, I know, it was 12. Yeah. Was it 12? You know, it was a man. I'm somewhere red. He made good money from that. Yeah. And what did he sold it? He bought something serious after that. He was like a Jay color, Chris, Cidna movie made. Yeah. Maybe you guys copied him. But he must have scraped the entire nickel. He worked. Yeah. To buy that. Maybe somebody gave him a little extra money. So as a down payment. But you could do crazy stuff like that back in those days, Chris. You know, the, the banks would give you a mortgage, you know, like it wasn't so, it wasn't so difficult. He probably got Joe to co-sign or something like that. You could get a mortgage on like easy. IMean, not easy, but the infinitimal amount of paperwork was, that you have now was like, was pages. Yeah. It was, you know, it was, it was, it was an extra thing. So when I go to a closing game, I always say, I'm buying the building, not the block, right? Because paperwork is essentially says, you know, we will only if you don't pay us. Right. Right. So I'm going to go on all 100 pages. Yeah. Yeah. Who do you, that's why I don't want to read it. Sometimes it's like, I have a really good picture though. So all the bad news is, I got, I got to, I got to show you a good picture. Let me see if I could pull this thing up here. Good news. Who's this? That's that natural bounty in my glass. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a very good picture for his ruling. People were like Mr Henry Schoutes. Remember, it's me. I write it with Jack Nicholas in a luncheon and in Sean Ray cheated. Mulligan, heavy, heavy shuttty says Mulligan, Such alden. I'm only 200 tests to year, I'm going to react to it! But only on $30,000 and then we'll try to cloud it out. Yeah. Well in the end, it's behind that. his insulin protocol, the product's 45 pounds. I remember when he was a kid. Because he doesn't look as blown on the calves. NASA had crazy calves. Oh, crazy. He got insulted. Did I ever tell you that story? I have a lot of nasty stories. I always forget. Dave Pumble, he's fraud. He never went blind. IMet NASA. He graduated at eighth grade. Listen, IMet that. IMet NASA in California. I'm trying to think what the why we hooked up in California somewhere. He came, I think I was at the Marina Pacific Hotel. He came and visited me. I cannot figure out why I don't know if he was going to be in Cal, it was going to be in Venice anyway. And we had a mutual friend. And he's like, oh, come by any. Any. He come by came by with me, my room, or maybe we ate together. And I said, holy man, you show me his calves. His calves were enormous. Like he's a, I'm like holy, back. I said, I said, using central on those calves. And he got insulted. But he didn't tell me he got insulted. He told my friend after what they were saying. So that's what I said. I said, thanks. He's funny. Yeah. I said, why would it be? That was a compliment if he didn't get used to. Yeah, he is so shocked. You were assume that you have to support him. Because he was asking me a million drug questions. You know, NASA trying to take it now. It's like, oh, how much insulin do you know? I'm just a bit of a geochib. So I'm like, I said, now it's holy. Look at those calves. And he was like grinning. He had that grin, you know, with the one eye, it was a little lazy. Like I got the calves. You know, I said, I thought, do you put sinful on those calves? They huge. Now I thought that was a relevant question. Given that he had asked me 400 questions before. Yeah, you know, you're not a log ask. You know, any questions? Yeah. He can ask you all thEQuestions we've had. I said to him, so I, like two years later, we were best posed by us. And you were you insulted by me asking if he had sinful on calves? Yes. Yes. Yes. Very, uh. Did you guys go in? You guys do an appearance together at the Arnold and by imagining that. At the Arnold? At the Arnold? Way back. I'm talking 92. No. No. I didn't even know that. That's a little. He said, uh, I was very insulted because I work a very hard and I have a good calves. And why you would didn't. Tommy's at once the mass of jaws моейfa murderoni. Turn rearville or having painful joints, and no, and otherwise there's a huge explosion, but one of the most severe emotions that I admire often. Five, five, six, six, six, and five. Yeah. Right. Right. milligrams, after the third, I said, Scott, do you think that's it if you're not using Synthonic calves and I think you are using Syntholic, is that a compliment? Any stop for sukhan's? That even say anything. Maybe I jumped the gun too much. So now I had a whole juist up, you know, I had a more like, I was struck in Ziegol a little bit there about how great his calves were. I said, I think your calves might be bigger than Dorians. Then that was really good, you know, feeding them a line of, you know. He was once on, I'm kind of figure out he was getting ready for a show and he was at the goals. He was at goals Venice and he was on treadmill for three hours. Really three hours? Yes. Wow. What speed? Like one. Good. Barely on. So it's like, IMean, the slow it, like, try to probably. But his weight, you probably still was very in calories. It's like, you know, it's someone. Okay, you got it. Someone said to me, I forget who called me because I was no, I don't know what year was and they said, Nasser's been on there for this is going, you know, he's kind of on our number three. And machine is barely moving. And I said, well, listen, you know, if you drive a motorcycle from where I live, the Boston, you might earn four out, you know, 10 gallons a feel. But if you drive an 18 wheeler, even if you barely move the 18 wheeler, even if you go five miles an hour, you burn 20 tons of much feels the motor. Absolutely. He's probably burning a lot. He's got to be everything. Or he's got so much sent on the cab. He just can't walk past. Oh, my God. Anyway, New York pro coming up this weekend as well. We have a busy weekend in bodybuilding. Pretty exciting, right? That we actually have a pro show, folk photos. Only two people are a lot of me audience. I'm just kidding. I, yeah, I wonder what the rules are for, um, engine all the time, you know, or Florida. Is this a funny how we have so many cases you're in this number, friction to see. You have to go in the governor. The governor who he's afraid is one. He wants a good real life, that's one. Yeah. All right, let's, let's look at this, uh, they don't have the near pro lineup. So I actually texted Steve Wyberg. Oh, what's going on here? Where? Texted Steve Wyberg's and Steve. What's going on with New York pro? And he said to me, um, the list will be out tomorrow. I said, Steve, we're doing kind of a rakey I shot tonight to throw. Who's in the shot? He said, well, John Delirows is in the show. Um, let me see what his list was. Yeah, uh, Patrick Moore, right? Are you helping Patrick? Yeah, I'm helpinGHim. I was standing. What does he, what does he weigh? I don't know. Stop playing. Let's go. Next Charles. Angerous. And he's pretty sure Evan sent the party's to. No, let's come back, Joe. So it's a pretty good lineup. I have Phil Klohar in the lineup as well. We are just place for the chance. So he's, I think he's going to be a surprise guy. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, I, I think it might be a good show. I don't know who I'm sure there's going to be some other guys in that show. We're all right. Like 258. Yeah, that's great. Today. What was his last show? Uh, laughing that, but not as, in those conditions. Yeah, he's a great. I think he's, I think he was, I think, you know, he was good for Tampa. You got to remember. He was ready. He was competing earlier this year. You know, you know, and then they pulled the plugs. I had a DP, him, and then repeat them. And he just wasn't, he was good for Tampa, but he wasn't as fast. I think it'll be as fast as here in the yard, which is ironic that he lives in Tampa. So it's really convenient. He doesn't have to travel. He didn't have to travel with the Tampa. He doesn't have to travel to the New York Province. To the Tampa. And they moved this, the Chicago project. So that's, that's a, that's a, a plant that. He kidding me. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's happening. Same weekend, it's just going to be in Atlanta, which is probably easier to get to. I was thinking, well, it depends on you. I guess we're becoming from both. Yeah. Look, these promoters are jumping through hoop, but they're making it happen. I was talking to Gary about it. You know, Gary's like, look, you know, the great thing that we really have to be thankful for, and he's right, is that Jake Wood is running the Olympia. Because if AMI was running the Olympia, they wouldn't be an Olympia this year. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. What's his taste, can. Well, even if Packard didn't get that fired, AMI would never have helped the Olympia. They would have canceled it, you know. So the fact that Jake Wood is now owns the Olympia, he's a bodybuilder at heart. IMean, he's a fan at heart. He's a bodybuilder at heart. He loves the sport. He said he will make this show will happen. So, come high and hold a word of this going to be the Olympia. You know, so there might not be any audience there, but there's going to be an Olympia. Yeah. So that's good news for bodybuilding, especially since Phil Heads comes back. So I'm most excited to think that happened to bodybuilding in the whole year, please. So I was talking to one of my, Saudi, canterrutt and connections. I said there was a debate. They have a little private, once an app group, they talked about. And they were debating, I guess, how Brandon's going to do it. And I guess Brandon's trener Abdullah was saying that there's no way Brandon's going to lose. Phil will never beat him. He's the best trener, a lot of not a lot of not. So this guy in friends with supposedly, this is, you know, I didn't see that the actual chap, and he said he, this is the story I'm getting. Told Abdul, and he would bet him $100,000 that Phil will beat. Brandon. So Abdullah supposedly was taking the bet. And supposedly it was going to be a third party that actually held the money. So that, you know, this one gives 100 grand, this one gives 100 grand whoever wins. The third party gives it to the, the make sure that everyone gets paid because, you know, people don't pay on 100,000 all that. So this guy, um, sends the 100 grand to the third party. And then Abdul says, oh, no, I thought it was for $10,000. Well, it's not a show. And then he's back out of the $10,000, too. So there's no bet. I guess Abdul is not as confident as he was liking the boy. He said that he's the best trener out there. Chris and Chad, they know matchfade. So we'll see what happens if Sean Rodin and Ramies in the show. Although, you say Ramies not working with Chad anymore. No, I hear from him as I hear. What's the rumor? I already was working with me. Oh, really that would that be like his tenth trening. What? Well, IMean, of course, you can't be surprised if that's the truth. I'll tell you one thing. Ramie, my strategy might be that to become a great, the greatest trener of all time. He can call everyone's, you know, from every single trener he's worked with. He knows everyone's protocols, right? Chris, I've got the sodium. When we also take the insulin with the tennis James, I do this with this. You know, Phil is Phil is shown a time and time again that he's hard to beat. You know, IMean, it's going to be no walk in the park. We know that. He's never has carry even ever beaten and filled now. I think we've got a punch in. IMean, that's that's what you, you know, you can say. You know, even previous to Sean Beaton, Phil that he's got some punches in, you know, 2015, 2016. You know, Phil's shown, you know, then he's hard to beat. That's why I said ask for him. He asked Phil, ask Dexter, ask, Oh, neck, ask, hurry, ask, Roli, IMean, the list goes on. Yeah, he's being a mall pretty handling for us seven years. So, you know, he has to be considered. He's has to be considered the heavy favor. Yeah. Well, the difference is also he didn't lose because he had like half a lap like Ronnie did or half a bicep like Doran. You know, he, he has, he just, he had a, the distinction, an aesthetic problem, basically what an amount to two. And Sean just was at his best. No, IMean, he just, he's right. I was just going to say that Dave, you took the words he lost because of timing, meaning Sean was at his, if Sean was not at his absolute best. It's going to work. He went out of line. You could rewind it to 15. Sean was like, at that point in this career was at his absolute best and Phil wasn't until Saturday night. You know, IMean, the timing. So you, you have to be consistent both nights. There's just so much that goes on to one in that show. Yeah, really, right. Hey, we're getting back to New York pro. Where do you think given who we have mentioned? And I think there's probably a couple of names probably that we haven't, uh, better of the on that list that we haven't talked, we're not going to be talking about yet. But, you know, given if we haven't evidence-onsifying the lineup, you know, I don't know how his quad looks ever since he, you know, yet the tour of thEQuad few years ago. I'm sure it looks good, but evidence of everyone can feed of it didn't. We have John Delirosa who's always a threat up there. We have obviously passion more who's, you know, was the man of the, I guess the talk of the town last year. I think it'll be the talk of the town. That's Charles is always dangerous. I think it's dangerous too. It comes on, you know, that show depends who's at the best. It's a good matchup because you know, no one's really like hands above the other ones, you know. They all have weaknesses. Yeah. IMean, everybody has weaknesses. Period. There's not somebody like. Well, what's, let's go through every person. What's Matt Charles's weakness is legs. Back. His back is weakness. Back double doesn't have detail. Hamsters and glutes are vaguely there. I think it's the lower part, but it's probably his. Yeah. What's John Delirosa, he's pretty balanced. IMean, if you don't know, it's extremely balanced. He's saying maybe he doesn't bring that. He's shining. Paper fence again. You know, if it comes down to that, if it comes down to that. He can win the show if he brings it, if he brings it. But for sure. What's Patrick more as weakness? Um, overall size, but probably be hidden with outrageous condition. Yeah. Yeah. He's going to let me align a piece. He's got tough. It's tough because he's he's not big enough yet. But IMean, I don't know, he must have put on some size of the course of the last year. I'm sure. Well, IMean, there hasn't been any here. He did the look. He did the Arnold, he did this. So, but he's bigger. Yeah. Oh, he's these these bigaries dancers, but, you know, we're going for condition. Right. No, I'll. I'll let that guy scroll this week. Right. And evidence of the pine, you know, potentially like. I'll potentially. Yeah. IMean, It has a bent on stage. You know what IMean? It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's all clear. You never really can be the one. But also if you haven't been on stage for a long period of time, sometimes. It's just hard to peak your body because you haven't done it. Right. It's funny how I haven't even seen. I don't think he's even put a picture on his Instagram. Basically. Yeah. He had a back shot somewhere. So one Sunday. Yeah, but was that the was that recent? Yeah, it was recent. The shoulders and arms are insane. I'm looking at his Instagram. I don't really see. What do you see? Cabbage and salmon? No. Yeah, pretty much. I like to be a. IMean, you know, the old. Cabbage, salmon, a tractor. Everything's got to last. And maybe probably the animal. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's the name of the company's been with the 20 years? Animal. Animal. Universal. Universal. He's lucky. He's got. He has a they even put him on the containers. You know, the uses image. They don't let him go anytime. So they've very loyal to their people. They need to go on. He works for them for like 20 or 20 years. Yeah. Yeah. They stick with someone in the using. So I guess that's good to have. IMean, he wasted good looking. I use a marketable guy. You know, so. You don't have to compete to be, you know, to be a. Image of a product line, you know. They probably use them more now than they did when. When he actually was first coming up. You right. I always used to say that. How can they put you on in the any. It's a. I used to be like all the time. He's like, well, they have these weird ads. They run. They don't really put people's pictures in there. So put like by the police and arm. Company that's been around a long time. Yeah. Yeah. They were around from. Probably one of the first companies ever, right? Along with through twin rabbit back in those days. So I've remember from when I first started lifting. They had animal packs. Yeah. Like 400 pills. Yeah. I was thinking. Yeah. Actually, I think they gave up. We were looking. I was looking at the other day. They're webbing. I think I like do powders. I think everything's like powderized. Why? Because people would probably choke on all those pills. I don't know if those pills have any dissolve. Some of the pills look like like a pill. They were giving a horse, right? Yeah. Well, they were like that. They were tablets. And I don't the tablets don't really die. Desol very easily. So I think that they found the power. The powders are probably cheaper to make. You know, once you put everything in capsules and tates and it's a pain in the neck. So hey, you got to evolve at the times, right? So look at works. I think they probably sell more overseas than they do domestically. I think that's where they're really strong because they always do fibo and all those big shows overseas. Although fibos cancel this year. We may never see another fibo again. You may be right. It's crazy. We think about a thousand people under one group. Yeah. And the next year. No. That's the crazy thing. We're not going to be here. Like in 2021 and say, oh, everything's fine. You're going into the auto. Yeah. Pretty much. It's so dope. Not going to be the same. I think it's going to be illegal back to being close, but it won't be the same. Who knows when they get to tell everyone that it's okay to actually interact with other people. You know, Romano claims it's after the election because everything's going to be fine. He's going to want the elections over. There's only no more restrictions on anyone. I said, I hope you're right. I said, I don't think you're right, but I hope you're right. You know, speaking of restrictions. My theory is that I don't even know if I said this or I, well, I don't even want to put it out. Because you're like, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not putting it out. Because you're like, yeah, it's a real case, Terry. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm just talking about retracing it. I just think of my role and it's caused a death. So Steve Wymer is holding the show. And I get, you gotta take your hat off the Steve too. And I'll tell you why. Because Gary is making money. Obviously he's, he's, it's application fees, right? It's about two, fifty or something like that per person. Do the math, you know, don't be money. Steve is holding a pro show. These athletes don't pay entry fees. There's no audience that I know well, there's probably a limited audience I would think This is a very good cost to say what you have to do Yeah, I can't see him making any money and I you know I'm sure he's doing it just because we need a near-art problem We need to have somEQualifiers for the Olympian See you got a really you got to really say you know good job Steve IMean I know Steve's made a lot of money over the years and everything like that But this is the rough year from his gym wasn't open for six months He hasn't held aromasingle show like since you know the beginning of the year. You know so You know This is really a a labor of love he's doing you know because There's no money to be made at the show. He can only lose at this show you know Hopefully they can somehow one of he can get some of the amateur shows with his off I don't know they still hold the team universe or is that canceled? I don't know really I don't I almost like any of trying to keep why I didn't give up trying to keep track because everyone I know who is competing in a show anywhere on this earth has had it either post-poned or canceled I'm serious with the exception of The New York Pearl and the Tampa those are the only really two shows Actually we had the Omaha this past weekend Of the Savannah and the Omaha IMean it was this been some shows IMean they have been some shows Yeah, I feel I He's got a couple shows in English though, you know he's got a couple shows and I've told a team universe is Rescheduled for no member 12 through the fourth date so that that's a big show for him Yeah, oh, that'll be like You know what the mark with an exhilarating oh, I don't know where they're gonna hold it they're usually holding in Jersey I don't even have to be able to You know this poor guys and to tell us Jim Yes Yeah, they were they were being fine 500 all the day they lost their business license One of these guys running percent it made their Jim a campaign headquarters Yeah, well, you know he did that so then that the Jim's open they're they're actually have people working out there So it's not technically a Jim so they It's a campaign It has Finiscuitment right right these guys is you IMean I take my head off to them I would not want to get into it look at the loophole in the law Yeah, I wouldn't want to get into the campaign office and then have a Jim IMean Exercise equipment there's nothing worse than in antagonizing the in the governor of the state You have to hold your position they might have just moved the floor at this point open and Jim down there move the whole Jim So that's that's that but what else is going on with you guys? We had the you didn't review the Savannah All right, right we did have that hold up and the classic and you're right. Thank you. Thank you. I'm glad that you will mind of me the land of Murray Savannah Pro Land is a big conference promoter now All right, let's see Let's put this up here on the screen here Is it funny that lenders the only like Miscellenty that really you know Promote shows and as a Jim and Chad have oh that's true yeah, that's true. Yeah, I I am just a long time, you know just not a pro show Although they did have a pro show because they had that crazy lighting that people love the vine Wilson finally gets the wind Chris I'll be going to the Olivia 20 to various second Third place Jonathan hammer kid guy You disappointed are Oh, IMean I thought he looked tremendous You know I thought he looked tremendous I just you know to my Wilson looked tremendous in the guy I got second I don't know look tremendous well what your and Dad was fourth and his death was in that right here What do you think uh Let's see what some picture up here yeah, you tell me You tell me Enough that you $100,000 at your home I should really talk about the junior sails is best That's right that you know what's this weekend See you to go off galore date Here I was ready to wrap the show up that I know by the way the junior USA Legendary virtual happened okay, let's spend doing after the time Yeah, no Because you know at the shows is so when the shows are too big I think you don't even want to do anything with it because it's too big Well, you don't have to cover all the classes but yeah, oh, but it's still a bit I don't even know what you get that way on what the NPC news yeah, I don't know if I'm looking for pictures I don't see him and he's not yet Very good pictures no, I'm PC do I do it I see the the I if you'd be specific USA pro They actually call also one another show. I think this is a 20 first year Yeah, this year Crazy that's a They all have masks on to see this picture I did see it someone sent it to me Oh yeah, he did Where was that show how Dave? It's summer I think he was in California Yeah, because in California they're crazy about the masks Where was that hole there next next again to come be your computers and your guns To put making you wear a mask how funny is that it really levels the playing kill for some of these girls That right because No, I got some brother really good looking and it helps their placing in bikini You only look only look at the what next down now when I can't let you know the body yeah, believe I there was a girl there was a female who used to compete years ago. I'm like a sail she was like a machine She was she was not attractive but she had the the best physique I thought up there and I used to sit with jam I'm like man if the girl was better looking she would be mislippy like you're right So she would be doing great She'd be doing awesome if if this was the case Oh my god Chris we can't make this stuff up Let me see if I can find that one it's on NPC the one the merge NPC knows I've already looked at pictures they're great pictures I don't know why I can't find it NPC news online I want it come on I'm looking for the pictures with the optimum classic this past weekend too only macro yeah Jam was there interviewing people That's why I can't see it because there's so many people there's so many interviews from that show I think you click on the Lendon Murray's the van Aron then you can let's say gallo res here or something I'm receiving a fire they got a lot of GSA coverage that's the problem Jam interviewed everyone there Some Look I can't I can't be said let's let's talk about the junior I say for now when we go back to be on the one Kyle pocket money overall See this guy He's your video girl champ Nice guy good sweet I got to remember the overall Ben's body don't chamfer he does not get a pro card to junior I'll say we've Complained about this few years Yeah, thank you This is the uh this is the overall shirt No So look at the has super anyway Stack Stack Stameless This guy's thick This guy's thick That card good legs Gums Crazy arms yeah Let's go back I'll take a look at through one the Uh Cresharms is the heavyweight Good conditioning structure not great See oh Very weak very weak kind of body look at this is like no one in the body boy Joe That's called the writing on the wall day What do you give a pro card so no one wants to do it? I'm sorry to be the announcer of bad news about it I'm saying that for like three years It locked in things out of what IMean it Here's your classic winner now green really good right? Look fabulous Skin spring I'm shocked that he hasn't called you. This is a typical look acido Yeah, yeah, totally brown Good arms like those crazy arms Flurry quads Good separation. How many looks ten times better in real life do not know absolutely All right, well look we we we see this just goes to show you they're getting a give a pro card You get the best people out there if you don't give a pro card no one wants to do it It's just the way it goes That's that's the that's the society we live in now back in the day you would happy to place You know top five at the junior USA Like a you would be like yeah, it was a huge accomplishment Right, IMean they were like man you you really you did a great you know I should be kidding You know the crazy the competition was so crazy is you know this year you can make top you maybe get you know top 10 of the nationals You goT4th of the juniors maybe if you're lucky you'll crack the top 10 The right Right, if they were it was so competitive people don't mean don't know that it was So deep so many competitors per class they do thEQuarter turns as a cutoff Right, yep, and you walked up the stage and you maybe not even you didn't do pre judging that was it top I didn't even hit a front double Yeah, they did you you did how you front double look? I don't know I always 15 I got a vianis that was good. I never I ever experienced the like to see a mixture From them thank god now I found this a van of brush out pictures Let's look at the vine Wilson who won the show who looked tremendous here I think this is best these look first Just really IMean You can't almost you can't take it away from the guy. IMean he was I never stayed in the plane before yeah clen lines in thEQuads That's what we say all packs You know But some people put the comparison shuttle so yeah Go through the compulsory Sorry there is hammer in the middle. That's not the first call out Let me pull the comparison shots I have to pull it up certainly You You know handprint looks so impressive I'm sorry I'm not sure I did it but you look so impressive in those in the call outs Well the height and the frame I don't know how he doesn't win these shows because you know it It's like you like you don't want anyone else it's pretty zipper to this show too I will say with it. IMean the vine is good but I I Let's all pull the picture Now Dave you don't know IMean handprint looks pretty good in that picture right there Oh yeah yeah it looks like it's like 69 And he can tell he's squatting down a little bit too It's all in that picture yeah I'm shocked that he goT4th here I could say I could almost make a case for second You know But Let's let me pull up a back shot You sound like Jose Was he there? No that's what Jose said I would pull up a bunch of Well the abs his abs are just wacky yeah Not that it's an abshow Because it holds the hands of wacky too He's like a little Ronny takes forever to get into a shot this kid Is this a one-to-trensition shots do you notice that yeah yeah LeVron would take forever right They you remember they would yell at him Yes Like hit the star right No, who could kill us right LeVron? Yeah, screaming out of like yeah right whatever So that's the line to the the second in the middle Yeah, yes, thick and then you got Hamburg to the left to him and then they got the second place guys to the to the right I can't judge from pictures it's hard Yeah, because you keep on You You I'm not being near the promise because it's not you're not there in person. I know it's it's not being it's not the same I look at food pictures online then I go to restaurants when you when you analyze the pictures Okay, as this coach IMean what do you see is would you like see better? Thickness is the only thing you can IMean Is that why divine when see her because he's got the thick upper back. Yeah, he's got you He's got the thick upper back. IMean I'll try to defend Jonathan and say look at he's got to try to lower Lats in the back double And it's glutes and heems a chisel Yeah, and he's gonna he's got a good V tape around it. You know what IMean? And Tony de Veres and second is no there's no joke No, no, very good. Well, very very good very good You're a public official that I divine here one second. IMean you're all very good. Yeah, yeah, it is like that You know, I think it might come down to muscle size. I think you know I think divine is also put in the taste of his hold it so He had some Close calls Look at that shot. Yeah, it looks tremendous in that shot. You know a lot of separation he did his homework here You know I came in when you lose to a guy who's who looks like this you really can't you really can't be too IMean, right how old is Amber guys still really younGHe's he'll be gay he'll be dead Well, he's still be able to make the the way class you think oh yeah, he's a plenty of Why on you yeah, but this is high right? Yeah, yeah, I gave the high gives him like an extra He can fill out like another he can weigh like two six dance stage problems He'll be if he puts on four pounds between now and the Olympi with this conditioning And he can just buy because he's 22 you know what IMean when you're 22 things like happening by the month Yeah, that was a dead I remember that year I cheated every day for a month and I gained 22 Well, you could you could actually you can gain muscle between shows like Remember the running between the 91 junior nationals and the nationals was like a week's in a game like what like 10 pounds of muscle Let's look at asha Ashley had Lee the asha had Lee the female bodybuilder who One this I have to say this is probably one the first female libel this year that I'm actually like kind of impressed with Where she looks oh yeah, I know exactly the image she looks very good and I agree shape She's in good shape and she's She's actually has a nice you know muscle It was great guys, you know great guys great all the size we you know Gary and I were talking on the Gary unit on the interview we did and we were sayinGHow Hit Tyler and him are now like really talking to these these women's Physicurals that are coming up and say hey why did I do well or and he's like who women's bodybuilding We're putting we're pushing a lot of people to bodybuilding. I said I said you know You would say that for two years Well Gary why do you just combine the divisions if this I don't make the rules you know Gary Down at that one right quick, but but it's true. IMean they should combine the vision but if they don't And they're gonna keep the two Wives these women's physique girls should just go into bodybuilding at this point you know Jake's given away a ton of money for Price money at the long Yeah, so you'd be crazy not to someone like I should She's perfect. IMean this up. There's a lot of girls out there that that that easily can cross over and do well on women's bodybuilding These girls are afraid they think that women's bodybuilds of that pick who who would they have to be afraid of the only person that they really should be afraid of his Irish Kyle and Iris is not 30 years old Yeah, she's just girl commission right She's got a good structure to obviously, but um You know she's she's one 10 Olympia's already. It's not like she's not like fresh off the press of the Speed so Well see what happens. IMean look they get to do it Everything want to do I don't think that it's warranted to have two divisions at this point I told Gary that I said Gary and it's in there's no distinction unless you guys are gonna start Marking these women's physique girls down for being too big and too hard You know then It's meaningless to have two divisions, you know What they really should do we've said this before Chris is they should just make it like classic bodybuilding They should they should make a height weight restriction This way the girls can't get any bigger than a certain amount You know that would certainly limit the size of them and then you now you have two separate divisions You know your bodybuilding get as big as you want you have you know Women's physique you have to be be a certain weight for your height, you know Take it from you Right I'm that makes sense IMean That's the only way to limit them because you're not if you tell the judges to limit them They can't it doesn't first show one or two shows and then it goes right back to what it was because The body a judge looks at someone and they want to vote for the best person on stage So they can't just say but we're gonna mark this girl that even though she's the best one on stage The best one to muscular So what you do is you put a limit on the weight and then they if they can't make the weight then yeah, then that's the limit Right there That's the doing for the the classic bodybuilding. It's working great, right? IMean right No one's getting out of control in class body, but we just you can't Yeah, it's it is working Good All right, well Just as I said, boots and hands would become like peels out of what you see that you see these guys the top three in the show Cup five You said that would be the biggest mistake in class to make it I think boots and hands show it's a good it's back to what it's a ham show yeah well, you know in lieu of it I was wrong because it's fine Because they're rewarding still the whole body Yeah, sometimes a bodybuilding you can have the greatest glutes of ham to destroy people with no glutes in ham And the development's terrible True in here, you know they take it everything into consideration still because I Still I still see people Without great glutes and hands But better classic bodybuilding was beating people With better glutes and hands yeah, well structures much more important. Yes, I would say yeah, they're weighing that still heavily Which is what you're looking at is hammer true good looking at the condition in the structure and probably the size Still I think you he's got a big frame. He's got to fill it out still Once he does once he does he might be missed all Mr. Olympia If he does Yeah, it's still waiting for ramming it when he'll want to be a so How many years we worked wait ten years? 10 11 coaches ten years 11 coaches And he didn't even get people on year He didn't even get people 90 All right, well, you know what I want to send out the condolences once again to Rick a Jason's family and You know, it's very sad that we lost him but it was a good guy and a lot of people gonna miss him and miss his channel Channel still be there, but you know, obviously we'll see any new interviews and of course so good luck to all the competitors That are gonna be doing the New York pro this weekend and the North American championships Hopefully you get you will have a live stream so we can check that out now I don't know what is New York having a live stream I don't even know I've got to ask you I'm gonna suit me because I think you got to The only thing will be able to tell is pictures from one photographer's little probably No Because pictures and They're not always Yeah Christmas when remember you'd go to a show the 90s you all you'd have is like a like a little you remember the Camus the throw a Camus you'd be this you'd be like this big in the in the picture and it was blot and it was blurry at that you know So All right guys, you know what to do? Uh, it's that time again Heavy muscle radio Truth hearts good night everyone and we'll see you next week good luck to all the competitors this coming weekend Hope you're gonna see some great Olympia qualms Let's go

=== FILE: PALUMBO & ACETO'S 2020 TAMPA PRO RECAP! HMR (8⧸3⧸20) [zrsfxmEdCKQ].txt ===

10th and 9th You're one and only There ready for two guys who can't hit a retreat The truth you can't handle it from what we can't be Lombon Chris Asito Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle LIM Watch out Welcome back to another episode of heavy muscle radio I'm Dave Palombo and I'm joined as always By the technicians Chris Asito On this I can't believe we're saying August 3rd 2000 and 20 evening and Chris We have a show to report on In your movie It's a great idea I know people are going to kill us for not talking anything Bodybuilding It's in the books Huntel Abraut, a pro debut Like his father, Wins it Going to the Olympia at the end of the year Are we seeing a dinosaur here? Another second generation We had surgery We did the duty first and now we have They both won the first pro shows The difference is Huntel Abraut has better genetics and his father He looks exactly like his father He does He's a big brother He's bigger And leave a barren I never really had a back That will buy some sort of speak Close your eyes and think of Sean Rays back To buy something that And then think of let's say Lee's who was a weak Very weak body part for him Lee was a lot shorter than Huntel He was a lot shorter than Huntel But better high five as mother for the extra genetics But the high... You're right The width It's a good... See? Big mom You know it's funny But Huntel looks exactly like Lee And everyone says that Lee was five foot six And Huntel is only five, five, five, five, five, nine It's not really that biGHe says that there's no way That... Hunt... IMean, Lee was five, six There's a picture of him next to Sean Rays To show He's like Sean Rays like towering over Did you see that picture? No, I didn't I thought that He may be five, five, five, five, five, five, four I'm telling you, unless he's drunk You know, I... I swear everyone shrinks a little bit when they get older I guess But Did you see the... A lifetime achievement award to Sean Rays? I think that's right Yeah, so... Let me see if I can find that poem Let me see if I can find the picture of... I've been giving out the... Telling you, Lee is like... Like Sean looks like he's like... Unless Sean will be shocked a bit when we were in Lifts in the show IMean, yeah, boo, see I'd get that award He might have... Right? No, so I'm... I'm used to with the... The DNC, right? Yeah, I'm used to it, right? IMake him into a three-chist dollar, so maybe Sean did. Yes, the love... That's right. I read that. Didn't he have... Yeah. Like four-inch lifts or something like that? Yeah. That's funny. It had to be a tough show. IMean, I know everyone was like... They had a people, everyone had to be masked there. It had to be a real nuisance. You know, you see the combat is on stage and on a mask But I think everyone was masked backstage and all that stuff And... I don't know. It had to be difficult to cover the show there. I would imagine wearing a mask. It's got to be real. Think about the judging. They have to sit there all day in judge. You think they were... They must have no wearing masks, though, yes, right? I don't know. I would imagine. They'd have to be, right? I don't know. I thought I saw a picture. IMean, in Omaha, I saw people not wearing masks, were judges. Yeah. I think they'd... I think Florida's a lot different. I think they had a lot more stringent rules here. Yeah. Well, I don't know about Tampa, but Miami does. I know there was a really strict, really strict game. I... I... From what I understand, you know, even Australia is locked down at... You know, you know, that... Yeah, you know, that... You know, that... You know, that... You know, that... You know, that... You know, that... Six weeks, a lot of those guys thought... And I feel bad for those... I had a lot of clients here there and they were just like... I'm serious locked down. And New Zealand's got nothing. Isn't that weird? IMean, they're out of the separate islands. They're not right in the... I don't know. I don't know. But it still... It's still right in the... It's... It's... It's... Well, let's talk about the show a little bit. It was a... Two-man show. Well, a lot of it because people... Just... You know, many people text me and say, Just people just so excited that there's a show. Yeah. Yeah. But it really... It came out that I don't... You know, we can discuss if the... The play sings were right, you know. But let's... Let's talk about the... The two-man call out, you know. Ian Valier, who was, you know, being... You know, people gave us a flag because we didn't know Ian was doing the show. Like... Like... Like... He wasn't on the competitors list last week. Like, have a freak of reasons. So there's a travel bank, any retard, who may have said... And... Yeah, I was... I was... I didn't think he was going to come from Canada. That's what I thought. Amazing. It probably drove. I don't know. Anyway, Ian, you know, from what John Hanson reported on our rap, we did Saturday night. He said that Ian was like, tan was really bad. He was a little... He was very flat. He looked at the out of it. I don't know. If he was sick or something, I haven't talked to him or anything like that. But... Um... I think, you know what? Here's... Here's... What I see. Imagine how crappy... I was going to say, leave the bar on it. How bad does he look like, leave there? How many times they call them, we are saying the rap up here? No. Think how crappy, how to look, if I had his tan, and think how good Ian would look, he had just tan there. Hugs, tan is amazing. It's like just like leaves, right? Yeah. Well, it's a tan. It's a tan. And on the Richter scale, and Ian's does not register. IMean, his color is so bad, and how many times of you... IMean, color counts in when it's a close show between first and second. That is good. I go to the... Right? And sometimes when you call it's really good, you look harder than when you color is like pretty good. Yeah. So this was a... The first thing I noticed about Ian is absolutely horrible color. And then the second thing is horrible stage presence. Yeah, you think he was nervous? IMean, IMean, I can't even figure it out. IMean, he did on the Olympia stage before. So it's not like this is not as, you know, first to go around here. He's one show as well. Yeah. You know, I don't know. But it's just an interesting observation. At least I think it is that he has completely no color and have no stage presence. Right. And he has one shows. It's bad for me to me. Look at this shot. I love this shot. This back double. Great, great back double comparison. Look at the polish like I'm a broad. IMean, I almost, you know, you have to almost say like I feel like Ian has a better back double. But like it's just not being shown off. Like you said, that's why I felt like he was a little flat to me. Like I think, you know, he's so big in the offseason. Even like two weeks after in the show, you see those pictures. He looks like it's like, you know, he goes as well to somebody. He has a, he's a tall guy, even though he doesn't look down much taller than. The barra right here, but he's a tall guy and he's got a lot of width. And that type of physique go flat and. Three. Oh, god. Yeah, you're right. And people in laugh, but there are some physics like that that can go flat in three hours. And I did see some pictures obviously of the night show and yes, he rectified. His hands, so that made him look much different, much improved. But he also look fuller. So IMean, you could have been flat here. I haven't said that. The barra looks tremendous here at the back. I was well. I love the shot. I love the shot. I think that, um, well, you know, Lee Priest seems to think that. That Hunter could be a potential Mr. Olympia with you. What do you think about that? Well, I think that he reminds me. He reminds me to some degree of. Uh, flex Lewis. Um. You know, they don't, they don't have crazy. V tapers. Uh, but what they have is cap delts, big arms, right? Right. You know, good deep muscle maturity. Um, which is surprising, considering the barra's young because it's hard to get that. Yeah. I think he's he's going to do well and he won't be this year. You do. Yeah, because you do this. Um, you just take the top 10 from last year and say five of the top 10 were off. And who's going to be able to make it actually make it out to the show, right? It's, it's, it's, it's crazy right now. Right? Yeah. I guess if, you know, right now, when you can't travel from Europe to the US, so that means that Bonac is out. We're getting ahead of ourselves. We still got to critique this show. Well, Bonac can't come. Um. Unless he gets over here and, you know, I was kind of like two months or all, you know, and just, stays in the US. IMean, IMean, we can't come now. True. But, you know, maybe there's a sports. Maybe they can go by boat or something like that. Maybe they make exceptions to the rule, you know, IMean, they make exceptions for medical people, so maybe they make exceptions for athletes. You know, they probably say, well, we make exceptions for athletes, but we don't consider bodybuilding in a sense. It's funny that I have to live this for 24, seven a day. But, but you know, I'm kidding. Who's making that decision? They don't consider me an athlete. I have no idea. IMean, it's like a sad that said unfortunately, it's sad. We're in 2000 for, can you imagine 2020 and you have people? Well, it's not really, it's not really athletes that are like, it's put on. It's kind of like a beauty pageant. It's a beauty pageant with muscle and. You have a governor. Arnold Schwarzenegger was well, he wasn't an athlete either. I think if, think if Arnold was like a basketball player, the NBA, became governor. Well, Bill Bradley, remember? Yeah, that's right. He was the, the state center in, with Jersey for like how many years? Yeah, long time. That was, that when I was growing up, that's what they always said. They were said, they were said, they were, they were very fond of Bill Bradley, because you know, he was, he was a, he went to, I think with a Princeton, right? He went to Princeton on a scholarship for basketball. So he was a very intelligent guy and then he had a great career in the NBA, and then he, and then he also went on to become a, you know, a senator, so like, like, that's Bill Bradley, that's he, you have to be like, that's, that was, that was a throwing in my face. I'm like, let, let, let, let he Dijkstra come to to mine, please. It's a, a baseball one, because it went to the pen for, yeah. Okay, so, for taxidation, scamming old people having their pensions. Yeah. Oh my God. So it was my impression. IMean, that was my impression, and I thought, it was, when you come out flat, like you came out and with, I think the, the color ratio is as bad as the, you know, quote, fullness issue. I think he had absolutely no chance, because if you're looking at, if you're probably, IMean, I'm not there, but you look, you're right there. You wouldn't even look at the guy. Yeah. I, you know, I feel bad for him. I, I, I, I, I, I definitely something is wrong, you know, you could tell. There's nothing, something went wrong with this, with this, where, where's, Pratt or something or maybe, I don't, maybe got into the last minute. I don't know, it just, he looked, he didn't even smile on stage. Well, IMean, I was a big, you know, you know, look at those, let me pop it out of the picture. That's what I said, page presence was terrible. IMean, I like a video. I just, I could tell from a couple pictures. Maybe you see this picture. Look at, look at that, look on his face. That is not a, it looked, LeBron is smiling, like everyone, you know, most of the matters smiling. It says Ian looks miserable up there. His underarms look like they had no tan on him. IMean, he, something is wrong. Maybe he's sick. I don't know, you know, I, I, I'm going to try to get him on the TV show, because he's a good guy. I, I like him a lot. And he's a, you know, talented kid. And he's been improving every year. I, I, something went wrong. I'm telling you. Maybe he, maybe he, maybe he realized his tan was terrible, then he had, like, freaked out with nervous and I'm serious. Yeah. Well, that's what, yeah, we were talking to Lee, pretty much. You've seen someone with a tan and you like, I don't think the tan is good enough. And then, you did it. That way, you're not going to be in a good mood of like, yeah, like I don't even say. If you don't look, if you know, you don't look like that. But you, you have to fake it. IMean, it looked as if it's been, the best body bowls in the world that had terrible hands before and they fake their way through it. And you come back, yes, walk risk. You come back to the night show. Okay. With a better tan, right? So you do someone tell him, hey, hey, in, your tan is terrible. Can you fix this thing at the night show? I'm sure people will call on them and tell him that. Right? Yeah. You know what, J.A. always says about the tan. You've got to have a genuine real base. That ice, IMentioned that all stood the rabbit. I said, you got, he's, he's his widest of ghosts. I know he's up in Canada, but you got it. Like, I got to land a tanning man. I don't know, maybe there's no tanning men's open, but that's COVID. I have no idea. You got to have, for a lot of people who are very pale, you have to have some type of base. Yeah. Branch weren't had a problem with tanning for many years. Because of that same reason. See, it was always so, so white. But you know what, he got dark. You know, he had liquid sun rays and one of those, I think, companies, you know, working on him or J.A. Someone wanted those. And they got his tan perfect after a while. You know, so, IMean, I just think that, let's, let's speculate. If Ian was at his best, does he have a broad? No, I don't, I don't, I don't know. I hate, I don't want to speculate because it takes away from the broad as, in person. I don't know, it doesn't think it's a little broad of show, but it's best in one. I can make a joke and say, yeah, I kill him though. But, you know, it would have been a hell of a lot more, close, exciting. Yeah, closer. Yeah. IMean, I ended the anger to show last year. I was there. I don't have to be there again to know that he was better last year. Right. No, you're right. All right. Let's, we'll, we'll brag about the Hunter and a little bit. Let's talk about Dwayne Walker who placed in Sir Who came in the second spot. Excuse me, a third spot. A lot, a lot of people thought he was good enough to come in second year. What do you think about him? I love his front double, Bicep, by the way. I love his front last bread. IMean, front, flat, if you like his front double, post up his front last bread. Smokes. Hey. Arguably the best. You're right. Not arguably. He has the best front last bread. All the top three without a doubt. Mm-hmm. What just saying? A ton. Even though he was in the top three. And instead of a top two, you think it was, that was like the, the pre-hype. Instagram post down or was, or was it legitimately those two guys were so separate? Because he looks like he could definitely be in that, in that group for sure. Well, he should be in that group. IMean, if you look like now, that's for, IMean, if condition is excellent, right? Yeah. It's good for that. It's great. It's great back double, too. Yeah. He's not, IMean, look, look, IMean, the guy is good. Look at that. That's a nice part. Do you dream about, right? Yeah. Yeah. I think the channel is, um, shredded packs. Yeah. Look at the ad thigh. Shut it. Put thEQuads. He's good. IMean, he doesn't really have any weaknesses. I think he, you know, IMean, he, I think the, I think the, I would have liked to have seen the top three, you know, just like the, a call out with top three. Yeah. But, um, that said, he definitely earned the spot. You know, you can make, you know, because And it's bigger still, you know, he's still bigger wider. He's not quite as, he's not quite as, he's not quite as, he's not quite as, quite as great. He's from behind as those guys out, I'll put up the back double. But he's got, he's got potential like oozing out of him, right? Yeah. He's got the, a common glutes there, right? Well, I wouldn't say common glutes. No, that's, that's the shape of the glutes. I'm not saying it. Looks like I'm sayinGHe's got to be bigger, obviously. But I'm saying, I could, could, could hit from boys. He's very good, very impressed. He's got them all the makings of a, that's a great confetti. I don't know who, who, I'm surprised he hasn't called you yet. I don't even know who he is, or good. I've never, IMean, how impressive is that placing? Yeah. Never heard the name before. Now, now he did great. He was, you got to figure it out off them, you know. I, I, I agree. I, I, after looking at the pictures, I think he's got great potential. I think they got the, the top two corrects. Yeah. You think I don't know if you can see the, in a top three, you know, from the pictures upside. Does it, you know, we're not there, obviously. So we're, it's, I hate judging the show from the pictures. That's why I got John Hanson on the, on the wrap up yesterday, because he was sitting in the front row there. Even though he, even though I think he was having a few drinks. Chris, did you, I didn't even know John Hanson had out drank alcohol. Did you? Well, maybe that's why he, maybe he doesn't. He couldn't handle the alcohol. And that's like, there's a part on the wrap up. Oh, shit. That's fine. Oh, John, let's say this guy looks like a young, we're on the Coleman. Oh, man, of course, contest history, then it just, let's sit like it was, right? Like his home address, home, you know, had to break through the 92 taxes, of course. Brian Dodson trened him. Didn't take any antibiotics, so 1996. Here's, um, fourth place, Phil Colharr, who I helped actually. That's a fantastic day. Yeah, he's got some good work. Yeah, you know, I, I, I've seen him last year. What place did he get last year here? I don't remember. He should have placed high wherever he was. Yes, yeah, yeah, why not? Wherever he was, ended up, and that was a, you know, really good line. That was a great line up last year. Phil's got a hard worker, broad and great conditioning, you know, next year. These pictures don't do him. He has to. Okay, so he's, yeah. He was better at the night. So these are the pre-deaging pictures. He was really, really hard at the night show. Um, I kind of, I filled them up a little more. I think it's got one of those physics. And once he's in shape, you can feed him, like, you can't almost can't feed him too much, you know, that kind of thing. Yeah. But, you know, you get nerve, like, because I'm the big conditioning guy. So like, I'd rather him be a little on the flatter side, you know, and sorry, always air a little bit on the, I'm, I'm a free-deaging on the, on the wider side. And then, then I'll feed him a lot and he really filled that at night, tremendously. Uh, really good, you know, these, he's on the upswing. I'm trying to get into New York, do New York pro buddies from Tampa. He thinks they're gonna not get a lead him into New York. I said, boy, you know, you get into New York. I said, drive there if you have to. Can't. So anyway, Phil, I just want to take my time. So he's a super nice guy and he's a really hard worker. And this is my pleasure to work with him actually for the show. Now, a lot of people also were talking, and I love, and I love his physique as well. I don't know if you saw his physique. Ronald Gordon. Yeah, you look great. I love his physique. I love his physique. Right? Isn't that a great physique? Yeah. Just fix it a little bit. A lot of natural potentials. IMean, just shoulders, arms, legs. And look at this separation in thEQuads. Yeah, he looks tremendous. Great abs. Big, big structure. He probably can hold another 10, 15 pounds on that frame. And you know, and still look good, you know. How did you find the knock on that? Yeah, I think there was a lot of talent in this tampon line. If I really think it was a sleeper show, I think a lot of people, you know, didn't anticipate it because there was a lot of guys that just no one really was expecting. Who we're going to do this stuff that they did. Look at this. IMean, we haven't seen a show. Right? Yeah, but we're saying, you know, we kind of usually know who the front runners are. So speak. That's a reason. IMean, this guy is really good. IMean, you know, you could make a case for him. Yeah, third. He could, he could, you know, he could have placed his highest third, I thought. Yeah. Right? Absolutely. I wonder, IMean, what, what, the distinction between. Look at look home. Yeah. Back double. And the guy got there. I don't know. So I don't even know the names. The guy got there. Oh, but you're going to know the names soon now because these, both of them are going to do good in future shows without a doubt. All these guys were, were terrific. It was a picture. We had back double. And Ron Gordon. Very impressive. Yeah. I would say the whole top five was spectacular. Great talent. I think everyone was a really good shape. I look like Ron Harris with these classes. I should just look at what he wanted. But I think that this is, you know, it makes me feel kind of good to know that we have some new talent kind of coming into the open ranks, right? That have really good potential. We see new talent. But you don't see the potential to go far. You know, a lot of times these guys come in. You know, like, this guy's a good shape. You know, you don't see him ever like being in a lengthy guy. You know, put 15, 20 pounds on that on the, on everyone from third, fourth and fifth. IMean, how dangerous those three guys become. Extremely. You know, so, IMean, that devastating with dangerous life. This is fifth place, right? This is fifth place. Six or so, Dorian and Haywood. You made a lot of, you made a big jump in size, too. You looked really impressive. Yeah, well, these guys, I'm telling you that. Yeah, I think this, this, I think this quarantine made people have to die at longer. You know, because everyone thought they were going to compete earlier. And, and they didn't, they weren't able to. So a lot of these people have been dying since February, almost, you know. And, you know, for a lot of guys, they need to die at that long because it just brings in a better look. His Dorian. He was, you know, he's always hard. And, you know, I think that we got a really good show and for our money, which was zero. I didn't spend anything to be my house. But I know what I'm saying is, I thought that a lot of people, these are the guys who are dedicated. And I'm going to tell you why. Because they found a wage, Chris, to get to a gym during a time when there was, there was obviously gyms were closed. They found a way to continue dieting. They found a way to get the job done and get up on that stage and tamper. And I got to tell you, it wasn't easy for them because of everything that was going on. Look, I work with Phil and Phil couldn't go to the gym for a couple weeks. And I was like, fine to place the tren, you know. And he, he made it happen, you know. He, he did it. And he worked through it. And if he had to do some body weight exercises for a couple weeks, but he found a way to get it done and got it, get up on that stage. And he still looked great. And I think he would look, had he not, you know, had we not had thick, obviously thEQuarantine. He would have competed probably three months earlier. And he, any would have, you know, maybe looked better because he would have, but he still made it to the stage. And so I really, you know, I'm impressed with these guys. Got up there and looked as good as they did. And, you know, that says a lot. People don't realize how hard that was. And I thought about just the body of those and talking about every division, you know, it was hard for because everyone had to face the same challenges. And they did. Well, how about the, putting on the show at all? Why, I, we talked about that last week. Tim Garderman hats off to him because, whew. How stressful was that? Oh my god. I, I, I, I, I should get him on. I should, I should interview him like through the week next week. And, and talk, he's got to have to be on blood pressure medication. There's no doubt about it. There's doubt for us. Furies, flories, right? I'm sure because he, I'm sure that the politics of just dealing with the state alone, of Florida and making, you know, kissing their ass enough to let them have him hold the show and the hotel. Think about it over. They had so many rules about how many people could get room in. Think about it. Back up. There was far less covered in the US at the Arnold. And they said, no context. You don't even have to have a context. You don't even have to have a context. You don't even have a context. Okay. You can have the prejudging with zero audience. Sure. And now it's running ramp hit, Florida's like the new epicenter. Tim Garderman pulls it off. It's a, it's a main question. How stressful is he? But, IMean, the point you made was the politics of it. Who knows how much whoops he ended up throwing during the show? Yeah. Yeah. I'd love to know the backstory behind it for sure. Let's talk about the two 12 division George Peterson first, two 12 show. He's got a victory already Chris in the books. How impressed with you? How many times on this show did I say he's not a classic guy? I was 100% right. Yeah. We've, we've, you know, everyone's not here. And I thought he could have been a little drier even and he still looked amazing. I think that this is a great, this is a fantastic. This is a very pastel looking. Yeah. That's very, yeah. He looks a little light tone. That's stuff. You're right. He looks great. I didn't even think about that, that you're right. That, that is great. Great, great stage presence, great posing, great condition, great fullness. I think that, like I said, I, even I talked to, you know, as coach Justin, who's obviously a good friend of mine and he's like, I think he could have been a lot of, he could have been a little harder. You know, but he goes obviously did enough to win here. And I agree, I think, you know, especially from the back, I've seen George Harder. I think it did night shows a little tighter, but once again, it just goes straight. Good, you know, he's, he's, he's that good that he doesn't even need to be at 100% to win. And, you know, they were upset that he couldn't do the open. How do you think he would have done in the open? I think he would have been very competitive to some degree, you know, IMean, IMean, your eyes would go to the condition and the midsection and the legs separation and the width. IMean, judges, we'll be crazy back. Right. Yeah, I agree. His back is better than, you know, the guy who was fifth place. Sure. Yeah. What did he do? IMean, I don't know what the stupid rules. They want to, they want to judge what he's doing. But I'm just, when you put a guy like him who's short and thick against a guy with a biGHuge structure like that, IMean, maybe what he got lost in the end. Did he want to do the open? He did. I don't know why they want to. I don't know. You just came from classic. You know, you know, you know, you wanted to do both. I better know why you know, it was on different days. Even if it was on the same day, I don't know why they went light up and who cares. Let him do both. I don't know what the stupid rules. They want to judge what he's going to do a rant on. I said, I do a rant every week on the show about it. I rant about it. I said, I don't know why they don't do it. So if you want to do wellness, they should let him do wellness too. Who cares? No, seriously. But yeah, IMean, right now I should stick for two to a while. When you look at this look, do you get a little nervous knowing that you coach a come all? No, no, IMean, just, you know, it because. George Peterson is, you know, I'm no dummy. He's a threat to come all for sure. And, you know, he's not the only threat to come all. Right. IMean, I've said that. I've said, you know, when I went road and was. Mr. Olympia. And we would talk about road and after the Olympia. I wouldn't say if Sean road and thinks he's going to repeat like. Easy or kind of sort of easy or IMean, he's got another thing coming. Who knew that Sean road and wouldn't be beat by another competitor, but by stupid. My point simply is that. I think, and I've said this about Brandon. Corrie B. and Mr. Olympia. I think Brandon can repeat. I think Brandon can lose. I think there's people who can beat Brandon. And I think that come all can repeat and I think Brandon come all can lose. I think there's more than one person who can beat Brandon. And I think there's more than one person who can beat come all. Yeah. It's just, you know, look at. Look at, uh, in Valier. IMean, yes, his 10 socks. And yes, you know, like a nervous wreck looking on pre-judging. But he looks a lot different at the night show. So sometimes peeking, right? So if come all is not at his best or, you know, this guy's not at his best. And someone shows that they're absolutely best. He changes the dynamics. So I think George Peterson is a threat to, you know, to come all for sure. Yeah. Detric poloist. Sandi, hoist. Another phenomenal. He was phenomenal in Puerto Rico last year. And he's even more phenomenal here. That's a great shot. I love that. It's like pulled out when I play really well. Side story steps should look like. Isn't it funny how we, we have such weak two 12 classes. And then all of a sudden we get Tampa here and it's like, Bam. When do we have weak two 12? What was it? Yeah, we haven't had a really dine dynamite. Look in two 12 classes for quite a while, you know. And all the way through like in depth. Yeah, I'm like talking like, you know, like up on stage, you know. And then now all of a sudden we have, you know, you know, guys that we haven't even seen before. It's great. I love it. Yeah, side story step is off the hook. Really, really good to load to that shot. Right. IMean great midsection, great shoulder arm tie in. Packs are still full. Hamstrings from the side and deep. I think he's, uh, I think he's another guy that we're going to see on that Olympia stage and. Yeah, without a doubt. And he's going to be very dangerous. What about, um, let's look at third place. I guess. Like, is that, IMean, Derek Oslin has been around for a long time. He's got a phenomenal physique. Derek Oslin improved so much that when I saw the comparison photos. Not only did I not recognize his physique, I didn't know who it was. Look, I didn't recognize his face. He's really tight here. Drive. I had no idea that was him when I saw the pictures. You know, like, I have a guy who's going to win when I saw the free judging pictures initially, you know, of the, in the comparison shots, he's very dominant. You know, he's really hard, you know. And he's got that's, that is a superb V tape right there. Oh, yeah. With the big flare on the thighs, thighs come, you know, better. He's a good poser too. This, this is a market jump in. Conditioning and size for I think what he's had, like, the last two years. Because he's placed well, you know, he's placed well in shows. And you know, he's always placed well in shows. And you can still be critical of certain areas. I think this was like perfect peak for him. I don't think. And look at the back double. IMean, he's got a lot of stuff going on there. He's just not as big as Peterson, which is funny when you say that because George came from class. I think you're like 15 pounds. I think he's the last year. But he's, he's good in the line. He's very good in the line. He's up, Dave, that's a great analysis. He's always, but where he plays good in the past, like, he came up by himself. And you say, well, he's pretty good. He's this guy's good. You know, good. He's good. And then you see him in the line up. He's, he looks better. He compares well with people because he doesn't have really many weaknesses. And his structure and shape is really good. Well, but, we're going to pop a comparison shot because. Well, he compared, he doesn't, his back doesn't look that good in this picture. But in the back double when he's compared to people looked really good. That's what I didn't recognize him. You know, I wasn't sure you'd be sure who it was. Look at the, here's the 2012 first call out shot. With Eric Mark obviously all the way on the right. Who looked really good to his comeback. Yeah. I got to say one thing though. IMean, a little bit looking Derek on the left there. IMean, he's got a good taper and everything like that. You know, George has just got some a little bit more wows. But it's not a blowout, you know, by any means. Yeah, no, it's just, yeah, he held his own. Again, IMean, he's always looks great in that. And that's not the idea of a good in that. Do you know how can gigantic arms? Now, I don't know how long you was away from the stage. But Aaron Clark. IMean, Aaron Clark was an Olympic. IMean, top five Olympians. People might not even remember that. You know. And the only thing to change is he has them in a hair now. I got to, you know, he reminds me of now he runs in Mike Morris. Remember Mike Morris? I have a question. But look at Mike Morris. My part of the game is that the same density is Mike Morris. Yeah. Super dense. Yeah, Mike had a lot of muscle on his body. Aaron's always in shape. You know, I don't even know. You know, he's also guy you struggled with his tan. And the tan is that terrible here. I think the bill is darker. It's almost terrible. It's almost terrible. But he always struggles with his tan. I remember the first show we ever did he, to even remind me. So Dave, you can tell me my tan is terrible. I said, well, you fixed it. I guarantee he's hard of looking, right? That this is an example of a bad tan. That's how you know. You know he's hard. You can see. Absolutely. Look at this. Look at this. This is a back double. He's getting great back double. You know, he's really a victim of just like going up against the, you know, really well. IMean, he's probably the biggest hardest guy in the class. Maybe the other guys have a little better structure than he does. But IMean, look at that back up. Yeah. Crazy. He's a man. It's a lot of muscle. Remember he moved up to the open. A lot of people don't realize. And then obviously he didn't work out well from the open. He came back there. I think he's a, he's a definite to 12. IMean, no doubt. He doesn't look flat here. This is a good look for him. Like you said, tan, tan when shows. Well, I think it's okay. IMean, this is a natural weight for him because I think when he turned Pearl, I can't remember when it was. What it was when he John Hanson. Get John Hans. He don't. I'll tell you when you turn Pearl. He beat Anthony Piscquale. You remember? That's right. That you say what you were talking about. I know my when you want the USA. Yeah. That was the battle versus the Piscquale. I don't know 2011. I don't know 10. I don't know. Yeah. Crazy. So, IMean, great to 12. Great open class. IMean, the Tim's got to be thrilled that they got such great competition here. Let me see if I could, uh, well, I'm going to pull up the, um, class of guys. They were really good too. I know you, I know you love the, the John Chae Campbell one. That's the, the dance, dance. That's it. He looks like, yeah. He looks like it, like almost like a, uh, what's his name? The Patrick Moore almost, what can we do? Yeah. That's a good front double. That's a Patrick Moore look today. That's a guy that who can definitely, you know, challenge at the Olympia. I think big arms, the big arms, big legs for a classic guy. Yeah. And that's, you know, a lot of those guys don't have the legs that he has. Holy hoax is nickname Chris. There's not a great nickname. Holy hoax. Holy hoax. Yeah. Holy hoax. H.U.L.K. Yeah. That's what it is on his Instagram. I love it. It gives a great nickname. phenomenal. Yeah. His back is extremely good too. I just had a couple of back shots. And, you know, he beats a really good divine Wilson. So, you know, it's not like these guys were both really good in this life. So, you know, you can't say, wow, you know, he beat a, like, a crappy wife. IMean, these guys were called out the other one too. And obviously, um, the entry just has a little bit, I think a little more wow, a little more muscle, probably. I love it more muscles. But the mind is a great shape too. Yeah. He can get very hard. His back shots are crazy, you know. He's like, I like a guy, a little mini-guy green, you know. Look at his back bubble. IMean, you know, you need to fast-respite to pick up. Try to get these pictures. Well, you're supposed to be talking while I'm doing it so that I'm not looking like, like, I'm dragging. You're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, like, like, my son, Logan for the next where we'll find the vertical. Well, Dave, you know what, you really should be, and then, I hear clicking in the background, that's what you do. What's the crispy tapping back there? Yeah. I'm texting Dave. Yeah. Well, that's why you're supposed to be talking about the person. You still didn't get me the great commentary on all these guys and why they're so wonderful. Remember, remember the guy that, right? Divine had the meltdown when he got second. Remember that year? Yeah. No, I bring that up, not to be critical. That's very good. Yeah. That's when the glorious beat him. And it was controversial and divine was like mega peeled. Yeah. And he got pissed or something and, you know, a testament to the judges. IMean, right? Because people would say, well, you know, you're blackballed for good. Yeah. Everyone looked at the guy. I think you guys got upset when they sometimes see everyone knows that. He apologized. Anyway, he came on the TV show. But great classic great classic group there. IMean, both guys were great. The whole lineup was good. Yeah. The whole lineup was really good. Yeah. What happened to Logan Franklin? I thought he was doing the show. I don't know. It's good question. Did he do classic? Did he do men's to see? No, he's to win. He's switched. I thought I thought so. I don't even seem to want it. Maybe didn't make it. No, he did not make it. But that's what's happening with him. I don't know. Maybe he held off. He's got a young kid. Maybe you don't want to be going to. COVID-19 fasted Tampa. Could be. You know, my zip code is got to be the most cases of COVID. Well, you don't need to get all of it. You don't need the grounds. No, we went to South Dakota. I was going to get 11. Yeah, I was going to get 11. You are. I took my son up from my from grandma's house today because he spent the night. First time in the while and he loved it. And so his whole thing is when he gets in the car, we got to go to South 11. So Maddie gave me the head a little mask from. You know, I take him in there with the mask. I told touch. You know, don't touch. You know, things stay away from people. Everything like that. And we sanitize his hands. You know, the whole the whole shit. He was he was like, it was like letting a person out of a loony bed going into there. He ran in there. He couldn't get to the surgery machine fast enough because he likes to take the cops. You know, and he's a little bit of self. Oh, if you let him. Yeah, so I don't have to choice. He grabbed the cup and he starts. He took every smart is like six or seven different flavors. He'll put everyone in the cop like he'll do a mixture. Do you get the diet? Go on. I don't let him yet. There's a coconut. I'm like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Too much caffeine. He knows. Because caffeine. I know caffeine. He comes on. He's like, mom, I got caffeine. He has only. How do you get the diet? Coquan. No, I don't. Now, they don't have a diet coke one here. Why? Why? Why? Someone on the other hand has a diet coke. They don't have a regular coke one here. They have a reduced sugar one. I said, I want to use to pick them up from school. There's a week to go every day. And when he was in school. And I used to get the sugar free one. Yeah, it was pretty good. They're good, especially when it's really hot out there. I suck the whole thing down before we even get home. I'm like, I can't control myself. He had to get ice cream and he got like skittles. And then he was like, I've tell him. He was like a person who was like an addict. It was like, I don't know. But I feel bad. The kids can't go anywhere. You know, it's like seven and eleven is a big deal for him. Yeah, play the ones are closed. Even the playgrounds here. I don't know, but the playgrounds here are open. But I'm afraid to take them there. Who knows. Because the last time we went, we went once. I think since the whole COVID, I think there was a million kids there. Because these kids are, they're like, you need activity. Yeah, they go crazy. IMean, luckily we have the pool in the backyard. IMean, that helps a lot. We're getting ready to do the show and gave us. My kids are going to the pool. What time was that? 9.45. 9.30. They were in the pool. It's the first time for the day. The whole was only the first time. He was at grandma's house and they had taken a nap. And then it was going to rain here. So we couldn't do that. And then it just never rains. So we said, alright, let's put him in. Andre Ferguson, Chris. I'll tell you what I love about Andre Ferguson. Here's a guy who wins the Arnold, right? He's second if he'll want to be at it. IMean, he's he's one every show. He's like the dexter of the defense physique. He's got balls. He doesn't care. He just does every show. And he even says, when I end up in music, I don't count to an every show. He doesn't even care. It's not about the money or anything that he's like, I like to compete. Yeah, well, a lot of people in this position would be afraid to put it on the line. It'd be afraid to lose. It doesn't care. Obviously. That's why you're so good. I think the more you're on stage, especially in the end, it's the more comfortable you become too. So when I used to when I competed, I used to be very uncomfortable when I first started. But once I started doing gas posing, Chris, like every weekend, I lost the stage fear and became much more natural. So I think for Andre, he's so natural on stage because he's on stage all the time. I knew I was talking the same thing. You know, when he competed so much, he's like, it wasn't even like a big deal. It was like just like another day at the office. So the men's physique, I should be, you know, he's always in shape on Andre. He died for six weeks, he's in New Justice Show and he wins. He'll do more. And you'll see, he's not done. I guarantee whatever shows a lot for the fight to every, he'll probably win every pro show this year. They might not be any guys in the in the Olympic because it's going to think of the way. You don't have to come up with a different. It will be him and Ray Edmonds, you know, the rematch. Yeah, he looks, he looks phenomenal here. I think he's close. Both of the list, everyone top five are like insane. Yeah, you know, I wanted to make a ninth place by the way, was Michael Anderson, who also won the masters 40 and over. Now the reason IMentioned it, you know, when we first started reporting on men's physique Chris, you were very big on Michael Anderson. He was winning shows left in the right. And he lost his, he had his liking and pitaed. That's right. And he still could be looking at the name. Top nine, one leg and wins the masters. You got to take, you got to say, holy, macro to this guy. You, if you can't get motivated by him. You're great. Remember he gave you, you're becoming John Hanson that he was like, he was like, my favorite guy. You know why he was my favorite, what year was that? When did men's physique start? I don't even know. So crazy dialed for the time. You know, guys were like, I get kind of like a beach body, but I'm pretty darn tight. He just came in like. Creepy guy. I'm really either back then and, and so he was really like he was right in there. You know, he was able to win shows because no one was out muslims. They didn't really want people to forget. They didn't want big guys in this way. They wanted condition. They wanted pex and add as pex and adds and arms and something that. But they didn't want like giant. Now they want giant guys. They want body goes basically up or body. He, his upper body came up a lot. I think he's amazing. Yeah. The fact that he can tren, you know, people don't realize, you know, think people say, well, he doesn't they don't judge legs. But you know what, when you tren your upper body, your legs are your base. You know, you need to use your legs to tren your upper body. Try doing a bent over row with one leg. IMean, you can't do that. You can't do that. You can maybe bench pressing is not quite. So I've been trying to balance yourself on a bench with one leg. Doesn't work. So easy. So I'll take my head off to him. Really, really impressive. And then I, you know, got go through run through the guys because I was still impressed with this class. Yeah. I wanted to brinGHim up because I think he's a special case. He's a special. He's a special. Yeah. Anthony Gilks places that second position. He was really good. So I'll post picture. I'll just give him some, give him some props. And this was the biggest class. You had it was a million guys in it. Right. So I'm crazy. I'm crazy. You can. I just found a, that's the thing guys can play around and they can, they can do it. You can go 15 deep. Two. Like top 15, more really, really, really good. I'm not making pull up or whatever. But the needless to say, I think there was like 30, 30, 40 guys in the class. And there was a master's class as well. There was someone in this class. I think the guy got forth like was, I thought was completely off the hook here. I was surprised he didn't get second. I'm full of no disrespect to, even though it's just a bit of a different way. Just my personal preference. Cory Morris. I know him when I see him. Yeah, I know Cory. I've seen him before. Oh, look at him. It's like a six scene in twice. Yeah. No, no, no, the next guy. He was another guy. No, this is the guy you're talking about. I'm impressed that my figure out about him actually. I actually posted. I was so impressed that I actually put a picture of him on my Instagram. And I never do like I never usually put competitors that I don't help on my Instagram. He's that good. This guy. That way slide. Yeah, you know, this guy looked tremendous too, but it's not him. It's the next guy. I don't know. Let's see. This guy had a crazy small waist. Oh, yeah. I know I Daniel A. I haven't seen this physically. I'll pull him up. Yeah. Did all these guys. IMean, the men. I think guys are always all in shape. IMean, if you want to see a class that's routinely, you know, shredded. It's them because the, that's what they're being judged on. Yeah. Is this your guy? No. He'll be confused. Fulfur. You're going to make me, you're going to make me. Not going to. I'll be the third place guy. You're talking around. Yeah. Probably Rashad Watson. Yeah, this is, this is your kind of physically. Come sure. Crazy. That's a healthy look. Maybe not. That him. Yeah. I guess I don't know Dave. I think he might be still not. I think he might come right. I'm sure. I'm going to have to go to pictures. Yeah. I'm going to make a lot of noise to you. You can make open noise to one. I'm pulling up another. I'm, I'm Adam Men's Physicur, I'm going to. I'm going ready to do your supposed. Great. My fitness. That's the place I. Real bit. I'm going to ask. Dave loves to fitness class. It do because it's the most entertaining. I can't. I think the Olympics is going to be great. You got a Dallowed coming back this year. You got like son of Rashad coming back. You got the Raining Champion. And you got it. And now you have our real good dark coming to. And I'll tell you a story about our real good dark. My wife likes to say it name wrong. Ariel Kodar. IMet a mom brought Ariel to my house with her. You did 15 or 16. Oh yeah, you told me to start. Yeah, but you said again because people have had it. Very, very good story. She was a gymnast and she wanted to get into fitness, which was a good. I don't know why more gymnasts don't get into fitness to be honest. Yeah. And she just loved like she knew all the people who werecompeting. And she was like, like, like, like star strike over them. But she she had some amazing skills in gymnastics. Obviously. And she just didn't understand. She didn't know that much of a diet. So I helped her with a first diet. And went over a lot of stuff with her and a mom. And just, you know, supplements to take and stuff like that. And she, I think at the time she was the youngest. I would be proud in the fitness division. I think someone. These that record. But she was, you know, you could tell me. She was, you know, you could tell her routine was so much better than everyone else's that, you know, it wasn't even close. Now it, now in the days, you know, her physique is really coming to its own. And she's really short. She's under five feet, you know, and but in today's fitness world, there's not that many good routines anymore. So she really shines. So she's watchinGHer. Why is she not good with teens so explain. I don't know. You know, I, I just don't think you can. I just don't think you can. For the class that needs routines. IMean, based on everything. IMean, I don't know. It's, it's, look, it's a very expensive sport that they have a choreographer, right? To, to the choreographer routine unless you're just a prodigy like like oxanas. And you have to practice thinking about how much money an effort it takes. It's enough to go to the gym. It's enough to do your cardio and you dieting. And now you got to practice your routine for an hour an hour and a half a day or more. How can you say more of that? I think you're making it more. I'm going to say I'm making it more of a big deal. The more stimulus is not going to be the last. I'm going to be the last. You're going to be the last. You're going to be the last. I'm going to be the last. I'm going to be the last. So what's the man to say? Why is it? The, no. The, the, the more people doing it. The big shot. I think about it. And I think it's all started right. Oh, she's saying that the gymness themselves, like the real gymnast don't go into because they think like it's all steroids. It's all the time. They don't want to do it. You don't want to do it. It has to have it. And the parents don't want to do it. Who knows. I guess like it's a dying division. I don't think it's, I think it could be rekindled with the, if they, if they really nurture it. You know what you do Dave, you know what you do. You know what, when you have supplement line, you have a supplement line. Yeah. And you have eight products and six sell really well. And the seven to eight to seven sells kind of sort of in the eight is like, why would you say, why are we selling this product? Nobody likes nobody buys it. It's always the product that I love the most. Yeah. Yeah. In that term, say, we get, that's why you keep it. Yeah. Maybe they keep it for nostalgia, but IMean, it's just interesting to say, Well, it just be a kind of dying class. Like the ones that you know, both that detaining class, you know, at the show, see, I know. But you can't even, who gets entertained with these shows? I don't, you know, because I actually like that. Yeah, you know, unfortunately you're right, but I actually like it. It's hard to be, you know, it's hard to be entertained when the, when the shows are so long. Right. No, it's true. But you know what, it is, it is, it is, there's no, it's my scrolls because it doesn't last as long, you know, you get, and routines and that's it. You don't, that's enough. I remember I was at the first fitness national, was it? I was at the team universe. I felt it at the team universe. And I forget what year it was. This is, remember, they only had bodybuilding. Women's bodybuilding. The first time they've been having another class of women, it was golf, it's fit, they called it fitness, you had a routine, you know, where one piece, and a two piece. Oh, I remember that, that's right. Rest they had like, at the fitness national, I remember it was in Jersey, I know, it was it was a, it tried back a performing arts center, Weinberg, a held a day. They had to be 55 girls in this show. Okay. Okay. Every girl had to do the routine, which was like two and a half, three minutes. I, I remember, I was, I was sleeping from the front, I felt asleep because the, the routine, the routine, around took so long. Yeah. That was the beginning of the end for the, so thEQuick show, you know, before that, it was just bodybuilding moments, bodybuilding, men's bodybuilding, you're out of it. Now, they added an extra three hours to the, to the program, so to speak. Yeah. Three minutes, three minutes routine, right? Come on. Actually, got rid of the one piece because it was taking too long because it was redundant, you know, and who wants, why would you judge someone with, with their abs being covered, you know, and then the routines, I think got cut down and size a little bit, and then the competitors, then when they started figure, you'll lost most of the fitness girls, you know, just quite the figure. But yeah. I remember Jenny, Jenny Lynn actually won the fitness nationals. And, and on the same day, she won her class in the figure of the nationals. A lot of people don't realize that. You were like a giant. You're like a giant. Oh, look at one of the fitness and figure nationals on the same day. I think both overalls, too. Oh, that's right. So, there's a little trivia for you. You can feel your triby above's. So, can you congratulations, I wrote the door. Women's bodybuilding. Well, let's do women's physique first. Ivy rain. I like her physique a lot. Women's see what you probably have been looking for the pictures of it when they, when they, when they're going to pull her up. Women's physique. Women's physique. Which to me, there's no distinction between women's, women's physique and when that's bodybuilding. Well, she just can't walk away. Exactly where I said it like that. Women's physique. Great condition, you know, good presentation. Yeah, she's a bodybuilder. Go ahead. Now, now I'll pull up. Now, she won the physique, okay. So, congratulations. She's going through the Olympia. The physique class was great, by the way, there's a lot of girls in it. And then I'm going to pull women's bodybuilding who, you know, lived on McDay. She's been around quite a while. She's got a really good physique. She, she, she struggles with the brain, the conditioning. I think that she needs to end. She brought enough here to win. Who wins? Showdown. Women's physique overall. Women's bodybuilding overall. Physic. I get it. Easy. Why these physico girls don't, don't catch on and start doing bodybuilding. If it's saying that, they, I would be jumping in there and doing bodybuilding. Because, you know what, like you said, you know Jake, what is going to make a huge huge prize package for the money. Why would you make it? I think it's going to be $401,000 more than that. Whether the net, no, it doesn't make sense anymore to have two divisions. They're the same, the criteria, the same. You can't be too big in physique or you can't be too big in. Combine them. Compare second and second. So this, my analysis to my, my personal opinion on first. How about second, second from physique? I was going to be second of my going who I know, you know, my task case. I was going to go, you guys, I don't, I don't do it. I'm more, but let's do gene. And, you know, let's take a look at pictures of her. She looked really good here. Right there's, there's second place. And, in body. Okay, she's a little bigger. She could be harder from behind, but she looks good. She definitely, you know, could have made a case for her winning show. IMean, if you wanted to. And here's second place, Jeannie Feldman and physique. And she's probably the hardest girl. She could be a little bit, you know, she's not as big, but. Let's pull her up. Let's do this comparison. Alright, let's-Jey Ling. There's, there's- Yes, there's someone. Oh, they would crush the girls. Like, I told Sheila Bleicha, Scchilly, who doesn't do it. You know, you could only judge work for them. I understand that. And there wasn't that many. But I think that the problem now is that there's no new. I don't see new people coming into women's body building. I see just the existing people that were there already. And there's nothing wrong with that. Because I know a lot of these girls. They're hard workers. But I want to see new talent coming to that division. Especially if you get a hold of the celebrity again. I don't want to just see, I don't want to see a senior tour. You know what IMean? I want to see Iris versus the lady. I don't want to see Iris versus Lender again. Even though I would love to nostalgia-wise, I want to see the best of the best of there. And Iris probably is still the best of the best. And she'll probably win again. I want to see these, but put these women physique girls on there. I want to see what's your name? Shini Grant against Iris Kyle on that stage. That's Miss Olympia, right? Yeah. That's like the old Lender and Iris battles, you know? Kim and Lender Mari battles. Like the best of both the divisions combined them and let's see you wins. Once again, Iris has some change. They're the same criteria. I've never seen them say in recent times that a woman's physique girl was too hard a two-bed. Yeah. Hasn't happened. Right? No. And obviously the criteria are the same. I haven't heard them. I just don't know what the reason is for having two divisions anymore. You have a missing feedback. We have a guy in Jake Wood who supports women's body building and supports that and in the sport. It's not going anywhere. Put the Olympia back in place. We don't need physique anymore. The physique was created because whoever was in charge didn't like women's body girl. I felt it wasn't marketable. Now it's back and vote because we have someone supporting it financially, throw it together again. You're reading the FDQL Women's Body Building, but you're called Miss Olympia. You have one class. You want to call it women's physique fine. I don't have a problem with that. That's a smart thing you said on the show today. Just call it Miss Olympia. Don't even call it women's body building. Just call it yeah. Yep. And you know what? You'll know it when you see it. In other words, you just should be judged in physique. Now, the true reason I had you here, Chris, on this show is not really to break down by the audience. Nobody else will do it at midnight. John, he might be drunk. Just very drunk. I love it. Now, it's for you to explain and to break down wellness for me. Because here's our wellness champion Renee Hartley. I don't understand all this. She got, it's funny. She got a great physique. I don't even know really what distinguishes this as wellness versus, you know. Well, I thought there was some like biGHips and big glutes. Yeah. I understand also that they can only judge really what's what's available to judge. But to me, IMean, this could be a slightly, you know, this looks like figuratively, or like a bikini girl almost, like with a really good commission. Yeah, because bikini should be like 10 times less, right? A variety of tip over. The problem is the only real wellness girls, not mentally. Like a stare at everything. It's not like you know, all the way to the top of the top of the world. This out the American, you know. Those those big, you know, glute women. That's wellness, you know. That's great. Oh, let's see second and third. Let's see the call out. Yeah. All right, I'll get the call out. You know, the technician. So you should be able to break this down, you know. You should only get a breakdown body, believe me. You should be the oldest, the oldest of the very first. IMean, the division is created to, I couldn't tell you with the, it's crazy. Here's your call out. Yeah, let's see the. They look like like women's physique girls standing like body. I'm standing like bikini competitors. That's what it's for. Is it the first show? I think it's the first pro. Right. IMean, what's going to happen is it's going to evolve and you're going to find someone, right? The, the Linda Murray or the Flex Wheel or you. But it, but does it warranted? IMean, it's because it's like I said, it's, IMean, you're going to get some Brazilian. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's going to win it. Right? Who's going to dominate for Ted, I was just going to say, that people's going to say juicy that girl with the big legs, but she's like, his cashier, I don't know, hey, pronounce, M. K. K. Shea Rivera. Okay. So how, what would happen if she did bikini judges would say what? She's too thick around the hip. Yeah. But what about if she did women's physique? Oh, women's physique? She looks more like a woman's physique down. I'm afraid women's physique. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Look, the whole thing is about a big lower body. You know, but the problem is when you build the, very few people, except the the, the things, just don't know lower body. They build the upper body. They, they, the title is odd. Yeah. That's this. That's it. It's like a healthy look. That's a good look. How did the most unhappy division out there? Why is it the most unhappy? Because the girl's a big, you know, I don't know. It, it, look, it's a South, it's like, it's almost like a, um, look at how you're just, you have a certain cuisine that you just can't get any place out. So you gotta go to that. Regional regional regional. Regional regional. We're not. That's why you, you spit out Brazil right away. You can't have like this, US people just don't have the genetics for that division. You know, it's a, it's, I understand it brings business into the, uh, into the NPC and the IPB and that's good for our business, you know. So the more people who participate, I guess the better off it is, I just think sometimes these divisions get, I, I was making a joke and I said, you know, they should, they can have that for women. Why don't they have the bare division for men? For guys like who want to just be hairy. Now, hairy guys, they have beards and like like guys, you know, let their chest hair grow back hair. They still get ripped and have a lot of muscle, but it's at the bare division, you know, like again, why not, right? IMean, we can make a division of guys like that who just want to be hairy on stage. They don't want to shave down, you know, they want to have like a tough, rough look, you know. And I know there's a whole population of gay guys out there who like bare men, you know, that like they have a lot of like hair on it. Why not? You can make a division. Well, we people enter it. I guess it would be someone else has to start the division of be successful with it first. So, just a beard division. Guys with the biggest crazies beards with crazy physis, you know? Yeah, Mike, go off. I know. Nice to meet you. We'll be right up there. You have Seth Feroshi, right? Well, this is also sport one of those crazy deers. Jason, how had a great beard like that also. It's great. But I think I think in wellness, you'll see someone like you'll see, Chris, what do you see this wellness girl? I know, I say, wow, that she looks crazy. Right. You're going to get one girl like that, you know, unless you get a whole of your gender. I think there's no yet. So, IMean, that's fine. I don't have a problem with that, you know? Maybe. And then, you know, cultural thing down there. They just they just they, that's what's like a track of the men find a track, the big, big, booty, big legs. And so these women, they tren like maniacs, the legs and get huge legs. It's at a proportion to their upper body, but that's the division. You don't have to have a portion upper and lower. The lower body should actually be bigger. I think, according to the criteria. Is this going to be an Olympia event this year? Yeah, there's an Olympia. Wow. The price money is going to be. Maybe. Probably more. Probably more. More than you get. We, yeah, I don't know. Who knows? You know, we sound like I sound like an old man in the city, but you know what? The truth is that, you know, there should be some, I don't know, like some, surety preserved in the sport, like, like you can't have a division for everyone. But with every other. Every other. Every physique, you know, category. Like kindergarten one, they say, you know, thinking about 10,000 wars at the end of the kindergarten here. Right. You know, whereas, you know, 40 years ago, maybe they gave up. You know, best fellow smartest enough. And they made everyone else feel bad. Now they have like the guy who's best at Lincoln Lodge and the kid who who can put the best legos together. And then they have just attendance in January. Exactly. I had one of my friends. I don't think he ever missed a day of school. He had a perfect attendance his whole school career. What a street that is. Imagine you get sick one day. You're like, toward the end of your thing. And you're like, I got to go to school. I got to least check in. Oh, I. That was one. That was one record I was looking to break. I thought maybe Jake can bring back, you know, with Hanson was talking about when they used to have the body part of wars. Those were good. Right. Maybe it'd be a little bit. They can have the best body part of wars. And you know, people on Instagram would say, oh, my gosh, Holy should be Mr. Lippy. He won best calves who have best tries. I think he might have done well. How can he possibly not be Mr. Lippy? He want to be as little as little as a little bit more to it. No, that was good. I liked it. But I think best pose rewards are good to give out because it really kind of really pushes guys to be, you know, better on stage and there routines. If you go back to the, I do something like Johnny. So if you go back to the Olympia, when it was in Los Angeles, watch the video of the night show, the routines were insane. Like people worked hours and hours and hours on their routine. Yeah. IMean, they were proud of you. Phil Hill had a crazy, I just watched it the other day. If someone had sent it to me, what's it? Hanson, maybe he had sent it to me. A snippet of it. Sean Ray's routine was probably the best he's ever done. Didn't he make up to, I don't think he made up ten. Oh, really? I think it was like 23 or something. But you know, that's, that's, you know, it's a lost art. I've been sending everyone now. You nailed it right there, Dave. It's a lost art. Since I think that, you know, the Anthony video came out, interview came out this past week, the two parts. I don't know if you saw the whole thing. He talks a lot about posing in there. And you know, I'm sending guys down to Chris Quarmear and Melvin to do, to do posing, you know, for routines and stuff like that. I send a lot of my amateur people to Kenny Wallach, just because, you know, he's patient with them. But for the bodybuilders, they need to like work on presentation and who need to really work on their routine. You know, I'm sending a couple of guys that were just in Melvin and to Chris and they were working with them. And they wanted to job because I think the presentation is aspect is just terrible. IMean, what's the point? Well, I think, what would you say? I think figure is the most entertaining. It used to be men's bodybuilding was most entertaining. IMean, there wasn't all these other divisions, but it was entertaining in and of itself. And that is like gone. Who had like, who has crazy, Olympia routines now? Two or three people are very good routines. Yeah. Yeah. Well, Melvin talks about when he, I think we mentioned this before. But when I feel it was one article classic where they gave it best pose or they always give best pose. But it was him, Darym, Charles and Kai all competing for the best pose or award. And Melvin went last. I think Darym went on first and did his usual real great routine. He always does. You know, Kai came on and did his routine. Kai's so weird the way he does his routine. He kind of came out slow on music. Then he went into crazy whatever he was doing Michael Jackson type stuff. And then he kind of ended slow, which is not some of your really melvin. So that's something the biggest mistake you can make you never end slow. You always end up a hind-out. And then Melvin and Dax was breaking Melvin's balls because Melvin was watching on the monitor. And Dax was like, I don't know, you're going to be able to take him. You're going to be able to take him. Like I got Melvin knew he had it. Because Melvin went on just like whacked and crazy routine and one best pose. And that's a huge accolade. Say I beat those two guys. That's positive. On one night, you know, we always try to say who's the best pose or both time. He beat Darym and he beat Kai on the same night as in the same show. IMean, that's what IMean. IMean, that wasn't someone's opinion. And he got the thousand bucks for it. Yes. So who's better than Melvin? You know, Melvin's the most entertaining. I think of all time, you know, and he just by beating those two guys on that night, you got to give it to him. Yeah. He won't be discussed about Melvin. Yeah. Never came close to reaching. IMean, his music people don't come. Yeah. Yeah. He could have been made way better. Yeah. How old does he know? I don't know. I guess he's, I think he's in his late 40s. He must be, he's kind of because to me. IMean, he's, I don't know if he's 50, but he's, he's properly laid 40s. Probably like around J. Z. Yeah. He, he, he's a, he's a super entertaining. He's so fine. I got, I'm trying to get him. I want to get him on a, I am rage because, right now, I rage on, I am a debate because he's got so many strong opinions on the page. Yeah. He's just, he's a brilliant, interesting guy. You know, you can debate him with free priests. I don't know. He could debate anyone. That's the great thing. I would, he's another guy like the extra. You don't, you don't want to get into a debate with him. And IMean, you, you'll never win with, with Melvin. He's, he'll, first of all, he'll make you laugh so high, but you, you, you don't want to even take your opinion serious, you know, but yeah, he's right about everything, you know, because he'll convince you he's right about that. And that's what's a good, that's what makes you debate him. That's why he dexterously, so funny. Like, even if dexterously is wrong about something, he is. You can't argue with the guy, you know, he'll come up with sort of logic that, that will, that will make you think that you don't know what you're talking about, you know. Yeah, throw you off your game. Right. And the interview to this past week, Sarah Piana, which is Rich Piana's ex-wife. She wanted, she has never done an interview or talked about Rich since Rich passed. And so we got a, a good two-parter of people who checked that out. You know, I'm talking about that interview. She contacted me. She wanted to, she wanted to do it. So, you can figure out if you can contact my official. She told the story, you know, when it was like to be with Rich Piana, you got to watch the, watch the interview, I think it was very entertaining. You know, a lot of people vilified her is like the bad guy. And I think they just don't really know what the true story was. So, you know, I'm not talking about, because of the death I'm talking about, just the relationship in general, because they broke up well before, you know, Rich passed away. But, you know, it was great, you know, Rich is like being married to like a rock star, you know. It was a crazy, like the whirlwind, you know, Tor, he was at the show every weekend, you know. She was there filming with him and, you know, all the craziness that goes on at Rich is booth and, you know, it was a wild, wild, you know, bright. So, just be, and she was from, you know, another country and she, you know, it was just, you know, it is what it is, you know. She tells the whole story, the real truth, at least, heart truth, you know. What the real truth is, I guess no one will ever know. But, I believe that she came off as very authentic to me. So, and that's it. We got a lot of good stuff up on the site this past week, so you missed all the stuff, you can go watch the replays of it, obviously we got,

=== FILE: PALUMBO'S NEW YORK PRO RECAP! Iain Valliere WINS + Most Overlooked？ [hQPqZRrAB1Q].txt ===

Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. The New York Pro, which took place in Tampa, Florida, is now in the history books. And Ian Valier has the new champion, not only did he win the men's open, he will be now qualified to compete at the Mr. Olympia contest, come December, congratulations to Ian, Ian had a little bit of trouble against Hunter LeBraut, a few weeks ago at the actual Tampa, probably was in Tampa. I know it's confusing nowadays and these COVID times, but he looked a little off, he wasn't picked out properly by his own admission on the TV show where I interviewed him, he said that he had some problems in terms of anxiety and things didn't go right for that show. It seemed like he rectified some of them here, maybe not all of them. If we look at Ian here, we see a huge, structured bodybuilder with all the tools set to compete very successfully in that top five of the Mr. Olympia competition. He's got a lot of muscle, he's got a lot of conditioning. It seemed like it was a little flat here. He didn't, once again, his tan was better here, wasn't the best at candy. He still needs to work on that. I think that Ian did look happy to be here. I haven't seen a smile on his face in the last two shows. I don't see any reason why. If you're winning the show, you should be gleaming from the side of your mouth because that's the greatest. We work so hard for this thing. Then when it comes to fruition, it's none of us. You can enjoy the fruits of our labor. Obviously, winning a controversial show in the sense that there was a lot of maneuvering from pre-judging the finals. If you take a look at the pre-judging callouts, it was a seven-man callout. The judges didn't seem like they knew what they wanted to do with that callout. I think that that was a little disturbing the fans in the sense. The fans want to see defendiveness. They want to see, like, hey, this is what's going on. The judges have it down. The truth is that sometimes, when everyone's not 100%, it's very difficult for the judges to decide who's going to go where. After pre-judging a lot of the people watching the livestream, which doesn't mean anything, obviously, you've got to be there a person who's saying Justin Rodriguez look great. I heard Hassan Masafa look great. John Del Arroz, it looked great. It seemed like after pre-judging the judges were favoring Ian Valier and John Del Arroz, that they were in the middle of the last callout. That's something that usually indicates that these guys are going to be one-two. The problem was that there was a lot of guys and a lot of people in the industry experts, I call them, myself included, who watched the livestream and felt that who's on Masafa got, was getting overlooked here. Here's a guy who was an even in the top four last callout. Here's a guy who looked like he could have won the show. Turns out he moved up into play things. When it was all set and done, and why I'm replacing fourth, but could he have been higher possibly? Let's take a look and break down this line up a little bit because it was controversial. The reason is because not everyone was 100%. We like to say, I like to say, conditioning when shows. Sometimes it doesn't. If people are not all perfect, and I think that's important to understand. Let's look at second place, Finisher, Justin Rodriguez, who reminds me of Victor Martinez when he was just starting out. He even hits his front double bicep with that little twist to the waist, and Victor does. I believe he's Dominican as well. You get this whole Victor Martinez flow look. You know what the Finisher's legs were never his strongest body part, he had good legs, but they were not great legs. Justin's same thing. He didn't have bad legs. He just doesn't have the level of, I guess you can say, leg mass that he has in that upper body. He is arguably the most conditioned guy in the show. If we go by the, I guess by the moniker or the theory that conditioning when shows, assuming you have all the other tools to go with it, Justin should have been the champion. Is he in Valier bigger? Does he have more muscle? Yes, but he was flat and he wasn't as crisp as Justin. I think what hurt Justin was he didn't get a fair look at pretty judging. Even though he came back and on the scorecards, he placed very high and he could potentially won this thing. I think he was too far behind point-wise after pretty judging. So, he was a victim of maybe just being overlooked, is really what it amounts to. I'm glad that they judged the finals because when they came back, usually we go right to routines, you know, and what they did first is they re-judged the, it was almost the second prejudging. And that was good because you know, it kind of changed around a lot of placings. And I think it got a few things that were not right, right. And that's, look at the end of the day, you know, you want to have the right placings with the right guy. So, but, you know, it is what it is, you know, and sometimes people do get overlooked from that happens. John Del Rosen, a lot of people thought, could have won this thing after pretty judging, especially the way the judges had lined them up on stage. I think John probably went back to his hotel room saying, I won this thing as well, for a lot of people were tellinGHim that. And John looked good. IMean, John is one of these body-ups, and I said this on my preview, you know, he has no gaps in this physique. And because he has no gaps in his physique, he, everything flows real nice. And you really can't say, hey, that's a bad body part, that's a great body part because it just flows. And that's what body goes about, it's about harmony and symmetry of the body parts. I think his condition is really good here, too. I think he's a little flat, and he's losing some of the pop to his physique, especially from behind. So there's no body fat on him. IMean, I can tell that because I can see his face, and I know John's got around face. The other reason when he's in shape is face-litch chisel, and he's got that chisel look. So I think he did his homework here. I think he came in a little flat, maybe he needed to eat a little bit more or stay a little more hydrated. I don't know. But he could have easily, in one this show, had he been a little, a little four, maybe. And that's unfortunate. You hate to say that, because it's an athlete's only here, but that's the case. I think his placinGHere was probably about right, maybe. And I probably could have swapped him out, maybe with Hassan Masad Loth, had to be honest with you. Because Hassan has got some freaky body parts to talk about him now. IMean, here's a guy who last year made an impression on a lot of people, and people saying, hey, this guy is going to be very, very dangerous moving forward. And you know what, he proved this all right, here he is. IMean, the guy's got the best quads in body bully. IMean, there's no, you think Rammy's got quads. Rammy's got big quads, but he doesn't have the separation in his quads that Hassan was stopped. I was got the feathering in the vastest muscles, the separation in the sartorious muscle. He's got huge arms, he's got a great back. IMean, he really is not missing anything, you know. He's could have been a little tighter. Yes. And I think that is why he didn't win this show. Had Hassan Masad Loth had been 100% conditioning wise and dry, no one would have beat him. I think that this guy's going to be very dangerous to the Olympian. If he makes it there, I know his guy's, believe his competing next week in California at the Calprough. If he can qualify for the Olympian win that, I think this guy is super dangerous at the Olympian level because he's got Olympian level, muskil, muskil, muskilature. He's just got to bring that dry, dry heart conditioning where you're going to see crazy separation in his muscles. When you see the deceptive thing, as you see his quads flexed down, he's got the cross-traded quads, he probably has those new rough season. That's just separation, it's naturally the muscle. We want to see grainy conditioning, you know, for mine. He's right there, he's a couple pounds off. I think this is a great showing for him. I think that, I think his place was kind of, I probably could have flipped a lot to maybe with John. But John's got a nice physique as well, but I think that they were pretty evenly matched conditioning wise these guys. I probably would have liked to see him have some one-place higher in this lineup. But I think that he's going to be a dangerous guy moving forward. He might be the most dangerous guy to enter that realm of what I call the elite pro, where when we get to the Olympian level, watch out for this guy, you know, he's going to do some serious damage. And that's not many guys like that. You don't have, there's not everyone out there who can pull that off, but he certainly can't. Let's talk about Max Charles, who brought, I know he's working with me, let's now, brought a really good look to this stage. Probably the tightest we've seen him in a long time. Legs, to me, didn't look too bad. Usually they look small, they weren't, they were full. And I'm sure Milos' protocols probably have a lot. But Max was in shape too, and I think that's the main thinGHere. Once again, could Max have been a place higher or so, maybe. But I think Top 5 was the right call. It was a tough line, up, it was a deep line, up. There was a lot of good guys in the lineup. And I know Max probably wanted to be high, and I know Milos wanted to be higher. And I'm sure I'll get Milos in the show. We'll talk about that, but I think this is a good show from Max. I think that if he keeps hitting a couple of shows, I think we'll see him on Olympia stage. It's weird times, because there's very few shows. What's happening is we're seeing deeper lineups at the shows that we're getting. Because when there was a lot morEQualifiers, it was spread out more. It was a little easier for the win shows. Now you're going to have a much morecompetitive type of situation. Maybe Max should go to, I don't know if you can fly to Europe. I don't know what thEQuarantine situation. Maybe she should go there and compete at that Alokante Spancia, but it's a top 3. Going to the Olympia. It's a buzzword, but I think Max should be commendative for a lot of hard work and Milos good job with Max. You're definitely brought a different look than we've seen from Max in quite a while. I think he's got to be pretty happy about that. Patrick Moore. He's finishing next in the sixth position. Here's a guy we were saying was the next coming of Ronnie Coleman. At the Arnold he proved that he could get in shape for sure, but he was a little on the smaller side. I think he suffered here as well. It's finishing was, you couldn't say anything better. It's finishing was spectacular. Sanning alone, he looks like he's the winner. When you put him next to guys, you see that he still needs to add more size. As it a mistake to compete again and rather than wait till the fall, you're probably. I would have liked to seem Patrick continue to grow all year round and then die down maybe for the Arnold Classic in 2021 or maybe even the near-prome in the spring of 2021. I think it was a mistake to die down again and lose part of the year. But look, he knows what he's doing, him and Chris Estito. This is a good look. We're going to see him in California next week and then he's going to shut it down. So we'll see where that takes him. Who knows, maybe he'll come out with a victory and he'll be who'll wind up on a low-end stage. You never know. Antoine Valliant coming back from a torn bicep injury in 2019. I think this is a good comeback for him. I think what happens is people are very deceived. They see these insane pictures he puts on his Instagram. I think in the offseason he has a lot of fullness and hydration to his muscle and roundness. I think he's too over-depleted here. This is just my opinion. I haven't talked to him at all or anything like that. I think that he needs to fill up more. He needs to be better hydrated. He's probably to eat a little junk food because his condition is really good. He's just lost some of his wow. He's got a lot of wow. If you look at his pictures, then he posts in the weeks leading up to the show. I was super impressed but I saw him there. When I saw him here, I felt like he was definitely over-depleted. Antoine have a few McDonald's. She's Burgess on me. I think that's going to solve you problem. Don't stop drinking. Before I wrap this up, this is going to be a quick update. I want to talk about Phil Klohaar. He's a guy I worked with. I was very impressed with what we brought to Tampa a couple weeks ago. He placed fourth there in the open and that showed that Hunter LeBrona won. And in Valier was second. Phil brought in a much forward and hard to look here. He was bigger. I thought he was better. I was shocked that he was not in that first call out. I know he was very upset about it but I explained him what this is the way body-building works. He's still not a known guy. He's going to be known now because this was a great look that he brought to the stage. He worked so hard for this. He looked great and I think that the next show, which I believe we're going to be doing a Chicago which takes place in Atlanta, is going to be a big show for Phil. I think this was a tough lineup. I think that you might have gotten a little overlook like I said but in Chicago which is in Atlanta, I think we're going to see a Phil Klohaar really coming to his own. So keep up your chin, champ and we'll see you back on stage and we're going to get him on our next muscle probably this coming week for a little interview too. Just to kind of get people up there on what's going on in his life and his body-building journey, which is a little incondetial because he got started a much later age and I think that people are going to really enjoy that story. That's the pretty much the New York pro update. Once again, congratulations to Ian Valier for winning the show. While fine for the Olympia, great lineup. I'm glad all these guys were able to make it out for the show here and I like to say in New York in Tampa but for the New York pro. It's still the same title. Ian's got that beautiful ring to show it for his efforts and we'll see him on Olympia stage. I hope he can get his act together and I hope he can focus his mind a little bit more and enjoy the process because that's what it's after all guys. At the end of the day, you got to enjoy the journey. And day polembo with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: PALUMBO： PHIL HAS ＂YEARS＂ LEFT IN HIS PRIME! [v7J1j9ugvU4].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro. There's 30-year-in-a-row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Tuesday's September 1st, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. When I was growing up, I can remember my grandmother telling me that they don't make things like they used to. And I didn't understand what that meant until I started to get just a little bit older. But now that I'm here and I see how true it is in some instances, especially for someone like Dexter Jackson. Yesterday there was a clip posted of Dexter from one of his latest chess workouts. And if it wasn't for all that salt and pepper in his beard, you would have sworn that the video was from at least 10 years ago. The fact that he looks just as good today as he did then is a testament to how special the athlete he is. And I think it's pretty safe back to say that it could be a while before we see another athlete built for the lonGHaul like Dexter. There's going to see a fully healed fill-heath and we already know what I'm capable of if I'm healthy. And in case you were wondering that quote came right from fill-heath himself during a sit-down interview with Dan Solomon with a seven-time Olympia champ walked in sound that like the guy we saw dominate bodybuilding for the better part of a decade. At 40 years old, Phil is still relatively young in terms of his bodybuilding career, which means that he could legitimately have another handful of peak years left in the tank. So if we take fill at his word and assume that he's good to go, I think we should all be ready to see some Christmas fireworks at Planet Hollywood. Believe it or not, we're actually only a couple of weeks away from the New York pro. And rumor has that match trials is coming in hot this year and talking to people close to Max's team last weekend, they believe that he's on track to beat the look that he had at the Arnold. And that when he's planning to bring in here, we'll make a mysterious contender for the win. By and large, when we get the full bore, full locked in version of Max, he could be an absolute nightmare to deal with. So that is the Max that we're about to see in New York. Watchy and Tampa, he could easily walk away with the win. The fourth and great, Jocco-Willing discipline equals freedom. And that's especially true for something like bodybuilding that can require discipline over decades before you ever reach the top of the mountain, just ask Sergio Leaver Jr. Over the last two years, we started to see Sergio come into his own and the freedom that comes with that level of success is really just a by-product of his discipline. Someone like Sergio is exactly what the Jocco quote is all about, that I'm having the willingness and discipline to make the short-term sacrifices so you can reap the long-term rewards. That's the thing that separates the good from the great and it has to be your guiding principle if you want to live a life that is truly fulfilling. And that does it the end in another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: PDDevers [8h4fhpGDPNo].txt ===

You're the one who does you belong to To keep you safe now This winter I can feel it Let's take your word Girl, let's take it out This winter I can't walk Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh This winter I can't walk Oh Oh

=== FILE: PERSIAN WOLF IN VEGAS？ Muscle in the Morning (7⧸23⧸18) [ohU-F0wAta8].txt ===

Wake up everyone, it's Monday here at Muscle in the Morning and on day polo I'm going today is July 23rd 2018 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I read this book of coyote America that talked about coyotes being one of the fastest growing and most adaptable species in North America. But if I were walking around the strip in Vegas, it's not the coyotes I'd be worried about. It's the thought of running into a Persian wolf that really scares me. After his huge win last weekend at the Portugal Pro, once again, hotly chupin is managed to make himself the number one topic of conversation in the 212 division. Anyone who saw the photos can attest to the fact that this guy might have some of the craziest muscle density we've ever seen on it to 12 athletes. With the fact that his visa status still seems a giant question mark might end up keepinGHim off the Olympia stage for the 2nd straight year. Whether or not this guy ends up making it today, this is a complete mystery at this point. But I know if I were one planning flex Lewis's post show party, I think I'd be keeping my fingers crossed that they don't figure out how to get him here anytime soon. A few weeks ago, Oklahoma City Thunder GM, Sam Presty famously said, Scared Money don't make no money. And from way down here, Classic Physique standout, Steve Lorrius, sure doesn't look scared to me. Now that year one can officially be declared a success, the rookie standout is already hard at work sculpting the nest phase of his masterpiece after teaming up with Neil Hill, longtime trener of 6th time, 212 Olympia champ Flex Lewis. For Lorrius, I think the fact that he's passed the point now where there's any sort of pressure on him will end up being the best thing for him in the long run. Now that he can just figure out how to tren and prove and focus on learninGHow to get better in his craft. And give him how much more room this kid still has left to grow. I think in another year or two he'll really be ready to step up and tackle some of the more elite guys in the division. You know what? I'm going to be honest here and say that I actually hate most sports movies, but that doesn't mean that I don't love a great real life comeback story. And I'll go on record right now and say that there's no better comeback story in the industry this year than the return of Michael Anderson to the men's physique stage. After making one of the most awesome comebacks I've ever seen a few weeks ago at the Chicago Pro Anderson and his team decided to bring their talents east to the Pittsburgh Pro Masters Championships, which is set to go down in the steel city six weeks from now. To his credit Anderson looks like he's 90% of the guy he was a few years ago when he was tearing it up on the Olympia stage. And I know I will be the only one out there rooting for him in Pittsburgh, hoping that he can snag the victory and stand in the winter circle, bringing this whole thing full circle. You know that story about the three pigs and the big bad wolf? Well, I dare a wolf to show up and start huffing and puffing anywhere near Luke Sandow to see what happens because this guy is a fully certified monster. This week the UK powerhouse was spotted destroying another insane back workout as operation 2019 takeover starts to pick up some more steam. Even though he may not have had the impact he did in his rookie year year two for Sandow and his team brought a ton of improvements to the stage which is really all you want as an athlete. So as long as he keeps plugging away, I think this guy will have some real success somewhere down the line once everything finally falls into place. I think if somebody sat down and made a list of athletes who won their pro-card at the NPC USA over the last 15 years, you guys would be shocked at how many of today's stars came from that USA circuit. And a little less than two weeks from now, species nutrition athlete, Dominic Mutasio is hoping to become the next guy to come out of that PIPeline and add his name to the list. Back in 2016, it came down to a split decision between Mutasio and eventual well-to-weight winter Jason Perez right there on that same USA stage. So you know this time around that he wants to come back to settle a little bit of unfinished business from a conditioning standpoint, Mutasio is always one of the few guys I've seen who almost never misses the mark. So if he pulls it all together this time, I think it'll be awfully hard to stop him from finally putting an explanation point at the end of this final chapter. And that does if he had another edition of muscle in the morning. Undaableumbo reminding you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: PERSIAN WOLF ON THE HUNT! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸16⧸18) [5bBcPflOAv0].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Day of Columbus. Today is Thursday, August 16th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. To pull the legendary Jeff Goldloom in Jurassic Park, life always finds a way. From where I'm standing, it looks like classic physics standout, Panacea Pierre is storing the find his way now, he's a little more than a month out from his Olympia debut. This week we saw some new updates from Pierre and his team that showed the old vet looking like he's ready to show up and kick a little butt at the biggest bodybuilding show on the planet. In retrospect now, making the move over to classic gave this guy's career a huge shot of momentum. So hopefully he can keep riding that wave all the way to Vegas, so he can walk out of there with a top 10 placing to add to a fairytale ending to this magical season. I've had more than a few people come up to me lately and say that he think that the women's physical Olympia is going to be epic this year. And if things really start to get crazy up there, it wouldn't surprise me even a little bit if Michaela Icock somehow found a way to be up there right in the middle of the whole thing. True to form, Icock has spent most of her prep with her head down plugging away day in and day out. And now all of a sudden it feels like things are starting to really come together. The last few updates that we've seen from Team Icock have been right up there with the best of the best, which makes me think that she's right on target to come in and be a serious top 5 threat. At our best, Icock has a sort of compact, streamlined look that can give some of the top girls in the lineup some real problems. So as long as she can stay the course, she has a legitimate shot to be one of the real surprises to come out of the women's physique. Olympia. Now that we're already talking about women's physique, this feels like the perfect time to show some love to another one of the more underrated athletes, making their way to the Olympia stage a few weeks from now. A Russian sleeper cell who goes by the name Valentina Machina. Earlier this week, Team Machina released a few new trening clips that showed the second year pro looking as dangerous as I've ever seen her. To our credit, it looks like Machina's done a nice job of balancing out her look over the last few months, which is definitely going to pay some dividends when she's up therecompeting against some of the other thorough breads that will be up there on that stage. Every time I've seen her, Machina has been a straight A student as far as her conditioning is concerned. So she can just cross a few more teas and dot a few more eyes between now and September. You never know how things might shake out once the judging starts to get rolling. If anyone else remembers those old Pac-Man Machines where you ate that big dot, you turned into that super Pac-Man monster who killed everything in sight. Well, it's to me like Wendy Fartino must have gotten her hands in some bigger than life dots or something because she is flat out, killing it right now. The latest news coming out of Team Fartino is that the four time pro champ is locked loaded and ready to blast off down the final stretch of her prep. And you look at the level of decals she brings every time she steps on stage. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that she's got this thing worked out from Deer Nian every angle. And a 100% Wendy Fartino is absolutely good enough to be a top finisher this year with a few things and uppricinGHer way. Everything I've ever seen about wolves talks about how important the pack is for the health and safety of the individual. But if I look as mean as Heidi Schouppen, I think I'd probably go ahead and fly solo too. Late last week we saw a few new photos trickle out from Schouppen and his team that gave us a quick glimpse at how the Persian wolf is looking a few weeks after that monster win he had back at the Portugal pro. I don't know what kind of strings people need to pull to get this whole travel thing solve, but somebody needs to figure it out ASAP because this guy deserves to be up on that Olympia stage. And it's seriousness that there's one guy on the planet who could possibly make this a scary situation for Flex Lewis in his grand-to-12 Olympia finale. It's certainly Schouppen. And that does it. The yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On day below, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

=== FILE: PETE THE INTERN GETS TANNED BY LIQUID SUN RAYZ [nUkVGRdmu9A].txt ===

Alright, we have some special features for you here today at Bros. vs. Bros. 8 Squad to the Adrop. I am here with Liquid at Sunraise, one of our main sponsors here today, and I have a challenge I put to them. I said, are you guys willing to risk your products to show us how good you guys actually are? Because I send a lot of people to them, and I see a lot of bodybuilders up on the stage of fantastic tans that are there. I have a guy who works for RX muscle called PTIntern. Like the intern is so pale that I said, you can get PTIntern dark. You will sell your product to everybody builder out there because they'll know that no matter how light the eye they could possibly get dark. I got Brenna from Liquid Sunraise here who's going to be doing the honors. Now, do you guys have the capability to take technology to make PTIntern tan? Absolutely. Absolutely. We'll get him three or four shades darker in one application. If we can get PTIntern dark, he might have a chance, you know, we might send him at on the town tonight to get a date or something like that. I told him, I told him, we'll get him dark enough that he could get anybody he wants pretty much. Do you like Brenna rubbing you down? Is that a feel good? It would if nobody else was here. If we were alone. Now, Brenna, do people get it? Do you guys have to get aroused and you do this? Never happen to me. Thank God. What you know, it is because it's a very antiseptic environment. So I'm assuming that it's not like conducive to that. PTIntern has his posing chunks here. So we had to have some make shift to hains. I think I'm going to try to get hains as a sponsor of a future event. I'm excited. I'm really excited to see if PTIntern can get a tan here. PTIntern, why does they come? No tan. He never goes into the sun. The funny thing is he's Armenian in Italian. So he probably tans very well if he decided to, but he's lazy. So here we go. Liquid sun rays. Let's see what they can do. Here's the before. Bill, did you get some before pictures? And here we go. All right. Right up from Liquid Sun rays. And the tan on PTIntern here. It's going on very evenly. Much better than the old way we did it with the brush. We used to use a brush. It hated the brush. And the brush never was as good. This is like Jersey's Sharpie. You know, you get spray tan and then you've got to get hit the club down. Yeah, we got to go close shop. I'm sure we're going to finish this. That's right. That's right. We got to get you a big gold chain too. I'm going to let Brian take all the control of this thing. What does it feel like as this stuff goes on to me? It just feels like air. It's a little bit cold, but it just feels like it's cool in your off everything, right? Yeah, it actually feels a lot better than standing out there and he's kind of like air finishing from free. I look at that difference. You can see his lat right there. The line where she sprayed or where she didn't spray and wow. What a difference. Look at his legs are ready. They're already dark. The same thing going. Light application. I'm sure she's going to give another one after that. It's pretty impressive. I'm pretty impressed. He was a little upset because he wasn't in contact with shape, but he wasn't going to come on the two of us. He's still pretty lean. He's probably leaner than most guys. Brenna is very patient. I think he's enjoyinGHimself. Yeah. I think he's enjoyinGHimself. Pete D. Intern is being a very good sport. I think he's enjoyinGHimself. Yeah. I think he's enjoyinGHimself. Yeah. You can see the difference in the level of conditioning and physique with the tan versus not the pin. But so like that. He's a little bit. Look at this separation. You can see already. And he hardly has a coat on already. He looks like a different person already. He looks like a different person already. He looks like a different person already. He looks like a different person already. She knows what little mixing crannies he had to miss. And probably more worried. That's the exact time. I'm impressed. It's like watching an artist create a portrait. At first, it doesn't look like much. It looks like just splotches. And then all of a sudden, the picture starts coming at the frame. And you get an idea of what's going on and what the intent was of the artist. I'm starting to see Pete D. Intern taking shape here. It looks like his side of his body is not really that dark, though. I don't know. He just keeps getting darker and darker. He actually looks better than some of the competitors yesterday at the shop. Cool cups like this. Pete the Intern have a potential for men's physique. I'm no. What do you think he has to pay for it? Commercial modeling. One for the model. Pete's elite. IMean, Bill Copsick believes that he can be a model. Might have to get him into New York City to go on the conditions. I'm, I'm, I'm, is legs are like unbelievable. You have to what it was. Give us an app post, yeah. He was standing there. I got some great. I was trying to have pizza apps I really do. I never worked much sharper when he's in contact with Shane. Believe me, man. Would you use liquid sun rays when you have to compete next? Yeah, IMean, I tried to always stop before and it never came out with this color. And she only put less than one cup. Do you want to have a post? Yeah, that's not even two full-coast on him. Do you want to have more on your own? Yeah, yeah. Well, I am convinced I was convinced before. But now you guys have seen it for yourself. Pete the Intern went from white, pasty, white to can in one single application. You would normally do a lot more than that. If you guys want to check out liquid sun rays, what's the website? www.liquid sunrareswithazee.com. And you guys can go on there and sign up for your appointments at all the various shows. You can schedule all your appointments online. You can even pay for your service online. We have a retail line as well, where you can buy all the before and after products. I love it. Pete, we're going to get you some liquid sunrares free product because you have a such a great support. Are you happy? Very, yeah. I like it a lot, actually. Alright, Pete, I'm happy. Brandon's happy. Roseverse Pros 8 weekend is officially over. We're going out to eat someplace. I don't know where, but it's going to be a great one. We'll catch you at Roseverse Pros 9. Chicago Illinois, December of 2011.

=== FILE: PHIL HEATH RESPONDS TO SOCIAL MEDIA! [52cd8VdmLLw].txt ===

Daypalombo here with another RX muscle rant. Today's topic, Phil Heath. Phil's in the news. He's grabbed all the headlines as of late with that big announcement that he's entering the Mr. Olympia 2020 at the end of the year in December. He's going to try to make it eight wins, which would tie the record of Lee Haney and the Roddy Coleman. Phil took a lot of heat toward the end of his reign, I guess you could say, it's on last year. Specifically from social media, I think more so than anything. The YouTubers, the Instagram, you know, giants out there. Well, the people I've tremendous followings. And understandably, you know, Phil has been one of the only champions that really had to deal with this kind of scrutiny, you know, throughout his reign. The last seven years is really when social media got huge when YouTube blew up Instagram, you know, took off Facebook, really, you know, got a life of its own. So Phil's been dealing with this for seven years. And then obviously the last two years that he hasn't been really around competing, he's still dealing with obviously it. But you know, I would say, you know, the last couple years of that reign, he really was taking a lot of heat. And Phil likes to get in it. He doesn't just take it. He doesn't just, you know, sit quietly like a lot of these former champions. He's in the trenches fighting these guys and arguing with them or something that which is probably nothing great to say to you. But you know what, you know, in the world of social media, you have to participate. If you don't, you know, you kind of get left in the dust. So I guess from a marketing perspective, it was something that was good for Phil. But at the same time, you know, it wasn't good for Phil's psyche. And it also probably wasn't good the way he was judged on the Olympia stage because let's face it all. These judges watch social media as well. So Phil was doing a little Instagram live video with Dan Solomon and Dan who runs the Olympia now. He's in charge of all that production of it. And you know, he was, I guess, asking Phil, you know, how he got along with his fan to me, says I got a good relationship with my fans. And he kind of took like a little mini shot at like the Louis Marco, Nick's Stremp and Power sights as, you know, maybe like, you know, the term he kind of used was all the ads they put up. I think he meant all the advertising they get from the videos they use and about him, you know, because let's face it. When Phil was hot, they were reporting on him all the time. And specifically, Louis Marco started with the bubble gut thing and Nick's Power shot kind of followed up with the whole, you know, controversy about Phil's stomach. And describe if you would your connection with the fans. Because I know it's always been sort of a hot cold journey for you. And you're never afraid to connect with fans. You're not afraid to get into it with fans at times. It's something that you've always been kind of, you were your heart on your sleeve. So talk about that relationship with the fans. Because for you, I think it's a very unique one compared to other champions we've had. You know, I actually think I have a very good relationship with my fans. And I think what you're describing is from years past. Okay. And I also think it's because of the consistent narrative that vloggers have used to try to get more follow. They'll run, let's be honest, we had guys like Louis Marco run at after Ad after Ad. Ad after Ad after Ad. We had Nick Power guy, whatever the hell his name is, Ad after Ad after Ad. All to give themselves more love online. You know, I think Phil and I understand where he's coming from. It's got to work a little bit when he has guys that are social media guys. They're not like, they're not body builders who have competed professionally. They're not analysts. They're not media websites that cover the sport. Like, you know, like, our ex muscle muscle development, when flexed online was around. These were legitimate sites that, you know, kind of covered the sport like ESPN would or ABC or NBC because there is no coverage for bodybuilding. So, you know, he expects it to be judged and analyzed by the experts and these websites. But then he's got also the, you know, the regular average guys who just, you know, do it because they're fans of the sport. And they have huge, much bigger followings than a lot of times than the legitimate agencies do because let's face it. The average guy can relate to the average guy, you know, analyzing it. You know, the average guy will watch the, you know, the experts. But then they also want to know what their friends think about it. And that's, you know, Nick's strength and power, Louis Marco. That sounds like it's like the guy you can go and have a drink at the bar with, you know, reviewing these things and putting a lot of hard work into doing their research and everything like that. But after at the end of the day, you know, these are guys that are just, you know, making observations that may or may not be accurate and that may or may not sway public opinion because they have such a big following. So I think I think what was happening. I think I don't have to guess. I can kind of surmise it that Phil is irked by this. And he probably figures, you know, when I probably lost the last Olympia because these guys made such a big deal about my midsection that normally would have just been lost over in years past. IMean, Dorian had midsection issues for while Ronnie had midsection issues at the end of his reign. Even Jay had some midsection issues at certain points in his career. So, you know, when there was no one to point it out other than, you know, a couple, you know, guys who competed with these guys bitch and complaining at the press conference, it didn't really get much notice. But when you have guys, with with huge social media following, pointing out over and over and over again because let's face it. They do that because they get lots of hits from that and they get lots of views and they make money from that because they monetize these videos. And you know, it's fun because they know the fans love it. So, you know, why if I'm Phil Heath Mr. Olympian, I know I lost $400,000 Olympia and my Aph Olympia, you know, predominantly because of what's going on in social media because on to any other circumstances at any other point in time that probably never would have happened because Phil looked pretty damn good on that stage. So let's face it. You know, Rodeon was great, you know, and best he was. But you know, it could have gone either way. IMean, the judge, it was, it was a very close decision. You know, had, you know, people not been making a big deal about his midsection, he might have gone on on one that Olympia. I don't know, you know, we don't really know what could have happened or whatnot. So when someone like Nick at Nick's strength and power speculates like that, that Phil doesn't like him or that this and that or Phil's taking a shot and well, can he expect, and what do you expect, you know, IMean, this is a guy who lost the, and the Olympia, a lot of money and a legacy and essentially. So you know, you know, need you guys going after, you know, likewise, you guys have every right to go after. And that's your job. That's how you make your money. But I could understand where Phil's coming from at that point. You know, I reached out to Phil for an interview after I heard the announcement and Phil got back to me and said, you know, Dave, I'm not going to be doing a million interviews now because I'm really going to focus on the show and you know, when the show comes and we get closer, you know, we can do something. And that's, and I can respect that because you know, if the guy's got to focus, okay, he's got to focus on winning this show. People think always going to run in there and it's going to be an easy cake walk, nothing's an easy cake walk, not if the Olympia level Phil knows that everyone else knows that the judges know that Phil's going to be at his best if he wants to win this Olympia and establish himself as an eight time winner and possibly go on to nine wins. He's taking this seriously. That's why he took a year off. He took a year off to recharge. Now he's ready to go again. He's got to expect his going to get a lot of scrutiny, you know, going into this show obviously because these guys are looking for that because that's how they get hits. And it's not just Nick and, and, and we'll look at Mark is really not around him, but it's not just Nick and these other, there's a lot of sites out there. That's what they do. They get their traffic based off of finding weaknesses and bodybuilders that are out there and pointing them out. And that's, and that's once again, that's fine. That's entertainment. That's entertainment. Look at the celebrities out there in Hollywood. If I was a celebrity, I would, I, you know, I don't know if I could take it with the star and national and choir, and TMZ and everything you do is scrutinize. And if you, if you don't close the car, do our properly and you kids in the car, they point out everything. You're under a microscope and no one's perfect out there. Okay. That's what I was looking at as vulnerabilities and it, it's uncomfortable when you're so popular that every side out there, YouTube, Instagram are pointing out all the things that you know are your weaknesses. Because believe me, Phil knows what his weaknesses are and what his strengths are. He knows better than all of us because he has to look at himself in the mirror every day. When I would look in the mirror, I would look at all I would see was that was the things that didn't look good. I never saw the great things because I was always trying to fix the things that I felt needed work. So I understand Phil's relationship or non-relationship with some of these sites out there because he feels that they're not legitimate and why should they be pointing out these things and makinGHis job even harder than it already is trying to win in Olympia. I also see the social media side of it because look, this is how these guys are in their living. This is what they do. They're fans, Nick said it best on his site. He's like, I'm a fan. I'm a fan that points out things that other fans are seeing in their mind and that's why they can relate to me and that's why they subscribe to my channel and that's why his channel is doing well. And I understand that. They're not subscribing to his channel for his analysis of what's going on. They're subscribing because they want to know what a regular guy who is a bodybuilder who works out, who's a fan of the sport, thinks about the sport. It's a different perspective. This room for everyone. Everyone can find a niche for themselves in this marketplace. Some people complain about everything. Some people like to show the great motivational aspect of the sport. Some people like myself, I try to get to the bottom in the root of the truth of what's going on and reveal it. Everyone has their own little niche that they fall into. And Nick's niche is a very popularist niche. In other words, here's what people want to know. It might not be the most in-depth analysis, but it's what I'm thinking in my brain as a fan. And because of that, he has a lot of traffic and a lot of people who watch his stuff because that's what most people are thinking. I think differently. I'm like, all right, well, I'm like, what is causing this? What how do we fix this? How do we get to the bottom in the root of what really is going on? If I'm interviewing someone, what makes this person tick? That's what gets me excited about doing an interview or doing a video. Just like this video. Is this still really have this hate relationship with the press? No, he does not. I interviewed him. He was a great interview after he lost that alimpiate. It was very honest on his part. I think he's an honest guy. I think he's trying to do something that no one else has ever done before. It's a difficult task. It's a lot of stress and anxiety. That's probably why he stopped for a while. It was too much from the take. He needed a break. He's retards now. Luckily, his body is still in good shape. He has no injuries. He's still relatively young. And I think he's going to win that at the limpia. I think he can do it. But he's still got Brandon Curry who's the raining champ in the way. He's got flex Lewis who's coming up. He possibly has Sean Roden if he takes care of his case coming. So he's got a lot of work to do. And I understand why he's so mentally tough and focused. He couldn't be that any other way than that. Or he would never want to win seven Olympias. He wants to go to war against everyone. Whether you're on stage with them or not. And that's why he's a winner because he has that killer mentality inside that killer instinct that enables him to focus in on someone and go after them. You don't have to like what he says or not. But his body and his physique speak for itself. And it has for seven years. He's going to be a champion and several years before that and up until now. So really winning Olympia. We're going to have to wait and see what's the screw you're going to be. I'm sure all you guys out there who say, oh, okay. You're all going to report every little nuance of every little piece of gossip that comes out there because that's what you do. And that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. But expect that Phil's not going to sit back and take it lightly. He's going to come after you guys because that's what he does. He's a hunter. He's not going to let anyone else hunt him. And that's why he's so successful what he does. I'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle rant.

=== FILE: PHIL HEATH RIPPED! + Brett Wilkin Eyes 2022 + Lauralie Chapados RED HOT! [94eaVmtFfg4].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonvo and today is Tuesday, August 3rd, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and happy Tuesday, everyone. If you didn't catch yesterday's show, we did a few segments on the possibility of high green and big rampy, spraying off at the Olympia in a few months. So you should definitely check out that if you haven't already. But I want to put those two aside for now in concentrate on fill he for a minute. Because the photo he posted of himself last week is worth talking about right now. I had a doubt in carrying enough muscle to get to the right of his name into the Olympia mix at any point between now and October without missing a B. Now, just to be clear, I don't know if Phil is planning to compete or not. I'm not trying to start our groomer saying that he is. All I'm saying is that the former champ looks like he could be ready for action at a moment's notice. And if that moment happens to come sometime in late October, it looks like we'll have ourselves a good old fashioned showdown on our hands. We'll put the tap of pro coming up in a little less than a week now. There are a lot of eyes on a lot of athletes looking to make a statement at one of the biggest events of the season. So if you're in the market for a potential dark horse contended to make some waves in the figure division, you might want to take a hard look at cup of shini, La Conte. A few days ago, we got our hands on these exclusive behind the scenes, update photos from her coach and friend of the show, King Kamali, who tells us that she's never been more dialed in for a show at any point in her career. And that they believe she has a legitimate shot at earninGHer Olympia qualification. And when you think about how much talent we're projected to see on that stage next weekend, if she ends up bringinGHome the win, not only would secure hard thEQualification, it will give her a lot of momentum heading into the next half of the season, which could be a huge factor when it comes to figuring out who ends up sliding into the top 10 at the Olympia a few months from now. After the Chicago pro wrapped up a few weeks ago, one of the biggest storylines coming out of the men's division was Brett Wilkin, and how impressive he was in his open debut with his huge third-place finish heading into the show, Brett this team said the plan was to hit Chicago, regroup, and then hit Tampa this weekend with the goal being to earn an Olympia qualification at one of those two places. But at least for the moment, it looks like those plans have changed. Earlier this week, Brett announced that he was planning to shut it down for the rest of the season to give himself more time to go back to the lab and do what he needs to do, so he can come back in 2022, ready to pick back up where he left off. If you're a fan of Brett, it might be a little disappointing to know that he won't be seeing competing in the Tampa this weekend. But given what he was able to do in his last offseason, the thought of him being able to repeat that again and come back even better next year has to be exciting. And at the very least, it'll be fun to watch him trensform into whatever the next version of Brett 3.0 ends up being. And since we're already talking about some of the action we might see in Tampa this weekend, I want to take a second to highlight the fact that this looks like it'll be the biggest bikini lineup that we've seen in a long time in terms of the number of athletes that are scheduled to compete. But that being said, I still think the smart money might be in my lowerly shapatoes to keep her win streak alive, or really looked at her all-time best in Chicago two weeks ago. And it's hard not to think that she wouldn't be coming into the weekend with a ton of momentum considerinGHow dominant she was there, even with some of the other perennial Olympians were expecting to see on stage this weekend. I don't think any of them have enough gas in the tank to be able to keep up with her if she's firing when all cylinders. And if she can go back to back, I think it sets up a big time showdown between her and Ashley Callwasser when it's time to step back onto that Olympia stage. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: PHIL HEATH TALKS 2020 OLYMPIA PLACING! [GXiYmGLgnzY].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polon bow and today is Friday June 25th, 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. We talk a lot in this show about first impressions and how important they are to establish a good tone for an athlete season. And even though it's still early, at this point I think you can make the argument that no one did a better job of setting the tone for their season and wellness this year than Angela Borges. She started off by winning the Pittsburgh Pro despite no one really talking about her as a contender heading in. And then three weeks later she followed that up with a really strong second place effort at the New York Pro. Where some people thought she actually deserved to beat your rich Nihala. So when you take into account the fact that she's probably been the most impressive athlete in this division since day one, it isn't hard to see why there are so many people dubbinGHer as the favorite to win the Olympia. And being the first ever Olympia wellness champ would be one hell of a way to leave a first impression on the history books if that's how it turns out. A few weeks ago Ben Pakalsky interviewed Dorian Yates on his podcast and during the interview Ben quoted Flex Wheeler saying that Dorian was one of the only people he'd ever been around who had a physical presence that changed the energy of the room. And I'm not about to go as far as to say the Derek Lundsford and Dorian Yates have that same thing going on, but I'll tell you what. People are definitely noticing when he's in the room these days. Now that his Olympia preface in full swing, Derek really looks like he's operating on another level this year. Derek's always been someone who looked great while he was dieting. But this is different. He's bigger, his conditioning is better and he has separation in detail in places that he didn't have before. It's still way too early to tell if this will be the version of Derek that we've been waiting for, but the vibe that he's been getting off right now is different. And people are starting to take notice. Anyone who knows me knows that I'm not a big fan of Starbucks. I'm not about all the sugars and all the syrup so all the prices for that matter. But I will say this if there's something I appreciate about Starbucks, it's consistency. It doesn't matter where you go. If you show up and want to drink, no, he times out of ten, it tastes the same. Regardless of where you go and get it from, there's tremendous value in being consistent. Because that alone can make you the best at what you do. And as far as men's physique is concerned, it's hard to find anyone who's more consistent than Andre Ferguson. Right now, Andre seven weeks out from the Tampa Pro. And as always, he looks like he's right on the money. So matter where he is or where the show is, you know it's going to be the Andre that we've all expected to show up and deliver. And that level of consistency is what separates the good from the great in this business. So if he ends up as the last man standing in Tampa, his commitment to being consistent will be the biggest reason why. Finally, I want to close out the week with an interesting story that caught my attention yesterday. At last week's Dallas Europa Pro, Edin Betty Paris, so put together a meetfield Olympians and athlete seminar that featured a lot of different people from the industry, including seven time Mr. Olympia, champ Phil Heath. And during this time on the mic, Phil said that the reason he believes he lost the Olympia last year was because he missed his peak for the show. According to Phil, he'd never missed a peak for any show in his career. So the fact that he missed the mark and still managed to come in third with something that we should take into account. Now, just so we're clear, Phil's opinion is what it is. So what I think is really irrelevant, but I'm interested in what you guys think. Do you believe that Phil would have won if he didn't miss his peak last year? And if you do, do you think he should try and come back one more time to see if he can tie Lee Haney and Ronnie Coleman in the record books? Let me know in the comments below. And that does if you had another edition of Muscle in the Morning on days of Olympia reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: PHIL HEATH WILL COMPETE AT 2020 OLYMPIA! [r4GlyvHPIZ4].txt ===

Day Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. I'm sure most of you have heard by now, Phil Heath announced on his Instagram that he will indeed be coming back to the Mr. Olympia in 2020 in December to try to win number 8 that would tie him for the all-time most wins and men's division with Lee Haney and Ronnie Coleman of course. Keith obviously not doing the Olympia last year. I don't know if he regretted not doing it or not. Obviously he was working on his business and focusing on making money, which is always a good thing to do, especially when you're at the end of your career. A lot of people speculated that it was a missed opportunity for Phil last year because he could have won the show. Your mindset has to be right if you're going to compete. I've talked to a lot of former champions about this formula, Sarchev, to all the people we bring on the show of dentist James. You got to be right up here and I think Phil is right up here. I think the time is right. We're in the middle of a pandemic here. A lot of people can't even make the show. People can't tren. There's not as many peoplEQualify. This could be a missed opportunity for Phil. IMean this is going to probably be one of the weaker lineups only because of the there's less people in the lineup. Now obviously got flexed Lewis coming into the line if it could have been his very dangerous. I don't think we're going to see how to shoot and be able to make it over here. The international guys are going to have a tough, tough time. I had mentioned it previously on another one of our shows that I felt that a lot of these guys should just move over here temporarily, at least till the end of the year so they can be in the country already prior to the Olympia. But the bottom line is that Phil feels this is the time for him to strike now, to try to win number eight. Obviously if he won number eight, I think I'm sure we would see him back the phone. You had to try to break the record at number nine. The all-time Olympia record is held by Iris Kyle who with 10 wins but in the men's division obviously that number eight seems to be the stumbling block that known he had over eight wins alone is monumental. Phil seven wins alone is monumental but obviously trying to make history but also obviously trying to regain his former, I guess, grandeur as the king of the body building the vision now. Here's an interesting thing. He felt when he lost, okay, was like the most hated guy, right? IMean he was the Mr. Olympia but yet he was hated because people wanted to see him lose. That's what happens. When you first start out they love you and then as you start winning too many times people want you out of there because they get bored. That's the mentality of the society we live in now. We get bored if we see the same thing over and over again and Phil had a very confident air that he carried himself with people to sort his cocky and whatever the case may be, people love to vilify their champions after a while because they wanted to see someone else in there so to speak. When Sean Roden beat, Phil was like the greatest thing and all the fans were against Phil and obviously Phil was upset with the win with the loss and he went on and did some interviews about it and people seemed like people were with a lot of backlash from people. Now that the sport is suffering because of the pandemic and we Brandon Curry won last year but it wasn't like a convincing thing. It's like when in the sense that people felt like well it was all a year and it was an asterisk Sean Roden couldn't defend his title and this is taking nothing away from Brandon Curry because he's a great champion and a great individual but all of a sudden now people are almost like disillusioned with what's going on in the open class. Now Phil has come back as the savior and everyone is raisinGHim up like he is the greatest champion of all time. Just they should have been treatinGHim like all along and it's just so funny people love they hate to see their champions win over and over again but then they love a great combat. Maybe it was a good move socially for the sport. Let people miss him and say he brought a lot of excitement to the Olympia stage because of his physique and the polarity between him and the other competitors. It was boring last year. We need Phil back. So now they're the handlinGHim as the return of the king so to speak and that's good I guess for his public image it's like when George Forman made his comeback. Now people want to see him win. They want to see him regain that title. They want to see him win number eight. So in a sense it actually worked to fill the advantage to miss last year and to take himself out of the line like let people see hey you know what it's not so much fun without fill he there. So Phil's coming back obviously all the Olympia are you know I guess you could say promotional materials all have his face on it now everyone's posting it everywhere Phil obviously put you know time to you know for unfinished business now he's coming back he wants to win number eight and I guarantee he wants to win number nine as well and look he's going to make a lot of money doing it as well so that's it's a good move on his part you know from every standpoint of the way you see it assuminGHis health is good which it looks like it is and he took care of all his problems this is this is a win win for Phil he cannot lose here even if he doesn't win the the title he still wins okay because of all the excitement around his name and the sport and whatever he's promoting business wise people are going to be watching every movie makes now from now through the Olympia so very good move on Phil's part I really believe even though it brand of carries the rainy mr. Olympia I believe it's Phil's show to lose and let's see lost something along the way I don't know you know he's he's not a young guy anymore he's in his 40s but at the same time he's still from you know what we can see he's still he's still guided so to speak thEQuestion now is now that Phil throws his hat to the ring do we see someone like high green have motivation now to want to come back I know we we're always debating Kai Kai Kai and everyone's sick of the whole debate but now Kai always needs a motivation you know he's like like in acting you have to have some sort of something that's going to move you to be able to get into that character and play that character right Kai can't play his character the way he wants to embody building unless he has motivation Phil he feels his motivation is this is the guy who is the stumbling block to him winning and let's face it if Kai jumped in and won Olympia title without Phil there people would say well but he doesn't be so he so this would be great motivation now for for Kai to say you know I'm gonna come back because I want to win the Olympia number one and number two I want to beat Phil Heath because I never did it it's well he's done it before but he didn't do it on the Olympia stage when Phil was the rain champion so this would be a perfect opportunity so the show could turn into you know a blockbuster who knows what Phil Heath stepping back into that ring might help bring along with it will Sean Rodin's case decetal before that we might see Sean on that stage should what it what would it be a reed like a for rematch between Sean Rodin and Phil Heath the only guy the beat Phil in the last you know seven years so that would also be another great story so this Phil puttinGHimself back into the picture is great for body building it's exciting for the fans it also opens up the doors for other people to possibly come back into the ring and create a lot of excitement around it obviously we got the reigning mr. Olympia Brandon Curry we have Dexter Jackson who's always dangerous former mr. Olympia the winning is body multiple time in this lineup you know that that's cool you know that's cool big ranny hopefully will qualify be in the show it can turn into one of the best Olympias of all time so fingers crossed Phil good move on your part congratulations on the throwing you hat back into the ring and body going is the winner at the end of the day i'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle rant

=== FILE: PHIL HEATH'S BOLD STATEMENT & KEONE PEARSON 5 WEEKS OUT FROM 212 DEBUT! [zl_o5wfxl9Y].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Thursday September 10th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. According to a report from NASA, 2019 was actually the third hottest year ever recorded. So even though we've been lucky with the weather so far this year, people need to remember that Tion Pearson hasn't competed yet, and that alone could raise the global temperature by a few degrees. The anticipation of Kion's 212-day view has been building and building for months, and so far he's checked every single box along the way. So five weeks from now, when he is ready to touch down, the division better be ready, because this kid might be bringing more heat than anything you've seen all year long. Even though I do believe in psychics and clairvoyance, I also believe what my eyes tell me. When I look at Nathan the Asher, I don't need to channel any sort of supernatural force to figure out that he has big things in his future. On Tuesday, Nathan's team released a handful of videos from a shoulder workout that showed Nathan looking as strong as I've seen him since last year as postal and beer run. This version of Nathan, the one that completely dialed himself in, is not dealing with any major distractions this year, and that is one of the scariest things in body building, because when he's locked in like this, he's one of the few athletes who can actually beat anyone on any given night. So if they can figure out a way to get on stage between now and December, this could end up being one of the best performances of his career. It's hard to have a true consensus about anything in sports, especially one that's subjective like body building. But I think if you ask current athletes what the best Mr. Olympia look of all time was, that the majority of them would say 2300 Ronnie Coleman. So when Phil Heath is seven-time Olympia champ himself goes on record to say that he wants to shock the world in a way Ronnie did back in O3, that friends is what we call a bold statement. Look, I'm glad to see that Phil's confident, that's the way a former champion is supposed to think. But we're talking about O3 Ronnie here, which is a level that the greatest bodybuilder of all time could only hit. It's the unicorn of body building. Never seen before, probably won't ever be seen again, but Phil's one of the most talented athletes in history. So if anyone can get close, he's probably the man to get the job done. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: PHIL HEATH'S PROTEGE! LIVE WITH PATRICK MOORE. [j1CkL94jGg4].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. On Day Palombo and today we have a very exciting guest. He's an up and coming rising talent in the IFBB. He has his pro-ade use this year. We're going to talk to him a little bit about that and how he went. Man, I'm talking about his Patrick Moore. Yeah, I was on one day. I like the shirt and cream killer. Where did you get that? Man, from my man, Phil, he's man. You know, God, God quite a few of these shirts, man. So it's really cool to be with those guys and be able to have some cool clothes and trening. Yeah, your friends are Phil. He's got a very small group of friends that he deals with. He doesn't really know everyone that type of thing. He's very guarded. How did you become friendly with him and how is that? That's going to. I know he's a bit of a mentor to you. Yeah, so I did a show back in 2014 and I wanted to overall. I'm going to have to chance to chat with him a little bit then. That was my first time actually meetinGHim in person. So of course, you know, I started bodybuilding because of him, you know, the former basketball player, Marker. So when I actually saw him in 2011 and I decided that, you know, okay, bodybuilding is pretty cool. You know, it's something that I could do. And I kind of have my site said, okay, I want to be Mr. Olympian. So I saw him in person. I saw him backstage and I was like, all right. So that I want to be that guy. So I had a chance to talk with him a little bit. And of course, it was super busy. He was guestballing in the show. So time went on. You know, obviously I kept up with him and you know, follow his career and stuff. And just shortly before the USA is last year, you know, IMentioned him a couple of times with social media and I actually came in contact with him and met him formally again, you know, in a better setting, more private setting this year, in the field he classished and Dallas. So we had dinner. You know, with him, there's lovely fiance. And I'm had a chance to really send down with him and get to know him as a person. You know, advice versus. And since then, man, IMean, it's really kind of surreal to go back and forth with him. You know, I'm the kind of guy, you know, because that's the guy that I realized when I started. So, you know, recently, you know, you picked me up with give to that ladies with the clothing. So it's cool, man. IMean, he's an amazing person. IMean, you know, he does have a small circle. But IMean, that guy is, you know, I don't know, you know, many people had no a small personally, but, you know, you really couldn't have a better mental at the end. You know, a lot of people, I think, I think Phil's a miss understood guy because, you know, I've sat down with him and talked him for like a couple of hours. It like shows and stuff like that where we were just kind of like alone. And I had a very, you know, I was very great. I had great talks with him and I thought he was a really cool guy and down to earth. And then, you know, his persona and the public the way he comes off, people think he's arrogant and that he's cocky. But, you know, I think it's really just confidence. Would you say that you have a different, a different, I guess understanding of who Phil is as opposed to what his persona is in the in social media? Oh, yeah. IMean, he, usually, IMean, it's, it's vastly different as in, you know, for him, you remember when he turned, IMean, IMean, I turned, probably, first one on Olympia 2011, you know, everyone. And that I could think of was pro-field. He, you know, so it's crazy that over the time, the years, that of course, if he's winning, you know, he's going to have a target under his back. So, you know, he's seven times champion now, you know, I'm pretty sure I'll go on and win a few more. But, you know, at some point, you know, I guess when, have people have said enough and I guess when you bite back, you know, and you start to rebuttal or, you know, say things and people can take that as arrogance. But IMean, if you're the best in the world, you're the best in the world. IMean, I don't really see that you can, you know, try and get off as being arrogant. IMean, he's really speaking to truth that if he's the best he's the best. But, you know, on the flip side of that, you know, talking to him personally, you don't get that arrogant, demeanor for him at all. IMean, he's done tremendous things that you a lot of stuff that people don't even know that he doesn't even, you know, advertise. You know, so he, he does a lot for the community. Obviously, I'm, I'm just getting started and this guy has the, you know, put it, we actually sat down and had an hour and a half on conversation. You know, he could have been on about his day during whatever and, you know, I'm, I'm new here. We're going to take that amount of time out and talk to me and, you know, to tell me, you know, the type, what I should be working towards, you know, what I can kind of expect if I want to be at that top level. IMean, I don't think he's arrogant at all. IMean, he's a phenomenal athlete and he proves that time and time again on and off stage. You, as his friend, you like to say to him, like someone's when he gets crazy and he starts addressing the social media guys, do you like to say, hey, Phil, what are you doing? Leave these guys. Oh, cares about these idiots. Yeah, they're going to a couple of times, you know, I've caught his comments and, you know, I'll come in on there and I just applaud him because, you know, the trolls are out man and, you know, they go on there and they say all the different things that they want to say and, you know, he gets attacked, you know, just crazy. IMean, I see the comments that go at him and, you know, he's become an expert at just, you know, using that to fuel himself to be better. IMean, that's, you know, it's unfortunate that people are like that. But IMean, you know, he, he's a great athlete and he told me himself, you know, you just got to expect that. It's going to come with you. Now, you turn pro at the USA in the super heavyweight class last year at 232 pounds. You're about 10 pounds heavier this year for your pro debut. New York was a bit of a disappointment in 13 place. I actually don't, you should have been higher. Kristen Seedon, I talked about this on our TV show and in the analysis that we thought you should have been a little higher. You came back to the town and you were a place there, which a lot of people also thought you could have been a little higher. But you, you know, you, you know, I think you finally made an impression on the judges. Everyone knows who you are now. With this, would you consider this as successful rookie season for you? Oh, yeah, absolutely. You know, for me, I, I, I tend to not try to judge success, not only just my placing, but how I come into the show. And, you know, working with Kristen Seedon, IMean, the difference was, you know, was like for one in 10. IMean, my condition and was great, you know, I had, I was more fluent in California. So, you know, I definitely appeared harder there. But IMean, in both shrooms, I thought they were tremendous. I come to the show that I wanted to accomplish. IMean, it was really me kind of going in. I knew it was deep orders at the New York pro. IMean, I didn't not want to choose, you know, a, I guess you could say an easier show, not the New York pro show. It's easy. But I knew the talent that was going to the New York pro. And I wanted to go in and line up with those guys. Like, hey, I'm here now. So, and I'm only going to get better. So, would you, would you just support the New York? Because, you know, like I said, a lot of people thought you should have been higher. You can understand what was really good there. Was that when you walked away from the stage, would you like to jack that a little bit? Yeah, I was. IMean, because, you know, you go there and of course, you're hoping for a top spot, you know, a first call out. And when that didn't happen, then the second call out went by, I was like, okay, it's, it's come on now. Let me get out there. And when it finally got my chance and I went out there, I have to, you know, of course, this play a certain level of professionalism. So, I was going to let the disappointment show through one stage. But, you know, for me, it's not a familiar territory because, you know, I did them, my aminationals. That was my first attempt to turn the pro and actually play 16th of that show. Wow. So, what happened there? You know, I didn't know what bodybuilding in jail. You know, so what I had a little more experience. And I learned from the guys that have done it. And I actually applied myself, you know, a harder than I came back and I got first place. So, for me, that 13th place is just like, okay, cool, no biggie because, wait till I come back, you know. So, how long you even competing now? This is, I'm in my fifth year. I'm full of years. Yeah. So, I'm still pretty new. It's been, you know, this was my first prep. Actually, you know, the last prep of the USA is, you know, me really trying to, you know, give it 100% and, you know, because I didn't have Chris with me at the last prep for the USA. So, I really learned what it was to be a bodybuilding and actually prep hard, you know, for my pro debut. So, it's, you know, it's, I love it. IMean, I guess it's only been a short amount of time, but I plan to be here for a long time. What, what's your relationship, I know you were in a little brother, you know, sure. I know you and Hunter LeBrauto and LeBrauto son, our friends, how did that relationship come about? Is that because you're in the Houston area? Yeah. So, funny story with that, I actually saw Lee before I even, bodybuilding was even a thought because I was boxing then. And, uh, someone that told me that we're having a contest and, search for athletes, that was a good long, you know, probably 2007. Okay. So, I know who Lee was, you know, four before I started competing. And so what happened was, I was a dinner manager at LA Fitness down here in Houston. And Hunter will come in and tren from time to time. Of course, you know, I knew him we introduced, you know, we met. And he, he did his thing and I did my thing at several times. And in 2015, after that, things, I could say, we left the nationals on the do so well. Once, I, I stepped out stage, you know, Lee and Hunter were there. Of course, they were supporting us, Sergio. Right. And, Sergio turned pro. And so that's when I formally met Lee. And then coming back home, the Houston, you know, they extended his sponsorship. And I started trening with Hunter, you know, he was doinGHis first show at the time. And so we kind of, you know, just kind of became trening partners. You know, whenever we can connect, you know, from then. And Lee has just been awesome. IMean, he's there for whatever I need him, you know, anytime I can pick up the phone and call him. Ask him for some advice. And, you know, like I said, me, sponsored by his company. You know, I have access to some great self-imits and stuff like that. So it's, it's really like they had a part of a family with those guys. Yeah, that's great. That you had that relationship with them and that you're right in town with them. So it makes you kind of like the perfect, the perfect matchup. I talked to me a little bit about, you know, as a bodybuilder, we know it's very expensive to compete. I know you have a little bit of a sponsorship with those guys. But obviously you work, you're at raw gym right there. We can see it in the background a little silent and walk. What do you do there? And, and how have you parlaid body building into making yourself more money? So yeah, here I choose a personal trening. And I started that, you know, before I was really 100% going with the body building thing. So it's, yeah, it can be expensive, you know, with the food and the substance stuff like that. But, you know, I have managed to land a pretty good clientele. So where, you know, when I go and compete and if I can tear myself in good shape, you're around, which I do because of body building, IMake it pretty easy to mark it myself as an excellent personal trener. So I haven't had that big, you know, sponsorship, they'll come through yet where I can just eat, sleep, and try it, but you know, I'm sure it'll come, you know, at some point. Yeah, sometimes it's better that you're actually doing something because sometimes when you we don't do anything, you sometimes waste time. So it's kind of good that you're busy, keeps you, you know, focus. I think, especially earlier in the career. Yeah. Moving forward, looking forward into the future at this point. What's the next mark? I know right now you're trying to grow, put on more size, especially on the legs. What's the, you figured out a game plan for 2019? So I'll be going back and forth to Prince Heo shortly, but I definitely will be returned to that near your first stage because I'm not a guy that lets something like that go by so easily and, you know, not go back to finish what I started because that's kind of unfinished business. You know, for me, if I said a goal and I didn't have a problem to it, I will be back. So possibly maybe the indie pro where I showed earlier next year, but I will take this you know, time because that's the thing is, you know, with boxing, there was never any focus on, you know, we didn't focus when we strengthened. There wasn't any focus on growing the legs. IMean, you can't boxing by the other the same time. So when I started by the building, I had to let that go. And so the next one, the one thing that had to come up. So I can, you know, say with confidence that, you know, I do respond to the strength of trying to very well. So I have been able to improve, show the show and get more and more sides on my leg. So that's the focus as it was from, you know, the USA's to my pro debut and they improved a lot. And so they'll definitely improve a lot more with having Chris, you know, kind of guy me going, it's the next season. How far did you go in boxing, you mean, how good were you and why did you say, hey, you know what, I don't want to do this anymore? It's, you know, it's a long road. IMean, it's definitely one of those deals where you can be very good, which I was and you're going to only go as far as I guess your promotional team can kind of carry. Because it's kind of like, you know, it's, it's in that aspect, you know, kind of like what bodybuilding, if you come from, you know, maybe a well known last name or maybe a well known trening camp or something, you're going to get kind of that immediate attention. And then everyone want to pull you up in the ranks. And for boxing, IMean, there's so many guys in the amateur ranks that it takes a while to kind of climb up and, you know, you may have 20, 30, you know, pro fights before you even have halfway decent, you know, fading. Right. And IMean, it's very, you know, it's talking to somebody just like bodybuilding. But, you know, it's, it was an easy trensition in the bodybuilding because it is one of those sports where you are only going to get out of it, what you put into it, you know, nothing more than that. Did you like boxing? Oh, yeah, IMean, it's, you know, it's, it's, I love it because it was a chess match. You know, it's, it's not one of those things where you can just go in there. And I was the biggest, I was, you know, I was at the top of my way class, you know, in heavyweight, you know, I boxed at 202. So it was, I can never just, you can't just go in there, you know, crazy. You have to have a game plan. Right. And it was not only, you had to overcome the other guy physically, but mentally as well. So it was cool to get in there with guys that were trened as much as I was and, you know, you were just taught to go in there and take the other guy out and then get back to work. So I, I love it. IMean, if I could still do it now, would, but, you know, physically, that would be a stretch. No, I can't imagine what, what was your record? Oh, it was, um, man, I had out of 100, 100 fights, um, 10 losses. Oh, okay. Now, as far as boxing goes, did you have aspirations of going to the Olympics or doing anything like that? Or was it just like, I'm going to get into the pros and I'm just trying to make some money? Yeah, no, it was definitely something I don't want it to go to the Olympics, because, you know, guys that tend to go to the Olympics and do well to the course you're fighting with other countries, you know, coming out of that, um, that, that you're going to get some best of the best. So it's kind of like, if you go to the Olympics, it's kind of like going to a national body doing competition, it's like, you get to see some of the best guys and then you go to the next level. So I didn't want to just jump that, because once you have 10 fights, you know, in boxing, you can go to the front. IMean, and you can have those 10 fights anywhere. So it was definitely I wanted to go and, you know, be one of those guys that got on the history that earns a gold or silver medal or would have you and then go into the front right, you know, with that. Right. You know, it's, it's tough when you go to two sports after pick one of the other, but like you said, they're really not, you can't do both at the same time. It's impossible. So no, I have to believe the bodybuilding was more in your blood than maybe boxing. Yeah, it, it, it was the one thing after, um, you know, coming from the only boxing it was like, you know, you had to put everything in the bodybuilding and it was the, the eating was different. The trening was different. So I had to make a choice and I just love being in the gym. And IMean, from the time I was 17 years old, I just like to live weight. So I, you know, eventually I was just like, all right, I'm going to hang up the gloves and, you know, and I'm just going to go for what I feel like I can, you know, move up, you know, and, and that's what happened. IMoved up and bodybuilding faster than I was moving up, you know, in boxing. So it was an easy choice at the end of the day. I just kind of follow what I love. Yeah, smart. Now I understand also that you have been in a, and one of the few people that I know in the bodybuilding world who's had a relationship with their high school sweetheart, the whole life. Is that, is that, is that tough in the bodybuilding world? Have you know, the view or is it, is it easier because it gives you stability? Yeah, um, if you're mentally strong, it's, it's easier. I can't say it's, it's easy, but um, it's definitely tough. Um, I've been with our team going on 10 years and, um, you know, because it's, she has whatever I go through, she has to go through them. So if, you know, if I'm on prep, even though she doesn't have to eat the food or do whatever, you know, we're still limited in what we can do. There's there's no going out to restaurants and often there's not, you know, traveling is a little bit limited. So, um, and then of course, I drag around everywhere I go. So, if there's an ex-hole or so, you know, she's going and she's, most of the time she's willing to go and, and other times, you know, she's tired, and she's not afforded, and I just go do what I have to do and come back. But um, it can be taxing because when I'm frustrated on hungry, you know, sometimes the other person, she won't understand that. You know, and, and she can take that as me having a problem with her, right, or if there's anything with the relationship and that's just not the case. You just have to be open and communicate with the person that, hey, you know, this is just what I have to do for right now. This is some time that I need to commit to myself, you know, and ultimately it'll be better meant for us. So, if you can do that at other person is, you know, it helps when they have something going on, she's the therapist. So, you know, she did old school of being, and got her master than whatnot. So, um, whenever I get start acting crazy, then she's going to realize you're, and that's what you know, and that's what you know, and that's what you know, yeah. You know, it's funny, bodybuilding. When you're in the bodybuilding world, especially the pro bodybuilding world, you see more countries and more great places than you can ever have imagined in your life. But the only part of it you see is usually the hotel room in the airport and I have a board to it. Yep. That's it. I'd make the more countries. I can't even remember what I saw because most of it was nothing. It was just, it was a bodybuilding arena. But having said that, you know, like I said, I think bodybuilding does afford people a lot of different opportunities to go abroad to meet international people, and sometimes they connections that are, they're invaluable. But, you know, Patrick, I wanted to showcase you here today on the show because I think you're a great rising young talent. Chris Cito speaks very highly of you. Of course, and we thought you both him and I thought you both should place a little higher. You should place both at higher, both of those shows. So once again, he Congratulations on a successful rookie season and good luck in 2019. All right. Thank you so much. Dave, I appreciate it, man. All right. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with brought to you by species nutrition. Visit species nutrition.com. On Dave, we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: PJ Braun And Aaron Singerman Start Off The 2011 Olympia Right! [O6DvZiC-rrk].txt ===

All right, PJ. So we're here at the Wimpya. We have no shirts on. We're drinking vodka. We bought a file for $100. This is the last shot. It was a very small bottle. We'll show it after. Pour a pour of Jewish business, fine. I do feel a little bit sad that I spent $40 on a bottle that last two pretty sizes. That's a large amount. It's going to be disgusting PJ, but I think we can do it. We've got to start this week and off right. This is how we do Wednesday night in Vegas, right? Ready? Let's do it. You nervous? Oh, okay. Cheers. That was pretty good, right? Should we have a shower? Let's get a shower.

=== FILE: PJ Braun interviews Aaron Singerman after his debut in Mens Physique [NAXp-zEnobo].txt ===

PJ Braun here for rxmuscle.com. I am here at the Branch Warren Classic. IMade the trip all the way from Connecticut to Texas to see one man and one man only our own Aaron Drew Bacca, Stingerman, Aaron. You just got done doing your first ever men's physique competition or men's bikini as I like to call it. And we all thought you looked fantastic. You didn't place in the top five. Tell us how you feel. Honestly, I'm a little disappointed but I understand. You know, the guys that they picked were much smaller than me. You know, like you said in back there, they were looking at me like the, and then you look at like a huge super heavyweight backstage kind of like intimidated. And that's probably not the best thing, you know, to look for in men's physique. So I'm not that surprised. And I'm a little disappointed, but I'm also, you know, okay. Well, Aaron was probably, I would say 20 to 25 pounds larger than the next biggest competitor in the class. That being said, he did bring in a very impressive level of conditioning. He was probably better conditioned now in his men's physique competition than he wasn't his bodybuilding show last year, which brings me to an important question that I've been feeling all day. Since you are pretty much a monster, a mass monster in men's physique, do you tren harder and go back to bodybuilding or do you strip some size off to stay competitive in men's physique? I definitely don't go back to bodybuilding, obviously. And the main reason is because my legs, if I had bigger legs, then yeah, it'd be very tempted to go and do bodybuilding again. But what I'm going to do, I think, I don't know yet, but I think what I'll do is I'll hopefully wait and men's physique guys will continue to grow a little bit. And maybe next year, the physique division will move up a little bit as far as the size that they're looking for in competitors. And I'll try my hand again next year at the same either this show or maybe their honey, comb and maybe wherever, you know, maybe in national, hopefully, qualifies somewhere into a national level show. Steve Cook who won his bro card in Chicago, in Chicago, in Chicago, out of your nationals, he's a little short of the me and he was 210 on stage. So I guess if I paired it down a little bit, you know, maybe that would be, that's what they're looking for. I don't know. It was fun and that's the important thing. Well, we all know he was using the Iron Mag lab supplements. You're like a huge doing doing my, my, plugging form. Well, I was going to get inside. We've all watched his Cardio confessional. I'm assuming that you're going to want to talk about that a little bit. Anything else you want to talk about? Anybody that helped you? Any really like special people that it may be been in your life for like 16, 17 days now that you want to bring in to this. I'll bring Daria in in one second. Daria again's my girlfriend, but what I want to talk about first is Iron Mag Labs and Tadadi coach. Two people that were intrinsic in this, there were required in this trensformation. And Robert Demasio, who owns Iron Mag Labs, has sponsored my trensformation, has made me a national spokesperson for their company. And I've been very happy with the results. If people look at my trensformation from before, there's three main factors. Why I didn't do good in bodybuilding before and why I did well in men's physique or the trensformation at least has been impressive. One is the supplements that Iron Mag Labs provides, which are as you know, they're really good. They work. Two is Tadadi coach who's helped me with this whole thing. And three is eating whole foods. Don't try to eat out. If you're dieting, don't try to eat out a lot. You got to cook your food. Well, he did make a quite the trensition last year. IMean, he ate horribly last year. He was on a kick to try to prove that you could eat terrible food and look good. I was trying to be good, but I was low quality protein. That's for sure. No, it was pretty much terrible food. Lots of fast food. In this year, he prepared lots of his food himself. He ate real whole food choices. He ate very clen for probably 99% of his diet. Versus 25% I would say last year. It paid off in his physique. I think we should probably bring Darryl in before we keep on bragging us on. I would like to brinGHer in. She's got my glasses on. So Darryl, you are a bikini competitor. And you are now dating a men's physique competitor, very similar lifestyle. What was it like going through this like grueling process? It was like of like 12 days. It was a tough day. It was 12 days in my life. It was I couldn't have it. No, I know. It was it was really nice being able to be there for him. Because he was there for me. I'll turn my competitions in the short time that we've been together. So it was a nice return the favor and watch him go through the torture that I went through. Do you have any stories that we may want to know about? Maybe him like not like perhaps questioninGHis abilities and mental zeic like not gettinGHis poses down at night. Were you like you know pep talked him or anything like that? It was more of the once every five minute abshot of. Are they still there? Not surprised by that at all. I know a lot of questioning but I knew he would pull through and make first call out. That's good. I was very happy with that. There are 28 people in the class and the fact that I was in the top eight. Yeah, I was better than 20 of them. Hey, that's pretty good. Very good. Very good. First call out. That's a victory. Your first show you got a first call out. You beat half the guys. Yeah, you beat more than 70 percent. You beat a little credit. What was it? In all reality from from here down he blew everybody away. But the boss does not like very long interviews. So is there anything else that you want to say before we wrap this up? I just want to thank both of you especially you for coming to support me. And it's been an absolute pleasure. I just want to thank you for coming. And it's been a fun journey. And when we are in other, you know, I'm going to figure out the next step in this process and you'll be the first one to know. We're going to do bikini together. Yeah. Absolutely. If they bring next pair's back, I think that it's something for you guys to think about for the future. And all seriousness, I'm very proud of you. You died at hard. You trened hard. You impressed a lot of people by how you looked. Thank you. So for rxmuscle.com. They're in Sirgerman, Darryl Gaines, P.J. Ron, signing out.

=== FILE: POLICE OFFICER (EX-MARINE) WINS IFBB PRO CARD! Live With Nick Lopano [Bp0hpf3tKWg].txt ===

Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo. Today's guest is Good Friend of mine, Client and all around good guy and new IFVV Pro. Mind you, Nick Lopano. Welcome. Thank you. How are you? Nick, what you had a checklist. You told me of things you wanted to accomplish this year. Well, actually, in bodybuilding in general, and you did them all this past week. And the first one was to turn pro in the IFVV, which he did. We'll talk about that in a minute. Second was to get interviewed by me on our Ex muscle, which we're doing right now. And the third was to sign the wall at the month in area of brother's super gym up there and Connecticut, the IFVV Pro wall, and you're going to get to do that too, obviously. That's right. I knocked ouT3, three Michaels in one weekend. That's pretty awesome. It's a knock-on. Now, you know, it's funny because you have an interesting bodybuilding career, because you started back when I did in the 90s. And then you kind of just stopped. Tell us first, or tell us how you got into it in the 90s and where you competed. Well, I did one of the IPC shows back then. And back then, when we started, and I would time a bodybuilding, back then it was the old timers. Everyone's walking around with the baggy pants that people looked like they threw paint on it. Back then, the bodybuilders didn't want to be bothered. So I would go up to them and ask questions and then I go, do this, do this, leave me a little kid, and stuff like that. So I wind up getting the baggy as you eat, reading about it, and back then it was like flexed wheeler. It was like, Richie can spare, and all those guys, and I couldn't wait to watch it to the stands. And then, finally, I'm like, you know what, I could do this. I'm going to try it. So I did it. I didn't do well back then. But, you know, I enjoyed it. I always worked out, I always played sports. And then, you know, I went into the military, set the fight, I went into the military. You're captain in the Marines. That's pretty impressive. And then, yeah, and then everything winded up, just take it off, like life itself, and it tells you, like, that's how fast life goes. And next to, you know, I have a Korean law enforcement, a Korean military. I'm juggling this. I have a son. I got married. It was a lot of things. And next to, you know, it's like almost 20 years. But I'm like, wow. And then, classic physique came out a few years ago. And I was like, I liked that. IMean, that's the era that I was really brought up. Like that Richie's fairie, the Bob Paris, the Leath Brought it. That was like classic physique for me. Sure. And I wind up doing it. And I wind up joining the first show. I took first the masters. And I started windin' all these shows, coming in second place, and getting nationally qualified six times. And then I did the National's Leash here for the first time, I did the universe. And I've experienced fifth. Let me take a step back, because in 1992, the early 1990s, you did enter the military into the Marines. Did you go in there because you were a bad kid or like, what made you decide you want to go to the Marines? So, you know what? Like, um, I don't know, back then, in the high school, I was just, I went to a Catholic high school in the Bronx. It was all boys. And back then, my cousin, he joined the Marines, and I looked up to him. And I'm like, you know what? What am I going to do? I'll do it. Let me try it. And I just wind up doing it. That's just something I do. Whenever I put my mind to it, it's done. I get it done. No matter what. Now, when you, uh, in any kind of, did you say any action? Because that was around the time that we were bush was in the first bush was, uh, invading Iraq there, right? Yeah, I did, I did see anything. I caught that. I caught everything afterwards. But, um, then after that, it was, I did three deployments. I did three deployments. It's totally right. It won an Afghanistan. Wow. 2000 and two, 2000 and four, the end of 2005 until like 2006. Was that pretty scary? I don't know if there was. It was. It was. It was. And, um, you know, I'm just glad. I lost, I lost, you know, friends. I lost people that I loved. But, um, I'm just happy to be here, you know, and it's kind of funny because every show that I would do or if I'm in the gym and I'm like, try to push myself. I would always think back of like, to people who I lost and try to dedicate something to them to get me through it. It'd always happen. It always worked. Isn't it always amazing when you're really hungry and you're, and you're dieting and you see these guys like cheating on their diet and you're saying to yourself, like, I was out there in Afghanistan with no food, with nothing, you know, with crap, you know, living in the worst conditions, content's dieting is like a fucking piece of cake in France of that. All right. I'll pull it out these M.R.E.s, like it's nothing. It's like eating cardboard and then, you know, people complain it to me all of this diet prep, but I'm like, or it's hot, but this, I'm like, dude, I was in a 130, 140 degree weather, like, like, stuff on a rooftop in fullusion, not even shit and being paid down for like a week, you know, it's nothing, you know, what if, you know, I still rather take this weather, you know, over anything else. Right. Well, you know, it's funny because when you put it in perspective like that, it almost seems laughable, but you know, people complain about, oh, I got to eat, I can only eat six times a day and I have to do cardio, I guess what, some people don't have the luxury doing anything like that. So, yeah, it's that's put in perspective. Now, when you, when you got out of the military, you know, at least, you know, doing your tours of duty and you kind of went into the reserve, was the law enforcement trensition pretty seamless few, is that something you liked, wanted to do, or did we just so qualified to do, you know? Um, yeah, so it's funny how I became a cop. It was a good friend of mine. He was, he was, so I came out of active activity and I was still like working with, like, with dad and stuff, it's just trying to still figure stuff out. I was still in the reserve at the time and my friends like, hey, let's take the police test and I'm like, all right, why not? And that's another thing. So, I just find the doing it and then like 20 years later, I'm still doing it and I love what I do. I'm glad I took it. It was one of the best things they have have done. What was that like, one of the craziest, like, arrest you ever had? Um, just I was like in a plain clothes, they had the soap Bronx when I was with the NYPD. And it was just like strictly guns and, you know, work it by a gay, gay stadiums like one of the worst creases of the four, four priests and back then. And it was just, it was good. It was a lot of good guys I worked with, the whole the cops, the solid guys and I would just wish the times were like that again. But this is time's changing, you know, so you got to accept that and move on with it. So what would you do? You're doing the cover gunbies and something like that? Well, yeah, we just drive around and, you know, going to the, and to the areas that would be targeted for like burglaries and crime drugs. And then we would just basically, you know, look around and see who's around and get, you know, the individuals, because you're working in a, you're working in a precinct where, like, that precinct was like two square miles, but it was one of the busiest precincts in the five burrows. That's brilliant. So, you know, we, you're doing like 300, 400 radio runs a year. A couple of two square miles. So you kind of know like who the people off, who the players are and everything. So they're like, like, street, what flies before. So you know, you know, every character in the neighborhood pretty much, what's inside? No, yeah, like if I know if I see this guy and he got locked up five times already for gun possession, he's still out on the street. Yeah. That had a time. He, nine out of ten, he's going to have something off. Right. Right. So it was kind of easy. It was kind of easy. Is it scary being a cop in that type of environment, especially in the bronze there, or is it kind of like to become numb to it after well? You know what it is? I guess like we have a special calling for things. I never really got scared. I never had the time. You don't have time to get scared because your life is on the line as well. Right. IMean, we have one tenth of a second to make a decision to where it can either like take someone's life, take our life, ruin somebody's life. You know, you don't have time to think like that. It's just a quick jump and it's based off reaction. And based off of your trening. And I got trening a lot. You know, I did a lot of trening. So you know, that was reduced. Did your military treninGHelp you a lot with the big and cop? Um, yes and no. Yes and no. IMean, it actually, the cop stuff helped me when I was out when I was deployed. I don't know. That's like looking at people and you know, something that you're rising the area is where I was and everything. So that worked. That worked. IMean, you waited basically, you know, almost like over 20 years to get back to the body building, you know. And you see in 2016, you say, hey, this is new division classic physique, who can convince you to start competing? Someone obviously got interested in it. So my sister, my sister Susan, she was a, a piqueddy pro and she's a nutritionist. And she's on to, and she's like, hey, this is new classic physique going on, you know, a bodybuilder. And at the time, you know, I was going through some hard stuff like in my personal life. And I'm like, yeah, I don't know. She's like, no, no, you got to check it out. So I went online, I'm looking at the pictures and I'm like, wow, this is pretty cool. So she actually did my first prep for me for a, I did a mountain every show. Right. And I'm going to a place of first. And, um, yes, she got me going. She got me going. She's the one who'll get the fire. It's an amazing thing about, you know, you rekindled your body building career over 40 years of age. I'm sure people thought you were crazy. And now you're, you're laughing. We didn't team the universe together. You, you placed second there, just missed the pro card. You actually lost to your best one of your best friends. How did that feel? You know what? So I'm on stage. It's, it's my friend Joe told me he just won his IFBB a couple weeks ago. And we're on stage. And it was, it was so close. IMean, they moved me towards the middle and they moved everybody else around me. Yeah. And then they were like, thank you. And I'm like, that's great. He's dated for me. Everybody else got moved. Right. So they had the nighttime. They were like, second place. And then they called me out. And I was like, kind of stunned for a minute. I just stood there frozen. And I'm like, what? And then, but you know what? If he, he deserved it. He breaks his ass. IMean, he's in the day and day out. He's a police officer too. Oh, yes, I didn't know that. Okay. That's funny. He was in the military too. And he, he trensges his heart. We both trened hard. I trened within a million times. He's a great guy. And I was actually so happy that he got it. So it wasn't that bad. If he was anybody else, I would have, I would have flip tables. But, you know. He did good. I was proud of him. And then he, he backstage, you know, he's like, you got to do Pittsburgh. And a couple of the other judges grabbed me. And they were like, you have to go to Pittsburgh. It was by one point. Right. IMean, I looked at the official scorecard. He had seven. I had eight. And then everybody else behind us was like 15 to 20. So we were right there. And the funny thing is, you were asking me, should I do it? You were almost back in that of it. I remember one point. I was like, are you nuts? I was so in my head. And I was so angry. That's what I'm texting you on my pitch. I do it. And you have like, calm down. You get to do it. I was like, all right, I'm going to do it. I'm going to listen to you. I'm going to get out of my head. And that's the problem. You know, like, I tell a lot of people, because a lot of people come up to me, and now congratulate me. And I like what is it? I'm like the most important thing you could do is you have to surround yourself with positive people. People who can push you, because listen, we all get into our heads. It's the sport. It's the sport. You could look at yourself and say, I look too small. Or I look too big. IMight diss, am I this? And you get into your head. But you need that positive circle of people that actually pull you and help you with things. Sure. You know, it's funny because then speaking of listening to people, then we say, okay, we're going to do Masters Nationals. Now, you have this cockamame idea that I am only bringing up because I got it because I always tell people when you compete, make your life as simple as possible. I know. You know, I used to go to shows we would wait for the shuttle buses to take us to the hotels and these, these farms. I'm like, after I did that once, never again. I always jumped in a cab myself, paid for it. I didn't care because you don't want to feed stress out right before I show up. So Nick got this idea, hey, you know what? I'm going to, I'm not competing until Friday, but I'll go and fly to Pittsburgh on Tuesday and weigh in to get it out of the way. I'll fly there and fly back and then I'll drive back from New York to Pittsburgh, which is eight hours, by the way. On Thursday and I'll compete on Friday. I said, you're ready, you're freaking mine. You're like, no, no, it's not going to be so big. So tell what happened. So I was at it, my mind. So what I wanted to do was see a lot of guys that they would display, as you know, people, IMean, we have our timing right, you and I, we know our timing, we know what to fill out and everything like that. And I wind it up. I, I would have told you I said, Dave, I'm going to fly out on Tuesday to 55 minutes flight from Maguario. I'm going to jump on the scale. I'm going to come back. I'm going to fill out and we're driving out the Thursday and that's it. We're wrecking shit on Friday. And you're like, are you ready to mine? You're like, no way. And I'm like, no, Dave, it's going to work. Trust me, trust me. And you're like, all right, whatever, do what you guys do. So sure enough, I get to look water, and what is like big monsoon coming down. I'm just up on the top, I'm at from 10.45, not eating anything to four o'clock. And that's what I was like, you're right, Dave. We're going to Thursday, we're going to fill it up. We'll lean it up Thursday. And then that's it, you know. So we had to go all the way back home. And he had to eat all day because he thought he was going to try to make way on Tuesday, luckily, you know, we still had it. It was early enough for the week that it didn't matter. Probably got him hard because he burned the little fat. You started eating again. And then we just did it the right way on Thursday. But yeah. So the moral of the story is, don't make your life complicated right before a show. Oh, don't. And then, you know, because I trened, I trened with Marco Rivera. Right. So Marco Rivera is my trener. And he told me the same thing. He's like, no way. I'm like, God, you guys don't know what you're talking about. There you go. You do it all. Good. So he's like, how was the trip? I said, this is Wednesday. I'm like, I didn't know. He goes, what do you need to go? I said, no, it was all the fights of canceled. And he was like, dude, he goes, welcome to the world, a pro bodybuilding. He's like, we, he goes, he goes, he goes, this before I got my card. But he was like, basically, he goes, listen, your pro. He goes, basically, we're like, less minute things. And you don't want to stress the body out. It's just, it is what it is. He's like, when he went out to the Olympia, he flew in at 10 o'clock, that makinGHim way in. He was like, I was out of play for five hours. There. Jump on the scale. So he told me, too. He goes, you have to make things very less stress to on the body. And now I will. Now put it listen to you guys. There's no such thing as getting in and out of an airport quickly, especially in New York airport. That's for sure. I know, especially the audience. All right, now you know your dream has always been to step on that New York pro stage. And that's pretty much the plan for 2019 to make your pro debut in New York. Why is that important to you? Well, you know what it is. They move to venue, not to what's just the county. Right. And it's good, because now my son could be there. He don't have to travel. I don't have to worry. All my family and friends are there. And New York pro is a big show. IMean, listen, this top athlete from the world that come into these shows to try to make it to the Olympia. And you know, for even for me, just to say, hey, I jumped on the New York pro stage. And then maybe take off another year, a plan something with you. And then you know, just put it on some mess and then come in with something else. IMean, I'm ready to rock a roll. You know, I'm ready. You should have just done Tampa this past weekend. This is an, I should say next week, because get it out of your system ready. I know. I know. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. Don't get any ideas in your head. Relax. You just want your pro card earned. I always say enjoy the spoils of your victory. You know? Yeah. And you know what? I still like they interviewed me. I've been interviewing Pittsburgh. And they were like, how do you think about the show? And I was just like, the show was well organized and stuff like that. And I said, you know what? If I had to do another national show, I would be Pittsburgh. IMean, it was well read. IMean, all the national shows are well read. But this one was a little bit different from the other ones. And you know, they heard me. I think it was, I don't know if it was, it was somebody from the I of B.B. But they heard me and they came up to me. Because I said in the interview, I'm like, you know what? If I have to do this next year, I'm like, wait a minute. I'm an I of B.B. pro. I'm just, I'll come back next year. And I'll say, kids would everybody and hang out with people. So the guys like, so the person's like, that's what we want in the I of B.B. We need people to be an ambassador to the sport. Right. Right. Right. Like, you know, if you set that without even, but you know, I love people. I love hanging out. I love helping people, you know. The next is Nationals Nick is a great show. And if people haven't gone, I'll tell you why. Because it's, it's, yeah, this is the team and collegiate guys there. But they're very far and free To be seen. It's the, oh, it's mostly guys over the age of 35. It's a different mindset. It's the guys that started usually a lot of these guys in the, in the 90s. They have a lot of respect for each other. No one's like got a big ego there. Most people just, they just, they're happy. They'recompeting. It's a good atmosphere. It's fun. It doesn't seem competitive at all. It seems very relaxed whenever I've gone there in the past. I enjoy that show. It's, to me, it's too long now. But that's a good thing. But it's, it's, it's, it is a long weekend. But I always enjoy the show because everyone was very thankful to be there and people kind of had, you know, jobs are ready. It wasn't just a bunch of young guys who didn't know what they wanted to do with the rest of the life. These were people that were established to ready, who just loved competing, you know? It's, yeah, it's just like, yeah, exactly right. IMean, listen, I love this sport. I love bodybuilding. I love it, you know, but at, you know, my first profession is I'm a police officer. You know, so that comes first. But I love this sport. But you're exactly right. It's so relaxed when everybody being older. And you know what? It's a lot tough for this show because my flesh, everybody has muscle maturity. We're on the same boat. It's not like I'm going to get up some tin in the open. Who's like, holy shit, how do I, how do I feel out like that? You know, after you turn 35 baby. Yeah. You know, so it was, it was a tough show. I was behind stage. And I, I was impressed with all the athletes out there. IMean, even the guys, even the older guys, like, I can't believe some of the guys that are like in the 60s, you know, even even Larry, like out front Larry, the competing place second. And Larry's physique is unbelievable for 60 years old. I see. Yeah, I told Larry, so Larry, everyone else looked like they might have been in their 60s. You actually look like you're in your 40s, because he doesn't, he looked very young. And I remember about 15 years ago when I helped my good friend Charlie arms, he won one of the first 60 and over. I guess he won twice there. And that's when they first started giving the pro-cards in the 60. And there was three guys in the 60 and over the whole class. Now it's like, they got weight classes. They got like probably 50 guys in 60 and over in their wall. Amazing, you know? Yeah, I think there was three or four classes in the over 60. And I was impressed. I was impressed. Yeah. I couldn't believe it. But like you said, you know, these guys who's been doing it for so long, and they just love the sport. And, you know, are they going to get something with it? You know, no, but they do it for the love of the sport. Yeah. And to say that you're an IFBB pro now, that's a prestigious thing. Sure. You know, break your rest of the gym day to day out. IMean, I gave a solid, full, included Pittsburgh almost 20 weeks of, of what's what in tears. You did a very proud of you, Nick, and congratulations on the huge win. And check that bucket list off and we'll be hitting the stage as a pro next year at the New York pro. So any final words you want to give out there? Any thanks. You want to say anyone? I just want to thank everybody who's been behind me. And also, I want to thank the people who were against me because without you guys, you know, I got to thank you guys as well. I have to. Because, you know, you give me the push. That's what happens. Well, words, wise words, well said, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode. The live with brought to you by species nutrition. Visit species nutrition.com. On day polo, we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: POST-WORKOUT SHAKE TO MAXIMIZE GAINS! [mOADjBJFvuo].txt ===

They belong to this species spotlight. Today we're going to talk about post-workout nutrition. So that everyone is consumed and obsessed with. And you know why? Because it's important. And we know post-workout. We want to do two things. We want to get protein into that muscle cells. And we want to get carbs in there. And the protein is important because it rebuilds muscle tissues. The carbs are important to regulate those muscles. Let's talk about what happens. Number one, you take an protein supplement. Right? This speed with which it gets into the bloodstream gets digested into the bloodstream. And just as the muscle cell is going to be the most important factor. Okay, why? Because we want those amino acids specifically loosened to go into the nucleus in the muscle cell and turn on something known as emitor. Emitor is the protein machinery. It's like the switch in the factory that makes things start to work. And when you turn on emitor, now the body starts preparing muscle tissue. Now we need to feed more protein into the system, which is exactly what a good quality 100% weight protein isolate is going to accomplish. We want a protein supplement that has nothing in it. Nothing that's going to confuse. Nothing that's going to stall or delay the absorption. Isolize is my number one selling product. There's a reason why it is. Because it's a 100% weight protein isolate. It's the purest one on the market. It's got 27.5 grams of protein per serving. And that is the highest yield in any other protein product out there on the market. There's a reason for that. I'll tell you why. Because I want the best. I don't want anyone to use anything less than the best. And I don't spare any expense. So I went out and procured the highest quality weight isolate with the least amount of what we like to call contaminants in there. Why should the stuff enters the muscle cells effortlessly? They digest effortlessly. And that's exactly what I utilize it does. However, that's only one part of the equation. Another part of the recovery processes replacing the glycogen that's inside the muscle cells. glycogen is basically stored glucose. It's stored sugar. That's the fuel source that the muscles use when you weight tren. When you work out with high intensity activity, you use glucose as a fuel source. So when you're trening in the gym and doing your work, that's your exhausting. The glycogen stores inside the muscle cells. Almost like the gas in the tank of your car. So we want to replace that. But we need to replace it with something that's easily absorbed. So we resort to using what we call a high molecular weight carbohydrate. Why? Because they're absorbed quicker from the stomach than sugar is. They don't cause stomach distress. And they pull, they pull, they have a pulling effect. They draw nutrients into the muscle cells, which is exactly what we want to post work out. So when you take a brood to quality weight protein isolate with a high molecular weight carbohydrate, like carbohydrates, okay? You're going to draw all the good stuff into the muscle cells and you're going to really speed up recovery. And that's what we want. We want to speed recovery. Carbolize is a high molecular weight amulopactin and that when you mix in water, okay? It basically dissolves and it goes right into your cells. And it doesn't cause that bloating to get when you take in high amounts of sugar. Back in the past we used to have to use grape juice. We used, you know, dextrose. And everyone had the same complaints to my stomach, my stomach feels terrible. Why? Because the stuff which is laying in there, high molecular weight carbohydrates entered the cells and entered the bloodstream very quickly. So when you combine a high quality weight protein isolate with a high molecular weight carbohydrate, which is exactly what carbohydrates and islizes, you get that bang bang effect of increasing the speed of recovery and muscle rebuilding. That's what we want. The people ask me, what do you make a shake like an MRE or a meal replacement shake that you just put it all together? So we don't have the thing. Well, here's the problem. Not everyone needs the same amount of protein in the same amount of carbs. I can't create 16 different ratio products because I would have 2800 skews. So what I did was I created two grape products. You're by both, you use what you want. Back in the day I would use two scoops of isolate, which would be 55 grams of protein. Now we do one or two scoops of carbohydrates, which would be 40 to 80 grams of carbs, depending on how much I was needing at the time. And that's exactly what you guys can do if you're a woman, if you're a man, if you're old, if you're young, you can customize your postwork adchick according to what you're protein and what your carbohydrate requirements are. Not everyone wants a lot of carbs. Maybe people only want 20 grams of carbs for their 50 grams of protein that they're going to be taking in. Or maybe they only want 30 grams of protein and they want more carbs because they're an endurance athlete. This gives you the flexibility to use what you want. It's stupid to sell everything all together because you're limiting your audience. Yeah, you probably make more money because when you put carbs into a protein pattern, it becomes a cheaper product. But I feel that the best way to do it is provide the best quality way and the best quality carbs. And then you guys decide how you want to mix it. Let's mix up a shake right now. All right, so I got my eyesolized here. One of the great things about is that it really tastes good too, which makes it really easy to get down. So we're going to do, I'm going to do since I'm not competing anymore. I'm going to do a one scoop, which is going to be 27.5 grams of protein. That's enough for me. I'm not doing crazy workouts anymore. And I'm going to go to my carbohydrates. Now, the advantage of a high-mallect weight carbohydrate is that it does all these great things. But a lot of problems that people have with these high-mallect weight carbohydrates, they don't mix very well. It's a goopy. When I did was I all for my granize this stuff, IMade it almost like baby powder. And you'll see it's getting all over the place. It's like, you've got to be like a chemist to put this in there because otherwise you're going to make a mess. You can see it's all over the table because it's very finely powdered. The reason you do that is that when you mix it, it stays mixed. And you can mix this with a spoon. And I'm not even using enough water. But I'm just doing to show you. And you'll see that once IMix this, there's no goopyness. It doesn't settle at the bottom. It's mixed completely through. And I'm using my banana flavorinGHere. I also have an unflavored carbohydrates which will enable you to mix it with anything you want and not change the flavor of your protein. I happen to like banana. Banana is good with chocolate. It's good with vanilla. I'm actually mixing this with my favorite flavor of ice-lice. It's vanilla peanut butter. And once again, no goopyness. This is delicious. I love it. It's a banana peanut butter. Now a flavor. I'm telling you this is, I can drink this. Well, I sometimes have two with three these a day because I get so busy. I can't eat. It does smell. Mmm. I'm tireless as it smells good too. And that's important as well. Guys, if you want to maximize your postwork at recovery, you've got to use high-quality protein, a high-quality carbohydrate, and mix it to your own needs. That's isolize and carbolize all day long. Give it a shot at speciesnutrition.com.

=== FILE: PREVENTING HAIRLOSS： Palumbo Explains [VAy_59WPI-c].txt ===

Day Palumba with another RX muscle rant. Today's topic hair loss. How to stop it? How to grow new hair? What to do? Look, in the bodybuilder world, there's a lot of problems with hair loss. There's a lot of shade head body mows. IMean, probably the old cliche is what do you call a guy who's got a lot of muscle and a shave head and a bodybuilder is the answer. They all look the same. I happen to have enormous head. If I shave, I would look like a murderer. So I have to try to do all kinds of crazy tricks for my hair. I'll tell you some of the things I have done. But the truth is that when I first started to notice some hair loss in the 90s, the only thing really out there, there were two drugs. Two remedies I guess you could say. One was a row game. And row game was basically, it was an old, believe it or not, a blood pressure medication years and years and years ago, that they found great regroup hair in some people. So they put it into some kind of a topical solution and you would spray it and you could still get it in the drug source. You spray it and you head you rub it in and it smells like who knows. It opens up the pores back there. It opens the hair pluGHoles. I don't know. I used it for when I first started losinGHair and all I noticed was I got a flaky scalp from it. I got like, it made my scalp peel. And it also something I noticed was when I went for blood work, it would really increase my clotting time. So my clotting time took much longer to happen. So I was noticing I was bleeding more. I would bleed longer on it. Now I went and actually got what something called PT and PTT times, pro-framin time is done. And while I was on that rogue-ing stuff, mine were elevated. And it's funny. But the doctor was really shocked to catch it because I in a million years would never guess because that's what it was that did it. Anyway, I stopped using because it wasn't really doing anything anyway. And then I went to the pill remedy which I really didn't want to go to because that's something you have to use all the time to the rest of your life. If you don't keep using it, it doesn't. You'll lose the hair. You grew from it. And it was basically finasterized which they call the brand name is Pro-Pisha. The Pro-Pisha is the 2.5 milligram or 2 milligram. It looks to me. 1 milligram is Pro-Pisha. 5 milligram is something called pro-scroutes which was prescribed for prostate enlargement. Now the way these drugs work is they actually inhibit the conversion of testosterone into die-hide-dure testosterone, also known as DHT. DHT being responsible in adults for hair loss, prostate enlargement, acne breakouts. And young men who are just growing and hitting puberty, it helps you develop your secondary sex characteristics. They can draw hair growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone for the face, muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. That's up is necessary. It's sex drive. It's a certain degree. When you get older, you don't really need as much of it anymore. I started taking Pro-Pisha back in 90, something or another. I think it was like 99 or something like that. I noticed that my hair was losing it anymore. I stopped losing it. I didn't really regrow much hair, but I did stop losing the hair. So I stayed on it. I'd been on it since forever. It was 15 years now. Like I said, I'm afraid to go off and it's like, I don't want to lose it. The benefit of it, I noticed was that I didn't break out as much because I was prone to breaking out as a bodybuilder because it lowered my DHT levels. And I also never had a prostate problem, not going to work for 50 years old. But my dad had prostate issues. So I think it would be prostate protective. That worked okay. But it didn't take care of the hair that I was sittinGHere on. And I was losing on my head. Or I had lost already. They say that when you notice you're losinGHair, you've already lost 50% of your hair. So it's kind of like, it's too late almost. So recently they've come at, well, also back then, I remember Bill Phillips doing an article on a hair loss that he was talking about using Nizzerol shampoo. Nizzerol shampoo is an anti-fungal shampoo. So if you have a penny of a petest, which is, I believe it's been a penny of corp. It's got the tinny which is bring warm on your head. I have to go with 20 days. If you use the Nizzerol shampoo, it will get rid of it. But they found that I had also been caused hair, you know, regrew. So I was using Nizzerol shampoo like a nutcase twice a day. Overdried my scalp, same problem with the rugging, flaky scalp. And I'm like, through this, I've rather no hair than have the answerable of everything. You know, you always see that one person is going to like the suit on. I think that the answerable of a suit, I don't want to be that guy. So I scrapped the Nizzerol shampoo. Recently, like I said, they've been doing something, you know, and they've been talking about stem cells, you know, for a hundred years. stem cells will be the answer to hair loss that you'll regrew hair with them and everything like that. So now they're doing these generalized stem cell injections into your scalp along with some PRP, which is platelet rich plasma, they spin your blood down, they separate the blood cells from the plasma, the liquid portion, the plasma has the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factors that it's usually with the use for injury or repair. But they're probably that if they use the stem cells and the PRP and your scalp supposedly you regrew hair. Now, if it worked that good, everyone would be doing it and everyone would be talking about it. I haven't heard convincing evidence to prove that it does anything to be honest with you. So IMean, you can try it, it can't hurt, I guess, but it can hurt your pocketbook a lot. Because the stem cell injections are very, you know, cost prohibitive in most people. So what does the answer? What do you do? Well, if you're just starting to know it's a little bit of thinning, you might consider using like a formula like my testolize, which will block or belong to DHC production, but not get rid of it completely. We won't really super low rate. That might be a first line of the fence. Second line of the fence is if you're really losing it, you know, and you say, you know what, I'm screwed, I have a family history of it. I would go on not one million grand, which is propitious. I would go on two and a half milligrams. That's it. That would be tell your doctor to prescribe finasteride, which is the 5 million grand one and it also noticed pro scar. And then just crack them in half and you got two days worth to point 2.5 one day, 2.5 the next day. And that's what I do. And it seems to work well. I don't have any sexual side effects. I'm not lowering my THDHT levels too low. And so I'm not affecting anything negatively in my body. And now how do you know if you do HZ2 low? We get to go for blood work. So the blood work will tell you what your DHT levels are. You want them in the low side of normal. So you don't want them below normal. You want them normal, but on the low side of normal. And that's what the ideal balance would be for that. I've tried all kinds of different weird champos and stuff like that, because everyone's in a log it on this like bad haircut. My solution has been, you know, you can make fun of me all you want or whatever, is I just dye my hair alive. So right after I dye it, it looked very dark and maybe too dark my scalp. But at least I have cover for me. I do it for myself. So when I look at the videos online or when I watch, when I see pictures we take outside, the kids are in there that I don't look so well. Okay, let's face it. So everyone has their own, Donald Trump just comes over. I wish I had as much hair to come over as he does, but I don't have as much hair to come over. I only have enough to push right back a little bit here and cover a little bit of the top. You know, we all try our own things. You know, not everyone cares about hair. Some guys have good heads and they have good facial features. They can get away with, you know, with the shades head. Not all of us can. A lot of us want hair. So, you know, if you don't want to go to hair club for men and get a fake hair piece on, and you know, you're probably your best bet with me to try the, the propicia or what's again, I would probably do 2.5 milligrams of just generic. The finasterized is generic things for propicia and proscades. You did 2.5 milligrams every day. I think you'd be fine. You could throw the test to lies in, like I said, if you just started to see some hair loss, see if that helps. And, you know, don't forget, check your blood levels of DHCs to make sure you're not going to low or they're not too high. I hope this helped a lot of people you've been asking me what to do for hair loss. I know they also have these lasers. You can go. It's a lot of these hair club doctors have the lasers. And then you can sit on them and these cold lasers and they expose the stingy length of follicles to grow yet. Once again, I don't know anyone who says, Dave, it worked on me. So once again, I would stick with what I know seems to work right now. And if in a couple of six months, a year, two years, three, and five years, take just all of a sudden they grow and hair and petri dishes and so on and back in your head, believe me, I'll be the first guy in line. For now, the Humpeh Palumbo. With another Red Con 1, our X-Muscle Ram.

=== FILE: PRO BODYBUILDERS VS. SOCIAL MEDIA! Lee Priest Weighs In ｜ Iron Rage [T8QDC4D7PM8].txt ===

I'm Dave Holumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. See you! Roger stayed! Like I said, do you like my tail? For a shoot. Welcome back to Iron Rage on Dave Palombo. Here with Lee Priest as always and Lee, I got to be a scadden. You got me off guard. I didn't hear their like I said, like my tail bit. That's how you lift it out. I don't know. Well, we didn't leave it out, but I ran the commercials the opposite so you don't get to hear that. But I will say this. We were talking off camera. I decided I want to start my own puppet show and I want Lee, I want to go into business that you were going to make puppet show. But I figured that, seeing the one you're talking on your show, you're doing stuff like that. That's weird. If Jim Henderson wasn't dead, you'd be like, you'd be definitely a co-run of a fucking sesame street or something. You probably actually, you'd probably look good as big bird. Jim Hansen, Jim Hansen, you. Jim Hansen, Jim Hansen, you know. The guy, when I was a kid, I came up the other day on, I guess I was looking on YouTube or somewhere, but the guy that played Big Bird, he's played Big Bird for like 60, 70 odd years at that guy. Has been, like he's been the only Big Bird. He's almost like, I didn't know that. Got his, he's still got his one. I think so, because it came up in his being, huh? That's just a charity, right? Exactly. Job security, nobody knows who you really are. That's right. That's right. I know a couple people who I think are Big Bird, but I guess they really weren't. We know, I know a few people too, that are a bit weird, but you know what Dave, you'd be good at it, cause look. Oh, you got poppettled, I got poppettled. Oh, I like my child. You like my child? Oh, my child. Hey, you like my, can we? Oh, hello Steve. Hello Steve. Oh, you look very good, hold on. Hey, I think we need to give you another contract. I have an idea for marketing. Oh, what would that be, Steve? What would that be? Please tell me, please tell me I'm very excited, Steve. I'll tell you what, I'll put you on the cover. How about that? The cover, Steve. Can you show my tail on the cover? Look, Steve, look at my tail. Look at my tail. I'll make you a star. I know I've done it before. I'll make you a star. I know I've done it before. Oh, a star. I've always wanted to be a star. Everything's like, how do you copy, with thEQueen? Oh, that's so brush is going to be a star. Oh, this is going to be so exciting. Wait, so I turn on my mother. Oh, please, please. Please, please, please. So we prisma's flat slow is. Woo! Oh, Steve, Steve, you know what, Steve? Can you give me a good contract? What's this, Steve? What's this, Steve? I've been practicing just for the contract. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Steve, did you see that? Yes, you see, guys go three, three, three, we did. They're, they're very strieted. I don't have to you know this time. Oh, with my tail, Steve, it doesn't matter. Look, you can't really see my roots of style, baby. But look, I have a place where you can go. Oh, oh, oh, the up nerve, up nerve. Oh, oh. Yes, Steve, very wonderful. It'll be wonderful. But take you for the contract and look very forward to it. And Victor here is making it come back to. Maybe we can put you guys in a photo shoot together. I'll call Pairbendown. What do you think at that buzzer? Would you like to be in a contract, total? Yeah. Oh, yes. Yes, he said he'll be very happy. What's that? Yeah. Yes. Yeah. Oh, yes. That'll be very good. Thank you. Thank you. I'm very happy. Oh, can we get Melvin Anthony to come back to and call the let. Oh, yes, it'll be wonderful. We'll one the full. Let's get. Let's get. We'll get Dory and under contract, too, because he's a he's a legend. Oh, Dory. Oh, yes, Dory. He's from England too, like me. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. What did you think about this, uh, I have a question for you, because, you know, social media is then we've been debating social media a lot on the arts, Russell channel. I just did a big after hour show with Greg Valentino and Ramanow, and we were talking a lot about the social media of aspect of body building and competition. And, you know, what do you think about Brian Anzley attacking. Nick from Nick strength and power channel. Obviously, you know, saying, you know, it's not a real, you know, media guy. He's not a body builder. IMean, do you think it was appropriate? Or do you think that, you know, as he ride or is this Nick pretty much having, you know, he can say what every once, you know, he's got his own channel. That's ridiculous. Cause you know, Nick, when you watch Nick's channel, he's never, well, I've never seen him be abusive to anyone or attack anyone personally. He's like, okay, he can't use the excuse. But, you know, when you're not a body builder, not a pro, they don't tren. They don't, they don't, they don't tren. They don't, they don't, they don't tren. Look at back in the day, Link conquer like Lonnie Tapper, half these people weren't body builders. They're born like everything. They don't have them work. They went to the shows and they reported along what they saw. They'd be like, fuck me dead. Imagine, look at every other sport, baseball football and their fail and all these other things. They mean, those sports report as a people to commentate, have actually ever played the game. Sure, you sometimes get now a retired one or two that goes on TV. Yeah. But most of the ones that ride in the magazine, they've never played a game in their life. So his whole aspect of, and what he said too wasn't that bad. He just figured he just said, going on how Chris looks and how he looked and how everyone looks, he goes, he thinks Chris has got the better physical probably winning. He's like, yeah, shout out, I think that's not he should end up like, Jesus Christ, you fucking men with muscles. You're not girls wearing fucking toothed. Not, not, not fucking, like it's though. Oh, that act like you don't go on, don't die. Okay, shout out. So you know, I agree, I think you've got to write to their opinion. You don't have to, it doesn't have to be wrong to agree with it. And people shouldn't take a personal. I think a lot of people had offended by the critiques. Even we give on this show here. I get people mad at me because they don't like the opinion I gave. And that's, you know, just my opinion. This is, IMean, I don't like his person, you know? Have you heard the comments sometimes under a video's dive? Yeah. But what gets me is, though, could you imagine if Nick had to come out and said, with the Olympia coming up and blah, blah, blah, blah, Breones looking great. If he had said Breone was number one and Breone was going to be Chris, there wouldn't have been a fucking problem. Breone would have been, oh, that's great. Thanks, Nick. Wonderful report. Right. Of course. Because he said it. Because he said it the other way around. It's like, it's like this whole thing going on with me, Loss and Ian and shit. And when that kept blowing up and blowing up, I'm like, okay, you're trying to max. We understand max. You think I'd overlook because you're his tren. You're a bit more personally involved. But I'm still saying it's like Ian was number one. Max was number five. Me, Loss, why aren't you fucking pissed off at the guy that got fucking 4-3 in second? Why are you going from fucking fifth and you're attacking Ian first? Right. There's three other fucking people are so in between. Right. You're not going, well, such as such, it got 4th, 4th, max should have been him. And then something's such to got 3rd, max should have been him. You know, look, if Max, if it was the in first and max second, and it was super close, then you can maybe go, oh shit, it was really close. I think Max should have got it, but then it could have gone either way. But when Ian's first and max is fifth, this people in between, so why aren't you getting mad at them? Why are you getting fucking mad at Ian? Ian doesn't control the judging even right away. Me, Loss, look at me. I so like you, but come on, it's like, go, speak to the judge and be polite to the judge. No, me, Loss, sometimes goes off when you go down there. Yeah, we can't understand why you just live in him. Fuckin' walls, but fuck you know, they go off. Yeah, it's like, yeah, he was like, I think we should get mad at him. Maybe because sometimes when I want to show, and then someone got 6 or 7, only 3 should know why, and I should have beat him. I'm like, wait a minute, you're in 7. I can understand. I can understand that if you got fucking second, I should have, you know. Right. What about all these other people that are between you, me and you, as the same with Ian, Ian was first. Max was fifth, and Maylson is a tech and Ian for some reason when there's a few other people in between him. But I didn't get it. Basil doesn't get it either. No. You make a very good point because you're right. If you read the magazine's back in the day, it wasn't being written by bodybuilders, most of these articles. They were being written by regular people who didn't really compete, and they would just be had had been established as people who were assigned to cover the show. They became experts by the fact that they did it for many, many, many years. And if people like watching, you know, or reading their articles or they like watching a certain YouTube channel for their analysis, then that's up to that, really. It doesn't, you know. IMean, Nick even states, he's like, look, I'm not an expert. I'm not portraying myself to me next word. I'm just a fan who's given my fan to me. Exactly. And sometimes I'd rather eat a thing to opinion because they're passionate, and you know, pretty much too, when someone like Nick's been around the sport for that long, and he's followed the sport, and he's always given. Yeah, pretty much all the stuff he says. He's pretty fair. Like I said, you might disagree or agree with him. Sometimes the general is pretty spot on, but it's just like he said, he's opinion. He's, you know, he's got a key in eyes like it. So why can't he do it? And like I said, if he had had said something nice, there would have been a problem. And what he said wasn't bad. He just thinks Chris, the way Chris is looking to weigh it's judged, he thinks Chris will get, you know, to nod for the in first place. Now, someone said that about me, I've got, okay, well, you know, what I'm going to go fucking tren hard and knuckle down and fucking bust my ass, and I'll prove you wrong. You don't need to get upset about it. You're just smiling, go, oh, I know. That's what Nick thinks I'll show him come day to show. But the go on, like Nick said with that half hour rent, and then say no one watches you channel when we know Nick's got almost a million subscribers. I think I can pre-on better check again and see what's going on. But, you know, that's like, well, you know, another thing we also pointed out when I was interviewing a John and Greg Valentino earlier today, we were talking about, you know, why certain channels have a lot of viewers. And, you know, Greg was complaining that, you know, the sport has lost the hard core following. I said, no, the hard core following is still there. The hard core following just was never huge. So, you know, whoever on our channel is the hard core following. IMean, but the mainstream media people, or the mainstream people who watch and just are interested in by building from a fan perspective, way out numbers, the hard core people. And that's why I can see a channel like Nick's who has almost, you know, millions subscribers versus us who has a quarter million subscribers because there's way more general people who work out than there are in hard core, you know, fanatics, you know, and and troll. I think it's the troll. Well, the trolls are there for, they're all of the things that the trolls are. Yeah, but the thing is, you know, it's not a hard core people. Like me, IMight look at someone's channel read something and then watch it. But they don't comment the hard core people were just looking at the information or watch it. But the trolls and the idiots are the ones that seem to post the most she could watch any video or anything that goes up or to be the trolls. Yeah. It's back there. There's like, there's like, there's a one's that take a board of time. And then I tell you, Dave, when you click on those trolls profile, like I said, they look like they got no business in the sport of body building. Fuck me. It's like if they want to say 30 bucks a month, he's their quickest tip cancel your gym membership, you dickage, you're wasting your fucking time. It's like fuck me there. I just saved your 35 bucks whatever you pay in monthly. Go spend it at your local pub on the fucking Dark Board. You probably do better. But yeah, it's like, yeah, but they all go on, but, you know, you remember that wasn't bad. You remember when the message boards were like big, a big deal like the forums and stuff like that when they first were like, get big, get big, what's the main one? Yeah. But I'm saying most of those guys were also that all the like the Miss Crians and all the like people who have no right who being even calling themselves a bodybuilder, all the people who like couldn't hold the job strap of like any pro bodybuilder this. Those are the guys that were causing the most problems on those message boards. And it used to drive me crazy. You know, why can't black men would watch those message boards and they say, Salon Salos said, I said, Steve, Dave, it's a troll. The cares would that's not what 99% of the population believes. It's one retard who's who's causing trouble on there. He's like the class clown who just wants to get a lot of attention. I said, I know we got to tell me he would take it like seriously like these guys. I take I take a fence that you call me to one troll and I did my job well. But man, but everybody's going to make the get big. It's like, fuck, we're on everything used to stir shit up on the get big. He's still doing it on. He's still doing it. He's still doing it. I can't even believe that board still functioning, you know, but it is. You know, what the two, I probably haven't looked at that board for years. I didn't even think it was still going. It's exactly the same. The links, it looks like it's from the, you know, the 1990s, the way it's set up. He, I don't think Ryan is on the way. I don't think it like that. I just remember, I just remember those glasses he had. He could start a forest fire with those. Fuck, it's this light. My gosh. He's the boy. I just spent thousands on the telescope. You look at craters on the moon. He could just go, well, yeah, but you don't have to pay me that. Ryan is, Ryan is a true bodybuilding fan because he was making zero money from that important. He never would take advertising. Nothing. The only thinGHe took some advertising for was to pay for the, the, the, the server fees. It was, it was, it was total passion because there was no business model there. What's the other? When you, when you, when you, that, this is going to come as a shock to you. But when, when I tell you these two names, you got to see that they were separated of birth, run, have a thing and Steve niece. Yeah, oh yeah, you're right. If they weren't fucking twins, I don't know what. How about Ryan Harris and Woody Allen? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know if, as Ron married his, I'm, what is that? No, no, no. Step to order or fucking. But remember, Steve, me's would come into the gym. It always come into his tanks of one. Yeah, let's flare it out. To be carrying that little look like a little fucking school lunch box where he's camping. Come over. IMean, on, yeah, big arms. You go, uh, 21. You go 21, I, I got a take measure. Let's measure. Okay. You're so accurate. That's such an accurate. You're probably, you can get police take measure out. Oh, oh, oh, I didn't count. I hear you go and he made you go. You're correct, but he always said that take measure. So anyone that gave him a measurement, he would pull that thing in. Yeah, guys, like, nah, nah, I don't want to measure. I'm not, yeah, I'm not. Yeah, that's not true. Every time. Oh, he would say, go get on the scale. What do you want? Come down to the scale. What do you mean, I, I walked into the parking lot. And I walked into the gym. And he's like, uh, I looked, I, my face was like this. I was huge. I was like, what do you wait? I said 319. He's like, you want to get on the scale? I said, sure. I got on the scale. It was 319. You know, because I didn't lie. I never lied and have to lie. It was like, you wanted the biggest guy. So he's like, so we went to the parking lot. And he's like, let me get some pictures. And he actually has the only pictures of me at that way. And he put, I think he ran it muscle man. But he was, uh, as he was taking the picture, I told the story before. Makements are pulled up in that volar, station where I get me at. You remember that thing? He's the right. Look like it's from the fucking potridge family. Yeah. And he gets, and mentally, must be late for an appointment. He's meant to use to tren people with goals. And he's, he's like circling me like a wolf. As niece is shooting me in the parking lot. You know, with the shirt off, and I'm like hitting the last bread. And he's like, holy shit. This guy's a freak. This guy's a freak. Holy shit. This guy's a freak. This guy's a freak. He was like, oh, this guy's having a coneption. And then after, he shot me on over to him and he was like, oh, man. What's your name again? That guy's a date to one boat. He was like, yeah, he goes, holy, Matt, go get your freak, your freak. Holy shit. What do you weigh? Fuck out. I had to go, I got to go and you ran into the changes. I was just printed on him. You're most, you almost said, like, Don Rossi went from, you went from like, meant to the fucking, yeah, what's that? Don Rossi, you're crazy of me, too. Yeah. Don Rossi. Don Rossi. You're a freak. You're a freak. You're a holy, a mactoral. This guy's a freak. Yeah. You're a freak. You're a freak. You're a cool people. People, people, people, people, people, people. Look at him. As he's spitting you guys. Yeah. He's not like these pants on next. They're like, oh, the fucking pants. They fucking pencil next to come into a fucking gym. They should've been fucking in here. They're like, that fucking pants on their car over there. And I used to get on cuffed by a returner around on him. I'd be like, Don, man, you're looking fucking baby and, and rip today. He'd be like, yeah, like you did. Yeah. And he always went on a bit of pencil next time. Fucking pants on next time. Fucking. We don't have characters like that anymore, Lee. And this is interesting. No. Well, even though he said even fucking Jerry Friedrich was a character down there. If he's fucking camera on, oh yeah. Oh, yeah. If he down there. Jerry will be down there with the girls. He'll always look like one of those fucking perfects with the girls. And I'll be telling the girls I said, these pictures ain't down anyway, but he's fucking bedroom. Oh, that's fucking. Show me his card. He got that little card. Yeah, he's my card. He's my card. The girls are like, oh, yes. Yeah, yeah. Jerry's got his little fucking camera down. Anything. Oh, big night for Jerry with the Vaseline and two shots tonight. I don't think. Well, I guess because the magazines are dying off. Like you see, because you always had Don Ross, there'd be party floating around. There would have been Jerry Friedrich's always floating around. Possible. These were, they have Paul McCrain's Steve. These would have been in there. It has always something going on in there with someone with a camera taking photos and the funny thing is Paul a tren was probably the only one to work down in the whole group of them are. Or a hell. You know, if you're a girl, hell is it is it is a dealer and body building collectibles now. Did you know that? Is it not? No, what's he got just stuff that people have given him. I think he buys collections. He wanted a buy all of Bob. He heard Bob Grushkin had a huge filing cabinet full of the pictures and stuff and that he was dying to buy the collection. I don't know who got it, but he was askinGHim. So who we can contact? Where's he living of? Is he still in in California? He's got a huge body building collectibles things. I don't know what he's doing with it all. That's just all, all those collectibles are like, you know, when you did a photo shoot with him and you left the tank top behind. He has day, day, polambos tank top from the Muscleman shoot. There's like trees. I don't want to run. From the arena del Rey club. He's over there where we did it. I did some good pictures of you. I don't know how you had the patience. Right. It was the first one. I had another falling out. But when I first came to America, that's just before I got my contract. You know when you signed with where you did it, you got to wait a few weeks before you get the money. Right. The first week I was there was like in the unit hard. You see this picture actually on Goldstein ball in the unit hard. Yeah. Of the auto photos. Every day we get everybody part. Oh, he must be talking to you to death. Oh. For like seven days he tortured me all day long. And I think once he brought me lunch, I'm sitting up there on the bike. His like, how's that contract with weater came. He's like he hasn't paid me yet. He's like, oh, he hasn't. Oh, he goes. But I couldn't use you guys. You know, all those pictures I took of you and that are sent on the Robert Kennedy and he brought every one of them. Oh, well, fuck someone's money. Yeah, yeah. So many of my money on me. Exactly. I'm happy for you. You know, in the beginning publicity is good, but shit, you know, like, you could have brought me more than one fucking lunch. Yeah. You know, he never bought me lunch at all. I think he had, matter of fact, I think he made me pay. I think I paid for lunch for both of us after shooting the whole day. The pretty crafty summer days people. They don't know. They do that. So, oh, I've left my wallet back in my camera bag at the gym. You know what it was? And I think that you owe it a bunch because for you to do that photo shoot, he probably got you like maybe a T-shirt, two golds gym day. Yeah, 10% of fucking and a water bottle. That was your payment. Yeah, and get your ad through it. Because the ad didn't get it. He was like, take whatever you want, basically. No, yeah, and it would give it a golds gym bags and go, go in there and fill up with whatever you want. Just let me know what you got. Yeah, that's it. Because he was smart. That's free branding. He was getting off of these guys. Oh, I remember, I remember the rest of us were pulling up in the limousines and coming to trening when they're restless. They would be taking bags and bags. Oh, yeah. Golds. Because they're where they get on TV. And I have the golds. Yeah, and think about that was that was huge branding for those guys. Yeah, I'm not because sometimes I think of Hulk Hogan or even some of those names. Back then, as soon as I walk out in the ring, they were in a golds gym tank. Tank top or a golds gym T-shirt. And it was brilliant. Brilliant. Brilliant. Yeah. Meanwhile, the rock walked into the strong and shapely gym and Bob Bonham said, you owe me 12 bucks or something like that from a t-shirt. He had given him like last time he was in the gym, huh? Oh, he was doing this. He really, the rocks like what? Because yeah, I gave you, I liked your t-shirt last time. Well, you know, you think Bob would be like, well, you know, that's good publicity for the gym for the rock to wear my shirt. Well, maybe Bob was upset because they're rocking in the ward anyway. I'm so excited. He says, well, you know, but they could take a picture with the rock at the gym. So the rock would be carried. You could have put it up on the wall. So I don't, you know. But like you said, that is character's like, so when I was in golds, when I was over there last time, I think you still got some of the treners ever, the good characters like that just don't exist anymore. Yeah. That will walk around and they were like a stable there and there's somebody else. I was trying to think of similar to Don Ross, but he had that silly crazy passion that would, if you got stuck to a cat member's name, never. If you got stuck, talking to him, you'd just go on and on about the old days. Did you ever meet that guy? And he's a funny one. He was a German guy, trened at world a lot. He usually came over to golds. You probably would have seen him, but he's claimed the fame was who killed people. Back in the early days, you know, that girl in the photo we've Arnold and that was my wife and that Arnold slept with my wife. That was his challenge when he was frowned out. Yeah, don't be a black guy. He's telling you, he'll tell you, yeah, Arnold's slipped with my wife. Who was that old guy? He looked like Santa Claus almost. He knew everyone's birthday. We chose that one. He was like a former judge, NPC judge. He knew everyone. He was always at all the shows. I really sort of heavy, heavy set. Yeah. You know what I'm talking about? Yeah. He was the first person to tell me the gym man and I had the same birthday. This was early in my career when I was competing. He probably meant me because it's such an such a thing. He knew everyone's birthday in the industry. He is sort of really sort of big and round, like solid, big sort of big. His white hair was white beard. Yeah, remember his name? Joe Valdez. Joe Valdez. Oh, fuck, that's gone back. I brought that one up. Yeah. You always said the walk. You know who used to look like. He looked exactly like welcome to Jurassic Park. Yes, yes. Yes. Yeah, that's what I was thinking of. I couldn't think of that. You're right. Yeah, the walk. Yeah, the walking. Yes. You're right. Yeah, it put his hand on the walking stick. Yeah, I guess I said no. Yeah. He's exactly like the guy at Jurassic Park. Oh my god. You're right. Rory. Rory little mile. 7th for January and 19th. Yeah. He did. Every time I saw it. He said, I saw it. I started with the junior USA. He's like, when did your birthday? I said February 17th. He's like, oh, Jim Manion. And you share the same birthday. Oh, yeah. Let's just hand on the walking stick like you think that. And then sometimes go, oh, yes. We shall. Your birthday is the same as Jim Manion's. That will be the same day where we'll be releasing the Velociraptors. And he did. Oh, it's, if he can find the people. Oh, picture of the 12 out there is a body building. If you could find that picture. He looks exactly identical to the rest of the story. I couldn't, you know, when I was visual, visualizing the guy, I actually visualized the guy from Jurassic Park now that I think about it. And IMean, he had the walk and stick to the other side. It wasn't David. What was he saying? There was a Richard Adam. It was Richard Adambriff from Jurassic Park. Yes. David David does the shows on the documentary. Yeah, Richard Adambriff. He haven't told my story. That's all I thought about Jurassic Park. He can even wear that sometimes. Is that, is that the guy, is all those voiceovers on the animal shows? Atmbert on which one? Is that David Adambriff? David, he's probably does all this brother. Oh, it's brother, okay. They got, they got his voice. Yeah. Yeah. David Adambriff's like, shit, I think it's in his 90s now. He still, there was yet more service to that. I think that was, I think that was free brother, David, Richard. I think there was another one. Yeah, but every time I saw him, I'd always pitch, because he was, I think he was pretty close, we've roaring. You're coming a lot, we've roaring, little by a bit. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then it always just walk around with his cane. I had to look on top of the cane to see if there was a fucking mosquito in the in-bush. I thought he was. But no, I'm back to the DNA. He's looking for a new duck. We should have polombocone. I get sure to do that. We're going to make him once. Yeah. That was a name. I didn't even know how he remembered that name. I forgot all about him, but yeah. He was a classic. Yeah. That's people. People don't have a clue that we're talking about. Oh, no. The people who have encountered him know exactly what we're talking about. They're laughing their asses up because it's so, Oh, I don't know. All right. You'd swear to our separate libertes. Those two from the scene. Yeah. You're already sorry. Even if you say, I'll put this same. I'll pull this to pick you up for next week. Just to show it. And can you just get where that hat? You'd wear the same hat. Maybe it wants him. We just did that. He's your right. Maybe it wants him. That's true. Good of it. He just went. But I think he used to, he's to help out a lot of bodybuilders. Because I've never heard what you're trying to then he'd be telling them how to pose and I was sort of stuck. Because I don't know. I don't know what the connection was before. But he was always there with Ferrari, helping Ferrari. I remember that. And it always talking about Ferrari a lot. So I'm not sure whether he was a Ferrari. Yeah. He wasn't a lead. Yeah. He was a Ferrari. And we got on good, but I don't think I was here as there. So wherever he helped Ferrari find an inch, I don't know. It's just been always there. But he'd come walking in the gym just like he'd just just walking. Look around, have a chat, then you know, just walk on out. Yeah. Yeah. I never saw him ever. What a chatter. I don't know that. But he might have been that guy on the end of the phone. That's it. Yeah. He goes. Yeah. And I know it's the boss's calling. I got to grab this up. Please, thank you. Basil and I, Basil and I are going to go bake a cake. Basil. Basil. Basil brush. You never seen Basil brush? No. LookinGHim up on YouTube. Basil brush. He was a kids cartoon, but he was like an early version of Alpha. Where he would say a lot of rude stuff that would go. I have to be kids head. Oh, oh. All right. That's it. Guys. We're out of time. Until next week, I'm day polumber with Basil and Lee Priest. We'll see you next week. You like my tail? You like my tail? Does.

=== FILE: Patrick Moore x Chris Cormier + Keone Talks RETIREMENT？ + Steve Kuclo BEASTS 200's! [4gmLg3LMpxE].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Vote, there's 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. Today is Monday, June 28, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, not only does another fine Monday, it's also international chest day, and luckily for you, we've got this brand new video Steve Cuclot to help you get your week started off right. A few days ago, Steve's camp released a video of taking a pair of 200 pound dumbbells for a ride, which feels like I'm not so subtle way of letting everyone know that he's firing on all cylinders. Last time I checked, Steve was still planning to brinGHis talents to the Texas Pro in a few weeks, and if that's still the case, it'll give him plenty of time to make adjustments between then and the Arnold. When Steve's in shape, we all know that he's one of the top ten athletes in the open, so if you can get himself off to a good start in Texas, they'll set the stage for him to finish strong down the stretch. Thanks to Steve, that last week, the official lineup for the Arnold UK was announced. And just as we said a few weeks ago, it looks like that will be the place where we see Samson down and make his season debut. According to reports, Samson is still weighing in and over 300 pounds, despite the fact that he's a few weeks into his prep, which is really impressive when you look at some of the photos and videos that have been coming out of his camp lately. When you look at the Arnold lineup on paper, Reging Grimes is the name that jumps out as the clear early favorite, but if Samson is in shape, I think his name deserves to be right there in the conversation as well. He checks all the boxes you look for from someone at a show like this, and he puts it all together. This could be a huge platform for him to show off how good he really is. Even though bodybuilding is an individual sport, we all know by now that surrounding yourself with the right people in your camp is one of the most important things anyone can do if they want to be successful in the wrong run. And for Patrick Moore, now that he's officially linking up with Chris Cormier to help guide him through the rest of his Olympia prep, that road to success feels like it might be a little bit clearer now. A few days ago, I heard from a source who confirmed to me that Chris and Patrick will be trening together for the next 15 weeks or so as Patrick tries to pull out all the stops to get himself ready for the Olympia in October. For as impressive as Patrick was when he won the Cal Pro a few weeks ago, we all know that the Olympia is a completely different animal, but now that he has Chris in his corner to help give him that extra push from the gym, it will be a shooting to see if he can make enough improvements to help him break into that top 10 group. Come October. Finally, I want to close out the show today with a few thoughts on a story about Keon Pearson that someone brought to my attention over the weekend. Apparently, Keon was answering fan questions on Instagram last week when someone asked him when he thought he might well retire. Keon said that he plans to retire at 30, which would only be 4 years from now. When most body blows are just starting to enter their prime, now we all know that athletes say things like this all the time and then end up changing their minds later. And let's just say hypothetically of course that Keon is the 212 Olympia champ 4 years from now. Do we really think that he would retire at 30 considerinGHow younGHe'd be and all the financial implications that would be tied to that? My guess would be no. But if I can predict stuff like this 4 years out, I'd be rich and retired somewhere. So what do I know? Keep that being said, I want to know what you guys think. Do you think Keon Pearson will retire at 30? Let me know in the comments below. And that doesn't yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Columbus reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Patrick Moore ＂Only 50%＂ to Potential + Peter Molnar Guest Posing + RIP Jenny Lynn [ByDWrMYRwmQ].txt ===

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Hey! Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Thursday July 22nd 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you didn't catch our recap of the Portugal Pro yesterday, you definitely want to check that out on the YouTube channel. And even though there are a lot of amazing athletes competing on that stage last weekend, you can make a solid argument for Peter Molnar having the most impressive physique in the building after the performance he put on as one of the featured guest poses of the night. For the honest, I think this might be the first time that we've seen him live in action since he pulled the double dip at the remade muscle fest last year when he won his pro-part and his pro debut in the same weekend. But seeing what he looked like last week was a good reminder of why so many people were talking about him as a legitimate top-real and be a guy. He's got all the tools and all the experience you need to be able to compete at the highest level. And as we start getting closer to October, it'll be interesting to see if his name starts to get thrown around more with the rest of that top group. With this Chicago pro being less than 72 hours away now, there are a lot of conversations happening about the 212 division, especially with all the hype surrounding Keyon Pearson. But I'll tell you why. I think people are making a mistake if they're overlooking the impact that John Jewett can have in this lineup. John's already put together a couple of really strong performances this year, and if you look at where his conditioning is right now, it isn't the stretch to say that he could end up being in the best shape out of anyone in the building. I know it's almost cliche to say it now, but conditioning is what win shows in bodybuilding. So if there are windows of opportunity there, John's got the right game plan to be able to exploit them. Over the last few years, talking about someone's potential has been one of those buzz word terms in bodybuilding. And to be fair, we do it a lot on this show too, because it does help to create a narrative. With this honestly might be the first time we've ever done a story on an athlete who's going on the record to talk about what they believe their own potential is. In a case you missed it a few days ago, on an Instagram post Patrick Moore said that he believes that he's only reached about 50% of his potential in bodybuilding so far, and that he still has a few years until he actually reaches his peak. How he gets there, or what that looks like isn't entirely clear. With the sense you get from some of the other stuff that he shares from time to time, is that he believes there's a sandout trophy somewhere in his future. Now, whether or not that ever comes true, is anyone's guess, but I will say this, if 50% more means 50% bigger, 50% sharper, and 50% morecomplete than he is right now, this might not be as crazy as it seems. And finally, I'm closing up the show today with a very heavy heart, because it means that I have to wish a melancholy trails to a good friend Jenny Lynn Powell, the former two-time figure Olympia champ passed away from an apparent seizure earlier this week, the age of 49. And as soon as the news of her passing began to circulate, it's in shockwave through the bodybuilding and fitness community. I said a few days ago that I believe Jenny was a shining light and everything she did. And I feel that way even more today than I did then. If that's even possible. She was one of the most amazing people. I've ever had the privilege of meeting and I want to send my deepest condolences to her friends, family, and fans, rest in peace, Jenny. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day of Holumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they show to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: Peyton & Eli Manning and Jewbacca Singerman Play Wee-Football [I2CRlKsb3w8].txt ===

She's not a king....... NO plain Let's see! Alright! Come on! Oh, my gosh! Let's have that shot! Uh, you want to use tea, babe?

=== FILE: Phil Heath SIGHTING + Hadi Choopan Looking Stage Ready + Brett Wilkin Dialing In! [C-dkfzOymE4].txt ===

We launched the tasty pastry with the low carb hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning! On day polumbo and today is Monday, June 21, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and happy Monday and happy first day of summer. Hopefully the sun is shining wherever you are in the world, so you can soak up some of those warm summer rays. I guess it will surely its cold. But if you do happen to feel a little chill in the air, stop and take a look around because of storming the name, a hotty chupin might be about to roll in. Over the weekend, hotty's camp released new trening videos on his Persian wolf Instagram feed, and once again he somehow ended up looking like a being from another dimension. The level that he's been at for the last few weeks has been absolutely out of control. I don't know how much he weighs, or why he looks like he's ready to step on stage 24-7. All I know is that we're seeing is special, and if it turns into something more down the road, we'll be able to look back and say that we saw it coming. I'm leaving it in the office of Chicago, Pro, is about a month away now, which is crazy because it feels like we've been talking about it forever. And even though it's still too early for us to get all the names for the official lineup cards, we do know for a fact that Brett Wilkins will be in the building, makinGHis open debut. And we also know that he's ready to go in there and drop some heat. Brett and his team spent a lot of time in the office, and focusing on being better from the back. And based on some of the stuff we've seen and put out, it looks like they succeeded. He says that he's added close to 40 pounds of muscles since the last time he competed two years ago. So if everything falls in the place from a conditioning standpoint, I don't think a top 10 finish is out of thEQuestion. I think I said this on a show last week, but it feels like there have been a lot of injuries this year. So when we get a chance to do a segment on someone like Chris Hester, who got bitten by the injury bug, and came out better on the other side, it does feel like it helps to change a little bit of the narrative. After essentially being out of commission from October to February, while he was recovering from a torn biceps, it looks like he's on track to pick up where things were before the injury last year. According to Chris's team, right now the plan is for him to compete once before the end of the summer, and then again at the North America's in the fall, where they think he'll be one of the first in line who win his pro-card as a super heavyweight. We've seen a Tudatown come through that North American PIPeline over the last few years. Anity takes care of business, and won't be long before he becomes one of those athletes we talk about who's used in North Americans as a launching pad for the career. For the most part, there are too many good things that happen when you're in a adult and you're out after 1am. But there are exceptions to every rule, and considering the fact that Phil Heath has pretty much made a career out of being an exception to the rule, I think he gets a pass here. In case you missed it a few days ago, Phil posted a video of himself trening arms at 1am in the morning inside Villain Arborus, Mile Hygim, which is basically his version of the fortress of solitude at that point, even though he's venturing off into other things that don't involve competing for Olympia titles, Phil still looks great, and he still seems to be trening pretty consistently, considering the fact that he managed to make it out relatively unscathed from the injury standpoint that seems slow down anytime soon. And that does it at another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Dayd. Pull-um-Ball reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: Phil Heath： LOADING! + Dr. Sunny Andrews UNREAL Shape + Oksana Grishina UPDATE! [xP-ZOI7H3hM].txt ===

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbar today is Monday, July 12th, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. For the most part, we really don't have a lot of rivalries between superstars and bodybuilding today like we did in the past, but I will say this, even though Kairine and Phil Heath are now both allegedly retired, all of a sudden the rivalry between these two has become one of the most entertaining subplots in bodybuilding. Two weeks ago we did a segment on Kai when he called down Phil after he posted those pictures of himself allegedly weighing 317 pounds. And now just a few days ago, Phil and Kai exchange a few jabes back and forth on Twitter and Instagram, which ended with Kai saying that a show down between him and Phil was basically inevitable. Now, if I'm beinGHonest, I don't think there's any way in hell that these two are going to be competing on a bodybuilding stage at the same time together again. Note to me, that doesn't make this any less entertaining. They're two of the most popular athletes of their generation and two of the biggest personalities in the industry. And at the end of the day, if more eyes are on them, it means more eyes are on everyone, which is a win-win no matter which way you look at it. For 13 weeks out from the Olympia, and as far as the figure division is concerned, most of the conversation has been focused on the four-time champ Sid Gillin up to this point that is and rightfully so. But here's the thing, outside of Sid Gillin, the only other athlete in the lineup who can say that they've been a top three finisher, buT3 straight years is Nadia Wyatt. And it doesn't seem like she has any intention of ending that streak. As always, Nadia's been flying way under the radar all year long again up until recently when she poked her head out to post a new update. Pound for Pound, Nadia is one of the toughest athletes in the division, and she's proven that over and over again. And when it's all said and done, I don't think it's just surprised anyone if she ends up giving Sid Gillin all should get handled. I know they say that you should always be careful of backing an animal into a corner because you never know how the react when they feel threatened. Like to a certain degree, you almost need to feel the same way about Oxana, Grishina, heading into the start of her contest season. Because for all intents and purposes, she's got her back up against the wall right now. Even though she retired, then unretired and then came back to compete at the Olympia again last year. They never really felt like she had enough firepower to slow down Missy Trusscott. So now that she's had a full offseason to focus on gettinGHerself right, this has to be the time. It's now or never because Missy goes back to back at the Arnold Analympia again, its game over Oxana is up against the corner now and the whole fitness world is waiting to see how she'll respond. I know the whole suns out guns out things overused and it's a cliche, but in this case, I think it's okay to bring it back because you can make a good argument for sunny Andrews having more weapons than anyone else in the world's division right now. And she started her prep a few weeks ago, sunny has been all gas and no breaks and there's a certain aura of confidence coming out of her camp now that wasn't there at the start of the season. In some ways, having to fight in a few more battles to earn her qualification than some of the other athletes in the division did work in her favor because it forced her to stay dialed in. And at the end of the day, having that mental advantage could end up being the thing that puts her over the top. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day of the Lumberal Reminding which always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Pj Braun Training Back At Bev's Powerhouse [ZCC0RYmSVIM].txt ===

水水水水水水水- taa 唱 词风 turbulThat's spicy來策略什麼彩辣PJ Ramen

=== FILE: Portgual Pro Recap! ｜ Recap Wednesday ｜ Muscle in the Morning (7⧸21⧸21) [Gax921yu7Lk].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Wednesday, July 21st, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we are coming to you live from the ARX muscle studios with another jam-packed edition of Recap Wednesday, and we're starting off our coverage today with a recapt of the Portugal Pro. In the men's open, Italy's Andrea Presti delivered his all-time best, and the judges rewarded him with a well deserved win, and the first Olympia qualification of his career for his efforts. In the two 12 Brazil's Lucas Whalo was dominant from the Minidistaft on stage, and now it looks like he could be a potential top 10 Olympian this October to de-keep it up. In classic physique, our pre-show favorite Jose Maria Muarte, we're a very aka the metal man to care business to keep his win streak intact, and in then's physique, Felipe Franco, that we've been talking about lately, crews to an easy win. In women's bodybuilding rushes and Estasia, Leonardo da Liviter's strong performance on the way to collecting the first win of her career, and in women's physique another one of our pre-show favorites, Danny Castillo returned to the podium again after pulling together the best look that we've seen from her. In figure, Rea Gale continued her strong 2021 campaign by securinGHer first win of the season, and in fitness, Finland's Minna Pajolati, punch her ticket back to the Olympia stage with the big win, and finally we're wrapping up our coverage here with Christina Runeauer, who ended up takinGHome the top spot in bikini. If you were down in Tijuana last weekend, hopefully you had a chance to swing over to the hotel real, because we had some of the best classic physique athletes in the business, putting their talents on display. But at the end of the day, with the big story here was Mike Summerfield who brought in his all-time best on the way to earning a convincing win and another well-deserved trip back to the Olympia stage. Germany's Eurs Colisinski looked great in his second place ever here, as he managed to edge out a strong performance from Brazil's Julio Ballastrin de Fretis, fourth place went to Mexico's own Jorge Luis Gorrano, Galegas, and rookie Tom Connelly rounded out this solid top five group in his pro debut. We've been a nut. We actually had three pro shows here in the US last weekend too, and the first one, upon our dock, and today is the Republic of Texas Pro, and men's physique Andre Lincoln came saw and conquered in his season debut, bringinGHim the best look of his career, and I think to a certain degree, reestablish himself as a legitimate title contender. Another strong effort from veteran Jason Winne was enough to earn him the runner-up spot here, and Nick Koe put together his best effort of the season to earn a top three finish. The biGHeadline in the bikini division came from second year pro to Rajahil. Who's going to the Olympia again after delivering another fantastic effort. Second place went to the goat, Aaron Stern as she continued her quest to make it to the bikini Olympia stage for the first time, and perennial Olympian Chris Bahades rounds out the top three, if the putting together a solid effort to start her season. This year's annual Battle of the Desert went down out in Baker's field California last weekend, and when the dust finally settled rookie Shoshana Karins, found herself as the last woman standing as she clenched the win and an Olympia qualification in her pro debut. Second place, finisher Jessica Delias put together her best effort of the season, which gave her the slight edge over eventual third place finisher Benaya Augusti. Fourth place went to Sierra Swan who collected her third straight top five finish to the season, and the dangerous one at Kaley, Howdy Shell, rounded out this strong top five group. And finally, we're wrapping up the busiest contest coverage weekend of the year so far with the lender Murray Pro, and we're starting with classic physique where Brady King managed to earn the first win of his pro career in impressive fashion. Clarence McSpade and continued his hot streak in men's physique, re-cruised to another easy win, while in women's body building LaDon McDay pulled it all together to finally earn her first win of the season. And we're wrapping things up with our coverage here with the figure division and your winner, Lola Montez, who looked as good as ever after a two year layoff. And that does it at the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Pro Strongman Brad Dunn Sings the National Anthem at 2011 America's Strongest Man [MuBhbaUlWIM].txt ===

Bring me here. brave who stand for me and the Holy

=== FILE: Pro Strongman Scott Weech sets World Record in Axle at 2011 America's Strongest Man [q-CkSn1YOR4].txt ===

You have to do it! Take your grip on!

=== FILE: RAFAEL BRANDAO STILL PUSHING! Muscle in the Morning (6⧸26⧸18) [3hiyiDTURCY].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Day of Volumbo and today is Tuesday June 26th, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Man for man, the classic physique division might be the tightest top six race that we see the entire Olympia weekend, especially if Danny Eugen drops in to crash the party. The second year pro is coming into this year's contest, writing a hot streak, after putting together three insane performances at the start of the year, which includes a highlight reel win that he had back at the fit pro world. Over the last month or so we've seen Eugen start to turn it on and take on more of that championship form that he had a few months ago and given how close some of these guys are at the top of the lineup, if one or two people come in, a little off their mark, it leaves room for a guy like you and into slide in there and capitalize on the opportunity. The older I get, the more I start to realize that some of us are pack animals, while some of us are more like the lone wolf. And I think classic physique stand out Ryland McDool might fall into the latter category. Over the weekend the McDool camp busted out of their long silence with the new shoulder trening clip that features the 2017 top 8 Olympia finisher, earning some good ult, sweat equity. It's been a relatively quiet year on the whole front so far for the second year pro, who really just exploded onto the scene last year when he won the Vancouver pro. But now that we're finally starting to see signs of life, I'd be on the lookout for a Ryland McDool siding coming sometime soon as he tunes up for the Olympia. The young guys in the office tell me that at crew technology, his popular unsoulful media these days. And if there's one guy who can tell you firsthand what crew technology looks like right now, it's emerging to 12 powerhouse on my DELSA Donnie. The oxygen gym product was seen smashing another leg workout out of his home base last week. Where he's apparently been putting together the first phase of this year's offseason program. Elsa Donnie made some noise back at last month to New York pro when he came out and held his own against a pretty solid group of athletes in the 2012 lineup. So if they can keep that crew technology working on overdrive and come back with a few new weapons in his arsenal, he's someone to watch out for in the early part of the next year. The boxing world was buzzing last week after news broke that the Andre Wilder and Anthony Joshua had finally agreed to a fight that will unify the heavyweight division for the first time in three decades. But if you want to see a real brawl, my suggestion would be to tune into the men's physical Olympia this year. Because there are a lot of people out there who think that Andre Ferguson might be bringing the thunder. Less than 12 weeks out now from his return trip to the Olympia stage, the hottest athlete in the men's physical division looks like he's ready to take things up another level as phase two of its preparation prepares to take off. I don't think there should be any question as to whether or not Ferguson is ready for the challenge because what he's done over the last 18 months in the division has been flat out incredible, but unless he can top all that off with a title that secures his place in the record books, they'll still have to answer questions about whether or not he's got enough of the tank to be considered one of the all-time grades. One of the things that always seems to motivate the great ones is the fear of being outworked. And this year I haven't seen too many athletes working as hard as Raphael Brandeo. A few weeks after ripping off another strong top six performance at the Dallas Europa from dropping off another race. Franca is still out there putting in the lonGHours that the office bright nearly yesterday morning with a little bit of chest and shoulder action. Over these last six weeks it feels like Brandeo has made it his personal mission to hit every show on the calendar and to his credit he's been pretty every show on the calendar and he's been on stage. But if you can find a way to push his body just a little bit more and really choose his next move carefully he has a shot to finally punch his ticket to the Olympia stage that he's been chasing all season long. And that does it if you had another edition of Muscle in the morning on day polimbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: RAMY READY FOR SPAIN？ HMR (10⧸5⧸20) [mM3d96vh7Pg].txt ===

10th and 9th You're my and our Who? They're ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the truth But we can't be Lombon Chris Asito Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle What are you? What's up? Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio on Dave Palombo and I'm joined as always By the technician Restucito on this What is it? A tober tenth No, October 1 5th 2020 Wow It's the fifth and it's almost midnight And tonight I'm awake Usually I'm like Yeah, I know it's too Very awake when I started talking to you I don't know why Maybe because How can you look so good on camera Like you have to I know you have to probably the oldest web Cam of all time. How come you're You want me that webcam? Oh, okay, that's great It's probably 10 years old Yeah, yeah Looks good It's looking Still holding it You're the microphone You're about me Yeah I want to make sure we have to high quality Production quality Now Obviously we have some shows coming up Soon this weekend We hear a lot of hype Now around the big rammy tren You know, I didn't realize But I forgot Rammy is qualified for the Olympia So he didn't really need to do this show But I have a feeling that You know, because of his less than spectacular performance Earlier in the year at the Arnold How's hEQualified? I don't know, he's he's there I got it Well, he's not qualified for the Olympia He is. I'm going to show you. I'm going to prove it to you Then they changed thEQualifications I don't know how they did it But the top three, previously at the Arnold It was at least last year was not A qualification for the Olympia This is the this is the Olympia qualifications These are the things Let's look at this hold on It's I'm looking at the wrong glass So it's Branding curry William Bonac Heidi Schuppen, Dexter Jackson Rue Winkler, Phil Heath Sadrick Nathan Deascher, Juan Morrell Okay, they're right. He's not there James Lewis, Flex Lewis, Huntal Abrada Ian Valier, Lee Sung-Tool Antoine Valyant Yeah, so he's not Arnold, I saw him in the point He was that's why I saw it. He's third in points There he's third in points So I guess he figures he's got at least get some more points To make sure you know, because people Them start scoring points at these upcoming shows So Max Charles is the number one point Getter, Lucas Ossoville second Rami is tied for third with on win Rue Winkler and Steve Kuklo, Justin Rodriguez And that next couple slots So I'm sure we're going to see a lot of these guys Competing probably so Sergio is only seven Is Sergio competing? No he's not doing anything So he's not going to even try to get qualified for the Olympia? Yeah Why not? Because he had his qualification in By doing the Arnold Australia one week later And that was could put he would'vEQualified there on your own And then you know when you have your mind Your strategy set sometimes When you push off your you know your plan You don't want to take your second plan Had he been havinGHas even having trouble staying focused IMean, or he's been trening No he's he looks good he's big IMean, so he's just basically taking the euro Yeah, taking the euro Take it well taking take in probably until the Arnold if they have the Arnold they're going to have the Arnold The Arnold people didn't think so Well at least Tony Dardy didn't think so No I'm not coming yet. Just coming yet March Which is right Well Tony said in in Australia they probably wouldn't have it I'm sure the USA people will have it Yeah How do we know I don't know why I guess it's really hard to predict Chris because we don't really understand Because thesEQuarantines are not going away IMean people still get in COVID And it seems like the getting COVID is not really the Scary part. It's like the after of math like you get over it And then all of a sudden you just get in blood clots And we are you know crazy shit happening I did see it's really study though It was done on an anesthetol system which is a precursor to glutathione And they found that it was like really good at like getting people over the Symptoms of disease Lessening the effects of like the if you have any kind of like us her What's it called? Fibrosis in the lungs It reduced that Now I take injectable glutathione every day because I get it from Titan Medical Center.com And you know I'm a big boy You know it's funny because Robbie Robinson told me that he takes School of the ion injectable. I don't even know he's been doing it since the 70s Like you know he gets you know California can get all that Cookies stuff out there Even before it was that anyone else knew about it And I feel good. I don't really get sick since I've been taking it I think I think it helps my immune system quite a bit But they just released a really a full blown study on it I'm going to do a little set our muscle supplement in science On it later this week to give people the full the full The full brunt of what it is about but it definitely is helpful. Now obviously since Trump got the COVID Think out of my memory from what I understand my inside source This Chris tells me that he's on every like modality You can't evolve. I know that's an inside source But yeah, you can't evolve to it is right everyone can figure it out I know they can Yeah, but it was the show you can figure out who is inside source Yeah, he's on the whole like as it's a Ramias in you know hydroxy chloroquine zinc Oh, they got a mic. That's how I was going to make fun of him actually And say just get on the hydroxy Yeah, he's on that they also got him on a monoclonal antibody So what they're doing is they get people's blood who's had the The disease and who have antibodies against it and they're using the antibodies That from their blood and they're using that against it and people who have active cases of it I don't know how it happened Well, it's see this the science seems pretty solid on it, you know, but in theory But usually sometimes in theory doesn't really work in reality unfortunately So if it worked 100% of the time we would have a cure for it Obviously, it's not in some people it does help supposedly and another people it does it And which tells me that it's Maybe it's not doing anything. I don't know Yeah, you know, that's a perfect summation day What you just said those three sentences because when I had melanoma I went to a very well known melanoma doctor and he used the melanoma cells from people Oh, okay, and I asked him should I do it? Does it work and he gave me the same explanation of view? He said some people have cancer. They just get better some people get you know We give them tons of drugs and they get better some people give tons of drugs and they die some people You know what IMean? Yeah, at the end of the day, we don't even we still don't know wEQuickly speculate Right Trump is so stubborn and such a bullish believer in his own rhetoric that he he'll probably get over I think he'll be there Yeah, well, you know a part of the bomb. Yeah, he'd probably never got it He'd be dead. Oh, seconds because he's so frail. IMean this fat is Trump is right. He's still energetic and yeah Yeah, and And robust yeah, he'd be like fuck he's probably like fuck this COVID. I'll fucking beat it Yeah, yeah, it's like remember and I think there was a was there was a Teddy Roosevelt Who was the president? I think it was Rosa. That was it who was AI think it was Teddy Roosevelt had like a he got shot someone Try to kill him and he had his like pair glasses and his like pocket here. Yeah, it was the bullet hit the thing So he was bleeding a little bit, but he wasn't it didn't ever punch. It really never went deep I think it's a continued the speech of the blood running that of like the show. There's a real red blood in America I didn't know that story. Yeah, but I but We'll see as Trump will say we'll see what happens. IMean, what do you think is going to happen? I think he's going to be over. Yeah, quickly Um, I don't know. That's a you know thEQuestion is will he become incapacitated when they would actually have to like have the vice president step in and take over for a few weeks I don't know that that would not be good not right before an election. I don't think Yeah, well, IMean, he's he's you know, he's sideline from runninGHis election for the next 10 days Probably it's good way to get out of the next the beta. Yes, right? Yeah Yeah You see you went for a little torch tonight Of Um, no, he went as SUV and hands. Oh, yeah, I think I think he's doing that you know you Remember this I can only get quite it to you remember the soprano to do watch it What? No, no, no, it was a Tony soprano I had not not all of you. He had had a hard attack or something. I don't even know what happened I forgot you got somethinGHappened to him and he was not and so you wanted it when he was coming back He wanted to let everyone know that he stole was in charge So he had to be the correct get to beat the crap out of someone like you know and just to let the guys know that hey I'm not fucking weak. I'm not like there's no there's no there's no vulnerability here You know, exactly It's just like Trump. He had to go in his he had to go on a little tour of the letter when I I'm still here guys You know, don't pull this crap with me Yeah, it was Teddy Roosevelt time just looking it up 1912 assassination attempt When you when you get that from high school I remember from my head. Yeah, I learned a lot of high school Yeah, I know you did Roosevelt was shot at close range by John Shrank a psychotic New York Saloon keeper Shrank had his 38 galber pistol aimed at Roosevelt's head but a bystander so the gun and the selected shanks arm just as the trigger was pulled how funny is that People on try to kill the president anymore. I'm glad That was like a right thing to do that all the time make them yeah, whoa, it's a number one way to get you know Right attention Roosevelt didn't realize that he was hit until someone noticed the hole in his overcoat When Roosevelt reached inside his Cody found blood on his fingers He was extremely lucky out over. He had a manuscript out there I didn't know this is I had the wrong story, but it's similar outcome He had the manuscript of a long 50 page speech that his co-pocket folded into and the bullet no doubt was slowed as it passed through it He also had a steal oh he did have a spiel still spectacle case that is pocket and the bullet Traverse this two before entering Roosevelt's chest near the right nipple Thus one could say Roosevelt's long-winded in my open. IMight be a saved The bullet trap traveled abouT3 inches after breaking the skin it lies in the chest wall without entering the plural space How funny is that They didn't have alguva thigh on the he was a driver eight days in a chicago hospital And he was discharged on October 23rd 1912 only a few days before the election. How funny is that maybe they're coincidental with the Trump Maybe Trump will get out a couple days before too The bulletin effectively stop Roosevelt's campaign There you go. Similarities like the Kennedy Lincoln the bolt had never it was never removed because no difficulty after the room to yield So I get he lost the election He lost the Woodrow Wilson right in even not any lost that election You know it's interesting because he beat Teddy Roosevelt became president when the Kennedy was shot He was his vice president. Yeah, one month to the other It's crazy people was getting shot all the time back I Think I think no good does secret service back there It's really I think all right. Let's talk body boring big rammy He puts some pictures up on his Instagram. Let's pull these up what do you think Chris? Give me your impression first of all here's the picture Big rammy he looks scaled down So you don't think he looks as big as that what you're saying No, I think it's a mean is a video here to He looks he looks pretty big. I guess IMean his arms don't look as big as they normally do When I notice his shape looks really good, but he doesn't look that hard to me like his he doesn't have the grainy like Dorian look But I don't think rammy ever has that look does he? Well, I I don't think anyone's compared him ever to Dorian in terms of grading is what you compare him only to himself and he's been far around the than this running into shows unless this is like just to You know this could just be a game and it could be like five weeks out here or something leaks out. Yeah, we don't know we never Rammy is not only is like an enigma. He's the only guy that we don't really get accurate information on you know that knows that And I don't know if that's him doing it or if it's actually You know his people doing release these ambiguous You know updates what's on his Instagram True, but I would have to imagine that's pretty recent What doesn't the right you wrote Spain can't wait But that doesn't mean anything like you said yeah, yeah, I guess that it's some weeks out and He probably looks far better than that and it's trying to be a bulls of people It look as possible I Hope you know that in that is it is that is yeah, this is so the show is the aliconti Spain show we're talking about Hopefully Chris is still talking just which is a week out and I hope they just that we get herEQuickly before Spain goes on the lockdown because I have different parts of different parts of Europe and blah blah You know come all just flew from Turkey to the US You can't fly from Turkey to the US anymore because that was a strategy to get people to Not just buy bills, but get how do you get to the US? You go to Turkey quarantine below that Well he had to go two weeks you know I just said if he had two weeks and then like the US now you can't come I guess too much COVID I'm not sure And I think they've the local froze so he's probably trying to look for different people running into the show so You got double gig up there now. I like it. There's two of you up there. Yeah, not as long. I got to get rid of the the NASA one Everyone liked my NASA impressions. I did AI did a show with Tom Prince you saw that and then Milo I didn't see that show, but I you did the NASA impressions last week Well I did that I did better ones like Tom Prince in You know we did the Tom Prince interview and it was very popular two-parter and Tom said you know Tom's wanting to participate more on our muscle size. Did you sure? You know I love your insights and love stories So I got him out with Milo. So we talked about trening We had all the segment on trening people haven't seen it. This is two-parter up and then we did store funny stories from like the past And I heard stories that I had never heard before there were really really funny like you know Milo has told the story and we put it up we collected separately so if you guys want to listen to it It's it Ron Ronnie him and Alcuguroli and That was the It was the guy from into the dragon is that actor. He's just trening called Venice. What is his name? Bolo You know who the guy was Chris is probably trened about the primary room of Stay over in Hong Kong together eating IMean doing some appearance some like the probably a weater appearance And they were eating at this place Tom wasn't there. This is Milo's telling us to her Milo's Ronnie Alcuguroli So Alcuguroli eating and Milo said I ordered a chicken salad and I get the chicken salad And he's like doesn't look like chicken in me And I realized it was all it was all just chicken skin and the fact and you know I could I could relate to Excellent I went to Hong Kong they think it's a delicacy when they when you order like chicken and something that it's They give you the you know the stuff that we cut off and throw in the garbage That's the stuff that eat I don't know where the good stuff is going because you can't get the you can't get the actual breast meat They're I don't know where they send me that stuff to but they all eat the gristle That's they find that appetizing for some reason That's like a delicacy there so Milo's is like this is terrible and he said so Milo starts talking at no one speak everyone speaks like a different language And Milo's probably speaks the most languages of anyone there So Milo's is able to like talk to someone and I don't even know what language he was trying to talk at guy You could do the Milo's impression. I don't do the Milo's impression Yeah, yeah Milo's is tryinGHe's like what what are we eatinGHere So the guy tells him that Ronnie whatever Ronnie's gobble you know Ronnie when he gets into eatinGHe's just gobbling the food down, you know like like a hundred miles now Ronnie evidently is eating rat So Milo's like Ronnie you're eating rats And of course Ronnie looks up you know makes it a funny face I think Alq goes into the bathroom to throw up and Ronnie just keeps eating You know so I'm sure Ronnie was probably like man this rat is great. I don't have rat like this Ronnie probably put 10 miles a muscle on from from being that rat And okay, I like I said more more can't see now Yeah, I can't see rest of it so so Ronnie did the Eighth of rat Milo's didn't even I don't think Milo said anything of that Milo Probably had the Desert of some like that and Alq threw up so I am this is different countries different delicacies There was another great story that I told this I think I told you story on the phone But I don't think I told this on the radio show but NASA Tom Prince were in and in Milo's too. I think they were giving out gifts like the kids under privileged kids for weater in California someplace So the Congresswoman of the area she has showed up And she's like wanted to go up and you know say thank you to these guys, you know Thank you very generous you guys to give out toys and Christmas whatever the Unbrivileged kids and you know NASA took that as a as a lead in like to you know because NASA would hit on like any girl went around like that they've didn't matter So NASA was hitting on this they like we couldn't believe it NASA was hitting on this Congresswoman he's like trying to give in like number and you know like Talking stuff I said of course he wise they're like what do you get it? I said NASA probably was playing the old intellectuALCARd on that oh yes Congresswoman I I'm so it's what a breath of fresh air to have a conversation an intellectual conversation with you with I'm I don't want these guys to hear me but I'm with these more ones you know they don't even graduate high school these guys you know They probably if they don't do bodybuilding they work in a garbage dump But I you know I speak eight languages and IMean to intellectual I go to college and I have these very nice classes on to you know why don't we get they wanted to give you my phone number I give you your phone I will take you out you know for for dinner oh yeah we will go for a good food and then we will go back to my place And I will have sex with you right Was with me losin and Tom Prince Tom's like you can you would not believe NASA did not was relentless on I said I believe it I say seen them in action And then meales tell the story about that That NASA and had invited him to go out to dinner with his mother Now yes, NASA's mother but either they were in Europe or NASA's mother came to visit him in the United States I'm not sure I don't remember what it was and NASA's mother is is Serbian like like meales is NASA's father was the Egyptian So I went out to dinner. He's like a meales he's like I'm a ask my mother you know he's to get that smart guy That's face like you're the guy going in one dark that ask my mother His one woman enough for for a man Husker and you know meales is like you know And as I did if you had the uncomfortable you're asking you I thought I was going to ask you mother Meales ask her You know he's like Aggie you're my semelis doesn't know what the fuck's going on so he's like Miss an insurbing you know I said it's probably a lot's funny insurbing to insurbing like Miss his NASA whatever you know else about but What do you think about women yeah, IMean it is one woman enough for the first for a man Not for my NASA no no no One woman could never have satisfied him Exhibited right meales now I understand NASA's whole problem right right up the bat You got NASA's whole shit because he was raised by His mother thinks that he needs more than one woman satisfied him because he's such a great me so great right He's a yeah He's an intellectual and a lover I see meales. I How would you not like laughing your ass off because I goes I was I didn't know what to do I didn't know what to say I didn't even want to ask of thEQuestion he said Oh, NASA's IMiss him That was that was good some and there was a lot of other good stories too I don't want to give more way watch the episode tremendous really tremendous Also news from my our good friend Roman Fritz You know I know Romans since he's I think 18 or 19 which makes me feel really old He's used you know 30 He's got to be old in that I would think right it's gonna be this thing mid 30s That's Roman Isn'togram there and Roman that told me that he's you need to double hip place when I think He's got no cartilage left at his hips Like a hose I'm just promptly from trening and probably it's got to be a component of Bogenetics and there too like you know and IMean like like if you're prone to that because you know We know people that have no problems with you know hips and they've trened hardcore their whole life Yeah, they've squatted forever Yeah, yeah Yeah, let me a video come squatted at 60 or something like that. Do you see that? No, I did he's gone he's doing some workout like work on his own crazy it on this I think at 60 Wow, this links is still big and peel Yeah, I imagine they probably are so good luck I don't know when Romans getting a surgery that I told him get it he can't even get out of bed. He told me he's just not much pain You know We're none of us none of us are immune we're all IMean when I saw Ronnie Coleman you told us surgery I thought I felt Ronnie would escape with nothing I think he'd be trening to tell the way he's trening out of police 90 Yeah, I really believed it. Yeah, what you were wrong about that. No, I was absolutely wrong about that I'm sorry I was a bread. IMean because everyone thought he was IMean his title to his video is VCR whatever it was Invincible yeah, and we thought he was Right yeah I got told I said he was unbreakable. That's what I said. Yeah, I hope I got to pull this Tom Plads video up here. This is crazy Look at this one to Chris He looks like it those legs still This is so amazing We talking about guys that when they're in their you know 50s and sick. This is a 65 They can't have big legs bulls it When I when I imagine in 87 he had that crazy black convertible that Mm-hmm. It was the only thinGHe liked better than body building I think was that bad It was it was gorgeous Do you see what is he has this thing uh It's 65 my response to Charles food the Charles's wife food suggestions plus the best tasting protein shake once a day My 28-ounce shaker only recipe coconut ice cream one level scoop two to three raw egGHoll eggs And try added one tablespoon of raw honey today now. I'm not sure if it's manuka honey from George Farah Honeybee colony, but it it does say one tablespoon of honey in there. That's as I just shake it every day You know what's crazy How He 65 65, yeah, so when IMet him in 87 We're gonna have to keep this that's crazy for 65. That's crazy Right I don't know if this might not be from 60 this might be Hold on Marks on is that leg extension yeah It's the same green yeah probably called he loved the call that that that that I think he's got it follows McLash far left 1982 85 86 I That's this this these these build awards So when I I was just saying when IMet in my 87 he's probably like 20 he was probably like only 32 which means he'd been at the Olympia's already for 83 I think like 20 like as well He was in this hayday and his late 20. Yeah He made a lot of money That's during that period. Yeah, I think he was very popular to talk to him He used to use a tram and let me wear he's still popular. I bet he still gets a lot of books you know stuff in seven hours of all those now with COVID I don't think anyone's doing anything but So thEQuestion is getting back to the original question yeah Rami What's your predict your you're pretty good with predictions what your prediction is ramming at him Go in and and decimate Spain or is he gonna go in and lose to someone I think it looks like that a week out he might be a big trouble really I don't really know who's in the lineup. I don't know the whole of Breeding grimzes in the lineup. I know In the lineup because if you're judging the show your expectation is like Gigantic right you do okay. Let's just do this. Do you think he's 300 there? Now 255 right So IMean last show he was three 15 or three 10 or three or whatever so You know That doesn't look like 300 pounds so in other words what I'm saying is judges judge you based on what you have looked like So there may be a let down factor there But is there anyone in this lineup who's who's got enough to knock it man? That's thEQuestion I guess what I have to see you know, you know, I'm I'm surprised we're not seeing and I and maybe we will I don't know Because I this God forbid they release a List of holistic competitors like like a couple like a week out, you know, but Why wouldn't hot he's shooting do this show he's qualified No, but why I'm sayinGHe might not be he's probably can't go he might not be able to get to the Olympia He should definitely do his show or though, you know IMean why would you do a show when you you if your goal is you know I'm sure he's He has to be getting ready for it. Oh, yeah, but he gets here or not He's getting ready for it. Yeah, so why why waste the You know the energy you know because this is like what can we tell from the Olympia? IMean it's it's hard to like okay Yeah, I just peeked with Spain. I'm gonna redo it again in weeks Right, what do you do you like like you wake up or yeah, you know you're playing with your microphone No, it's my chance Well, I I would I you know if ramming loses that's gotta be IMean if you lose this someone especially who's like a guy like a second to your guy, you know right now That would be like a huge blow to my would think yeah Rock for Brandeo that picture you sent me you look great Yeah, looks better than ever I want to pick him up with that picture Some of you too. I sent you a last bread in the front double No, I didn't you know I didn't even to be honest with you. I didn't even recognize him. He looks so you're I said to someone else to and they said who's that? I just you know, but we haven't seen him also what was the last time we lose on stage? Arnold when he was six the thing or You know maybe he did a couple shows after that oh Arnold Brazil when he was second to one Yeah, maybe yeah, yeah, that's a while ago, right? Yeah, but that's not the same body that was competing a year or year and a half ago He looks what is he right here, Chris? 258 Wow, that's a lot that's a lot of weight he put on huh? He's he's tall IMean though because he was what he was in the Arnold he was 250 so You know IMean when he looked really good at the Arnold that year Yeah, I think he was 250 but eight pounds on you know that structure right I'm impressed I know you'd be impressed look at the vlogs on what's his Instagram I don't even know Rafae I don't know because I taxed his I taxed him million I tagged a fan I just tried to tag someone he's got like 400 people that adds the accounts on me I know I know and someone I saw a tag someone and they go you're not even tagging tagging them I don't even want to tag anymore because I'm not anything I'm tagging the right person I'll find Because he t tagged me on something That was me We've got for big my phone goes too close to the microphone you know I don't even know what is his state believe it about he said I don't keep all What is this one we got? That's tonight again so Can you get it up there people like you get it up there yeah, all right people up with the high tech I should have put it up before What is the what is the grant what is this spoof just show call the grant pretty spanned Spain Pro show I call it The Europa you're you're right then to make a complicated the Europa championships Is it the Europa the Europa you know, I don't think it's our Europa. Oh, it's Europe Europa Yeah, it's not the free zoes Europa No Got a kind leg in right double up got a little good by the time to get get that up there There'll be some really good European guys some sure it's not gonna be a cake walk for ram because the damn sure Let's pull this up looking like that If he does look like that IMean Raphael is not as big as obviously ram me But he definitely brings ridiculous conditioning and the test is count for something you know Yeah, well, who's it who is this big is really been signed rolly Yeah, we I'm surprised we will we see like a really winked on there No, we're least probably I don't know but I don't know why these guys wouldn't want to warm up it means been a long year Because it's been a long year. IMean how many people every a lot of people have their Prep interrupted in some way shape of one yeah, there are areas maybe not people getting ready Because it will be a little bit qualified to lump here at nine by good shot Yeah, I'd like to see bigger legs on them. I'm kidding I'm always jealous of the guys that have the huge like tear drops. Yeah, well, yeah I see that in a lot in the the middle eastern guys we talked about that. I'm gonna say that. Yeah, well we talked about it. Yeah, but He's got good well, I guess you know The Brazilians have good likes to you got the front double on that now come on. Would you stop? I only uploaded one amount of plumbing on them I like this shot. I thought let's not totally priests go fund me campaign. What do you think about that? You're very you were very negative when I talked about it because lead priest would be very negative for any other body See think he's you think he's full of crap He's driving around and we're sick people don't like it. I was driving around people don't like All right, see if we're talking about the lead priest the neck and operation in stem cell treatment Go fund me trying to raise a hundred thousand he's goT4 two hundred already So people some people are outraged by it some people are you know fans supporters. I see this a lot of people don't any Actually they're not supporters if they're only bees on the race or grand Yeah people cheap to then and plus this these are tough times right now least least least I guess rhetoric on this is his take on this is look Every all these fans want me to compete, okay? It's gonna be a lot of money I'm gonna have to pay out of my pocket if I want to compete because I got to get the surgery I got to leave the country to do that. I got to get stem cell treatment as part of the process and then I got it You know then I got to prep you know buy all my stuff. I need to get ready for the show So and travel so he's like you know I figured you know what if they really want me to do it I'll do it if the fans get behind me and I raise the money and if they don't raise if they don't get the money I don't meet my goal. I think he said he needed really needs about 50 if he gets 50 he'll be happy He said I found I'll just refund everything I said they're right well then that that's reasonable. They're gonna refund it if you don't compete I guess that's that's a that's a you know I guess if it's if the fans want to pay it why not When these when these billionaires Chris go and buy buildings you did they use their own money? Of course not no of course not they use other people's money they use their own no variety to raise the money And to get people behind the project So at least kind of do the same thing. I can still Is there an expectation but yeah, but then people these the fans want to see the on stage It's not least I go and out and take in the money and buyinGHouse They have not they don't want to see my stage because he's only raised for you right if he doesn't raise the money now I guess you're right they don't want to see him on saves out badly So what point does he decide to start refunding the full grant? I don't know it's good question Oh It's an all in all and I'm as he can have yeah He said he wouldn't take the money if if he doesn't compete so Well if he doesn't reach a certain amount Why yeah, I said I said how much do you really how much do you really need? I said you know He's probably about 50 like I could do it with 50 I said that right well So if the reaches 50 grand is the only gonna tren half as hard for the show or now if he gets 50 grand that'll be enough to get him I guess through and he's you know and he'll do the show He'll get the surgery well first of you get to get the surgery Which they got to do some kind of release and of the nerve and they say they want to give them stem cells to help the nerve regenerate But there's still no guarantee that he'll be up the brain you know get that that feeling back and and the I get to He has some nerve and pinch impingements Where it's preventing the muscle from firing properly so he's got some asymmetry to his body But we can always get what's his name the Jimmy him up you know catch you know If necessary right before you get some stage he wants to compete again He does I think Lee legitimately does want to get back on stage you know and and one more time And He's frustrated because you know he It wasn't like he heard himself in the gym. It was a car accident, you know And it cut us you know cut us for sure short you know and I think he realizes that you know somethinGHe'd take things for granted you know he was you know He was He was on top of his game and that's when he got kicked out of the IPB so to make a weird comments and then Anyone of doing that that nava universe that he won Which he might have looked the best he ever looked that show So Many didn't compete for a couple years so You know you kind of squandered away the the best years of his career He when he was at his peak of his powers So I think you know no one happens you kind of regret that a little never admit that but You know maybe well now that when I get on the TV show He'll tell me if it's true or not and You know I think he wants to try one more time, you know see what he's got I don't think he's I don't think he's deludinGHimself with a thinking that he'll be as good as he was at his best But he wants at least try to come back and see what he couldn't What he can deliver I guess at 50 years old For close to it. I don't think he's 50 Well, you know Two or models of their more 50 yeah, I got the interviewing this week Justin Miller you know my friend Justin He's trening this guy It's his name Who's looks I showed you his picture you were pretty impressive But put Austin car Yeah, Austin car K.A.R.R He's five foot eight to 17 Right now. Oh, that's he's got to make two twelve he'll be at that show In Chicago which is really in Atlanta. I think that's the show he's doing So the show is on 17 days out must be yeah, so he's doing this. You got he looks really good. You know he looks really really good so We'll see how he does he might surprise a lot of people. He might be a dark horse guy in that two twelve division I think he'll do well if he won't be he's talking about Tom Platt's legs, right? Oh, yeah Crazy is what Crazy is we can go to shoulder wet, you know on the horizontal Yeah So IMean his condition in the he's in very good condition as well So it's just they're gonna be like side by side and of Justin like to do the interviews like right next to that Why I told Justin come on because Justin I like to hear Justin's hold the whole thing Oh, they want to be side that's right. They social distancing Who knows you know Justin does these stuff for real he's got he's got the George Peterson there There's an house, you know, let me pull up Austin car here. There we go Even more impressive the second time I see him. Oh, he's got this in really many weaknesses yeah Doesn't look at he's looking to tell him about Tom Platt's legs yeah, quite a superb Go back to that one table yeah Oh, go to the go to the one right there where you can see the back Open that up bigger Get a little bigger IMean he's got glutes got hands got thick back. Yeah, we got it's Very impressive so What am I on the cover game next issue how's that I'll put him I I'll give him a contract tell him we'll make him a star You're always making everyone a star Yeah, he won't let you forget about it either right now Nathan is star. Now that was his stick that was his that the heavy got people on stage. That was it How we got people on the To do his magazine We'll make his star Isn't it true though Chris everybody molded when they compete they they want to hear though at least back when we werecompeting You wanted to hear amazing publisher you wanted to hear of Tager for you wanting to hear someone like you man and tell you You're a star right IMean that you you've got potential you're gonna go all the way. IMean that That validation and it had it couldn't come from your girlfriend it couldn't come from your your best friend Had it come from like someone in the industry, you know, you could be like a like a blackman or a petamagov for Right, oh, J.M. Right. Yeah, yeah, Joe so J.M. could say like you know you got a good shot at Nationalists and winning it somebody will be like what I'm proud of not and then it was here His validation now the validation is Instagram likes right right well you notice you also you would hear like like Tom Prince Like told me when I was interviewing like Jim and he came up to me after I forget what show was and Did you got a can you got to do national's and you know when Jim and he's Jim Jim will never say like you're amazing If he says you should do national's that means that you look really good I said Jim never said that to me. I said tough He never told me how you doing David he you know he gave me compliment once which was the you know Which was amazing you know I thought after I did 94 National's Jay Cutler one I was fourth He's like, well, you know you go I don't even remember he said that he said something like you know Bring down something or work on this he says you know you couldn't want this class you know that was that was a No, that was a tremendous compliment to me so You know, but you know some of the some guys get really good compliments from Jim you get a compliment from Jim You know you you're on your way When I remember when I was helping L Evan said to Piny I think it was a 07 or something like that He played second at the Nationals behind Desmond Miller remember Desmond Yeah, that Oscar was helpinGHim and it was really close But Evan was like you know still wet behind the years Well he was shredded he just needed to work on a couple things and he won look he did win the Eleanor after and and man told I come back you know do it just Next time's your your your turn, you know the everything and I said Evan I never heard those words out of his mouth I said so take it the heart Listen to what he told and I was fighting because I was I was ever was used to hit the side try Sip in a weird way with even like hold his hand rather than like this he would hold it like this I don't know why I thought his arm looked bigger and I was yelling at him before like and you know Evan is like very you know stubborn and he's like now I think it looks better I smell it I said I'm telling you doesn't look it so and Jim goes up and he gives me the compliment because I You know very close show you could have cooked on you the way you know come back, you know next time You know look at like this known as gonna beat you and then he's like by the way he goes Who taught you how to hit that side try set he's looking at me? It wasn't me I said I told not to do it that much He's like yeah, you got to tell you hand around yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it doesn't look right you know So Jim you know Jim the great thing about Jim man and he is you know you could love more hate him But the bottom line is he's a bodybuilder first and foremost so You could never say his opinion is not valid because he actually got up there and he competed He one shows you know back in his day. Yeah, he wasn't mr. Olympia But it didn't matter he he competed so he's got the in the trenches experience as well as being a guy who's been doing it for you know Whatever 40 years out of a lonGHistory business But he competed IMean that that it it's almost like you should you should you should be required to compete don't you think like if you want to like be a judge or if you're something like that I always believe that yeah, IMean I think it's AI think it helps for sure But the flip side is let's say you know Let's say he didn't if you've been looking at bodybuilden shows for 40 years You know it's like how long's white market been a judge between the yeah, but that but that competed he was Emersed it like to My point is if you're immersed in it for 40 years You yeah, I guess Pick one through ten and are extremely high level Oh absolutely yeah, but you can't but I'm saying sometimes it's hard to give advice to people if you're not actually doing it yourself like How to improve and what you need what you need work on what's because a lot of I've heard a lot of guy Judges tell all the time. I you're too flat you gotta come and full it no, they're not flat They just need more muscle, you know You know what I'm saying I've heard judge talk I've had people up health who I think look good Very good Chamendus and don't have enough muscle and a judge Give them an exact carpop protocol the last time And I say listen you need another At least year Goods all the trening yeah We I told that to a came in in one and for many many years and around and they didn't like it believe me But they knew I was right you know and they made the improvements They arrived finally but I've seen judge just you know I had a judge telling you once Chris that I wasn't hard enough I said I said it hard enough I said it was the hardest guy in the in the whole show I said I don't think I'm I don't think I'm I don't think I'm over stepping my balance saying that he's like well you you are but I don't know said I get I think you need to have more Separation or I don't even know what the term used was well veins I said we watch in the school we watch in the same show Yeah, that's disappointing yeah, it's good but it's good to get constructive Criticism because it hurts sometimes right when it's how yeah criticism And I've got a lot of good I've had a lot of judge to tell me good like exact on the money you know And I'm like yep you're right absolutely I definitely work on that and you're right you know so Some some some guys have it some guys don't I but I find that the judges that have competed Ten to give the best advice when you go up and talk to them afterwards I would agree with that the John Natashax Linda Woodhoates Bed Francis You know Even Jim or I call was pretty good, you know he competed too Jim Manion Steve is Steve was great because Steve was in the trenches there would be a bit of a mean in Steve tren You know he didn't compete in bodybuilding but he he would did he did everything but get on stage IMean so he knew all the new ones and These guys That's the best advice you get even Sandy Williamson competed you know people don't know she has good shit good insights sometimes But she's not really you know she's not she's more of the women's judge I'm talking about I've seen her give a critique to some of the women and I'm like yeah she's she's pretty right she's in the ball Sometimes she wasn't but sometimes she is so you You know if you're gonna be a person who wants to get involved in judging and doing that get on stage at least once just go through the process You know so you can say I did it What yeah Of course you get a guy like Bob Gross can he's a completed anomaly, you know There's no there's no explaininGHow he has such great insights just just like how did you do with them How did the William sisters get coached by their father he didn't even know he was doing no He just worked When they were you saw that it was documentary when he was Eventually they they went out just like work with the best 10th's pearl around And Bob had to take him over again and said yeah talking about It's the Venus Williams father trening them for tennis would be like Sedrick make no one treninGHis kids for tennis right he do all kinds of cocky make his own machines He'd be doing everything Yeah, they would in rackets and then he'd have years like the old wooden racket they had in the 70s He'd like man wood is much much better And these are fiberglass dad that crap, you know You gotta use wood You better but yeah the the the the the the the this brothers Vinsma sisters excuse me Father would make them do these crazy drills like throwing the tennis racket over the top of the the tennis gate Almost like you know like in the highland games they do that they throw the pole over the And people would come by and what the fricking is he doing I think he just I think it was just like He would just he would make up stuff he said like anything crazy that would involve the tennis rack Just having a better idea of the way of a good feel so the racket for the balls Juggling the balls he did him do crazy drills like The truth but you know what the truth is Chris? It's like when you see people Who can tren like oh I got Texas Jackson's shape or oh I got you know Ronnie Coleman and shape And I'm not taking anything away from the people who's done that in the past But it ain't that hard these guys did the best in the world, you know Just the idea that he He disciplined them is what he did Chris it didn't matter what he did with him. He could have had him run in fucking circles, you know Well, IMean He made them work hard so they had a work ethic that Was second to none and then the skills will come with practice, you know I think that that's my belief. I think it was the fact that he was you know I'm sure they hated his guts while he was doing it initially and totally started winning should tournaments and then winning money, you know That's a good nice inspiration, you know You know, maybe dad was actually right after all we hated him. It's got to while we were running all these drills and doing all this crazy ship and now we're making like millions, you know So But then you know then you have the fathers who do the you know the same stuff and then the kids hate they got you know They just happened to you know He made it he made it fun for them like they wanted to spend time with daddy, you know, and that's what it was you know I bet if he had sons that he did that what they would they would have told me go have himself and would have probably walked off the court weren't they in the NFL, so might that I I don't know I think they were like top picks for the NFL Yeah, I haven't followed up that story. I actually want to get John Brown on the TV show in interview I haven't had him on I want to have I want to get his insights on the home, you know Melvin told some funny stories, you know Obviously we've heard plenty of Sean race stories about John. I've talked I interviewed John years and years ago on the radio show at Muscle Development I think it was So I kind of know who you know his story, but I think I remember anything I asked him now absolutely not and no the funny thing is this industry as a whole has a memory span of maybe six months You know that I can interview the same person probably every single year and do the same interview with the samEQuestions And I would probably have more and more hits, you know And no one would say very few people say yeah, ask thesEQuestions last year already, you know Well, it's like a restaurant you know a small restaurant might have you know a couple hundred or two hundred hundred hundred fifty regulars, but they have thousands of people who come and go into their restaurant So you know people shows like this show get recycled people stop listening and they listen I'm afraid to tell the same story sometimes I'm afraid and I'm like you know I don't even know if you're in a room and it's the story so I'm out of the story tell it You probably can just like take last year's October 12 show next week And just right next week and running right October 12 yeah, that's what I'll do He was saying good job Yeah, just just a red label retidal and everything like that What else what else are going on my doc it here? So who are you helping for the upcoming show I get Raphael Let's see that's it. I get Raphael and I get Jamie DeWirgo in the Let's talk about these other divisions over that's I want to thank you for thank you for reminding It's not a list right so we'll do something No, but there's I wanted to go over the The list of the illiteratEQualifiers qualifications All right As in which shows qualifier which people arEQualified which people arEQualified All right Got it our here it is yeah, let's go for it All right, so we talked about the men's open Yeah, go to the names aren't all the exact names. Okay, so we have brand and curry William Bowenack Hotty shootin Dexter Jackson really winkler Phil Heath Setric make millen Nathan the ash are one morale Flex Lewis Hunter LeBrautah in Valier Lee sung true that was from the set the Korean pro show and Antoine Valyant who just got the the way recently The top three will go on points so far the top three right now is max Charles Lucas Osloville and Big rammy tied with on-win A lot of these points I got a change obviously over the next couple weeks because we have a lot of people you know We're gonna be competed In these upcoming shows and The people who compete the most will probably be the people who wind up going you know the other ones who get the knot Now I thought it was always top five thEQualifier on points. Maybe they change it this year I don't know now in Alaconti Spain you're gonna geT3Qualifiers. They're gonna geT3 spots So that's another three people you're gonna get another person at the Chicago and and of course you're gonna get points, but and then I don't know is there another show like break up for the end of the Olympia Yeah, there's the Romania so I think or maybe it's five or six weeks yeah, okay all right Civic that one goes off now the two 12 division thEQualified guys are come all Who's the rating champ as people know Derek Lundsford Sean Clarita John Jewett Amon Ashkenani how did Ashkenani qualify? No idea David Henry he day Yamagishi angel called her own guy sister Nino Sungwon Kim George Peterson Detric Lewis Dr. Bolus and Kim Junghup and the top three Point get is right now our Derek Osslen you've got 12 points Jason low You're guy Arrow more those are top three then you got Aaron Clark Adam Young Kevin Johnson right below them And so once again We're gonna see a lot of people competing probably and that's gonna change I just showed you a picture Car over there was gonna kill Austin car it looks like he could do some series damage and you got obviously What's the guy you helping in the 2012 Can we do a little go oh First yeah second profile yeah In the classic physique we had thEQualifier guys who arEQualified as Ricky Moton Bumsted on a mod Ali Shum's Hummer Breon Anzley already call well I didn't already could qualify what did you want you must have won something at the end of the last year Danny Hester Danny Union Wesley Vissers David Hoffman, the Ross Rebar Terence Ruffin San again in Jose Marie Boopari Onosel Lane Alcabranero Christophe hunt Myon Goo Park and Deontre Campbell divine Wilson Logan Franklin we have a lot of people here Song J. Pille Peter Schalfo, Scalo excuse me and Sun-Jun Ham So we got a lot of them and then the top three point getters are Jose Marti Jonathan Hamburg your guy And why George Peterson was to this top point getter when he's already qualified He want to try I think they did not fade this so Supposedly up there, but Peter said his qualifier is It's a big lineup enough in the classic yeah Oh I see coquote He's doing two twelve years, okay, so he had points but that's the relevant So yeah, it's very big lineup The classic might be the most competitive of the whole 100% Now you know you talk to Jay at a real base Yeah, that does mean IMean I IMight most competitive meeting a lot of people can move into different spots like you know Yeah, IMight not be that top five don't be surprised if these five guys Not replace those yeah Also don't forget we didn't mention but you know Kian Pearson will be doing The two twelve So we're gonna see him and Chicago up against Austin Carr and a couple other great guys It looks like Chicago is turning out to be even though it's gonna mean Chicago It's gonna land it look like it's turning out to be a really good show So and once again people fighting for these final qualifications spots I would assume we're probably to see John Delorosa again probably to with that show Oh, he's shutting the values I can do the lunch I wonder why He likes to compete a lot usually I bet you can beat No, I think he's shutting it up because he's trening with Cmol and flexed if they're trening together Oh, so he's trying to help both Like this guy flexed told me he's he's flexed trening Sun with Cmol and Delorosa and Raphael wants to come back Oh, really it's his I know his son must stop for saying out there too Oh, he's been there for a couple weeks. Is he going back home? Yeah, he's going to his way home soon. Okay, now he's that competing again. No, the hemorrhage is just yeah Oh, this he's still dealing with those huh? Wow The debacle You never sent me his address by the way so I can say oh yeah, he's the finalize so I did tell flexing So he's got Cmol who I work with Hassan who I work with and Cmol Hassan Who else is he trening with they what do they do they all tren together or they just tren at his gym? They tren together all of them all of them so Raphael wants to come back and and flex that that's to work with him flex that that's too much and I said well just have to kick John off the team So yeah, so just your guys another version Yeah, but John lives down permanently Well, it's still had to kick him off the team That's supposed to be that's what they should be filming down to those guys trening Yeah, yeah I love it. I'm gonna grow. What a good group. Yeah, you know what the funny thing is though and and flex is gonna be laughing as I ask him when I say this Flex is the smart guy like flex just looks like like like Mrs. Havasham he looks like you know from critics But they just he looks like the greatest benefit of all time right? He's like bringing all these guys in given them place to tren and and Really what he's doing as he's getting these guys there because they're makinGHim they're gettinGHis juices Yeah, he's already to make yeah Think about it. He has his own gym, but having your own gym doesn't create an environment or an energetic Enviament that that gets you motivated like you would if you walked in the goals gym Venice But if you bring in the five five of some of the best guys in the world trening your gym and and work and being your workout partners That's gonna push flex to a better better place, you know a higher level so he's smart He's very smart in his generosity. He's also He might be pushinGHimself to greater you know levels as well. Yes. I only told him that by what he said when he brought When he invited Hassan become My god they knew each other Are you didn't he's never spoken to him ever text like he can't he doesn't speak a word English aside So I Told him I said flex that that is gonna come back to big time because I thought you knew him The invitation he said no, I just I think it you know he didn't He's bummed out you know he can't compete You know why not come down here and have some fun and tren right? I've surprised you didn't get big rammy out there That's just but that's his competition there so maybe doesn't work Big rammy was with Neil and then he's with Chad so that oh Right right that's you got you got to read between the Line state yeah, all right this there's bad blood there. I forgot about that So well look at the seasons as as restricted as these shows might be and and you know I'd like to get Jay Cutler on the on the TV show at some point Talked him about what's going on in Vegas because no one knows better than he does because he he talks to everyone He probably knows all the hotel owners over there. He knows exactly what's going on and And you know this supposed to open everything up. I guess this week again This planet Hollywood just shut down a lot of people don't realize that but venue and the hotel where this Should be the Olympia's taking place is closed right now, but they're supposed to open it up. I think tomorrow or the next day And I'd like to see what Jay's take on the whole thing is in how it's going to go up but No matter what the restrictions are and then the changing of show venues and moving things We had a season see you know you gotta take your hat off to everyone who made it happen, you know Because it wasn't easy. There's no one sponsoring these shows there's No audiences allowed you got to do live streams and you know I'm glad that they they did something because it could have easily have canceled the whole season No and no one would have said a word yeah You know I wanted to bring up another thing Chris I want to jinx that I hope it goes don't jigsie You know I want to bring I you know I was so impressed with how Gary you did and and these Big shows have been running The competitions what they do is everyone stays in your hotel room basically and hangs out and then they say you shoot your text message When it's your classes turn to go and they kind of give you like a heads up okay You got a half hour or whatever you know head down to the venue And I'm like how the freak they had a 1400 people at the north of america and have the freak that they how would they coordinate all these text messages right it sounds almost unbelievable You know there's no way this this one person sitting there on a cell phone texting everyone right that's just I got to happen Well they on the NPC websites reading it they announced I guess yesterday that NPC muscle where they're calling it is being implemented Across the United States in 2021 now Muscle where is the platform I guess that runs all these competitions from the judging to the Sending out the at the notifications via text messages So I guess they import all the competitors in there and then the this this program it has the ability it's like to Send out whatever they need to do to quote to notify these people at a moment's notice It generates the athlete list the score cards the crossover reports expedite her sheets MC sheets and more It's pretty amazing right I'm I'm glad to hear that the NPC is so high techno Can you imagine blackburn trying to figure out the software? I'll waste why hot hot hot Can't get anything I can I can't see the competitor lists Steve you have 6,000 browser pay a page is up and you have to open you got to shut you got to shut at least two of them Oh how do I do that Where's my secretary Steve you don't have a secretary anymore you don't we don't make any money over here anymore we lose money Get me my red give me my yellow pad I'm getting a text something is digging over that day If they brinGHis text it's only from his wife yeah because I have her on emergency over right so that means that no matter what if I had the phone on time I still hear it because What's it said read it to one thing Right to a younger daughter was yelling so So Not one in the world where we're we're done with the show anyway, but I want to just say that you know what I want to wish everyone the best to luck all these competitors who arecompeting during these hard times and Making it happen and get on stage bringing their best you know if you guys can make it through this 2020 year and compete and make it to the Olympia you can do it anytime Anywhere any place because there's a lot of people that didn't compete this year a lot of people that took off because they couldn't handle The stress and they couldn't get to the gym and they couldn't get you know everything may need to done You can get through this you can get through anything. This is a breeze. I promise you IMean that next year will be a breeze compared to this or the year after that and you have to that But we'll remember I think 2020 will go down as you know you and I we talking about it like like two old And telling everyone how bad it was and no one will ever really know how bad it was because unless you live through it It's it's it's it's it really changed everyone's life You know and hopefully it's not on the permit based and hopefully when we go back to the way it was it was before And we'll have to see on that one but Anyway, we will be reporting from this show this is coming weekend and good luck to all the competitors For now we're out of time until next week remember with heavy must oh I wanted to bring one more thing up Oh goodness, I got a stop. I was getting ready to say the truth are you I can't do it no no sure third to this weekend. I have my secrets to becoming a died guru course online Okay, if you go to daypalamba.com you can you can the link there to sign up is is there the great thing about the course is if you take the course You can rewatch the course something you couldn't do when I do it live when you had a come in person And take it with me here in K corral now that it's online you can watch it for two weeks after that You can just watch uploads you can rewatch it over and over and over again. So if you missed stuff if you want to You know, you know kind of like really make sure that you understand the content of what's going on You have the ability to log in and at any time rewatch the course It's gonna be from nine in the morning to six at night. There's an hour break for lunch You can ask questions that you'll get my 100 page Manual secrets at beginning becoming a diegrew manually you get to download it and I'm telling you guys this is if you want to learn about how to be a coach in our business had a right diet nutritional supplement regimens Drug cycles anything related to bodybuilding at all It's all on the table guys. You can give a love this course. Make sure you sign up and we have limited Obviously space For now though we are officially out of time until next week remember with heavy muscle radio the truth hurts Talket

=== FILE: RAMY'S REIGN + SERGIO'S NEXT MOVE + BRANDON CURRY UPDATE! [5a3nsUWq4LI].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Thursday, June 17, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Good morning and welcome back. Once again, thank you for joining us here today. We're jumping right into our biggest story of the day, which is news that broke a few days ago, when the internet almost exploded after Sergio Leavad Jr. and now Steve was pulling out of the Chicago Pro. I don't have time to get into all the details about what ultimately led to him making the decision. You can check out heavy muscle radio for that. But Sergio Leavad Jr. all out on his Instagram, if you're interested. But I will say this, not having Sergio in the show is a huge loss for everyone because he's a Chicago kid. And love him or hate him, he's still one of the biggest personalities in bodybuilding. And now that he won't be there, presumably occupying a spot in the top three, it leaves a door open for someone else to walk through and considerinGHow big the show already feels on paper, a top three finish there could set the stage for something a whole lot bigger of a few weeks down the road. You know how people say that location location is the key to making a big and real estate? Well, in some ways, it almost feels like that's true in bodybuilding too, with the way athletes flock to certain gyms in different parts of the world. According to reports, Brandon Curry might be about to hop on a jet and head out to Kuwait to tren at oxygen gym for the next few months as he gets ready for the Olympia. A few days ago, Brandon said that he was finally able to obtain a visa which would allow him to travel overseas again so he can link up with the team out there at oxygen that helped him win his Olympia title a few years ago. Whether or not this ends up being a deciding fact of for him this year still remains to be seen but for someone who is rooted in his home life here in the US as Brandon is, I think it speaks volumes about where his head is at right now and it shows you how far he's willing to go to win that title. Now, keep what I've just said about Brandon Curry and mind while you're looking at these photos of Big Rami because this is what he'll need to be if he wants to be the first athlete in the history of the open to win his title back the year after he lost it. I heard from more than a few people that Rami's been bolster the wall in the gym for the last few months and that he's probably paid more attention to detail for this prep than he has and any other show in his life. Rami doesn't want to be a one-time chef. He knows the history of body building and he knows what keeps this title would mean for his legacy. And I also think the fact that he's been there before plays an important role too because he knows what it takes to be at the top and I don't see him wanting to give that spot up anytime soon. And finally, we're closing out today with some big news from Jeremy Pothin who announced that he was leaving the men's physique division and switching over to classic physique next year. I think this announcement came as a major shock for men's physique fans because Jeremy just plays fourth at the Olivia last year and he looked a lot better than he did when he placed 10 to years ago. That being said, Jeremy did have one of the best backs in the division and he's definitely got the structure from the waist up so that he can add another size or two to give himself a chance to be competitive. I don't think making the Olympia as a classic athlete next year would be completely out of thEQuestion. Logan Franklin just did it last year so the blueprint is there. He just has to find his own way. And that does at the end another edition of Bustle in the Morning on Day for Lumbar Robinding. Always be true to your passions and be sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: REGAN GRIMES 4 WEEKS OUT + NPC NORTH AMERICAN RECAP! [8udne_4lIPI].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, Muscle in the Morning! On day polumbo and today is Wednesday September 9th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's Wednesday, and you already know what the deal is, so let's get right down to business by recapping last weekend's New York pro. In the men's open, Ian Valier finally nailed it, earning the biggest win of his career, and clenching a harder into limpia qualification in the process. In the two-twelfth vision, there was a tight battle between Voluus and Jason Low, but in the end, Louis went on the getting the nod to score his first win of the year. Logan Franklin called his shot a few weeks ago, a lot of people thought he was crazy, but he had the last laugh here as he earned his first win as a classic physique competitor. And women's bodybuilding veteran Mila Ash crossed over from the women's physique division for the first time, and walked right into a huge win. Heading into the show, we said Nicole's an Obiagram was the one to watch and figure, and she made us look smart again by cruising to the easy victory. And the Keenea Tiles Santiago got out to an early lead and never looked back looking great in her first show since the restart. And last but not least, was the amazing Rachel Daniels who walked up her first career win in women's physique with a really special performance. There was also a ton of action on the amateur end last weekend, including another huge turnout for the North American championships where Gary Eudit and his crew did an amazing job pulling that whole thing together at the last minute. The only place to start here is the men's open, where men's overall winner Nick Walker put on one of the most dominating performances in a pro qualifier that we've seen in the last decade. The classic physique group was highlighted by two athletes, Brady King and Duke Juan Hinton, who both looked like they could make an impact at the next level within the next year or two. Men's physique, Darrell Bryant, and Alexander Toplan managed to separate themselves from the pack with two really rounded efforts as they graduated on to the next level. On the women's side, we're starting with bodybuilding and the runaway performance of the overall winner, Jen Schmidt, who is easily the best in the show here. In the Keenea division overall winner Christina Heath is a name to remember. She's going to be a good one and figure two athletes really jumped out to me, Tara Vasuzin, who won the class A and Jessica Hoots, who looks like she could easily be a potential wellness crossover at some point down the road. Speaking of wellness overall winner is Ebel Annunez, who looks like she'll be an interesting addition to the next year, along with fitness overall winner Daniel Margarrell. And we're wrapping up our coverage here with women's physique where Pamela Kenfeld showed shades of a young NataliEQuaylo on her way to the easy win. I know all the parents out there will rejoicing now that the eternal summers finally over and hits her back in school. And for all of you bodybuilders out there who are looking to learn something, yet your notebooks and your pencils out because Rafa Bryant Day is giving out a lesson over the last week or so, Rafa's released a handful of photos that stirred up some buzz thanks to him showing off a classic size and shape combo that's made him one of the most exciting athletes in body building these last few years. As of now, Rafa still has yet to go on record about what show he might be targeting. But just based on his conditioning, you'd imagine that he must have something lined up between now and October. And if we do get a rejuvenated Rafa 3.0, all dialed in and ready to rumble, he seems like a lot to earn one of the last few remaining Olympia nods. Unfortunately for Toronto, Rafa stands your team fell flat on their faces Monday and game four against the Celtics. But if Nick Nurs can manage to pull some strings, it might not be too late to bring in my man, Ragan Grimes for a little bit of muscle off the bench. Right now, Ragan's five weeks out from the Europa Pro and Alacant they Spain, and according to the latest reports, this version is set to be his best one yet. There's so much on the line at this show in Spain that it's essentially a boomer bus situation for everyone in the lineup, which means that Ragan needs to drop the hammer if he wants to secure one of thEQualification spots that are up for grabs. That said, 100% Ragan Grimes is a thought that gives a lot of people nightmares. So all he has to do is show up and bring it because that alone should be enough to push them into contention. And that does it at another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Daypalumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions to make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: REGAN GRIMES 6 WEEKS OUT 2018 OLYMPIA! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸3⧸18) [ii_NyY-m5V8].txt ===

It's the weekend here at Musselin the Morning and I'm day polo and today is Friday August 3rd, 2018 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Don't ask me how this is possible but I'm still one of the 50 people left on the planet. We'll be at to see the movie Black Panther. But luckily for me IManaged to get a look at what 212 stand out Thomas Anderson did last week. So now I feel like I'm pretty much up to speed. Last week in Anderson hit the station full black Panther mode as the featured guest poseer at the NPC Knox Classic. We're fans in the building. Got a chance to see up close and personal but a real life superhero looks like. Based on the photos and video Anderson looks like he's walking around bigger and leaner than I've seen him. Maybe ever. And with a bunch of shows still left on the schedule between now and the end of the year. You can't help but wonder if he might think about jumping in somewhere to see how he stacks up. Sometimes you can learn a lot about a person from creeping on their Instagram page. And the thing we learned this week is that classic physique star Chris Bumstead is fixing the kick some butt at this year's Olympia. Six weeks out from makinGHis second straight trip to the Olympia stage the current number two ranked athlete on the planet is still in the gym trening like a man who has every intention of evening up the score with Breonna and Zleen Vegas next month. I think taking the early part of the season off was probably a good strategy for Bumstead, given the fact that he's been dealing with a few nagging injuries on and off last year. So hopefully now that he's healthy and fully loaded we've got to see round two of last year's epic showdown go down to the wire again like it did last season. Apparently Chris Bumstead isn't the only 20-something Canadian Classic physique all star looking to make a title run because 2018 New York pro champ, rigging rhyme seems like he's ready to step up and get an on a piece of the action too. Six weeks out from his first trip to the Olympia the first classic physique crossover looked as dangerous as ever in his latest update. Count for pound I think what we saw him do earlier this year was one of the more impressive performances we've seen from anyone in the division all season long and as long as he keeps playing to his strengths I have a hard time believing that he won't somehow manage a top three or better performance before it's all set and done. Once you have kids you start to realize how crazy it is that each person has their own little individual look and Michael Lock and is definitely one of those people who's got a unique look to him. The veteran pro is six weeks away from makinGHis second straight trip to the Olympia stage after that blazing performance he had back at the Chicago pro a few weeks ago where he scored the third win of his career. When you see him put it all together like he did there you realize that this guy is one of the few people at this level who might actually still have some room to grow and develop but to something even more special. So don't be surprised to see Michael Lock it fighting it out for a top ten or better placing of Olympia time. I don't know why but this year feels like we've had a lot of fresh new faces take the podium at one time or another in the fitness division and rumor has that the one of those fresh faces might be considering a change of scenery at some point here in the near future. Earlier this week we caught word that two time Olympium, Misty Farrell was tossing around the idea of making the jump over to figure at some point this year after she's done with her Olympia run. If you're a fan of the fitness division it's probably doesn't come as a huge shock considering the fact that Farrell's probably got some of the best genetics and overall proportions in the division. But that being said it is in every day that you see athletes making the jump from fitness over to figure either. Whether or not there's any truth to the rumor still remains to be seen. But don't be shocked if she's stunned to figure worlds by making an immediate impact from the moment she steps. Another edition of the muscle in the morning. On day full of limbo reminding you the always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: REGAN GRIMES： CAN HE WIN CLASSIC PHYSIQUE OLYMPIA？ #askDave [M61AQ7TMmIw].txt ===

Alright, television on rxmuscle.com. This is astave, better known as hashtag astave. I'm your host of the FurogiVis. Is your 30 minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Plumbo? All your questions on diet, trening, supplementation, IFV, pros, competitions, life, whatever it is on your mind. It is all on the table. If we now bring in Dave Plumbo, Dave, a couple of days ago you did an interview with an Iranian bodybuilder, last week you did the rent about gettinGHotny chupin and 2v1, hotny chupin of course, lint you qualified but unable to get his visa to enter the United States. A very very telling interview with another rising star coming out of Iran right now in our rxmuscle.com. Yeah, Baru's Tabani is tremendous talent this guy and he's in the military now because I guess you know like Israel, Iran you have to serve 2 years in your country. If you go right to college out of high school then you can get a way within delay a little bit but he's now in the military for 2 years but he'll be done soon. Problem is Iran won't even let people out of their country anymore. So it's terrible when the political climate really dictates to the athletes what they can and can't do and you become almost like a victim of that but this guy is another 26 years old. I can't even believe the talent cool will see coming out of Iran with the bodybuilders but it's I got to give King Kamali credit because he predicted it. He said there's a bunch of guys running around there that you're not going to believe how good they are and he was right. He really is so I'm impressed whether they actually if we can break this cold war we have going on and allow the athletes to start crossing out of the country and coming to the United States to compete. I think it could change the landscape of a bodybuilding really. So again that interview live with Barruz Tabani right now at rxmusubah kam and the YouTube channel. Let's go to thEQuestions. Our first two questions from the Dave Palombo experience at the first question from Melanie what do you think about T-ball for females and how would you don't sit? Here's the problem with T-ball back in the 50s when they developed steroids and all the East German women because back then Germany was split East Germany, West Germany. West Germany was like the United States type of government and East Germany was like Russia and Soviet Union and East German women were given a tyrannable which was T-ball. They created it so they haven't had an advantage and all the East German women look like East German men they couldn't tell the difference because they got so many side effects from T-ball because it was really just a cut rate diatable. T-ball is a very similar in their fact a diatable stronger but T-Ratable has got plenty of side effects to go along with it as well. Once again I'm not thrilled with with with with oral but in general but for women it's way too strong you will get a lot of side effects and here's the problem and I've said this before in the show side effects with women are not instantaneous because steroids don't act instantaneously they're cumulative. You could do four weeks of T-ball and you might not notice the side effects they're there believe me and they will come out even if you stop it after four weeks you will still see it continue. You cannot use this drug it's too strong for women to use it's unnecessary. Winstrel and anolvar are fine to get the gains that you want as a woman. There's no massive bodybuilders anymore so it's not like women have to compete with all these huge women in the bodybuilding world. So you know the only reason why a woman would want to use a strong drug like that was because they're lazy and they don't want to work for a couple years to get where they need to be but I'll tell you something. If you can get the physique that you want and still have a beautiful face in that ruin your body and not ruin yourself with side effects that's the winning combination. Second question again from the Dave Palombo Experience app it's from Chris Dave I want to add some oral wind straw and anolvar to my current TRT to increase things just a touch. Would you do them both at the same time or six weeks of one and six weeks of the other and at what dose do you suggest? If you're combining them with testosterone yeah you might as well just do one in one this way you have something to switch to you can even do eight weeks of each of you wanted to. They're both fast acting so it doesn't matter which one you start with. Winchels a little stronger some 80 start with the anolvar 30 milligrams per day with your testosterone TRT and then you know do eight weeks of that and then another eight weeks of maybe like 25 milligrams of a winch stroke per day with your TRT testosterone that would be fine. Let's go to our Instagram questions again you can follow us at official.rxmuscle is going to make no lea monster I hate to show more. He's so much at rather sit through a kind green ePIPhany. Dave can you clarify the true difference in results from pharmacy grade H8 versus UGL generic HGH a lot of guys don't have the money for pharma but a lot of pros say you literally burning your cash behind genetics what are your thoughts. Here's the problem the thoughts are that you don't know what you're getting okay when you're buying a generic it could be it could be fully just look I've seen generics okay that that were probably higher dose than what they should be and I think we've discussed this a lot of people and I think what's happening is I don't think the Chinese people are putting out fake GH. I think what's happening is when it's being shipped over here it's not in a uh, a climate controlled environment and a lot of times if it gets really hot or even too cold because if GH is frozen it will destroy it it weakens it or and or kills it off. So I think a lot of these these products are actually good when they leave the factory and China but then when they get to the United States they're really not that functional. Back in the day when we would trensport GH everything was on ice okay when we bought it when we you know it took it home when we moved it more you know it gave it to other people it was on ice all the time always climb a control we didn't that that was just the thing you did it was GH had to be refrigerated you know now I understand that some of the new ones like serostam some of them don't need to be refrigerated till the mix but that also means they that's only if you keep them at room temperature that doesn't mean you can heat it up to 90 degrees or bring it down to zero degrees so I think that's what the problem is most of the time when you're bringing over stuff from another country it's the climate control issues. Now there might be some other deceptive you know type of manufacturing going on as well what we do know is if you're getting American-made GH that's coming from you know from a pharmacy you know it's good you know that's the bottom line you know that that's good and that and that's why it's it's safe for the use and that's why I tell people if you could if you have access to something that's pharmacy grade you're better off taking that and using a lower dosage to this because there it might be more expensive than taking a large dosage of stuff that you don't even know what you're putting into your body so you know you could take two or three I use of serostam a day make each little bottle last year you know a week and you got seven weeks in a box IMean that that's even if you pay me seven hundred dollars for a box that's still pretty damn cheap you know considering you know that you're gettinGHigh potent CGH and you're gonna get we're good results because that's what I did back in the day three I used a day in some maybe four I used of of a new trope and that that was enough that's all people did and they got great results because the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone home on was real and it was full potency and I think that's where where people have issues. Carlston iron burner Dave did you ever take blood tonic during your bodybuilding career and it's so why blood tonic I don't even know what that is to be honest you know I always say I don't know something I don't know and I don't know I have to google it it might be a term for something that I do know but I never heard of the term blood is something let me throw something out there what if you meant by a blood purifier I don't even know what that would mean you know I don't I don't know I don't know what blood never heard the term before to be honest with you blood tonic it's going to be another question why something to clen the blood I don't I don't know I don't even know what to say I'm stopping. We'll take another question from Rob M.T.03 how do you feel about today's top classic physical predators as real in relation to the 80s physique such as the Bob Paris Variety or any one that has the classic look or rather the part B of thEQuestion is has the classic look advanced with modern times. I like the I like some of the classic physique as I think they're they're awesome but I like the classic physique guys that looked like more like you know bodybuilders almost that are morecomplete a lot of these classic guys are just guys that are kind of starting out and they just don't have enough muscle yet and so while they have nice lines I see gaps in their physique and I have a feeling a lot of those guys that are pros now once they do fill out the physics will go to the open category maybe even to 12th category but there are some guys that have really very you know like Breon and Ashley the reason I think he's such a good classic guy is that he has a complete physique with with mature muscle with no gaps in his physique and here's a guy who doesn't need to add any more muscle necessarily to his frame whereas there's a lot of guys like even I see a Chris Bumset he's got a great physique but there's a guy who could actually put on 20 pounds onto his physique and probably compete in the open if he if he wanted to so you know it they're different types of physics at that I think the great thing about the classic division is that you're always seeing a new talent come into it and it's like seems like there's always some guy with crazy or genetics in the neck so it's a division where you can make an impact right away because you don't have to put on a hundred pounds of muscle before you do whereas for body going to get a new guy to come in and and all of a sudden wow that the body building world it takes a long time for that and so we don't see as many of that but it seems to be classic every year we get two or three new guys that will like holy macawid this guy come from and that that's exciting for the sport. Matt Tracy Dave I'm getting gyna surgery soon what kind of diet do you recommend while in recovery? I think I would eat the normal food feed obviously before you get surgery you can't take any nutritional supplements two weeks before the surgery because a lot of them like fish oils and vitamin E will cause excessive bleeding and have it's clotting factors which is good on a regular basis but not when you're getting blood vessels sniped and stuff like that so that's just my you know my my my beliefs I wouldn't purposely lower or change anything. If I keep it still trening in the gym because your body still bleeding recovery from gyna surgeries like recovery from a workout you still need to give you body raw materials that needs to do that. Josh Freeman Dave there seems to be mixed answers on whether or not fenasteride can be taken while on Deca can you give me your opinion also what dosage would you recommend? Yeah I don't know what with this fenasteride and deca or in trenbolone look I took it with it I didn't have any problems I don't know I don't I think I think sometimes you you start looking into the my new shirt of things and you you overlook what's really happening. I don't think there's any problem taking trenbolone it should be taking fenasteride with Deca you're not gonna cause you know worse hair loss or worse prostate issues it's just not gonna happen. A good dosage of fenasteride is probably anywhere from one milligram per day to 2.5 milligrams. I've been taking 2.5 milligrams per day for years I started at one milligram and I didn't feel like I got that much someone else told me you know what 2.5 is the sweet spot. I went to 2.5 milligrams per day and I like I said I've been honest since about 2001 and I continue to say I think the only time I stopped was when I was trying to get my wife pregnant because we read that fenasteride was you know we'd make it hard to get her pregnant and I don't know if that helped or not but I went right back on it after she got pregnant so maybe I took off you know three four or five weeks or something like that so to me I like it I'll tell you why I use it for my hair loss I don't know if I don't think it regor any hair but I think it might have stopped my hair loss from in capony but I will tell you this my dad had prostate issues you know it's in his life and my prostate's not gonna wood it seems perfect but I don't know if my PSA is good my DHC levels are in in line which is weird because I'm not on any hormone replacement I take 2.5 milligrams per day of fenasteride and my DHC levels are still normal you know they're there low normal but they're not like too too low which tells you I probably naturally produce a lot of the H.C. which is probably I'm a good candidate for taking that so I think that's important to understand that you know not everyone needs fenasteride but if you do our prone to high D.H.C levels and that usually means if you if you lose hair easily if you have acne if you do have any prostate issues you might want to stay on it and I look at it this way even if I'm not growing one hair it's kidney product it excuse me it's prostate protective. Nate Flex Dave the love of your showed you feel that low test high antibiotics cycles can be effective just low doses in general for example 250 mg testosterone stipulated and 400 mg of decar and copoise weekly for 16 weeks. Look anything any steroid cycles gonna build muscle okay I'm sure if I took that type of cycle right now I probably put on 20 pounds of muscle because IMy body would you know muscle memory however if you're looking to be really big and put on significant amounts of muscle mass you're not gonna do it on low doses just like that that's not to say you need to take the 5000 mg a week but there is a certain threshold amount that you need to take and I believe the sweet spot is about a thousand mg of testosterone a week and you could debate me out and that's fine but my point is that you know you're not going to grow one small dose of just to the maximum effect so it depends on what your goals are. We have a question on stand effortings a vertical diet just so you know we do have plans to have stand on next week Wednesday on live weight Dave I know I didn't tell you that but he's just a couple of hours ago so he is good to go to appear on live with next Wednesday let's go to panels Dave your thoughts on combining fats and carbs together in a meal non-heryl season is a theoretically wrong it's a true because both of them are energy sources one of them will be stored as fat. They're energy sources but they get used differently fats get used in slow sustained movements okay carbs get used for fast you know explosive type movements so you need both also fat is used to build and repair muscle to make hormones and all kinds of stuff that's why fats are necessary in the diet they're not just a fuel source if you combine them in the same meal it doesn't matter because carbs cause insulin release insulin stores carbs in the muscles is glycogen it stores carbs as fat it doesn't store fat as fat so that's a that's a misnomer so there's nothing wrong with eating protein fats and carbs all in the same meal obviously you're going to eat a higher amount of protein because that's what we really need fats will be a certain you know based on your your weight anywhere from 15 grams per meal to 25 30 grams per meal depending on how heavy you are and then carbs is depending on you know what your fuel requirements are so nothing wrong with that you don't have to separate your foods Damian T5 says he just bought fiber lies can I take my T3 or clan or nolvadex before or after having fiber lies I would probably take it you know and then maybe like 20 minutes later do your fiber shade I don't like to take I don't like to mix fiber really with anything it really theoretically should only block fat absorptions or fat absorption like fat soluble type stuff but who knows I just separate my fiber shade from everything else I do if I can do it you know sometimes I'm in a rush and I take everything at once pills fiber run out of the house for the day but most of the time I try to separate them let's go to Noah the Fox Dave your take on the Barbell bench press Arnold and Franco loved it and have some of the best chest development ever now a lot of pros are saying it's too risky and to do incline only instead is the reward for the risk you know at some point I of my career like after a couple years I started doing mostly all incline work because I found that you know when you do incline presses you're still working in the lower mid and mid packs you're just prefer I guess you say prefer for actually working the upper packs and what I find in my experiences that most people 99.9% of body bills have weaker weak er doesn't mean they have weak chest weak er upper chest and mid chest and lower chest that's just the way it works so I always did mostly incline stuff once in a while maybe once a month I would fly bench press and it's just because I just felt that I got more out of my chest workouts when I was targeting incline work and when I say incline IMean I'm not at a big steep angle I'm probably almost it looks like you're almost flat just a little bit maybe 20 30 degrees I was bench pressing it and I thought it made a world of difference it's got a glenter dude best way to hit legs if you're lower back a screwed also thoughts on spinal surgeries you know it's a tough question to answer because I don't know how bad you are I always tell people to limit themselves by what you know your pain level is and what your body is intuitively telling you to do and not do I guess theoretically you can do hacksquads and leg presses and and build leg mass I just think without freeway squatting you lose that beautiful shape to your legs but then again some of it's genetic anyway so look you got to do what you can do I'm not happy that when I go to the gym I can't do the workouts I want because my one bed shoulder that's last that I have to get replaced is still there and it's inhibiting me but I still do what I can do in the gym because it makes me feel good to leave the gym to know I did something and at some point when I get this fixed I'll be on the start trening again I'm not going to tren like I'm trening for the Olympia but I could certainly tren heavier and I have to worry about pain on everything I do and I understand that it's frustrating but you know stick with what your body intuitively tells you shock sales guy question I recently watched Victor Conti Sunday we haven't heard in a while yeah on Joe Rogan's podcast and he spoke of the importance of zinc they could you speak to that end and was zinc included in a past video were you spoke of six vitamins which are an absolute must no I talked about six nutritional products I thought were a must I have to zinc in my V mineralized formula look let's face it you can't be taking every single mineral and vitamin and net trace metal separately you be on you have 400 bottles a day I created a multi vitamin multIMineral formula with some fruit and vegetable extracts and it called V mineralized which makes everything easy all the minerals accumulated including zinc it's in there in the right proportions and the right amounts you take five toes twice a day you don't even have to worry about it you got everything you possibly need and the only thing I tell people to take a little extra is extra vitamin D3 I think you can do another five thousand units to that they can never forget too much of that I only have two thousand units which is still very high dosage in my multi vitamin The promise if you put too much in there is no room for all the other stuff zinc is important but it's an important component in conjunction with the other minerals magnesium and calcium and iodide and you know and the list goes on chromium so you can't just say one thing is more important than everything else it's the combination of all of them together protein king 95 and of course wedding the appetite for those looking for Olympia coverage of course roughly seven and a half weeks away he wants to know how you think regained rhymes stacks up against the likes of crispumstead and brian angley I think regained is a tremendous talent I think his biggest obstacle is going to be making weight you know he's got a lot of weight to drop it's not going to be easy to keep doing that I predicted that this would be his last year doing this classic division I think he just snuck down into that last show he you know he's going to have a problem with it but I think that the bumps that is could win the Olympia this year I think him and it's going to be once again between him and brian angley and I think that it's going to come down right for the end and it's going to be who the judges like better because I think both of these guys are going to look great. Two O'Mass your thoughts on frontloading AAS according to lollin and a box tenth edition the most effective dosage of test was 680 g for 6 to 8 weeks after which it starts to have diminishing returns is there really that much more benefit for us assigned effects on running one gram of test compared to 600 mg if one gram is more effective when is the right time for a bodybuilder to start using this amount example after five cycles or after he's big enough I think a thousand milligrams for his ideal for for test loss and usage and building maximal mass and thickness I didn't someone else my friend Doug Wenson told me that you got to do and it's time I think it was over my 500 milligrams when I got him like you short size so much today people laugh at that but I said all right I'll try it and you know I grew like it was that was the perfect magic dosage for me to use that I started seeing results and I didn't have massive side effects for me I just think it works you know I just think that you know anything less than you're going to get results but it should you not going to maximize your results and how you know when she just started that who knows after maybe two of three cycles IMean you can you can work up to that you'll know when you're at that stage we are not responding from the weaker drugs and it's time to go to test and you'll know that when you're on test a couple cycles you know it's not working so good maybe I should bump it up to a thousand milligrams a week at this point rather than sticking with 250 or 500 or 750 and I think you'll see a big difference I really do Dean Nicholson here's one this a little out of the bodybuilding realm but what gear would you recommend for an MMA fighter? It's very tough question because you guys get taught the UFC guys get tested I don't know if it's random or not but I know that they that I think it might be but they definitely get tested in competition you know if you any tested in competition it becomes an IQ test of knowing when to start and stop things I'm not going to go over it on this show it's too complicated you can you know do a consultation with me if you're in that arena but you know you have to understand that there are rules you know and if you're breaking the rules you're subject to there you know management and your fines that they're going to put in there so you know think about it what you want to do before you really go ahead and do it and make a stupid mistake now the answer to this question might be as simple as ISO bag but I imagine this is a scenario that many bodybuilders and aspiring bodybuilders go in a daily basis so we'll ask thEQuestion is from TJ the jet I drive a tractor trailer for a living so most of my meals will be on the road I bring my eyes lines with me but I would also like to have actual food as well but I have a hard time coming up with a good high protein meal because to pack it in a lunch and eat cold because most of the time I don't have a microwave I know I can just suck it up and have cold chicken rice or whatever but just curious if you have any ideas or something that is yummy that I get uh stay on track you're talking to the king of the cold food I highly cold pizza other refrigerator I love it but the bottom line is if you like warm food pack your meals and like you said like an ISO bag you know we sell the species ISO bags they're awesome you pack your meals and you know if you like them warm up like I have you know a couple of guys in my office at work they stick their food in the microwave warm and up and they eat their food IMean that's the best way to do it IMean you got to prepare if you don't prepare your meals and bring them you won't eat them and you'll eat junk food and that's not going to build muscle Courtney Thompson is Synthall the only answer for getting abs to grow to get what to grow calves now IMean you you could tren them too obviously IMean that's probably the number one reason but IMean Synthall usage like Chris Clark's pain was pumped it's been Chris Clark's synthesized and my friends Steve Lucas pain was pumped product that I saw on daypleman with that convulton them they're great they'll definitely help you calves but you know tren your calves that's really what's going to build them the biggest you know it's a combination I always felt that calves grew best if you did two sets twice a week and two sets of 15 with heavy enough weight to stimulate the muscle but when I find as if you do too many sets of calves over and over and over again what happens is you can't even feel the calves anymore you're fatiguing the bottom of your foot so much so that you can't contract with that much weight on your back any more and you're getting a crappy work done stop me if you ask this question recently but syrucious R.D. wants to know how long before it's show would you cut out growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone altogether for some clients I cut it out two weeks before for other people I never cut it out because they look really good on it so it depends if a guy is very watery and he's a little sloppy looking you know in terms of he just his body was became a water balloon for me from eating it from takes him from taking G.H. I'll have them stop two weeks out sometimes IMight put it back in the last two days because it takes a lot more than two days to have side effects but it really is at once again it's a perfect person it's specific type of thing. Third degree muscle Dave on friends with coach Trevor from Enhance and he advised me to cut growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone 10 to 14 days out my current coach wants me to cut it a seven days I'm worried if I cut it at 14 days and keep going 50 minutes of stairs that I'll burn muscle without the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in there and shrink up the last two weeks your thoughts. Well if you're on an avocesterage you're not shrinking it all okay the steroids will preserve the muscle thEQuestion is how lean you are you getting to stand in front of it if you are then it's probably a good idea to stop it maybe put it back in like I said the last two days that's really up to you you got to be honest with yourself you look better you look worse with the G.H. A lot of guys look way better you fall around her and that's just the way it is so if I don't I think I've got what he said he's taking but if you cut back the two I use a day you should have no problems staying on. We had a question recently about uh rear delts actually no I'm going to skip that one my cool lives and then it's another classic physique related question how many grams of healthy fat is best per meal or per day based on classic physique frame six foot two two hundred and forty five pounds. I'm going to make you I'm going to make you job real easy go buy my own mega-lice formula take three pills three capsules jump caps twice a day twice a day and you never have to worry about another essential fatty acid ever it's all in there and the right dosages from fish oil coming from salmon oil or or avocado and trophy oil to um um oh evening primrose oil excuse me for your omega six fats obviously they're making three fats your DHA EPA coming for fish oils and then you got your palmetalagic acid omega seven fats which are really good for insulin sensitization and for lowering total body inflammation that's all you need you don't need anything else it takes the idea purposely to make it easy to take your your supplemental uh essential fatty acid supplements three pills twice a day and none. Mr. Miyagi or Mr. Yaki rather uh where is Victor Richards and what is he doing today? I interview him a number of years ago and I believe him I radio show he's still around I think he's living in Portland to something like that or Oregon somewhere he's happy he's got his kids I work that I try to get you know he's got a lot of very strong political stances but that's just always been Victor Richards I don't think he'll ever compete again he didn't really look like yeah much muscle left on his body but you know what if he's happy then hey that's great he was one of the freaky skies though back in the 90s forever fitness 07 you might want to think a second before he answered this one the best moment of your bodybuilding career tough one um a great moment was placing second at the USA in 2003 it was also one of the most depressing moments because I really thought I was going to win and get my pro car I I thought I you know once they announced me in second I I really believed I was much better than Chris Cook he was really smooth that show I was more concerned with Matt Duvalme and Russell piece and Eddie Moison at that show and I beat them and then I said you know what what the hell's going on here you know and I want to take in second so that was a great highlight it was a terrible also terrible um I probably say that you know winning junior nation was really good in 95 I really enjoyed that when uh probably in the body building world getting a metrics contract was was my dream back from the day so that was huge meaning Scott Conley and all that stuff that was super exciting but you know it's tough because I never really won the USA in the national so you know I had so many seconds it was hard to say like what was really great I guess in 2002 when I play second my 20th frame into the NPC national in Dallas that was super excited because I didn't expect to get that um so placing second like that was was great and actually Tony and I were pretty close to that show so um that was a soup that was a highlight I guess and you know probably getting featured in Muscle Development and I guess he needs to be black when had paraburnal shoot me and there was some great photo shoots that were published in that those were probably I was probably more proud of that than of anything because it was it's installed it's you know it's there forever that is going to do for this episode of As Dave brought to you by Specy Nutrition again visit speciesnutrition.com for Dave Blumbo and our producer Tyler Shore I'm Sadie Furuki we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: REMEMBERING MIKE MATARAZZO! HMR (8⧸17⧸20) [G5JXoPL9pfc].txt ===

10th and 9th You're one and only who? They're ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true worth we can't be humble Chris Asito Our explosive dot com presents every muscle Leave your watch out Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle radio on Dave Palo and I'm joined as always Five of the technician Paris Cicito August 17th, 2020 evening and Chris We're inching closer and closer To the New York Prog, as you could say That's not in New York now It's in Tampa as we mentioned on a previous show Also the North American championships are going to be that weekend We have like AI would call it super like a super Saturday weekend Come on up kind of like super Tuesday I do want to say Dave that our pre game show which we You do not record Is better than the actual TV show That's going away Why? Because it's it's it's we call ourselves the truth and mind of the link And we do tell the truth but Not really we don't tell the whole truth And that's the truth Go to the truth is the truth is we don't really We talk it with the truth We just don't mention some things you know That are two truth I feel like a politician You're too terrible Yeah, yeah, I feel like a politician like a pre game Get ready to give a big speech and they thought before they won't give the speech Talks about all the ice and asshole Oh, yeah, that guy's an asshole to Oh, he's a car that guy's an idiot And then he gives the speech and you know, it's like It's a nice flowery motivating speech So we have our pre game show where Dave fills me and on all the drama That's happened in the world of body of the From East Coast to West Coast all over Europe and beyond I don't even know anything anymore Oh, they give you something like Bob Gross can now I don't know anythinGHe's on excite and chills I do know one thing Gary you did is got the North somehow managed to pull off this North American I first he did it and I have to I have to I have to I got in the back I'm sure he got turned out at every hotel to have this thing Because of the whole COVID and you know because the North American is like a thousand people could be in the show There's no way with all these regulations they got about you know people congregate There's no way no spread over two weeks he couldn't do it the right way So you know what we'll hold it outside So they give they get it they have a big tent It's going to pick a circus probably which is but bodybuilding the circus anyway Yeah, I can only I only hope why wonder if they can put air conditioning I guess nowadays they could do air conditioning inside I guess they have a you know I've seen that happen or yeah, they have AC intense at weddings and in Saudi and Kuwait Yeah, they see anything It's your patron in the show that it's doing you know these are the two shows the North American the North Americans I think we kid off air that it was going to go on the matter what we didn't know how But you know that show was grown into like the most massive colossal show Right and we were speculating on how or where they're going to have in it because I think the hotel had changed or something But the idea and let's say it pour us like crazy to have it outside under a tent is you know Even if it rains, it's just a whole tent I just if it's very hot No, we're already getting into September so and Pittsburgh September might not be that warm Absolutely human there, yeah But yeah, humidity doesn't do well for tans I'm just going to say we might have tans issues tans that was on the show That's the only thing I could think of the tan could tans could run and something that so It might be a little but he has it you know they haven't spaced out so like over four days and then of course They kind of text you which is great before your class I guess to give you time to get back there and so they don't want people congregating So it's it's like when I when I tell people you know when I go to the doctor's office now I love it because they don't want too many people in the waiting room So you literally when you come in for your appointment They take you almost immediately it's like there's no waiting anymore And that's I think what the show is going to be like they really want you at the show Until you're ready to go on stage So you can kind of hang out in your hotel room I guess you know relax eat they give you a text out I got to go down for the show okay down there within 20 minutes you're on stage and then and you're done And they're doing the finals of pre-charging together People who have last minute giving up their arms can really time it well Look at this text Okay, stop in the show So you get judged and then they actually give you the you know you do your night routine and then you're done It's like old one shot your whole all this this you know the whole weekend is It basically has been reduced for each competitor down to about about an hour Yeah, so Great Yeah Pretty soon they should just you know you should just be able to just pay for your pro card You don't even go They'll judge you virtually I think if you if you get two seconds it's like we said it's like first class in cattle class If you get two second place like at a national level show like say their nationals You might you should be able to maybe like I You can probably evolve on the prices right of one of those shows And in cattle class sometimes they'll say you know anyone we have one more ticket left And we'll see first class in one one of a great last minute pay 150 bucks So if you get second in the national three times You can pay like free granted move up we kid around But you know what these are such freaking weird times right now and you know what I you got a hand at the gallery I'm sure he's having a nervous ten nervous breakdowns trying to make this thinGHappen probably every every week The changing the rules he's got to move hotels he's got to move IMean that's that's a monstrosity of a show You really don't want to have to be moving around You know they had to check comfortable situation with the shared in station square there everything used to be comfortable Right I remember you get right you get a fielivator crescent you like literally a hundred feet from Going into the ballroom there, which is where they had the show and I remember when I used to go back Going back to the early 2000s when I was going to that show I and I even before that I went to but I'm saying when I would go there It was so comfortable it was like it was like just like a relaxing environment It was like you you walked out of the dining area there and you're in like the ballroom and you're watching the show And it's it's everyone is in a good mood there They're more friendly because it's all like you know masters And at least that was when they had the masters nationals North American has open end masters But you just think to get along if that show It's a it's a more laidback I'm except when I got choked up by Jim and that one time there For I You know you remember when I was with a collet they thought that she was tanning people in the room And Because you know the someone had an exclusive or something down the tanning there's no tanning in the hotel But she wasn't she had like a note under door that she was tanning people in another hotel Which is the truth but we were staying in the host hotel So I guess they got bad information someone tried to write a sad sound I'm gonna say trouble something like that some carry must have told Jim and Jim he's like Y'all on it me, you know I'm like Jim first of all wasn't even me, but I'm like Jim he's like I want you guys you know Like Jim we didn't she wasn't tanning anywhere So I was he pointed at me and so I got to talk to you You know and it's like embarrassing me and front of everyone's I pointed back at him And I said I got to talk to you because I heard that he was looking for us And he didn't like that so he came running to the camera and he's like I was big at this time So I was really big Was it resolved amicably? Yeah, he was even he apologized to me actually after because he you know he got bad information Nothing should have junked me anyway, but I he was over the he actually had a colonoscopy coming up And he was the following day or something like that two days later It was all like nervous season But it was all fine I had a lot of you know Jim and I you know we have the same birthday that's we have this commonality that we're always you know We text each other each was birthday and and I think it's sometimes we have like we we clash because we we think alike, you know That's dangerous sometimes you know They could be only one person who's you know in charge and gyms and charge so I have a lot of ideas You know that sometimes those I do just say you know They don't go over so well, so well, so well, you know IMean When you said you guys get the same birthday then that's the same obviously Zoni axon and you both created Yeah, yeah What did you do? What did you do? Jim created you made the whole thing Oh, that's yeah Pring this one thing into what it is today Well look going you've created I don't know what I've created Oh, you got species you've got Yeah, I guess so You did our ex muscle you got YouTube you got snakes Yeah, you got kids later in life you're killing it Yeah, well, you do the same thing you got your own little Your own little real estate empire that might be going up in the dust If they're not going to end this Don't end this COVID thing you like the You know, it's going to finish you said it's for you You're going to say it's going to go up and play I'm going to say what do you want to say? Properties I want to maybe see if it can pick up something Yeah, it reduced price Oh my gosh, I'll have to get Alan Dursher was to help me out with a You know The vagar The legal parts Yeah, what's the what's going on with the Miami You got condos those as you've been able to remember No, no, shut down It's not a bit shut down since March Poor Chris think of that It's terrible Yeah Ask anyone who was a Miami Beach condo And asked him how much the H08 Fiasmon What amount of cheese is it? The lowest is a thousand Wow So you're paying that Plus if you have a mortgage and the socks yeah So would do they Does anyone have any idea when they may open up again? This is the slow season for you anyway Probably but No, it's always busy It is even during the summer Yeah, yeah Nobody knows There's nobody has any forward vision On what's happening in Miami Beach Because Miami Beach is right It's an international city Right So it's like you know No one's traveling internationally Yeah Yeah, no one's but at the same time that that's why COVID is COVID Because you got to mix of people who did travel You know and out out in Right You know, I will say one thing There's a lot of people we had We had speculated and a lot of people were saying You know the Olympias, there's no You're not going to be any you know European guys in the Olympia What's going to happen? How they can get there I'm not going to say we told them I don't know if they wanted to tell you But there's a loophole I heard that today too Are you getting it? Okay, the loophole that I heard from my source Probably same source of your source He told me that what they're doing these bodyvels Is they're flying to like Dubai And if you hang out in Dubai for two weeks Quarantine yourself, then you can fly anywhere you want Oh no, I heard that they were Oh the night I know what you're talking about The initial DK No Which would be James James Yeah, that's right No, I heard that There was A exemption for like You know I'm commenting in that Say it's competing a big competition I got a big legal case I don't know I think that these guys are just like You know what they're not even trying to go through that route Because so many guys have been shut down Like a Samson doubt it was shut down At the London airport there These guys are just going to go to like Dubai Or Kuwait Hang out there You know tren for two weeks at Oxford and Jim And then they'll just fly to the United States Because you can fly from Kuwait here It's only the European flights that are building block There are many things being quarantined I don't know why but it's kind of ridiculous Is that what it was? Yeah Yeah It's like a dozen Trump said Oh tip the tap Okay So I think these guys will figure out a way to get here There seems to be some loopholes Although they're canceling They seem to cancel that I felt bad when I heard about They cancel the Japanese from Japan Pro which is a heady Amigishi show They canceled something else Just got canceled too Japan And I don't know Hong Kong maybe you are not with the Japan And Let's see Oh look at this maximus or they got a Boston Pro It says post-sponed But it's really cancel because it's a post-pandled magazine Yeah Post-poned is only if you need to go ahead I'm going to send I'm going to post-poned pain on my bills Yeah Yeah I don't blame it What's going on with Since IMean I don't even have to know But what's going on with Sean Rodin I don't know Like I said I think that Right if there was a strong case It would have already gone to court Well I'm not saying If I'm sure If I'm sure on Rodin's lawyer And Sean Rodin And I know that I have an alipi that I can possibly be jumping into At the end of the year And you know I know that maybe the case is not strong Against me I want to push to go to trial wouldn't you? I can't push the government to go to trial No but they can't be able to Time-cable hold on The time-cable was exclusively set by me The government Not you The lawyer Right but I thought you IMean you're a IMean you're a real ape as you want No but you have a right to a speedy trial That's that's one of the constitutional rights we have Oh you're a good day It's how do you define speedy? Well I don't it's been going on for two years That's that speedy in my book Well you know what that's that's Why don't you do it in first to get every point in colour The you tar Prosecutor I gotta send Vermont put sicker amount That's a Romano job He was love it Yeah My name is John Romano my wife is a lawyer Right maybe it's a way to write a R&D It makes me exclusively like Oh I'm fine to be able to You know investigate this case I'll be here I'm sure sure and Ron you see He's going back if it's a show I'm sure he wants to go back into the Olympia right and go against him again Well my and you know Sean Roman Yeah Sean Roman goes up against Brandon Curry He's got his hands full Sean Roman goes up against Phil Heath He wins They're white he's say that Because Because Human nature In in in an athlete's mind The best there is the guy who's won at seven straight And in that show that Brandon won No disrespect to Brandon But it is disrespectful at the same time That The previous year's two winners and previous six straight winner Was not there So I don't think human nature being what it is That Sean can rise to the level of Where he needs to rise to To beat Brandon But to beat Phil it's easy for him to rise to that level Well then that's good then that that's so good Of course Excuse me that that road you can do so now You know they're not gonna let me I don't see them letting Road and do the show If his case is not settled and IMean we're right now We're almost in September right we're at the end of August At September October November that's three months IMean the odds of maybe he's going to try out before that I don't know Originally I heard October right Now I don't know if that's why I heard June Originally actually I don't know That day that day passed no one see I got to I don't know I don't know who I wouldn't I guess we should contact Robyn and ask him and why would he be talking about it Maybe he is going to talk in the shop Yeah, maybe I can like Yeah, it's possible It's possible I just love to see him in the show When did you go? Well, what I of course I would What we do know though is if if there was a strong case They would have held that guy into court Eons ago If it was remotely strong Remotely See you're saying to me that if you don't think it's his side delay You think it's this it's the state delay Of course And then the problem with the state is Once did not grant the charges they never ever ever Say oh, we sorry we're going to drop me there's no reason for them to drop them Right Makes him look like fools True True So I do I do I am I guessing that it's a week case I'm guessing that it's ridiculously weak Right But the same answer Since I looked into the girl who made the accusation Was a convicted bank trensfer with her entire family I think that played into my decision that she's a crime Well, if it's fine, that way I hope it goes to I hope it goes to my words But I highly highly highly highly highly highly Don't know Yeah, I hope it goes to Charleston I so I had cars posted a picture on His Facebook of him in Montarosa I guess that was Montarosa's wedding it looks like Looks like it Right Me picture man Yeah IMiss my car Ed Conner Ed Conner's is kind of like Not main man, oh my thinking of the Box of chocolates Life is like a box of chocolates Far scum He's forced company in that For scum, so many different world events trenspired through forced company movie So many buy building events and so many buy stories and success stories And not so successful stories To see if you can remember right right right right Mike Montarosa born November 8th 1965 I've died the year gold gym was founded Occasionally the year gold gym was founded when he was born He died 8 to 16 oh so that was oh that's why he posted it Okay, so yesterday was the The anniversary at the age of 48 Gone but not for forgotten one of the greatest Physiques and personalities during the golden age of body building You don't have so funny day one time Yeah The Laura and I picked up Somewhere in New York in a limo That Mike was gasposing at With Laura And we had like this three hour drive to go somewhere And I asked Mike How many I'll never forget this How many gasposes have you done Or appearances this year He said this is my 44th consecutive weekend That's crazy right 44 And Mike wasn't charging you know a thousand two thousand You know, it's charging a lot of money Yeah Crazy right Yeah, yeah, you know it his his non-concerning was to He could care less than he had crappy workouts because he enjoyed traveling Meeting people Sure Meeting to see different places Yeah, he was a popular gasposing Very popular Very sad You know, sad when we see the guys like that, you know, die I didn't realize it was 48 I actually thought it was younger But I talked to his wife on occasion She had contacted me after what some story became out And she's she's living up I think about you Really We talked about this before we talked about this But yeah, it's said You know, he was a good guy I used to talk about a lot in the phone We had similar mutual friends This was probably back in the late 90s And We were so loud Yeah It's funny because we didn't really we never hung out in person But we got someone connected us and we used to talk on the phone and just go Yeah, we talked bodybuilding and bodybuilding drugs and supplements and diet And all kinds of stuff And we talked about all the people we knew and come And he was just like, he could talk to anyone That just goes to show you You know, we we this was before, you know, the social media age And you know, where people would just text each other all the time So we we had to get on the actual physical telephone with each other You know Yeah, no, he got along with that He people got along competitors like them Yeah I went like We all liked them Even though he would talk crap about we all liked you You know, you know why they liked him though Because they respect because they were scared of him Because he was he was probably the toughest guy Like old there, even though those guys were like, you know, flex was a Good fight and something then Christian could fight and those guys But Montarazer was just like you could tell he was brutal You know, that no one wanted a mess with him, you know He came from boxing, right, but he was also I think he was a guy who could have himself just to wear his hands, you know, and any capacity, street or in the ring, you know Is that how many guys we've done? There's not any, they don't have to make tough guys like that How ridiculous is back with How about his, his calves and arms? Yeah, when one of you I say Yeah, they say Freakness to both Yeah Couldn't believe Yeah, it's calves so quickly had two words in them They didn't, right? They didn't look real, yeah, IMean it was a bit like, well they looked like Implants, IMean I had a few times No, it did, that's the weird thinGHey, they came out of the thing, took like a right angle They were ridiculous He had freaky body parts Yeah Yeah, it was really close, John, huh? Yeah, well, Ed is, I think that was one of his main discovery Ed claimed the fame on that one was that he, Remember he said he went and talked to his parents Something that told me he had to move the California Yeah, he did it Yeah, he tried to flow out there He flew to my house and talked to my dad and mom You know, that's pretty crazy, right? I tell you how much Ed believed in him, right? Yeah, I know, gold's gym, I started at the age of someone was born And he's going to be, you know, champion Yeah, right, this stuff Right now you'd said an email, you do FaceTime Right? Ed, you'd have to provide the airline tickets I'd be like this travel, yeah, I'd like to travel with it He knew Mike was a town and when Mike moved out there People didn't know who he was, right? And he was, I already was running around the gym Tell people I'm going to win the USA I want to keep Dave, I've told the story on the show before And I know we have new listeners and people who quit Yeah But Mike, I had my office in Gold's gym And Mike came to see me the day that he got there And I never met him yet He knew who you were Yeah, because he was trening with Paul Fierre So I was helping Paul the mail And that's another story because Paul said, you think I'm impressed I'm sure it's in my trening part I'm like, what are you talking about? What are you talking about? Right? Feel like we were saying, oh, I think I look good We should, you know, good flow You should see who I tren with I don't know if I could get my office And he posed for me And he was so sloppy fat And he had like 22 weeks And I thought he'll need it It's nothing of weeks To burn out really bad The fat on his low back Love handles was like floppy Are you like bobby? You're like, hmmm Do the cigarette hang out, you know? I just, hmmm He told me I came out here I was like, what's your problem here? I'm winning the show It was just like a declaration Maybe he came from my office In case I was helping people to try to scare me or something Yeah, oh, he wanted to figure out But he wasn't in shape So what was he posing with you for? I don't know He, you know what people think they were in shape? Yeah And I was stunned that he had that even got into shape And what was he, did you watch him He was doing like mass amounts of cardio and stuff like that? He was starving at the end And he was starving at the end And he had this rivalry going with wheeler That they would shit talk and scream at each other Cross to gym every single day Oh really? Yeah And that's why he probably could start Because at that point He just had the mentality of like I'm just not eating if I need to not eat Look at him there Look at the legs that you're doing Yeah, I don't know what happens It's like... He likes more than everybody I'll tell you exactly what happens as legs I'm deaf Do you want to know what happens as legs? Right 44, guess poses in 44 weeks You could turn Yeah That was probably 2 years after He won that USA And I think he was resolved to like You know, I can't, it's hard to do both travel this much. You could see it as facing suffered for that show. Oh, he he he was on brutal low calories towards the end. What can those cans? How funny is that? This is when I when I sew evidence at the party that's what a reminder he reminded me. Yeah, Evan has that type of physique right there. And we got him when I helped him when he won the national's his face had that same look. They look like they could have been brothers almost. Yeah, totally suck down. And the funny thing is they have the very similar looks to the physique because Evan had, you know, the good rate arms and calves that is good as ice. But and they had the like problems both and they had the good front quads and but they just didn't have like the the girthy doctors, you know, that they both have good packs, but they don't look like they have good packs because they're so wide. Right, right, yes, and right because of the whip and both had great backs to obviously to but um, he is Evan's supposed to come back this year because he competing. I thought I was getting ready for the new year. Bro. Yeah. You can see it's quite about two years ago, I think, right? Yeah, if I before, I think was before. It's a verbal that's a verbal recovery, but you know, I haven't such AI'm sure he's some particular sort of thinGHe does it. He probably won't even be able to notice it. Yeah, you know, it's funny. I spoke to Evan Brightland COVID started or maybe like three weeks in I sent him a text message and I said, how you doing? He said, you know, with this COVID beinGHome, he said, I love it. I'm getting so much done. Oh, yeah, he definitely loves it because he doesn't want to travel anywhere. He doesn't want to leave the house now. Yeah, he has a good read. He has a good read. He's 52 weeks out of the year. I'm you know, at some point, I'm like, you know what, I kind of like this, it's like, I don't have to like, I can't even know. No, there's no pressure. You know, you don't even go to the mall with the kids, right? Can't go to the mall. You know, anyway, yeah, because it's too risky. But, you know what the thing is, after a while, you don't even care anymore. You get used to it. That's they want us to. The government's happy. We're going to shut it. I love that shot. Yeah. You know, is Instagram? Yeah, I'm looking right there. Probably, you know, the best, some of the best real arms and the business. Yeah, nice and good arms. Yeah, Christ up's biceps. Show the whole. Oh, he's bicep. Right. Yeah, fraky Alice. Unbelievable. That whole, that whole connection there. Those are the arms you, you dream of having like, I, you and I had like, like, like, skinny arms. We didn't have, IMean, was like born with the genetic arms, you know, you get to see him. He probably lifted one set of dumbbell curls and his arms probably grew like four inches, you know, from it. First time we picked up some dumbbells. He was a fat kid and he's like, I'm going to try to use bicep curls within like six months. He had like, you know, 18 and charms around. That's, that's genetics. Yeah. IMean, he's like his dad for that. He has a good shot of his likes on one. Look at this shot. Hold on. What is this for? Oh, this was after the 2009 New York proud home. Look at this. Let's see. Get up there, Dave. All right. It's a good shot, right? Yeah, very good. He, I always said, I didn't think he ever really realized this true potential. He was, you know, he didn't, he didn't compete that much. I just think that, you know, it wasn't, I don't think it was, it was a priority fan. You know, necessarily. I think he loves bodybuilding. Like, you know, all of us bodybuilding, but I think he, yeah, he's more into doing like his own little thing too. He doesn't, it wasn't like the, like, I have to do this more than anything else. And he's not selfish about it. You know, he has a family, you know, he has a wife that a kid. I think that he found balance in some of his life, which a lot of guys can't. Can't do. He's lucky. He got he has a really good relationship with I know, animal. Yeah. They, they, he's been smart. So even when he left him for a year to, he, they took him back after that. Yeah, he went, he went to the, uh, what was someone else and then they came back? He was a veteran and P.J. when they had that weird company for what I remember. They had to blow up, though. I think that was like, he didn't think like a blow up doll like commercial or something. Yeah, P.J. Oh, yeah. That's where the Evan did like, right? And Evan, that was a, you know, a line of this. Yeah. Funny, right? Yeah. Yeah. Like, Chris, you got to give, you have memories better than mine is, which is terrible. So I'm on a molder. We'll get that shot. That's the flex for, I think. Yeah, you might be right. He's got a pretty good record. So Evan, you know, when he competes, usually wins shows, you know, unless it's like, you're all over. There was a, the year he was third at the Arnold. He arguably, I don't know. He could have won that. I think Branch won it. I think Wolf was second. Is that the, a branch had the torn quad that he came back? I don't know. It just, I don't think it mattered when he, what do you have torn a knock-on? Yeah, you remember Branch had, had the time to work a year and somehow in six months was on stage, in one Arnold. Yeah. And he looked good. So I'm getting wrong. He deserved it. But he wasn't like, he wasn't the branch-warn that we had seen in the past as well. Yeah, from the, from the waist up evidence is pretty flawless, you know, as far as I'm concerned. Yeah, it's very good. So we have, we have to, we have to, we have to, we have to, we have to like go back and, it's like we're like two old men like talk about the old days, you know. That's what we've been, we've been reduced to during COVID times here. Well, I thought that Con was relevant and certainly Evan sent to Pony's relevant. Yeah, well, they're all, they're all. You know, it's funny. I was talking to Nick, should you? Oh, you're for Nick. I could buddy Nick. And, um, hold on, that's a great. It took that as YouTube channel. Don't know if you heard that. Who's there? YouTube. Why? I don't know. They told him to can't have it anymore. They must be a reason why. They said, you violated something, but they didn't tell him why it could be violated. It seems as though from the, he sent me a screenshot of it. Seems as though like someone ratted him at, like someone we had it in firm or something like that, someone like must have reported him that he was doing violating YouTube rules or something who knows. I'm sure I'm sure everyone violates YouTube rules that they really want to get down to the nitty-gritty who reads who reads the list of rules that they have. You know what IMean? I'm sure like if you say the word boo too many times in the video. So when did they take it, when did they take it down? Just recently, he has no more YouTube channel. And they, and they told him if he tries to start in account under another name. I was just going to say, we're not gonna say why not start an account under another name. No, they warned him in that. Although Dr. Tony, he would just been doing that for years. They spake he taking away his accounts every time they find out it's him, but it's so weird, right? IMean, what could he, IMean, what could he possibly done that would, would warrant and take you down? He's not like no secrets? I don't know. What's your world book yet? IMean, give the wronGHeart load in advice. IMean, what's what pretty of a set? I don't know. Nick, Nick, I, you know, Nick, Nick didn't think that come out with repeat because he doesn't have a good social media presence. So maybe YouTube, I had a little bone to pick with Nick on that. So maybe YouTube came through the sensors and said, you know what? I don't know. It's just weird. I, whatever he like we had serves like that I'm always like this. So what do you do? He called you up and said, hey, Daniel. I'm probably selling me a little bit. They said, hey, did you hear that I think Nick lost his channel on like site accident? You know, we talked now with friends. Like what's going on? Like, he goes, he sent me the screenshot from YouTube because I lost my channel. I don't know. I just went on to the logger out of my day. There was there and they sent me this notification. Pop that. I thought I was a good person. IMean, how many times I got to one of them out loud? Trying to get a lawyer, yes, but you know, they, you can't get in touch with those people. It's like trying to get in touch with Amazon.com. They make it purposely so that you can't get in touch with them. You have to jump through hoops to try to. That's the new thing. The new thing with these big like you Facebook and Instagram. Try to get in touch with Instagram. You've called the eight of your number and you hit the right. We're going to hit zero day for like three days. Zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero. I don't even think you're listening to your number to call Instagram. I had an Instagram problem like maybe like about a year ago and I had to figure it out myself. What, what problem can you have with Instagram? I think I don't know. I've been for the usually I have two, two counts. I have my Columbus Python's by and more than that, but I have Columbus Python's above as my steak channel and I have a huge 25 channel. And then of course, we have more Rx muscle, but that's the separate thing. So I have the two of them, you could toggle back and forth from them on your same phone. You know, so you can upload to, I couldn't get onto the one, the snake one for some reason. I don't know why. So I'm like, what the hell are you contact here? I couldn't figure out who to contact. There's no way to connect these people. They don't want you to. They don't want to talk to anyone. They don't want to have a customer service hotline. Oh my god, you'd have to have like a four or some 50,000 people answer in the phones. They can play any money, right? IMean, what did I try to play to Airbnb now? I get some lady of some guy working in their house because of COVID. Because I always say I would like to speak with a man here. That's my father's favorite one. It's not as effective anymore, but when I was a kid, my father used to say that. It's a scary way to be the manager. He was a tough guy too, so I won't be scared. Manage would chop. I fathered a threat to him. Yeah. He would. How do you really? Oh yeah. Right, everyone. Everyone all the time getting fights left right in center. Did he always come out of the opera? Did he ever walk away with the electricity? I only saw him lose one fight. Real. Yeah, it gets two guys. Yeah. Physical fight? Yeah, I was very little. Yeah. Oh, so you actually started physically fighting. IMean, you said, you're like, give me the death. Wow. Watch the guy go down. Yeah. Were you were you mortified? You know, by the whole thing or you were like, like, that's my dad. Keep taking birth. Yeah, mortified. Yeah, I figured it was anything could happen at any time. Oh, it's scary. Yeah. What if you got into the kill? I was being jailed. IMean, lawyers would have done this was for, you know, lawyers this day. He would have been in jail faster than who's in jail right now. I'm bodybuilding. Oh yeah, yeah. He would definitely have been a bit of a rusted yet. Then IMess around today anymore with that. Unbelievable. So we better keep the show clen. So nobody reports you and you wake up one morning and try to put on. Palombo's pythons and you log in. But when you get to our ex-mosle, it's missing. You have to hire Alan Dursherwitz to get it back. Yeah, I did, but I just, I really, I wonder what he did. You know, that's just, it's just kind of weird. Yeah. That's what I'm using. Like, what, what could he possibly have, like said? Yeah. IMean, that wasn't said by a million I, well, Boston Lloyd loses his channel. I don't think Boston Lloyd has a channel. He's always getting the answer to Instagram and, and I haven't feeling people probably report him to him. Yeah, but the amount of all the things that are out there. I know. I'm so many different weird subjects and topics and things stuff and both stuff and you know what people get, most people get a band for nowadays political. You can't say the political. Do you know that? Well, I won't say anything about Trump then. Well, we're not a political channel, but I'm just saying in general. You can't say anything political, you know, they've been being simply banning you know, and people don't want to lose their channels. Yeah. It's crazy. Really, it's insane. You think about it. I, you know, I look at these YouTube channels, you know, Chris and I'm like saying to myself, I should just do a fish tank channel. It's so hard to get hits on, unlike a Japanese channel. IMean, IMean, I thought like, like, a lot. This, this kid I watch on YouTube and I'm trying to pull up his videos. This guy, this kid, he's a kid. He lives in his mother's basement. He goes around the world, basically, just film people's fish tanks. Do you not get a belief in this? What? And their homes? Can be their homes. It could be, you can be anywhere. That's, you know, fish are bigger than the LMPI gas. Yeah. That's the one finding out. See if I can get a good picture. It's good. Dave, you know what it is? It's like this. I used to have a body to build a camp. I was the first one to ever do it. I pre-empted Sean Ray. You do it yourself? I did it with Laura. Okay. And I would have this camp all the time. And Joe gave me, Joe, we don't give me free outs and muscle fitness and flex. So it was okay. And, um, and I, in right off the bat, the stunning thing was that we got total number of bodybuilders to attend. Zero. It was so people. It was just regular people who, you know, the fish tank people. It was regular people who were like, okay. I didn't know what Laura. Or, you know what? I want to get in really good shape. I'm taking you way back, you know, way over 20 years ago. But I want to get in great shape. Okay. I see this at the magazine. She's in great shape. He's in great shape. They must know something. So at least I'll go for the information. Right. It's like, it's a weird connection. No, it's a strenge. It's like, it's like a strenge thing. It's, yeah, it's a good recourse. People go for the knowledge. So I wanted to, it, it, look, if I said Chris is Cito and I got to be in a gym doing a trening camp. You don't think that we would, we would have saw it out. I don't know. But, you know, I can tell you. It would be, we want to come hang out even to learn how to tren number one. But also just to hang out with us. You know, it's just, hey, I've been really smart back then. Instead of doing a bodybuilding camp, I probably would have just been a better, better, I would have been better off selling fish. With an ad in muscle fitness. It'd be like, where's the connection? Look at this guy. 7 million views on this video. He looks like a fish. 7 million. He looks like, he's got 600,000 subscribers and he just recently said, this is not that, this is not like a new channel. It's not like an old channel. Look at these. These got millions of views on these things. You should put one up as a trial below the date. Dave, you should, you know, Chris, I have a fish channel. I'll pull my channel. Did I haven't posted anything to since IMoved four years ago? I just started with a muscle fish. Okay. See, there you go. You are ahead of your time. And this guy's cashin in. Muscle fish. Muscle fish. I'm a poor old man. The subscribers, Chris, go up every single day. I got almost 20,000 subscribers. I haven't posted aromasingle video in four years of that. Okay. The reason is people love to look at fish tanks. Okay. If I, it's got more, if you got more subscribers than my reptile channel, which I put up with videos every day, like five days a week. Okay. Because people love to look at these. These are just looking at my old, they're all looking at my old stuff. My snow white arrow one I had. They, they, they, they, they might look at, they get tons of ads on this. You can't even watch the video for somebody else. That's my, that's my arrow water that I had. It was almosT3 feet long. That was my monster, my monster fish tank, Chris. Yeah. Why don't, why don't you try to expand this, this, you don't have the time? I don't have time. I don't have the fish tank. I'm setting up the fish tank in the garage now. So, Amanda and I decided one tank is reasonable. You know, I'm so. Oh, God. Dave, you're such a psychoso. What were you agreed with? What I wanted. One is reasonable. Everyone was looking for it. I did three, you know, I'm afraid. You're not afraid. You get obsessed. Oh, she's saying I'm not telling you. I have one fish tank though. I have a, I have turtle, I have a turtle tub in there and I have a tortoise tub too. But that's, I don't count those because then I fish, but you're going to get obsessed about it. Well, I would be, you know, and I have too much work already to do with the other with the snakes. And I enjoy that. But so I, I don't really want to million fish tanks. But I like the whole, I like, I love fish. And I've had, like, you know, I really imagine what is it? Why do you like fish so much? What do you know? I like the whole idea of capturing, you know, nature and attack. It's like just something cool. And it was always these fish certain fish that I wanted to get as a kid that I couldn't because, you know, I couldn't, I can't actually never buy me a humongous fish tank. I think it'd give you the guppies. So I couldn't do it. So that's, so I think, I think, I'm going to switch to covering fish tanks from now on. Rather than go around the world and watch the whole game, I'll just, I'll just go around and then, and video fish tanks and make a lot more money. And I can quit doing everything else. This kid probably makes 30, 40 grand a month. I would think from physical to crazy. Yeah. YouTube is, look, you know, if my kid sent to me, I want to be a YouTuber. I would be like, I'd be 100% in support of it. You know, I'd be like, knock yourself out. If you're going to give 100% effort to it, you can work be your own boss. You can work from home. You don't have to go anywhere. Like, not even going anywhere. I'd have to work at home. So I didn't have to be a YouTuber. Everyone's going to be an entertainment nowadays. I see these channel. Yeah. It's, it's certainly, it's after channels now that, um, where they're, they're doing like, they're like, my son watches his stuff like this kid Ethan and Cole, they, they run around killing werewolves and then, and other crazy, I don't know, aliens or whatever they dare after. With these nerve guns, yeah, my sons of sesity's nerve guns, that grandma, grandma, bottom one, they say it, the nerve guns and grandma says, he's not allowed to brinGHomes. I know I'll get hit in the eye with one of the projectiles that he shoots out of them. Because he's, my son is just not just doesn't like just a gun. He likes to assassinate you, you know, point blank range. Well, whatever he needs, maybe he needs like a little kid. He's, kids, he's a little upstairs in for now. If you, if your son ever came over, forget about it. There we can go. Oh, God. There's a lot of hours. Yeah. There's room in your house. Oh, and I thought to go. Except you all would destroy chasinGHim, they just, destroy it. He would love it that your son is older like that he can, he has some competition. Because he's, you know, he's tough. He's like, he likes to be rough. And so sometimes, you know, with the younger kids, you have to like, Logan, take it easy, you know, with your son. He can keep it close. Yeah, you're, you're still a pressure around probably about that. Yeah. You get, teaching a good lesson. And there's a one like nine hours in the pool. There you go. That's right. Maybe drowning each other in the pool would be great. Except we can't even see each other because of the stupid code. All the, all the, the whole world is changed. It's all changing. You know, I got to thank you also. I don't have the thing with me. Maybe do you have that? Any of those are our social masks in the house or they're at the office. High and senior, you know, high and senior. He's always into some new business. He sent me these RX muscle masks. They're the best ones I've ever seen. Look out. Yeah. Oh, you're making, where's it on this book? Didn't you get a show? I have a supplement company together. I really good tonight. Dave. Huh? Did they him and George? Fair, I had a supplement company together. He did they sold it from what he called me? I'm seeinGHer as a designer. Mom's? Yeah, I'll tell you, sir. I don't see it. Her mom's wearing the mask. It looked great. I said, you look like a real badass with this. What does that mean? I love going inside. You're a problem with the masks. See, I have a biGHead. So, the standard mask with those little things to go behind your ears. It, it pulls so tight that my ears get pulled this way and the mask is full of. Hines is mask has these little like drawstrings. You can kind of adjust how much slack you got there. So, it doesn't pull so tight and you can, I can wear it. I've been wearing recently as I wear just these this thing around my head. Like, it doesn't have an orcs muscle logo on it. No, that doesn't. That's why I like the hines thing. I've got a great job of these masks. I'm, I'm, she's going to get, which is a control to hold up. Where's my elbow? I'll show you what I'm wearing. This is what I'm wearing. Not the name one cares, but I love that I can pull pictures of. That's what I'm wearing now. I look like I'm from the, the camera. Like, really pre-stam. Right, the knot is just something. Okay, that was the car, I held it. Where are you in there, Walmart? Uh, somewhere. I know I'm in like, Sam's. Here's his one. This is the best one, though, man. Did you see one, you're wearing more family, same thing? See, it's got the, um, I see it. Those little things over here. You can kind of adjust the ears. See, I'm in a hospital here. It has a small head, so this is only just, if I were, it would be all us to the end here, because I need more slack. Is it patenting? I don't know if it's patented, but it should be. So, I got this and then there's another one. If I can only find the one that her mom's wearing, she sent me if she texted me a picture. I don't think she posted it any more. It's actually like half of it. It's the RX symbol and half of it. It's like another repeater that I have behind me usually when I do my interviews. Yeah. You're doing it at a bayonet, something that half of it's that and it's really cool. Like, IMean, he did a great. I want to see maybe he can make, maybe he can make him. I'll make some available for sales. Maybe because the judges for the pro, they can, like, I could do that. Oh, that you have, but you're doing, or, or you know what they should do, they, the judges should wear the ones. They should get sponsors and say, look, you know, if if RX also sponsors to show, all the judges will wear the RX-Mosal masks. Yeah. I don't believe a new thing, right? Soon they'll have to, soon they'll have to have competitors on stage. They'll have the have their, their companies logo on there. Oh, look, it's a Phil Heath. He's wearing the gifted nutrition logo on his mask. The Grammys got the Dragon Farmer, or whatever. So we think we'll see, is big rammy doing the New York Pro? What's he going to qualify for the Olympics doing? I hear is an Egypt. Oh, he's an Egypt. Yeah. But I hear it's tough to, once you're any, I, I've heard. It's tough to get out. Yeah. Take it away to go back to Kuwaiti, guys. You probably go from Egypt to Kuwaiti and then Kuwaiti to the US. Yeah. But what, IMean, what's how many shows the left? Where do we have Chicago and New York? To York, Chicago, California. It's California. You don't know what? Yeah. What for many of it? I don't even know for many is the call fire. I think this is showing Spain, but yeah. I know. Is it the big man or something like that? No, I think it's, yeah. Yeah. It's not a big man. But it's in Spain. Two, twelve and open. IMean, because he's got, he's got a qualifier. I'm just kidding. They didn't give them a free pass last time. So maybe he thinks he's going to get the, you know, the invite? I don't know. I don't know. Who do you do? He's a latch. IMean, they give it to him this year. Because they want him in the show. I don't know. Well, they, I would have, they want them to show less. They give them the invite. Right? Right. So, I don't know. I, I would think, I bet we see him in Chicago if you can get here. Or what's, what's the European show you said that they have? Something in Spain. I thought they, the old, the Alicante one, is it the one? Yeah. The Alicante Spain is one of them. Yeah. Let me look at, see if I can find them in the schedule. There's a Cherucles that come in there. Is that happening? Oh, that's not that. Yeah. Yeah. Look at the old, old one. Dude, we're looking at, you know, 2018's getting over here. Yeah. Yeah. We can go in the wrong schedule here. Alright. So we got the New York pro is the fifth of September. California is the 12th. And California, they just announced they moving into Tampa. Go ahead. Then they got the, oh, this is, this isn't the Esther show. So that doesn't count. And the Spain one is called the European Pro Men's Body Building Show. Oh, John and Rico is running. Yes. That's right. With the Milio Martinez. That's on October 11th. And then the week after that, is the Chicago. That's the big thing. We got a lot of pro shows. We got to lead just, it's fast. Yeah. That's it. Is that man? No, it's probably not going. Yeah. That's a Christmas. A good friend Rich Sealman's holding the, that's a masters. Oh, it says. You're sure it's a sponsor in a show. Is it? There's a, so the post the, I don't know, November, the November 7th. I can't imagine this one happening United Kingdom Pro Men's Body Building. Is that happening? Yeah. I think that one's supposed to happen. That's good. It's good for the guys in England. Then there's book arrests Romania on the November 14th. Yeah. I don't know if that's a profile. I think it is for says it's on our open says men's pro bodyville. If you was one in a while, just young, because it's like two, 30 in the morning. Too bad. They cut the viewers come first, Chris. That's what it's all about. We have to entertain them. Look, they're, they're doing their cardio and they're listening to us. Talk on this. I go to a fish tank. Fish tanks still, right? It's a side YouTuber. So guys, if you subscribe to my, uh, my channel, I first thank you all that. I don't put any more videos on because I need, I need the, I need the views. I'll show you my reptile channel. Okay. I don't think I go to a, because then you'll be band-aid. The correct. That's a political. The great Martin Luther King courts aren't put on. Did you see that? Oh, yeah. Try to think where it was now. So I think actually we're leading on my head. I think I started his pitch. Oh, then here's my, um, here's my snake channel. Those of you like, don't like them. I talked about thanks to Dan. Okay. muscle serpension diversity. I've seen my, I put muscle on everything. So, you know, to keep it. I have to keep connected. He's got to be a common theme. So subscribe to that guy. He's just giving me a, give me the subscribe. You know, watch my videos. And I need, we have a lot of people I didn't watch it. It's kind of there. Muscle fish, muscle serpension diversity. Hit subscribe. If you don't subscribe to the dark, muscle channel, you should bet it's for that too, because that's, you don't want to miss any of our great shows. Okay. There's my plug. And what I always got to show you, let me see with that. Yeah. That Rory, Lita, Marthing. I think that was thEQuote. I'm going to get political. They're going to, they're going to ban us. Rory, Lita, my, he's got a good page on, uh, on, and I gotta say the guy, I don't know how he has got to be what? 60? I think it's in 60. It's great. It's really good. It's age. Well, I told you, I want to search you, praise all time favorite buying a dog. Really? Yeah, I think it did. Search. He could be Mr. Lita hands down. I, I great, what a physique. It's got a hand down. Hmm. He's got to say, you could tell he's just a creative guy. Here's the second column, woewi. Woewi. Woewi. Woewi. Woewi. Come back to you. Not with me woewi. Oh, I should think of what he looks. I think this is what he looks like now. So it's great, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, woewi. Woewi. Woewi. Woewi. How can he never got a pro card? He lost about Paris at the nationals. I think about Paris. He's lost his mind too. And I don't know. He just kind of like fell off the face of the earth. Woewi. I think he did like, I think he won the A U America or something, but it wasn't, you know, didn't have the prestige anymore. And IMean, you talked about people not fulfilling their potential. Woewi, lead a wire, ask anyone. Woewi. Yeah. I think that's then and now. So it's so like pretty good. Yeah. He may have a better headline than Jay. God, right? Tell me about it. The guy hasn't lost a hair. He looks like a bigger version on the left. That photo by the left on the left was taken by Jayson Mathis by the way. What a great shot that is, right? Yeah. That, um, the classic, the lower left. Right Charles Clim on there. He does. You're right with the lonGHair. Look at that. You know what? Rory. Rory looks like a rock star, they're man. IMean, talk about, you know who else loved him? I can't imagine that. It doesn't love him. No, go higher than it. Bob? No, higher. Oh, meter. Yeah, Bob, I think, but he knows Bob well. Oh, yeah, Joe, Joe. Joe loved him, but he, you know, Joe was like this weird. Not done. Joe was weird. Joe loved him, but like one of them, the compete, like when the national skating pro card, I'll make you a superstar. You can't just like have the model good looks. That picture of the left dude is like, right? It's wacky. It's got the perfect hair, perfect cheeks. Well, this 27 versus 61. 27 man, he was 27. That's crazy. Yeah, he was young when you got started. He's not that old then. Yeah. I think he, you know, see the picture on the left that was thick. Those are Jason math as pictures. Yeah. And that's one he was making kind of, I think, a comeback for like the, oh, he was okay. I'll tell you what year. I'm thinking to come back in 27. So I'm guessinGHe was 22 when he was second to Bob Paris. Wow. I think, I was 21 or 22. Well, that's been guys who young. So they, they, um, they seem to be even Sean Ray, they all that whole crowd was very young when they turned pro. Yeah. But what's going on Bob, Bob Paris has like been really down on body building. I was both. He was kind of down on people. Send me these links. It's like really like, send me something like, yeah, I don't know. He was blacklisted. He was insinuating. Like Joe Weater. Oh, he came out as being gay when it was like, you know, do you think that that was a truth? You think they, they just once he broke that book and came out that they discriminated against him. Or was it just maybe he just perceived it as that? I think there's a truth is truth in both, you know, what he perceived and what was. Yeah. It's all, you know, it's, it's, it's, no, because you're thinking today. Yeah, that's that's what I think. Yeah, I years ago. Right. Maybe just said you're not marketable. If you do that, you know, I can't use you if you have to see it. I'm sure Bob, I'm sure Bob had the conversation with Joe before he did it. Don't you think? Yeah, he's. Jerry Joe. Probably told him not to. And he probably did it. Sure. Yeah, I'm sure. He said, you know, stay in the closet, Bob. He probably said, wait till you've done competing. Yeah. Because of marketability. Maybe because, you know, back then, you know, marketability was everything. You just took the words right out of my mouth. Everything. Nowadays, it's like, almost like you're better if you get, you know, if you do better. It's like, it's like more acceptable. I don't want to get you YouTube channel canceled. You saw my Trump, which Trump said, it's easier when you blackmail. No, it's no, it jumps it. Yeah. No, I think that, um, yeah, you got to think we're at the environment was 25 years ago. So people would come up the Bob and like, like, what's that saying? The elephant in the room? Yeah. The elephant in the room that it was that he was gay. So there's clearly going to be some judges back then, 28 years ago. Yeah. Like, I'm not having this guy in the top five. But then they were probably some judges that were like, ooh, yeah. Yeah. Get those names from the church. Yeah. That's my next channel with like, that he had the names. Oh, no. I'd love to because I, you know, I haven't talked about Paris. The last time I talked about Paris. Yeah. Well, no, the second the last time. But 2001 Olympia came up after pre-judging. Yeah. It said, IMean, how's that? Jay loved Bob Paris. IMean, physique right. Yeah. physique wise, had that that book flawless. And Bob came up with me after pre-judging and was like, like, I don't know where he's like, oh, Jay's got this. Like, what are you doinGHere at the show? Oh, he just he was in the deep. I come in to see the Olympia. I wanted to see what was going on. Well, I bet you if you reached out to him and said, look, I'll interview you. Like, get me out of the equation. Maybe you could interview Bob. I'll set the whole thing up and you could do the interview with Bob on this. And even I'll just engineer it. Maybe he'll do it. Because he likes you. Fascinating story. Do it. He's his story is, uh, he ran away from home. Oh, really? I didn't even know that. Right away from home. Me grew up. I think in Iowa, Idaho or something. Oh, wow. I think I think I can't remember. But he moved to, was like a teen runaway. Oh, wow. If you want, you know, we went out to LA to be a bodybuilder and all worked out for him. We'll see you run away because it was because of the experience of screwing it against because I think I think he had a step forward. I can't remember the story. Uh, we get, you got to get him all. We got to get this interview. I have his book somewhere. He sent me the book. He, the book, the roll of suit. In fact, well, put down the cover. Get him, run, get him. Yeah. I think Chris froze. Or maybe I froze. No, you froze. You froze. Oh, a froze. They're going to cancel your station Dave. No, I think we were both having our conversation. We both froze. And I said, I said black little bag. I ride, get him on the show. You'll put him on the cover. Give him a cover. You got to reach out to him. I think he'll respond to you because you guys had a, you know, you coached him and had a good relationship with him. So you never know. Yeah, up to somebody's email. Somebody's contact. Yeah. Well, guys, uh, we got to wrap this up. Chris has got to go to his phone sleep. And we gave you an hour. I try to give him an hour of give them to you. No, he gave an hour. So now that's it. Yeah. When you don't have anything to talk about, it seems like it goes longer. Who would break it down a show and everything like that, you know, it's, it's, uh, it goes faster. You know, we can actually, we actually have something to talk about. Well, we goT3 weeks. Well, fine. Oh, just, just, just, just, just. But you know, from reading that schedule, though, Chris, it seems like as we get into the fall, we're going to have a lot of shows coming up. And I think that's everyone kind of push their shows then hopefully, hopefully, they don't have to all be outside. IMight be the new, that maybe the new way they do it now. Except, uh, I guess you do that in California pretty easily, but you don't want to in Chicago and in November, I have to held a show outside to appreciate between us off there. Yeah, all my having to, you know, get the get all connections, the lights and bonfires over there to give her more work. All right, guys, you know what to do. Until next week, remember, with heavy muscle radio. Truth hurts in the pregame show. It does. Surely does. We'll see you next week.

=== FILE: RIC DRASIN PASSES AWAY! Dave Palumbo Remembers a Bodybuilding Icon [jbnUIoNEEvg].txt ===

Day Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. It was with a heavy heart and a sad note that I have to report that a good friend and an iron brother has passed yet again. Rick Dresson who is probably best known for his logo in the knee droo of the gold gym guy holding that bar with a bar bent, the ball head, he goes to drew the world gym logo as well. That's how a lot of people know. He also had a very popular YouTube channel where he interviewed people who used to come on our X-Muscle all the time. He portrayed the Demi Hulk in the original incredible Hulk series. If you guys ever watched that, that was my childhood. There was an episode where the Hulk couldn't trensition between Bruce Banner and the Hulk and he got stuck halfway through. Rick played that part. He was in a lot of commercials. He was a professional wrestler. He was probably, you know, you know, it's funny. A lot of people don't recognize him when he was younger because he had a full head of hair and then later life he shaved his head and Rick was just one of these good guys. But you know what? I knew him more as an artist. He was such an artistic guy. He used to edit his own videos. IMean, he got the guy in his 70s and he was editinGHis own videos for YouTube. He had a very popular channel. I was working with him and helpinGHim promote that channel right when he started, like over 10 years ago. This was a guy who just had art coming out of his fingertips. He drew an original, gold gym character for me that was not the gold gym logo and he signed it. I have a picture. I have it hanging in my office and I have to believe that it's probably worth something now because now that, you know, when people pass away everything becomes worth more. But you know what? To me, I would never let it go. It's worth a million dollars to me that thing because it was drawn exclusively for me. There's not another one like that anywhere and it was signed by him and it meant a lot to me when he sent it to me because I knew he put a lot of love in that. But Rick was just super artistic. It was amazing what this guy did draw. IMean he could look at something and just make a character. He actually did a great character. I just put on my Instagram recently of the whole Gold Gym crew like from it was Frigna and Arnold and Robbie Robinson and I'll put that picture up to it was tremendous. It was great. He was just doodling. You know, I was commenting to him and I was texting and tellinGHim how would a great job he did on the thing. Like I took me two minutes like it was like no big deal to him. But everyone liked Rick. He was like a nice guy. He was a good person. He loved the bodybuilding. His passion was working out and maybe to his detriment because he lived that lifestyle his whole life. And unfortunately he's passed and we don't really know the exact cause of death yet. But if you look on his Facebook, he had been posting that he had been having some kidney problems and some hard problems. He was having trouble breathing and he was trying. I think he was waiting for a second knee replacement as well. So something was going on. I don't you know, it almost sounded like he had COVID but I haven't heard that. Refordded it all. IMean the breathing problem obviously because he was Rick took such good care of himself. IMean the guy ate perfectly trened. He slept. He just he lived the lifestyle. So I can't imagine that you know all of a sudden that in nowhere, you know, he was just going to you know go down hill that quickly. So I have to imagine he had something going on whether I don't know if it was COVID or for another virus or you know his kidneys. I can't imagine the guys kidneys and heart failing at the same time that just sounds too suspicious to me to just all of a sudden, you know, his whole body just crap out. I don't know like that. And you know, once again, just super sad because like I said, even though he was 76 years all, the guy was like so sharp. I wish I was as sharp as he was, you know, mentally just right there on top of everything. He could interview anyone. You sit him down with anyone and he and the funny thing is he knew everyone. You know, I think I know a lot of people because I've been around for a long time. This guy knew everyone from back in the golden year. IMean he can call up stone cold Steve Austin. He could call Arnold up on the phone and pretty much get anyone into his little studio there and interview him. Franco was in there before Zane. So here's a guy, you know, who people respected and liked as well. And that just makes it that much worse when you hear someone like that passing. It just, it seems like every week I'm reporting on someone else going and it's just, to me, it's, it's heartbreaking because, you know, I don't know, I guess in life people pass, you know, and, but IMay be during this whole COVID, you know, quarantine time. It just seems like this is like more people, you know, you know, leaving us too soon. And I guess we don't know what our, you know, we don't know if our days are numbered or not. We don't know how many days we got left and that's why it's important that you live every day to its fullest. I went down my water slide today with my kids, you know, and I really, you know, I, I, I really, I could smell the flowers. I really appreciated every minute that I spent with them because, you know, what, there's so many people who are leaving us and, you know, who knows when you, when you're next breath is going to be. It was actually, the brick was actually born on July 12th the same day as my sister. I thought I was remembered as birthday. And he had just turned 76 and like I said, I even told him, I said, I said, Rick, you're unbelievable. You look, you look like you're like in your 40s. IMean, the guy didn't ever wrinkle on his face because he lived a very clen lifestyle. And so that's what makes this heart, it's as hard as, it's hard as, pill to swallow, so to speak. And I'm working through my own grief here as I'm doing this report, but for those of you who don't know or didn't know Rick, he was a guy that you can bump into in a show and he would be your best friend like in 20 minutes of talking to him. That's the kind of guy he was. He was the likable guy and he loved to talk bodybuilding. You would think, you know, in 76, you'd only be sick of talking bodybuilding already. He was, he, he knew every, all the players, he knew all the people who competed, he knew all the different diet styles and everything like that. And he kept up on it because that was something that really made him happy. So I guess we should be celebrating Rick's life here, not really morning. And even though there's a lot of sadness out there that we've lost in way too soon, Rick's pianist mom who I talked to on regular, but she's actually the one to told me she was communicating with him via text message on a regular basis. And it seemed like he was doing better and he was going to come home. But if you read some of the post, he had put on his Facebook, they seemed a little, like he was a little groggy or something like that. Like he was a little out of it. So I have to believe that, you know, he, he did have something going on with them. And once the autopsy or whatever the official cause of death is released, we'll know a little bit more. But right now this is all I know. I just want to report that a, a good man, a great bodybuilder and actor and more importantly, probably what I'd like him to be known as a true artist has been lost to this world. Rick, I'll miss you man. I'll miss our conversations. But I know you're going to be up there watching over us and inspiring me with all your creative juices. I'm Dave Pellumbo with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: ROELLY IS READY! + Hunter Labrada PEELED + Bonac is BACK! [VqeusROq4WQ].txt ===

I'm gonna be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car pop tart. We've goT3 and four brands in that carps, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. On day polo and today is Friday, July 23, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, you've heard about it. You've read about it. You've been waiting for it, and now it's official. We are less than 24 hours away from the Chicago Pro, and Hunter LeBrotter is coming in hot. According to LeBrotter, this has been the most perfect prep of his career. And he feels like he's at a point now where he can dial it in more so than he ever could in the past. We already know how deep this line of vision, how much is it stake with this thing 13 or 14 weeks out from the Olympia, which adds its own element of pressure. But if he ends up running away with this one, it'll give him a ton of momentum heading into October, and it'll give him a lot more flexibility in how we plot the next phase of his season. Outside of Hunter LeBrotter, we can't talk about the top contenders in the men's open here without mentioning really winglers name. Truth be told, I think there's a solid argument for really being the favorite heading into this weekend when you consider the fact that he hasn't competed from more than a year, which means that we should be less than 24 hours away from seeing one of the best versions of Rully that we've ever seen. This should be the kick ass and take names version of Rully that we all thought we were going to see on the Olympia stage last year. So if you can prove that he can show up and be that guy again, now we're looking at a refreshed and reloaded, really winkler heading into the arle of the full steam ahead, which is something no one else not lineup wants any part of. I have one last thought that I want to share about the men's open before we move on. Don't sleep on Mohan and Shabon. Plain and Simple, he's already had a handful of top three finishes this year, and in at least one of those shows, it felt like the first and second place came down to a coin flip. And it's not like those were cupcake line, I've seen there. He's been runninGHeadfirst into line up as full of monsters all year long, and it hasn't slowed him down one bit. And when the final numbers are all tally here, I wouldn't be surprised if we saw his name up there landing in the top three. Since I just mentioned Rully heading into the arle, a few minutes ago, I figured that we might as well jump right into this update on William Bonac, because the reigning and defending Arnold Classic champ has been on a roll lately. The update we've seen coming from William's camp over the last month or so had been hard to wrap your head around, especially when you take where he was at. If the start of this prep into consideration, within a matter of weeks, it looks like he's turned into a completely different person. And the man we're looking at now looks a whole lot like the one we saw March and Columbus, Ohio, and take no prisoners on his way to winning that title last year. And here's the craziest part about the whole thing, it's only July. And his best version is a puzzle that other people just haven't solved yet. And that does it to get another edition of Muscle in the Morning on April 1, reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: ROELLY NEXT LEVEL CRAZY! Muscle in the Morning (6⧸29⧸18) [RGwHsQRI0tI].txt ===

It's the weekend here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm day polumbough and today is Friday, June 29th, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you follow the news at all, it feels like every other day there's a new story about how we manage to piss off some new foreign country. So I hope for that sake, we don't find a way to get on the bad side of Rulewinkler. This week Ruley and his crew released an official 11 week out update, photo that shows the big guy looking as crazy as ever. But the most part, it's been a relatively quiet year for the perennial top six Olympia threat. Despite the fact that he's coming off, what's statistically might have been the best season of his career. But if this little sneak peek is any indicator of what's coming down the road, it's guaranteed that he's going to cause some major problems for the competition heading down the back stretch of the Olympia schedule. The power phrase in the infamous Tony Robbins, if you want to see massive change in your life, then you've got to be willing to take massive action. And for where I'm sitting, second year classic physique star Kevin Ford looks like he's doing just that. The latest updates coming out of team Ford showed the sophomore sensation, looking lean in mean 13 weeks out from the next date circles on his 2018 season calendar. Back at the start of the year Ford put together the most complete look we've ever seen with a well-diversar of top five finish at the Arnold. Again, some of the most talented guys in the division and considering the fact that he's already on pace to blow past that look he had in March, hopefully can show up and deliver a knockout shot that'll help to solidify his place as one of the true up and comeers in the division. They say you should never underestimate the heart of a champion, but right now I hope for their sake that all the champions out there aren't underestimating Logan Franklin. In case you haven't heard recently, Franklin is team announced that there were officially starting contest prep for their first shot at the classic physique division, where the perennial men's physique Olympian will look to become the first athlete in history to become dual qualified to compete and both the visions on the Olympia stage. From what we've heard, Franklin and his team are still planning to compete as a men's physique competitor at this year's Olympia weekend. But a win in a qualification for the classic division would elevate this guy into some sort of weird hybrid, super athlete who could end up being one of the most captivating stories of the entire weekend. The great George Foreman once famously said, generally, when you see smoke, there's just a whole lot more smoke. But with all due respect to the champ, I'm about a thousand percent sure that that doesn't apply to the human smoke show that his figure superstar Bojana Vassaljavic, two weeks out from makinGHer first trip to Vancouver Pro, the two-time Olympian seems like she's ready to come in and throw some sort of a maker that would make the former heavyweight champ proud. Last month, we saw Bojana put together the most complete look of her entire career back at the Pittsburgh Pro. So if she touches up on a few minor details and really hits the mark here, career win number two would definitely be with in striking distance. I'm a firm believer that winning in anything, whether it be bodybuilding or otherwise, first and foremost, starts with the mindset that we wake up with every day. And if there's one thing I've learned about classic physique rookie, a mid-roy over these last few years is that this guy is a prime example of what it means to have a winning mentality. Less than two weeks away from hitting the stage for the second time this season, Ethosha Kago Pro, the former North American champ, looks like he's ready to bring the heat. Even though he wasn't happy with this placing up the New York Pro, Roy did come out and prove that he had what it takes to stand in their entren shots with some of the best in the business. So as long as he can take what he's learned from that process and apply it to round two of his rookie experience, I don't see any reason why he can't be in the running for a spot in the first call out. And that does it to yet another edition of muscle in the morning. On day Palambo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: ROELLY VS. HUNTER! ｜ 2021 Chicago Pro Preview ｜ Lee Priest & Dave Palumbo [b1UZS6kBIOA].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If leg day was yesterday and now you're wondering why toilets are so damn low, you are definitely old school. If you're the only athlete in your gym that knows there's a contest today and it's to see who trens the hardest. You are old school. Go S BBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Welcome back to another episode of Iron Rage. I'm here with Lee Priest. As always, we've got a big show coming up this week and the Chicago Pro, which might be one of the most competitive pro events we've seen this season, Rooley Winkler, in the show, Hunter LaBrada, in the show and a host of other people we're going to talk about in a minute. Who do you like? If I'm going out on a limb, it would be a very breakable limb, but if Rooley turns up like his phone, that's what it's seeing. That's a big ear, but if you show up like those photos, I can't see anyone beatinGHim. I think Hunter's got a pleasing body, but Rooley's mass, and if he comes in with that mass and they're conditioning, I don't think anyone's going to take it from Rooley. I could probably see it go in really hunt the second and that. Let's just hope he turns up like the photographs. We haven't really seen too much of Hunter, and we can pop his Instagram. IMean, Hunter's been putting up some pictures, but I have to imagine that Hunter is going to be better than he was last year, because he's at that age where he's still growing. And he's devoting almost time to bodybuilding. He wants to be the best he can be. He's got a really good mentor and his father there, obviously. He knows how to present his physique on stage. He's a guy who might not have more mass than Rooley does, but he might present it better than Rooley does. And sometimes you can sneak out and look at that side tricep shard. IMean, that's a nasty shot right there. That's an old Dory niche, right? A Dory niche. Well, I think it's going to be one of those things isn't it where it comes down, because we know LeBred is going to be in condition. You know, it's how to pose. He's got the cemetery. So it's going to come down to, did they want the mass monster or the guy because LeBred does have mass himself, but it's not like that full on cartoon character. Mass, he's got all the proportions with it. So it's going to be, it's the both in shape. It's going to be, who the judges like the most. So I, I, I, just instinctually, my, my gut tells me that if Rooley's that is best, I don't think anyone beats Rooley because he's, he's so massive, even though LeBred has better shape than him and LeBred will present this physique better. I think that the judges will eat that monster look up. And I think Rooley needs to win anyway to get to the Olympia. I think this is going to be Rooley's show to lose. But we have never seen Rooley come in 100%. LeBred is always like, he's like his dad. He's always like, Paul, who's lookinGHis tan as gray, his presentation is really good. And when you see a guy that is that complete, he sometimes can't be in booze or the judges into pickinGHim because your eyes can't leave his physique when he's on stage, you know, posing. Well, listen, LeBred is already in the Olympia, isn't he? He's what? Isn't LeBred already qualified for the Olympia? I don't know if he is or not. I don't think so. He hasn't done anything this year. No, well, maybe for one of them's going to, maybe it'll give just a little broder, really, the Arnold's because I get, you really want Rooley at the Olympia, wouldn't you? So, of course. Of course. You've been crazy not to have him there, so. Well, here's your concern, if one of those doesn't win this show, I would have to imagine that they would go to the Tampa Pro, wouldn't you? Exactly. And we're going to be in the next year. The campus already stacked line up, it seems like, you know, with the guys like Ian Valier and that line up, IMean, we're going to see a lot of good shows leading up that Olympia. Is the Tampa Pro in California? That's a good sense of effort. In Florida, you can do shows with, you know that. Now, what I just figured, yeah, the new old was you've been playing there, and the also isn't Florida, so that we get Florida would do. They said everyone goes to Florida, Florida is the place where you should do anything you want, you know? We're going to be playing these in Florida. Now, I got to bring this up to change subjects quickly, even. Look, I told Mr. G, because he message me after that show about big, Lenny and Lenny's new thing. I'm like, I just said, look, August 1st just had the fight. It doesn't matter if you give Lenny six months or six fucking years. He's not going to get any better. He's going to probably be more dog shit. So what you see, Lenny hit the bag then is as good as you're going to get out of Lenny. So you can give him order trening in the world. It's not going to change his fighting skills. So I said, just move it to August for your dragon and on your dragon. I told him that a little time ago. Yeah. Everyone's lost interest in it. It's just like, it's like, it's like the guy said, when they had that face to face little meeting, they should have just slugged it out. Yeah, and it's right back. I never put it on with. But you know, it's like dragging out like a, you know, you ever see like these like so proper like shows on TV, those were like an afternoon to eight episodes. And then the final episode, you'll actually get some action going on in it. It's like a damn sometimes because they're dragged it out. So long to actually get your like, was it? That's like a very disappointing. Yeah, it's a tably. So those are the can and the movie right. But I said, I think that the the final outcome might be the most boring part of the whole of the whole fight. They're going to have so can you imagine, but even the lead up was good, but they're a lead up, standing boring. So I'm going to be like, well, that's why we're going to be like, we have new people coming in and trening Lenny and you know, Mr. G keeps losinGHim down the tooth every single week. So it becomes a little more entertaining. But you know, like, like, what you're like, what you're going to for now in the guy loses his erection and just gets soft and that's the end of the ball. No, there's no big comes shot at the end of your life. You know, that was disappointing. What's that? Yeah, that's right. Did you see that you could make? You could make that. I did see your best mate, Sean Ray. He got signed to another company because when I when I think of mutants, I think Sean Ray, that big freaky physique. Sean actually texted me was he was. He had said to me, you know, how come you don't report him? When I get a contract, they said, we did you like this on Instagram. They told him. So that's what you've been seeing. He's doing. Yeah, you know, you know, you know, Pibris are saying Sean Ray's gay. It is and that they'd make fun of his name. Sean gay Ray in that. But I never thought that because I knew how many girls he'd been flirting with and cheating with and stuff like that. But seriously, you could use to say, at least had a lot of contracts, but really, I haven't had as many as him. So I'm sorry, the rethink is because they get that many contracts. He's got a suck good cop. It's like, you can't, you can't get that many fucking contracts and not be a good talk sucker. And I care what you say. Yeah. It's like, I'll look, I'm going to say I'm going to give him a couple of Sean can extract so much money from this industry. And that just goes to show you that he obviously is doing something and providing some service for these these companies that they're actually hirinGHim because I'm not doing a good thing. You're just extracting cement. You're buying that like Sean Ray and I don't know some people like him, somebody with all like him. But the guy works and he makes money from self. And so you can't out him in the sense that he's actually making a living from the industry. So I tell people who are sitting on their ass complaining about the fact that can't get a contract. If Sean Ray 20 years after his retired can't get a contract, you can get a contract too. You got to make yourself valuable. You have to do something to actually say, hey, you know what, I have a skill that I can actually help to self-product you. Because I have people come to me old and timely and they want to contract some species and traditions. I'm like, what do you need to do for me? How am I going to make more money to justify paying you a salary? And most people can't tell me that, or they're like, oh, I'll post them I answer you. I'm like, well, you have 4,000 followers. And then once in half of the high fall, they don't want to post anything. They're too lazy. So, you know, the guy obviously is somehow getting people to hire him because he's providing some service that's giving them the ability to make more money. We know what services provide. We have a black mentality. Black mentality. What was that, what was that app you used to make those videos for me? I think it's, well, I have to send it to the away boat or whatever. See, they need some videos. I can't put them up because they're all monetizing music, but they're so funny. He takes like, you take a picture, right? And you can actually, what is it that you upload the picture? And then you can say, let's go on. You've got to self, yeah, you can take a selfie, but I took yours from the yours and Steve from just a computer saying, not as good, but yeah, and for some reason, once you put it in, you just pick a song in that and actually make your mouth and ice moves out. It looks like they're singing the song. And I believe it's something. Because you put, you pick like the real gay songs for Steve Black. And Steve's eyes were like, he was singing shows, you know, like, back in the 60s. It's not like that. When that's why I look so good for Steve because it wasn't Andy Ordinary. That's actually just funny. His eyes were like, bugging out of his head. It was a really funny actually. There's a good thing. There's a village people song them in there, all that. Oh, I don't know. I don't have to say that. I was sitting in the bed so I was my dog. I hope she makes it. She's my little two and a half pound York. She's got to get some surgery, get spained. And I don't know, she's got a lot of meat here, something like that. But so I'm sitting in the dental office and I'm playing these videos. I had to hit my earphones in. And I'm laughing. And I don't realize how loud I'm laughing. Everyone's looking at me like, you know, because everyone talks and everyone's like, sight and mute, silent, you know, they're all looking at their phone. And I'm just laughing out loud because they're so funny that like, that like, I couldn't, like, bottle of laughter. And people like that guy's a sick guy was doggy. Sickenies like laughing. Yeah. I'm like, am I actually that kind of a bit like a strayer when a bit's charged, a thousand and thousands. It's like, oh, New York is what he was the worst. I actually had an animal that they got surgery in New York with $7,000. And the dog didn't even make it through the night. And I thought the pay to $7,000. I said the dog didn't even make it. I don't know. It's crazy. It's a fart. It'd be a lot cheaper. You want to hear something? The guy who's the guy who's operating on my dog. Who I don't get to meet because he was too busy in another surgery. The lives across the canal for me. His property, there's a property like a lot next door to me that he owned that I actually bought. I've never met the guy. I've been in the vet so often, at least 20 times. Every time I'm in there, I'm like, can I see Dr. Carl? Oh, he's too busy right now. I'm like, you live across my neighbor. Now he's operating on my dog. He's at my dog's life in his hands. And I haven't still yet to meet the guy. I've been here for six years. And it doesn't. Then you can launch it across the canal. That's right. I'm going to start taking shots and it's going to cross. Speaking of that, have you got that series over here? I just watched the list. Watched the note in the last few days. I was at Dr. Diff TV series. Have you watched that one with a really bored one in Christian? And later in that? Now, what did you see? It's a true story of this guy. He was in a, it was like a doctor, of course. But he did like surgery on people's spines, like neurosurgery in that. And out of 38 operations, I think 33 were paralyzed and five. He needed and stuff like that. He had just go in there and stuff. Will he just sat out and just fucking do it? I'm not. It's kind of hack job, huh? Yeah, it's just like only a couple of years ago. We've got sentenced to life in jail and shit. But it's been based on the true story called Dr. Diff. And he just moved around. He got kicked out of one hospital. He had to get a license somewhere else. He didn't do it on purpose. He just did terrible surgery. What I said that he was a terrible surgeon, they said he was very smart in life. He could have done like, you know, like studies and look at stuff. That sort of stuff. But when it came to surgery, and everything just wasn't any good. But that one said anything to him. So he'd go in there and cut people's arteries. Now just start bleeding out. He'd sell him up with stuff in. But they reckon that's how they got it because they said that he must have been deliberately gorned. And he said an email to the school. He was having an affair with an email that's saying like, you know what it's like to be God and I can kill people and this sort of stuff. So he made all the things out of it. It was another like, yeah, like a psychic, like a really high on almost like Ali Baldwin in that movie of Malice when he said, you asked you by the God like complex. He's like, I am God. There was actually like that. Yeah. So that's pretty good. It's kind of Dr. Diff. I just think it's a true story. And then I watched last night I watched that other one about the rapists here, killed it just caught only a year or two ago to the one in Los Angeles or around that area Sacramento. Robyn, the rapper. They call the rapper? It was like one of those two. He's something that rep are inside. Rapists and that yeah, he's done like 800 people on the one, killed him. It trucks stuff. He was like, yeah, it was a good one. They're a cackle. DNA, they kept collecting DNA because this thing on I watched on it, this documentary, this woman wrote a book about it. But she passed away. She was married to that. You know, I'm gonna be so a reason for me to get the book coming. They kept going. They said DNA stuff. So eventually they went through his trash later. And it was actually a policeman. You might remember him. He was in court only a year or two. He was like a real old guy in a wheelchair. Yeah, a face shield on. Oh, really? He was actually a cop the guy. Yeah. Those guys would not be to you would not get away with crime. The lot better probably than the other person. I think he raped like 50 or 60 murdered 15. Wow. He was real sick out, huh? Holy shit. Hey, let's just say, if you got a hobby, be good at it. That's what I said. IMean, I'm all. I should have hunGHim up in the center square there and raised more. But isn't it weird, because you can do that back in the 60s or 70s when DNA wasn't that great. Well, because they kept the London DNA and now things have progressed so far that this woman in the book, her last page in the book, she said, like, one day you're going to be an old man. You're going to hear a car pull up, they'll be a knock at your door and stuff like this and they're going to get you and pretty much help. That's what I work. Yeah. That wouldn't have been, that's called alone. Aloning the dark or something. It's called the Docu series on TV, at loaning the... Well, I like this. I don't like to watch things where I'm going to have a bad feeling after the things over with, you know, because the guys that just sit down. Oh, no. That's what, hey, Dave. What's, you know, there's always funny right from the moment I think I'm like, oh, you look at the Docs. I think of course it's not depressing. What do you think? Some of the climbing crew are on. Well, you watch a lot of these depressing. I don't want to watch it. I don't want to see some funny rapists guys rape 50 people. IMean, they probably interviewed the, they probably interviewed all the victims too, right? Yeah. But Nick Gick is an Ad in light because they're old at two now because a lot of them were right for now, 15, 16 and maybe in the 50s and 60s and they said it was the best fuck they ever had. Oh, that's not bad. That's not bad. That's not bad. I saw the ad. That's your psycho path coming out. Let's get back, I want to get back to the Chicago Pro for a minute because we talked about the high-end of the talk. We talked about the talk. Pull that list up, Tyler, up there. So we got a couple people that, you know, a lot of people in that talking about who's Simon Stoff obviously has done almost every show, Eslam Muhammad who also did almost every show this year. These are guys that could certainly challenge Muhammad Shaban too. I was very impressed with it the last time he competed. I think a lot of these guys can do this. What? There's the one Christians trying and is that a stop? Stop, stop, stop. I know that. I'm not saying, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I keep confusinGHim because you remember, you remember, the stop of Muhammad with the big quads? Yeah, he's a lying king. He's a lie in king. He's a lie in king. Yeah, that's yeah, that's the father, right? I don't know. I'm sorry, thank you, sir. Tyler. I always seen him. What if he just nails his conditioning? He said he's got all the mess in the world. That guy said. That's how he's conditioning that's been holding you back that little bit. He's not far off. It just looks like that, you know, they get that film award and they just can't get rid of that sort of stuff. When you do that, many shows in a row lead. Don't you think your body kind of stagnates after a while and it's hard to dial it in? It just won't go beyond a certain point. You could starve the person they will not lose anymore. I've done that. I've done that before where you do so many shows and then you get to a point. Like you said, you can cut your calories down. You can go zero carbs. You can do more cardio. You just don't get any better. It's almost like your body said, hey, I've had enough. It just starts. That's what it just starts. It's almost like it's fight. It's like it's fight. It's like it's fight. If you just hit me head against the war and then, cause you get so frustrated and stressed out, you must start to look even worse. So we better off just pull and depend. I don't know. I guess maybe if you've never hit your peak, it might be a different situation but there is a little bit of a theory. I haven't hit my peak yet. I'm still waiting. Another person on the list is Akimarkel, also another guy who could be a factor we don't know about. I've seen some of his pictures that we could pull. He was looking pretty good to me from the pictures I saw over him. He's a sleeper guy that you know, not no one's talking about, but could sneak in there and do some damage. Yeah, so I'm on the show just this morning on the news, there's some big flooding Germany. I've seen Merkel day when they're just talking about the flooding and the river that washed away people in Germany. Same person we're talking about. Yeah, that's interesting. I just heard Merkel, I was just saying that there's a chance. I don't know. He's like, I like Zack's physique a lot and I think he's got a lot. Bells and whistles on it and that's, you know, that's something that, you know, if he comes in with ridiculous conditioning, he could be guys that like, you know, that no one expected of the beat and I think that. What does the good thing? Because we haven't seen a lot of these people staying side by side and as we said, we can all look great in Instagram pictures and buy ourselves and stuff. But once you get on stage, under the lights, because some people, even the stage lighting at some shows, you can look great at one show, being the same condition, go to a show, we're glad people say you're smooth, but you're still in the same condition, but the lighting just, you know, smooth, you're out and stuff like that. Well, how many people are asking you for contracts anyway, Dave, you said people ask you for contract, you can't sign anyone, you're waiting for me. So, I asked Lee, this is a report that he always ignores thEQuestion when I ask him about it, though. I'm very, I'm very expensive. Yeah, I think I could say that, but you're so worthedly. Oh, I know, you might have fired it. I did it, but I won't. I did it, but I won't. I leave maybe a little video with me saying, this is not just so long I get a my way. I can't play it though, just it's to demoditize, put that list up there again, Tyler. I'm not done critiquing. IMean, have any of these in your show like this thing? Okay, IMean, this 15 on the list here, Brett Welkin, I think makinGHis protebium, I see also Seth Shaw from Las Vegas, another good guy, Joe Mackie, Joe Mackie from Dallas, that's a tremendous amount of stuff. Yeah, I've seen a couple of videos of him trading and that he looks pretty good. Yeah, Max draws in the lineup as well, probably one of the best, best upper bodies in the industry, you know, best backs. So we're going to see a good show in Chicago here, the two 12 in class, I'm not going to go over all that, but those lineups are really good as well. I'm actually excited for this show because I don't really know who's going to win and obviously really is the favorite of course. And we're all waiting to see Rally show up because I think it really shows up at his best and brings a ridiculous look to the stage and wins, you know, pretty unanimously. You got to throw his name in there as a potential guy to win the Olympia. I think he can challenge Randy. Exactly. Obviously, don't be too hard. Easy. Easy. Easy. But the thing is, is really in the country now. Yeah, I'm going to ask him a question he must be. I'm sure I know I'm a hope so for his sake. Imagine if Rally pulls the trifecta wins this show, wins the Arnold and then wins the Olympia. IMean, that would maybe be the greatest, you know, come from behind, you know, come back a more time, you know. So. Well, I think I think we've just many peoplEQualifying now even like I said, even first place at the Arnold gets to qualify now. I think come to the Olympia with some of the people who weren't in it. The Olympia is going to be a good show. Even though the Arnold's going to be a great show to the Olympia because you're going to have, you know, Ramy and it's so to put all these guys in it. Let's just say like, you know, everyone comes in great shape at the Olympia. Be hard to say, really is the top favorite because yes, really speaking all, but then you got the other guys who have the free here aspect and stuff like that. And then you have Kai Green in it day. I just thought of throw that in. I go that was my final question. I saw the Kai Green was teasing potentially doing the Arnold UK show. There was some back and forth. I saw Instagram stuff where with Kai was like, you know, hinting that he'd be in the show somehow. Whether he's there just watching or doing the show. I don't know. That's a different question. You think we just fought out front. I just fought out front and in for the people in the comics. Well, yeah, did you say, I think you sent me the screen show, right? Or did I send it to you? I don't remember, but there was something with Kai Green and the Arnold people going back and forth and suggesting that he was going to be in the show. Yeah, but he said a qualified today. Lampia, the Arnold UK. I don't think the UK would know, but if Kai did the Arnold UK, don't you think they would invite him to the Olympia, especially if you're one of the show. And you think so. If anyone deserves a not invite, I think Kai is earned the invite without that. If he, and especially if he did a show like a couple weeks before, I think that would at least show that he's serious about the fact that he wants to do the Olympia. So I think you have to almost give him the special invite, you know, if he won the Arnold UK. ThEQuestion is, if he was a second at the Arnold UK, would you give him an invite? That's thEQuestion. Yeah, it's hard to say, because he's kind of bringing money in his it is. So, you know, if you put, what do you do? You got to be thinking that the good for the Olympia for the, you know, the money, people of fans, but then you got a dev half-sign, he doesn't deserve it. He shouldn't be this. So you're not going to win that meta. What did get so? I said last year that Randy should have gotten a special invite. And that was only because he wasn't, you know, he wasn't a Kai Green, you know, with the level of titles he had. I'm glad he got it because he got the Olympia win, but I think if anyone deserves it, who's, you know, in the current crop of guys, I think Kai definitely deserves a special invite. Well, it's point, you know. And even like I said, you know, for all me comes in shape. You know, he can probably agree, Peter, win it again, but, you know, we for all me sometimes. He hasn't got that track record yet of coming in shape every show. So he's got to, you know, even Rami won it last year. You still want to big if the prove it again, he can do it again. And if he gets over there and Dennis helps you again, I'm sure he'll be on track, but just not setting stone where someone like Ronnie, you know, would always hit his conditioning or Dory and or somebody like that or when feel he was in it. You know, you know, and shape again, a win. When you should be, you should get yourself in shape. That's really what you say. IMean, that's that's face that IMean. But don't stop now that you have people complaining to comment, say, should you get a baby sitting in shape? Well, that's what Dennis says, but you know what it works. Look, whatever they would have they worked out, we could just And chat and they figured it out right. Stay quiet. Essentially, essentially a candle. I like that. It's pretty good. Snake oil. Yeah. Dr. Salte's snake oil candle. You always have like some unusual kind of items in your house, like, you know, something. And it's usually something that a pan is like, like, like myself. Yeah. Did you actually buy that yourself? I did someone send that to you. I brought it because I didn't need shock it up in these little country tennis over 150 years ago in the HANA Valley. That's what it is. I asked Dr. Salte, pattern and the incredible healing and therapeutic powers. He secretly blended snake oil, tonic and the thing was, it saws from the world's most venomous servants, the aroma from this, the mixer is guaranteed to kill all that oils and feels that empty void deep down in the bottom of your soul. I got a lot to fill. Initially, when I did, when I ended the lid, I said to my mother, what's that smell like? And the reason I brought it was my grandfather. You know, the old shaving set should get with the shaving brush and you put the cream on your face. Yeah. I just like that. So when I got, I just know it's like my grandfather's. Hello. I have a special guest for you. Some female muscle. Female muscle. It's a peddle of looking at you. That's for sure. That is great. Just just sitting, just sitting, just sitting, Dave's cheating. Very good. Now how, like, Flex Lewis has got everyone moving down to Las Vegas to tren. I'm moving everyone down to Fort Myers Cape Coral area now. So I did a macadena marker of the South here. I know Dave's getting older and lost a bit of size, but I didn't realize how shitty you looked to a woman's to be sized up. Jesus Christ, your pathetic Dave. I don't know. Look at this. I don't tell you, should I see the other eye? I don't want to keep seeing that left arm all the time. I want to see the right arm. The bad one. The bad one. The bad one. The bad one that's still better than everyone still is. It's still like, okay. Yeah. I like it. I like it. I think you said shirt. I like the shirt. This one? Yeah. Bal, Bal for Duckions. Yeah. All right. It's when I was doing expandable's five, Dave. I just, Dave. They should get you in on this. I know. I got, I got the look down on. Maybe what's his name? Adam Coral can make a few phone calls for you since he likes you. Oh, you've got someone should. No one. Maybe Sean or A can, he knows everybody now doesn't. Yeah. Believe me, he'd get himself in that way before you though. What's going on here? You're doing an interview with Dave or he just hanging out. They just moved out there. They're hanging out. They're hanging out. They're hanging out. We can't meet Dave and see how's everything with him. Worst decision. I'll be like, mate and Dave. Hey. I'm surprised you're letting people in without a mask. He's like Mr. Mr. Coward. This is, yeah, I'm going against my rules here. But I think, big Jimmy's not going to be happy. He's like, oh, you let a female, you let me in. Well, no, Jimmy came the day after I had cancer surgery. That was the difference. See that one. Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. Anyway, well, you know what, we're going to wrap this up today. For now, let's see, you know, hopefully we're going to be reporting a really Winkle a win. I think Hunter LeBros is going to give him a run for his money and we'll have to see who the wildcards are in there for now, though. At least it's going to be like I said, it's going to be a good show. Whether, like I said, all those people on stage together is going to be very interesting to see because it's a mixed bag of physique's mass size symmetry of mass and then some with condition to earn his big. So I think it's going to be like I said, if they're all in shape, I still, yeah, it's going to be interesting. So, but at the moment, I'll be going LeBrosder and Ruelly one and two just depending on what the judge is want. But then again, one of those other names could slip into. It's raining man. You're going to go by and I'm going to go by some YouTube products because I want to look like Sean, right? He's like a mutant. If he wasn't mutant before you go on the X main, what mutant would lead me? He'd be the senator. What was the guy you were the blue guy? The beast. He'd be the blue guy. The guy who was like the senator, what was his name? What was his character name? But then he beast wasn't he? Yeah, but it looked like a wolf man. Sean Ray would be sure a big beast. Really? How did he come up with that? I don't know. What would he be? What would you think he would be? I don't know. What was the worst one on that? What was the worst one on that? What would you be? Who would you be if you were immune? Well, gone by the card, it would have to be Wolverine because in the comic book, Wolverine was a stren in five foot five. Oh, I didn't know he was so short. Who would I be? Yes, yes. I had to shave my head. You'd be more like the blue one beast. You know, back in the day, that's more beast. Looking because he's pretty big and musk. I think he got Sean Ray to be beast. No, I would be Sean Ray. What was the guy's name? Who was the Wolverine's name? Cyclops. The name is Sabotu. Sabotu. Sabotu. How did you know who was the survivor? Yeah, I think Sean Ray would be Xavier's wheelchair. Black men would be the black men would want to be Xavier. Now, Sean Ray would be that one. He's like the little character that had the tail and he likes, he'd go like this appear from the earth. He's Sean Ray alone. He's got a mutant contract. No one else has gone one. Don't be jealous. I'm dead. He's a funny, funny, funny, funny, funny history. The place where he was. He's a funny, funny, funny, funny, funny story. He's been in history to pay a company to have you on the show. I'm Dave Rubble. I'm a free sprinter of Iron Rage. Thank you, Mr. Let loose.

=== FILE: RON GORDON： RISING SUPER HEAVYWEIGHT! [lsfsIG5M-7I].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo. And today's guest is a special one. I always like to showcase new talent up and coming guys. I'm going to be on board and play second in the super heavyweight class this past weekend at the USA Championships. Super impressed me. That's for sure in Chris Asito. We talked about him on the radio. Just narrowly miss winning that pro car. So I want to get him here today and learn a little bit more about him. And hopefully you guys will get to learn a lot about him as well. And we'll see what he's got planning for the future. So Ron, welcome to the show. Hey, it was going on, Dave. Thanks for having me. Not in my pleasure. Great job at the USA. I know it was a closed battle. I think it was a three point decision. You just barely missed getting that pro car. You had to, I know the feeling because I was there when a couple of times in my life. It's, you're so close, but yet you're so far, you know. Yeah, IMean, I'm still kind of getting over it. I'm trying to turn the page. And one of the things I don't think a lot of people outside of bodybuilding don't realize is that there's no carryover effect from one show to the next. You know, there's not one of these processes where you can continue to build up some type of momentum. You can go from second and I go to my next show and get 16. You know, so if you're going to get that pro car at the end of the day, I'm no closer than I was before I got there outside of obviously improving my physique or one year to the net. You know, your coach Jim called me up and he was like, you're so furious. He didn't want to, he didn't want to. And it's funny. He didn't know that I was feeling the same way. So, you know, I said, man, this guy looks really good. So, you know, sometimes, you know, if you're not, they don't really know you. Sometimes you got to put your, your dude is in a little bit. Obviously, you know, the winner had won the junior. I say, overall, already, he was kind of well known. And so we're going to end up in your him tomorrow. But the bottom line is that, you know, now everyone knows who you are. So now we have to find out where he came from because I didn't really just six foot one. And you're only 242 pounds. You look a lot bigger on stage. And I got to do this. Your body appears to be at least 20 pounds bigger than you. Then you're, wait, but suggest. Well, that's a good bodybuilding. Yeah. That's no good. I would hate to be 280 and look 240. Yeah. I lean on the fact that I have very small insertions. I got small wrist, small ankles. So obviously, you kind of get the illusion that things are a lot bigger and full of really are with the guards can wake. So, you know, by overwork, actually get to the 270 right and whatnot. It will be pretty nice to see. Now, you know, you've been trened for a bunch of years, but you really haven't, you competed, you didn't compete. You know, you're 35 years old. You're not, you're not like one of these young guys coming up. But you haven't been in the sport that long. You have a very fresh look to your physique. You know, your body is still improving. Obviously, you know, what originally got you interested in pursuing bodybuilding. How old were you in the time? I'm very first show was 2010. It was an after show with the WMBF. So, that's what that put me in about 27 years old. So, I prepared for the show for about six weeks. I know what I was doing. A-8-2. And in a car for about six weeks, I showed up and I won my class. Wow. As far as I'm interested in it, I was just always that guy that people kind of looked at, they saw the potential in me. But, you know, something I never really attached myself to, I think, most bodybuilders before they actually stepped on stage. You had this type of mentality about putting on some man panties and francing around. Absolutely. You never really seen yourself being that guy. All right. Well, it was hard for me to attach myself to that idea at the time. It's funny because it's always the guy. The guys that have no genetic count whatsoever are can't wait to get on stage. That there's so much that there's nothing in the guys like you that have this crazy genetic ability to do this. And it comes, I shouldn't say easy, but it comes easier to you. And you kind of take it, you took it for granted, really. IMean, it was like you did shows. You want a bunch of weight class titles over the past years. And you never really thought about pursuing national levels of competitions, right? No, you're right. After I went to my show, I went over all of the, I would almost always win my class. And I just became that guy that did two regional shows dieted for six weeks. Showed up, you know, took some type of waterfield from GNC and I went. And when I was asked about doing a national show, it was all I'll do it next year. So I went on that care cell for about five years until last year's USAs. And I was fortunate enough to play spit. And it was a really big experience. It was an out opener for me because once again, like I said, I had not trened for a national show. It was just kind of something that I felt like, okay, I think I'm good enough on the shape. I had eyeballed it. So, you know, drove down the Vegas and I did pretty well. You know, I, I, I, I was talking about you on the radio with Chris and see, you know, I said, this guy reminds me of a young Ronnie Coleman because Ronnie Coleman started the same way. He didn't, he just wanted a free membership to the gym. He didn't even want to compete, you know, and he got kind of forced into it in the sense and, and he just realized how good he was at it and then he embraced it. I've had you at this point now that you're so close to getting that IPB pro. Have you embraced your, your talents at this point and say, hey, I'm going to give 100% to this now? Yeah, I've embraced it every since last year. I would say this particular prep going into this year. I've had a very, you know, steel focus. But yeah, with regards to the Ronnie Coleman comparison, that is extremely high praise. I think even a pro being compared to Ronnie Coleman is something special. You know, let alone a guy that hasn't even gotten his pro card. But with, with regards to the comparison outside of our name, the one thing I will say is that I look at Ronnie's career and, you know, not just the gym members, just gettinGHere into the sport, but the fact that he was a late bloomer, you know, and one of the things I think about with regards to people is that you can lose a show and bodybuilding to a guy and that could be the most in the max that that guy will ever be able to do. You know, he may beat you at that back class. I recall that when you were saying Ronnie Coleman got 14. Yeah. In the end of the 13 and got before him came close to winning in Olympia with the exception of like, like, we like. So it just kind of goes to show you like a bodybuilding. You never really know, you know, you never really know. One guy's got his peak and one guy just up and coming. So, and I want to thank you guys for that comparison. There's definitely motivating when I listen to it. I told my coach, I listen to it yesterday. I listen to it and I told my coach, and I want to put 800 pounds in my back right now. So it definitely lit a fire under me, you know, for sure, because Ronnie's the king, man. He's awesome. Yeah. Now, you know, just for people who might think that this stuff comes easy for you, you've had some adversity that you've overcome over the years. You tore both biceps, which I find almost impossible to believe. I'm going to have Tyler, my producer, put up pictures in that front double bicep. Your arms are probably your best body part. How did you tell your biceps and how did they get reconnected so well? Well, I'm going to tell you about that and then, you know, my coach is probably going to bite my head off and tell you that, but so the first time I rubship my right bicep, I was visitinGHome and Detroit with my buddy. And we're getting a good chance to end. I instead of taking a dumbbell to my knee, safely, and I'm showing off I'm young. I just try to reverse curl it halfway down my bicep just my chin and just snaps. You know, and if you've ever done anything like that, it's a feeling that it's really hard to describe, but it's a steakable at the same time. No, it's an internal match of body gives all. So that went a flew back home to Cali. I got that repaired, right? Yeah. Doc tells me it would be good as new, but it's going to take six months because he had a special procedure for me. So, six months later to the day, I'm good. My strength is back. I'm playing basketball andbol things. I reach out to get a steel. Soon as my left arm extend, that tend to snap. Oh my god. Completely non-contact injury. Yep. And the only reason I knew is because once again, that I'm going to stay at the wall filling, you know, because I had not rubs you that who would think they'd tear bicep just reaching out into the area, you know? Right. So, at that rehab was done, obviously, you know, the six months. So, you're talking about a whole year of not even being able to squat because you can't balance the puck. I go to the gym and I just did a little press. That's all I can really do. And occasionally I do some single arm dumbbell deadlifts and that's pretty awkward. So that year was in the wind and when the guards tune how they are now, the funny thing is, my coach makes me tren arms. Right. I absolutely don't tren them. But how can you know, trens? Is it just naturally that big? Yeah. Well, they grow and I get a little bit doing back. And I think after my surgery went through, it was always, it was always in the back of my mind that it could happen. Right. You know, I'm your son. So, I kind of put arms in the same category as abs. I'm going to show you it's closer. I'll give a little bit more attention. IMight tren them once a week at that point. But I really don't tren arms that much. Well, you know, people watch this. This guy is the FM because everyone wants big arms. You know, no one finds it arms grow that easily. IMean, you're telling me you have to stop trening because they can make growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone too easily. That's just insane. But that's called genetic. You know, some people got it, some people don't. And you got, like I said, you know, ideally, I don't have a lot of time to do that. Ideally, I think, you know, you're high six foot one. You could probably hold a good two, you know, 260, 270 pounds on your frame and it would still look really good. Which is scary when you think that that's 30 pounds more muscle than you have. Yeah, I walk around. I stayed fairly lean even in the offseason. And I've gotten this heaviest 275. And even with that, I probably could easily put on 295 without, you know, have very about time. My shoes or anything. Now, again, it's not easy. I tell people all the time. Boking for me is harder than leaning out. Because, well, because I find that it's easier to not eat when you're hungry than to be full and just put you in that food. Yeah. And you're staring at 10 ounces of chicken breast and you're not interested. That's rough. You're just telling me. It's 30. Would you say you have a fast metabolism, do you get in shape relatively quickly once you start to contest diet? I do. I do get in shape fairly quickly. But at the same time, I don't ever balloon up. You know, I'll get some of the things I'm going to do. Go pretty far in the offseason. And I always say, I don't really want to create too much homework for myself. Well, I try to stay within about two weeks of being on stage at all times so that if I've got to turn it up a notch, I can. And then on the backside of that, you know, I just try to make sure that I'm ready to get on stage two weeks before it's held. Can I check in? That's smart. Now, obviously, being as close as you was at the USA, are you considering making a run at the North Americans coming up in a few weeks? I'm considering it. I'm definitely considering it. Now, obviously, with the guys to prep, this is going to be uncharted territory for me. You know, I'm coming for being a guy that two shows a year to now try to turn around and do something within abouT4 weeks. So between my coaching and James Judge and FZK, we're just going to see how I respond these next couple of weeks. And depending on how I look, we're going to make a starting decision on going ahead to go to Pittsburgh. I'm not. We're just going to push the course and match them with my am. All right. Well, good luck. Congratulations on the second place at the USA. I really believe you're next in line. I think you got a tremendous future ahead of you. Don't go tearing any more bicep heads, but you got extra despair, at least. You're like a guy who has an extra tire in the rear view, or sort of saying you're a truck that's just as good as the other tires on there. So, you know, like I said, it's nice to hear that you know, people are able to overcome adversity. And sometimes overcoming adversity makes you appreciate what you have a lot more and doesn't make you take for granted the gifts that you have. Had did you notice that after that, those bicep terrors? Yeah, well, absolutely. You know, and I'll touch on something you said earlier about, you know, the late start. You know, there are times where I get very, very curious as to where I could be as a body builder. Had I really attached myself to those ideas. Right. But, you know, every action has an equal reaction. And you know, body buildinGHas a huge burnout factor with a lot of guys who come in and they go a little bit too hard and, you know, have first things happen, including debt. And I think that because I didn't go in on the positive side of that, I developed the level of maturity, respect for the process and the level of discipline that I don't think I probably would have had that I'd be starting off, you know, 100%, that 25 years old. You know, in like you said, for my body still looks fresh, it's not beat down. And you know, I see a lot of guys with a lot of elements that I really don't have fortunately. Very, very true. Very true. Well, like I said, best of luck at that North American to be decided to do it, you'll have to let us know. So, maybe we'll get you on the show again, you know, get a little update from you. So, and once again, you know, enjoy the second place. It was, you know, you truly made an aim for yourself and I think people have taken notice and, you know, your next in life. I appreciate that Dave and thanks for having me on and I didn't say it early, but I truly watch all of your content. Whenever I throw on my YouTube, I got a little RX muscle in the morning popping up. So, it always watch you know, I'm saying you and Big Lini and lead priest and all of the crew, man. So, the legends of the body building world, Ronnie Coleman and Big Lini in the same sentence. Imagine that you know we watch as A-Ron. Congratulations, and we'll be following you at the North American for now that we're out of time until next time, I'm Dave Palombo. Stay tuned.

=== FILE: RONNIE COLEMAN： UNBREAKABLE + REGAN GRIMES HIS BEST？ + KEONE OLYMPIA LOCK？ + SHANIQUE THE GREATEST？ [FeLx94KaKQU].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonvo and today is Friday, September 25th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of body-gulling and fitness. People like to say that it ain't over until it's over, which is true in most cases, but he on Pearson isn't most people, and this isn't most cases. So even though it might be premature to say that the 2012 is a done deal at next month's Chicago Prout, I'm sure we can find a few people who would say that it's over for everyone else in this lineup. He on steam released new progress photos before this 2012 debut on Monday and based on those photos alone, it feels like this could be a one-horse race. So if he is as good as advertised, it means everyone else is stuck fighting for second place. Even though the old saying where there's a will, there's a way is a super cliché. One of the things you come to realize is you're good older, well, is that it's true. You don't have to look any further than Ronnie Coleman to understand what I'm talking about. Two days ago, Ronnie released a video, knocking out a set of floor presses for reps where we saw the eight-time Olympic a champ doing what he's done is entire career by willinGHimself through every rep, even with all the hip and back surgeries. There he is, still in his element. Still not making any excuses and still finding a way to get the job done. The man's will is unbreakable, and if more people would talk to it that mentality, they would be a lot better off. When you compete at the highest level, finding someone who pushes you to be your best can be an absolute game changer. And for that reason alone, I think we should be paying attention to what Riegen Grimes and Zain Watts in our doing, because these two are cooking up something special. Riegen and Zain linked up a few weeks ago to give Riegen that final push he needs to hit the ground running if they're your rope-up pro in Spain next month. And it's been incredible to see how Riegen's body has responded so far. As of right now, this might be the best Riegen's ever looked this far out from a show, which means that he'll be in contention to buy for one of the three Olympiac Qualifications spots they have up for grabs. And if they can use this show as a rough draft to work out the case, by the time he hits the Olympia in December, he might be ready to challenge for a top spot. If you're a women's physique athlete, this might be a good time for you to flip to something else, because Sheneek ran, looks like she's getting ready to hurt some feelings. As of this week, Sheneek's prep is operating at full swing, as the two-time defending champ looks to make iT3 in a row. Early in our career, the biggest knock on Sheneek was that she just couldn't stay healthy long enough to make her real push for the title. But now that she's gotten past those hurdles, you can make an argument that she's been the most dominant athlete in any division for the better part of the last two and a half years. Add that to the fact that she's chasinGHistory now with the chance to become the winning us to athlete of all time in the division. And I think it sets up this year to be a perfect storm where Sheneek can deliver one of those Ronnie Coleman 2003 moments. These next few months are about to get wild, so if you're a fan of the division, I would get your popcorn ready. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: RONNIE OR DORIAN： BEST REAR LAT SPREAD？ #askDave [hmiajn8MkZY].txt ===

arem哥殘人YeahAfter workinGHard at the gym,you need a mattress that works as hard as you doSpanel and has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep Or do your spinal injury mattress todayD-RushBitWords firstPreeWorkoutVapHey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X ProCurrent 30-year-to-rowAnd what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastryThe Ocar ComptonWe've goT3 and four grams of neck carbsAnd we love to show this is our best place to be in LARXOVision on rxmuscle.comThis adds to you better knownAs hashtag as davia30-minutEQuestion and answer showWith the plumberAll your questions diet treningSomething in T-TionEverything going on in and outside the bodybuilding world is all on the tableAnd you're hosted for RookieLet's get right to itWe have so much going on right nowThe World off bodybuildingOf course Big RamiMakinGHis announcement yesterdayHe will in fact be competing at the iFDB European Championships on October 11He said October 11But if you look at the scheduleIt's the show in LA ConteSpanes of Big News their DaveRecorded his response video last nightSo check that out right now on rxmuscle.comWe recorded a mega episode of Iron DebateWith Tom Prince and Milo SarcetteAnd IMean mega episodeSo big that we're going to be splitting it up in two episodes Plus a lot of clipsGreat great great great storiesFrom the 90sAnd of course the importance of treningThat was the main crux of the conversationBut thenOnce the guy in the story these are going to be some of the more entertaining storiesYou're going to hear and you're going to want to tune inFirst part first two parts right i'm going to go tomorrowOn rxmuscle.comThen Dave as we now bring in DaveLumbo we have a big sale going on right now on speciesnutrition.com Another ass dating exclusiveAnd another iseliceelChocolate milk22 servingsSanimate Donut 22 servingsSanimate Donut 44 servingsAnd of the Nelopeenobutter 22 servingAll on saleYeah now it's one of the letter we're nowWe're doing ridiculous pricing on theseSo the reason is because we only haveA couple leftNow when i say a couple IMean a couple hundredBut these things are going to go really fastWe only have a few hundredIMean we usually sell thousands when we do these saleSo we're these are going to go fastI'm talking like they'll be gone probably by the end of todaySo if you really like whatThe product and you want to get it at the sale priceDon't come crying tomorrowGo buy them now buys meYou can buy as many as you want Until they run outNow they're short dated in the sense that they at the end of NovemberThey expire but as we know these things don't go badWe just can't sell them after November 29So take advantage of the saleLet me just tell you i know most people Most of you guys do the smart guys at the iCThey put in they buy cases and stuffAnd they just put it in their houseAnd they have it for the next six monthsOr even some people who are smart Haven't for the next year Once you have this stuff is expired In the sense we can't sell it But the product does not go bad afterYou know the end of NovemberSo you don't have to use it all in two monthsBut you got to buy it before them Because we can't sell it after that dateI know these products will all be goneThere's limited skewers in each flavorSo check it out at speciesnutrition.comRight now if you spend over a hundred dollarsYou get free shipping tooLet me just run through the for the 22 serving sizesI spend $20,499And the 44 servings that have been donatedI sell $49,998It's like low to thEQuestionIt's priceFair priceThere you goFirst two questions of courseFrom the day belowI'm going to experience half the first questionCould a 58 year old man stay on 400Test and 200 deck up for lifeI've been on that exact amount for three straight yearsAnd all my blood work just came backWithin rangeI had full copperHeads of panel of second timeI have three yearsI know you can only make an educatedCancel with those studies on thisBut you painted that scenarioThEQuestion isWhy do you want to be on that much stuff all the timeIt has to be psychological at that pointNow here's the problemWhen you take that dosageYou're doing a steroid cycle essentiallyStack into compoundsYou're taking what we callFarmicological dosageThese are not physiological dosage Meaning that somethingAnd amount to testosteroneThat would normally physiologically be seen in the bodyWhen you do pharmacological dosageYou get pharmacological effectsPerdominally what we're looking forIs bodybuilders building muscleRecoveryAnd a much higher rate than you would normallyGet when you have physiological dosagesOf testosterone in your bodyWhen you have pharmacological effects occurringYou also have pharmacological side effectsWhich means that this is a long-term thing that goes onSo you can check your blood workAnd you can check everything but we don't really knowWhat's happening on a regular basisIs your body being overworkThe organs being overworkPersonally I would at least once a yearTried to clen out for a few weeksOff of nothingIf you want to coast the rest of the yearOr crews as people say nowadays on thatYou can do itBut what you're going to do is you're going to stagnate on that doseAnd you're probably not going to make itYou're just maintaining at that pointYou're not making improvementsAt some point if you're always on the same doseContinuously Having said that, if your health marker is goodYou're blood pressures controlledAnd your liver and kidney function are goodI can't imagine your cholesterol numbers are goodMaybe LDL could be goodBut those HGLs going into the single digitsAll the timeIf you have a predisposition for heartCarniR diseaseLike in your familyThat's not a good thingIf you're LDL's are a little highThat's not necessarily goodBut if all of thisBut if everything does come back normalIt's once again I find hard to believeThen I guess you can do itI just think once again if you're always on the same doseYou do tend to stagnate and not make improvementsWhich is why you're staying on the dose to begin withSo once again you might want to clen out every so oftenJust to give you a resetThis is a chance to regenerate themselvesAnd you body a chance to not have someFarmicological doses of antibioticsYou knowSecond question again from the deepLumbo Experience AppDev my arms lacks size compared to the rest of my body partsWhat are multiple things that I can do to combat thisNoIMean treningObviously and putting size on would beThe firstMost effective way to do itI found that when my arms were growingI was having trouble feeling some of the movementsI was doing like if I would do barbell curlsYou know with the length of arm I hadYou know if I would do a barbell curlI just didn't feel like I was getting enough in the barSeptI was feeling a lot and my forearmsI was feeling a lot in my backSo I found that I do one arm cable curls where I could actually reenact into the movementAnd get continuous tension even on the way downI found that I was getting a better workoutAnd I was growing musclesSo you might want to try unilateral isolation movementsBut with heavy weightAnd you'll have to build up to the heavy weightYou know once you get used to itSecond thing you can doI obviously try to prioritize your arm treningMaybe after a cheat mealSo if you cheat on a SaturdayMaybe on SundayDo armsYou knowTry to not tren so earlyIn the morningI tried to tren a little laterIn the afternoon when you do armsSo that you have a couple meals in youAnd you feel a little carbDop and some of thatAnd you body is in a reallyOut of the ball of stateAnd then the third thing you can doYou can always do site injection oilsYou knowPameless pumpsGen4 which is out nowWe have it at daypaloma.comThe Chris Clark synthesizeWhich I also haveValibleIn any of anyone emailsMe I could send you the injection protocolIt's that our initiativeThose are products thatYou knowThat would be a much more aggressive approachTo try to increase your arm sizeBecause now you're actually having to put something into your armSoBut that'sThat's aThat's a personal decisionObviouslyButIMean those would be the three thingsThat would be the most effective at buildingArmasYou know also don'tRemember when you have a weekbody partBut they're the armsOr legsSo chestWeakbody parts don't do betterI know live people sayOh do feeder workoutsYou know which basically is aFancy way of sayingtren a little bit every daySoOh you got a weekchasttren your chest a little bit every dayI don't find that works Usually people have weakbody partsBecause those body parts don't recover wellFrom the workoutI find that if you tren themLessel oftenMore intenselyThey grow betterSo instead of doing likeWhat I would doWhen I was doing my armsOr something that I was wanted to beNaked biggerSo I had a long armSo I would tren my armsAnd I said this beforeOnSepartaneSo I would one dayI would just do bySips and four armsAnd other day I would just doTriSipsThey would be very quick daysAnd the gym for meI would only be in thereFor 45 minutesMaybe the mostThey would just some calvesAnd the same dayAnd I'd get out of thereAnd when I didWhen II split them up like thatI was doing an eight day splitSo I was trening each body partOnce every eight daysBut bySips and TriSips had their own daysSo that I felt that reallyHelp those muscle groupsBecause they were small muscle groupsI hit them hardI didn't do a lot of volumeBut I isolated themBut you know I don't moveMissAnd then I got the hell out of the gymAnd that really helped a lotI foundI can't hear you saidI can't hear youI can't hear youMy apologiesI can hear youYeahNoNoMy full disclosureMy two-year-old son kept runningAnd out of the roomSo I had toI had toI had toThat explains the noise earlierOn itNoYeahI knew he was in the roomI cut it earlierBut IOKNoNoNoNoNoI told him to goI think he was moving aroundHe was moving aroundThe chairThat wasOhOKI was holding the backgroundWe want to wear InstagramConstant againIf you're watching usAficialUnder the ScorerRX musclend as alwaysIf you're watching us for the first timeOnYouTube Hit the subscribe button below Hit the notification bellSo we just mentionedWe haveDase reaction videoToBigRamiConforminGHis next showWe have a mega episodeEpicSodesRather coming out of Iron DebateWith MiloSarsave and TomBringedAnd then of courseOver the course of the next3 weeksWe're going to start our coverageI get a heart of leaveButIn3 weeksWe're going to be starting our coverageFor the 2020 OlympiaWith all the timelinesThe throne ofSo againA lot of content coming up over the courseToThe next 2-3 monthsYou're not going to want to miss any of it Hit the subscriptionI hit the notification bellRatherIf you like which you're watchinGHit the thumbs up button Comment belowObviously that helps usAnd as alwaysWe appreciate all the supportOf ourEx NationalsGoToTheDouceDaiGood FriendThey showThey visit topicThatSome other bodybuildingChannelsAlready addressedWe figured we'd give the forum on this oneYour thoughts on the U.S.C.Champion IsraelAtoSanyaHisGinoIn his rightPect displayed atUSC253WhatCan cause GinoIn30-year-oldWorldChampionTilerI don't know if you've alreadyPlayed upBut if you can pull up thatPectureOnDableExplainsIt'sTheThe answer to thEQuestionIt's pretty obviousYou knowGinoCommass is caused byThe breast tissueInYourUnder your NippleAnd largeAnd responseToUsually estrogenOr pro-lactinUsually it's an estrogenic type of thingAndEveryone has different amounts ofGlangeal tissueBut they're born withJust like some girlsWe'll get big boobsAnd some girls will have small boobsSame they would menExcept the men don't really knowWith their breast tissuePotential isBecause there's never an estrogenicExposureInIn their lifeNowThere are certainMaticationsYou can take theCannincrease estrogenCannincrease estrogenUnlikely that that's the case with himIMean if you smoke too much weedYou can get aRase your estrogenYou can get kind ofCannincreaseI had aRumatingAnd collegeThe guy never worked thatLike that was smoke weedAnd he looked at himMum's breastsSoThat's a possibilityButUnlikelySince he's aAWRL class athleteMore than likelyHe isHe's like everyone elseIs all these athletesThey're doing steroidsYPIs they're doing antibioticsInitObviously he's testedIn the UFCSo he's not doing itAll year roundHe's got to be very carefullyHe's got to be a passes drug testsBut somethinGHe tookObviously irritatedOr exacerbatedAnd made thoseGlans growWeather would be estrogenicBecause of testosterone useSo like something like thatAndableMore than likelyAWRLThese guys are taking fast actingCompancy because they don't want that stuff to be in their system for a very long timeLive times the fast actingShower Compancy can convert to estrogenSome of the faster I think CompancyWe know like trenboloneWe know raises proact and really highCan cause a proact and induced kind of commasYYusuallyI found along with that as you canHe's got a discharge out of the glandBecause the proact increasesIn women at leastIt's responsible for milk productionMemilin produce milkBut we will produce a mucusSecretionIf the glands are pretty big in that areaIt could be a combined effortObviously if I were himAnd I'm making big moneyI probably would have gotten the surgery to remove this stuffSo that no one would be speculating about what I'm doingAnd not doingIt just looks really suspiciousI think a lot of people don't pay any attention to itHow many people don't want to have to go for an elective surgeryIf they don't have toThe great thing is that it's really not a big dealIt's a really simple procedureAfter two weeks you're pretty much back to normalIMean I send so many people to Dr. BlauAnd White Plains in New YorkBecause he's the number one gynacomastia surgeonIn the world he's written a book about gynacomastiaI probably have sentYou know 5,000 people over the last 30 years to himAnd everyone is at very satisfiedCustomer because this is what he doesHe's the bestHe IMemime effectI've had guys that I work withIn other countries that flew inFor Dr. Blau to do the jobWhy?Because it's a cosmetic procedure Obviously it would look a little suspiciousIf he wasn't got the gynautAnd he had a big scar across his nippleYou know it would beIt's just as bad as having the gynautSo you want to get an experienced boardCertify plastic surgeon to do the surgeryDon't you get what you pay forI was telling you thatAnd don't cheap out on anythingClassic surgery wiseSo if you want to contactYou can contact Dr. BlauYou know through his websiteCosomaticMDD.com or there's a link on ourArxMuscle websiteBut yeahIMean it's pretty evidentYou know he might not even use the lotI'll tell you I told the story beforeI took one shot of sustenmentMy very first shot of testosteroneEVERAnd I had gynaut come as in the next dayNo jokeThe next freaking dayThe girl I was dating at the timeI long time girlfriend at the timeShe didn't believe meI said I had gynautShe's likeYou took a shot yesterdayI said I got gynautShe's like let me seeI showed it she's a colleagueShit you're rightIt was amazingBecause I always had glandialIt is she thereGeneticallyBut it wasn't like aroundAnd not likeIt was just flatAnd I had nobodySo he really didn't look that badIt assumes they took that shotBoomLumps hanging on my nippleIt happens what happensHe's got to get the surgerySo everyone stops speculatingBecause that's not going to be good for his careerAll rightSo the next question we're going to go intoIs one that Davey told me aboutShortly minutes beforeI sent to ourFireFriend at Chris 586It's about the in-gameNow vegan games and RxMuscle obviouslyHave some history a couple of years agoThere was a video exchangeOr he first initially made a video aboutWell thereDave was responsible forDialismic Carvers passingAnd then obviously that evolved into whateverIt evolved intoA year later actuallyBegan Games channel was taken downAnd we were one of the channels thatAvvocated for YouTube to reinstate his channelBut now here's the latest oneBecause they did get a message on itVegan Games has apparently startedIn only fansChannel and for those of you that don't knowWhatOnlyFans isYou probably already doSo whatever butWe saw basicallyI don't know Tyler if you haveThe picture that Dave was sent Basically it's vegan gamesAnd it's prettyRunchiesNot very family friendlySo Dave IMeanIf Tyler has it upIf you want to give your initial reactionsVegan GamesOnOnlyFansNoI didn't even know what OnlyFansIt wasn't until someone sent that to meI actually asked you and you explained it to meButI'm assuming this is the real vegan gamesIMean let's not one made a fake accountI should probably have texted themBut we just got like minutes before he startedSoThe interesting thing isI always thought he made very good money from hisInceFrom his exesme YouTube channelSo I don't knowI haven't looked at his YouTube channelWe may be not getting the hits he used to getAnd he might maybe he's desperate for moneyI don't knowBut it looks like he's doingSo he's showing off his thingSo to speak for moneyI don't knowI don't even knowIf we'd you call that gay for payNoI don't knowIt's just sex for a payI don't knowIt's showing off his cute coverI was likeIYou knowThis is someone thatHe vegan gamesMake fun of himIf he saw someone like thisSo I'm shockedAnd he's doingThat's why I always believe it's not trueButIt might beIf you want to see vegan gamesCuecoGoGoSIDEFARSOnlyIt's onlyFansI justWhat?I saw some mediaI got a TikTok accountI don't knowI just did it because I wanted to watch some of the other stuffI saw a video every now and againJust for shits and gigglesThis too many places to check with social mediaWhat?Can we combine everything?Can they find the way toCan they find the way toCan they find the way toCan they find the way toCan they find the way toCan youBreak�NWe NSOWe can also checkWe can checkReshoot�� PlayStationämWhen you know你说的就算被客人比较什么 CPU和其他地方在什么在外有一些高级财力edar然后你就可以用于利用性 premz strap你去 講世上的時候妳可以去啦妳的生活 是我們熟let的東愛的我自己知道對我的退屆是臉心去像是眾人闊嘴而且跟 Viber是都是健康一樣的可然有了演σω觀察的中午然後去到此為止到得起這把層面發都要先直接講講會告訴你,暫時平常腦袋不是輕鬆了很像被手idy當地這是不知道在 Pompey比較感謝結果說一看 因為他 TRAM的體力這次使用它是非常的迎適合當機梲,飛 unint劫時你要覺得 最棒的事因為我不知道他那樣有沒有得起很多人咱覺得已經沒事了乍重量它並不是大人幹甚麼 所以非常愛的對...好雖然 tanto唱片我才不是覺得我給你妳底去救癢誒房那他可以講到自己的成績所以我會不會用展規的香港人會不會味道你就是我也受到長達他們的態度我不會找人做錯巴黎我以為為什麼眼神那麼其實我比較喜歡《新型牙》我看家裡是同一個好像是我你以為他眼神跟我同類家人因為眼神背前我就一向因為跟小時候跟專業試了他理解他的就能跟孩子還有很多人就 triangle在他們當天學員結果已經突然かい声看,跟cheering特觀安慎可能有一些人都有不自動 Gerard當時我們就被拍票呢然後有人的想奧和焦啤你 anticipate對無人都想捧 DotT cara說這裡真的很像我覺得讓人喜歡過去的四 daughters至別最近他然後我 wants to see her on take top我 lagi很遠呀即使當我對我和裴在这兒我希望是一邊 power paralysis我們來看the show落為了再做梁啠爾再次拍不到不一定做了過去後來呢 eyeliner是啊你一定要成問題那我就不會回頭我有了Thank you我對我做完一點點做的因為你的那個人的我ère成的長得高我選人嗎不orden打算是要把它列更好的我只誤有Female很 International如果你每次跳至水長手會有點大還在提示意外面那樣我也已經下揚機但於機感展示只有新工作你运掏年度到超過幾歲的日子你們他會以為你如何掌盔他們會掌盔多更何行的也不需要內偷便可是為止是舞人禱 berries手 stitches穿鵬也是相互於是鎮誒現在後來的 Jordan shows因為普通的在警ARD還有線比剛才我的機會是好直完全不是眼前跟抽商把柯吵架好恐怖其實慢慢爆實就是就夠受不了但無法提醒因為我覺得結果別慢一點其實你可以給我能夠夠我在上番的需要一個小企業發展因為他也有 enough就咱們說玉光獎勢因為別自在外面最近我講個好評審在第一跟大家點聽大家說...這幾年 tri 次M2我第一次看到四 小的DayL делать在意我又提了track最後 MarianXB有一種 來及ن線因為可以錢你可以講回來,可以講等什麼紐視上 由食物的打擊得到到這裡 好就已經把所有分享進我們那個 disintegrating比如阿�ő Studio 看看可以推進食物絕了恭喜你再時nego發揮物詞意生活教寅神職市區可以亞洲 İş財國倍的手牌內派外國的 hyvin的手牌手�的手牌或許不方向所以算 UVG� Inaudible可以fficial所以學者互相市區會比較大大因為新出場我們要找一次然後說然後要我看那我看了HMG back-end的Klamit跟HGAnd so I was almost on for like two years straight at leastHCGAnd the HMG was in and out AKlamit was on and off too but the HCG was pretty consistentAnd so I don't know if that did it and then I extent on my test to lies the whole time too And test to lies helps balance estrogen THG and testosterone And so that was a like a consistent thing I did Now My levels probably right now are probably around講清楚的五個小拿筹uliflower而上海的當然是美國感覺ize到個大多多天特別也這麼快他感覺知道的話就沒設計什麼但是他們就說這是一個加油阿 Mat oxygen阿彼兒 modeled princes生 Grin不但他還能執行但我就以後嘪死,快死話音很低所以不當然對無敵所以說故事我故事被反歷但是香港人們 denen好的亦如此所以是違反弓的影響我覺得想死拳總配的但當然我就真不相信因為這我明白我其實不能夠到最大的漫絲架因為我是非常瘦你聽我都出來我覺得它會吸引各位所以我希望的會帶給你吧你才能使用我要做的我會輸出我還是能夠你重重的世界上是演出應該會在 komplett推翻我今天曾ady方向我重聲叫時候或者修正修手空装ometric可說可以按右手裡面都在加十二bole如果你在代理中的資 центр有Unablog子跟一anh центр↓就麻煩了然後推出新觸的三角建的可能只能在花工鋪SitSitCanarySitSorry about thatAtom Jackson Dave thoughts on switching to a short-sure test five weeks out from a show so you can easily manage test level on peak weekif you want to run the zero testintish-show data reduce water retention or it does not matter what your test levels are and only estrogen mattersSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSit四十年後out of our last daysa杉団會呈現社交換人芬浩 loan那起來那越來越OK為此所以分析你幫人為了萬嘅最後哑絛當時原子為了最後或者我因為即使Tell怎麼了那個我就不會勉強跟在媒體上, Gitarently就不會他只都是指禁來上ソーダ他只要叫他一群滲體上不知了因為他江澤民的娛樂說出現了一種後天後來別有黑鬥因為他現在用不夠空但是他又抓了弄給他讓他在影片裙子他有那種狂鬥 se能中謗可以我已經對抖著衰材然後他能扔起來不要說笑從頭去就是只能走 hed所以他有填� 이야기我能看來駡重切如果你恐怖這種東西但如果你是蝴夜地和кої給海可聶但近other ان善收一次如果你失去被中共的是蝴蝴懦尼利得我相信你想想來港、馬夷疑ention Listen到今天完蛋Matt Dh dermaen也在 gesturemoo很想移動提及街位 vois royal到底就是所有的決定zę對其他的存活就是運用這個 Sen 可以當你stop去做的今天我們都變成了所有的存活ciu的決定輸出領袖 lineup袖不懂了各位,你看到另一個強這個好的比現場這個根據的情況是想掾推銷的就是他們就會這樣幾個月就不敢確討算是имся沒有這麼多一條 Québec已有一個麦經 directly5500了昨天程 15ái我出現了 600我出現了 600雿我在他的內�olan我還都變訂了我再改變了之類因為我達我整個衣服我還還沒有學習至少我等不了這麼多工作室我cil中我還在轉換的box我溝通過可能有一些 progressed我還失去了因為未來 Last week還沒有買了我的改換我最後而你心裡就行了來這錯過了你等逢最近地講了就再回到就通注這集的影片請將文字騙將專任更多大飛行逢單廣名字多通敬甚至只有導演乎每位表演說我等逢未必德人還聽上另外敬部份盟gg2000歲我幫你簡單吧好凹,自己在想事論誰經咩昨天去聯邦即我而來笑也沒有想辦法那 entries他要例如他有什麼常識任何器但我很自私但他算是我不宜斌他做些有些配搭對啊,沒有新語題但當然來講他我當成我懂甚麼的人演唱蠻自á曲60年越來越疼跟他跟他遠離因為我�0说可能大的居然不在可能土地應該留下了返現在是能在發燻人的好由聵冬irit這個5 左右但是 Drew沒有不出一個這看到那 opt 而但是 links belowIcelic pit usil on speedsantriction.combig teachesgive zoomromm marijuananews Deepes Reaction Videofrom last night and then tomorrowtar n mega Episode of iron debatewith town prints andmiglose ros洗fora deри und joystick for repeatson

=== FILE: RXMUSCLERapJTP.mp4 [dA8vw66LrRY].txt ===

Oh Muscles the place to be if you want to see money mother 24-7-0-P Heavy muscle ready up on the one-seater when you're staring you'll get ready off for after I was ready Oh, which is me a Jeremy beat and JKP we're going live use 285 worldwide a lot Damn my helmet Where the truth about it building Mother fucker All right muscle Finally

=== FILE: Reacting To BIG LENNY Smashing Bottle Over His Head! AH Podcast (6⧸15⧸21) [dRZL_2KI1sg].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Welcome back to after hours of day polimbo. John Romano here and I think Greg Balantino is joining us already. The rest of the Wack Pack joining us, I think with Ricky, false is going to be giving us an update. I think he made it to Washington DC. John, he left your house. He left my house a couple of days ago and he was only washinGHis own hours from here. He was four hours by car John, he was riding a bicycle, but he was going to be a bit of a quickening with him. He's got a suburban, you know? He couldn't ride here, there's no shoulder. He runs in those roads that got no who was driving the suburban John. He is. He puts his shit in the back and he drives it. Well, when he's not driving the suburban, he had a suburban catch up to where he's riding the bike. I don't know, he flies back and picks it up and then goes, why? Seriously? Yeah. It sounds like a two-man operation to me, but he's only one person. I think it's more than a two-man operation, honestly, because this guy's got it all. He's got so much shit going on. He's got the energy level of 10 men. I don't know how he does it. But I agree with that. Did he stay with you, John? Did he stay? He had a hotel, he had already told me he checked into a hotel. He could have stayed here. But I took him to dinner. There's a right here right there. I took him to the Chinese buffet so he could fill up. What do you eat there? Everything. And a boy Ricky. He's like a snake. He had a stock up and hopefully he'll last him for the next month, right? And a boy Ricky. Right. And it load up his glycogen stores. Hopefully. So now what are you doing? I see him in Washington, we're playing the video of him riding around the capital right there. What's he going to like some kind of congressman's house or what are you doing there? The VFW. The VFW is all over him. He's, you know, yesterday was flag day. So he tried to get to DC in time. He's riding all around Arlington and the capital. So what he does is he drives there and then he unloaded and he rides all around. But he couldn't, he could never ride that thing on the street here. There's no way to ride. Yeah. Look who's home from school. Come over here. Logan. Logan, come here. Wow. Look at that. All right. Don't, you don't have to fake being sick. I know you're not sick. That is be smogged, shared on. And it says in the back here. Ask Logan. Don't remember. There he is. IMean, IMean, the live what this from. So that was very nice to him. Logan, how can you not in school? Because I was sick. You're not sick. You were throwing out all last night so we kept them home. But, I guess. Anyway, well, good one. You fall for that. Yeah, we fell for it. Yeah, we fell for it. He kept the man there up all night. Obviously wasn't feeling good. But the smoke was going to be doing good. But you said he was throwing up all night. Now he is sayinGHe's not sick. Well, he won't. After he woke up, it's like he got over it. I think it was, you have had one of those 12 hour viruses. Like where you're like sick as a dog for 12 hours. And then all of a sudden you feel fine. You mean when you're a kid, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You can do this. You just to smoke a cigar, throw up, and then he was fine. Yeah. You see, go on. Now, you know, I wanted to bring up a topic that you John brought up the right before the show. You know, we're such a culture full of people that make excuses for everything and blame everything. Like when he blames his sister, you know, poking the little one. You know, everyone blames everyone right now a day. And there's a runner. She's a, I think she's the world record holder at 1800 meters or 1500 meters. She's from the United States. And she has the positive for antibiotics. Oh, okay. It's a natural, natural. And we know it's gotten the tablites of 18 months. So she either was stupid and took it or she didn't realize that she was taking something. She's trying to take something else, obviously. And that was probably, and that she probably was using something on the ground. She's blaming a pork burrito. A pork burrito saying that that's how she tested positive. Is that the greatest excuse of all time, John? You know, pigs have just taken it. They had it rough. But people blame pork for everything. That's the word. That is the thing. They've made it. If you got a dietary problem, the blame a fucking pig. Same like your friend's mother added this. You said, hey, didn't you? I did. And you believed out a pork burrito. IMean, come on, can't you come up with something a little more creative than that? Oh, but where did she get that? I'll tell you why she said a pork burrito. And she didn't say like her multi-vitamin because they have a rule. It's called a no supplement rule. If you take supplements, it's on you. So if the supplements are tainted, you can't use as an excuse for testing positive. It should come up with something better. Blame, trampoling, you know. But, but, but, but out of everything that she may have consumed in the last, you know, week, where do you come up with the pork burrito? I'll tell you what, probably black men in probably can tell you. It is probably like one article in the American Journal and that, that, that, that, that pork burritos are tainted with an angel on my compound. Who knows, guarantee they found something in the literature. Do it. It's like when big poppy and all them guys face fall, they got caught and they're like, oh, we're seeing one of the supplements I took. Oh, bullshit, you know what you would do. That's right. But they took, but they, they, they, that law. No, no, no, no, no. They don't know what they're doing. That's the fuck I thought. I don't know. I wish it, there's somebody else. Right. If you know what they're doing, you remember, you were doing it. You take an angel loan. If you knew what you were doing, you would know to test whatever you're taking to make sure it's not an angel loan. Right. But John, you remember Melky Cabrera, the fuck a baseball player, he went out and opened up a supplement company, no, that shit said, oh, was it an ad? It was like the biggest farm. Yep. It all these guys. Sean Ray claims that he, that he wasn't taking anything and he tested positive for, you know, uh, winch troll. You remember when he lost the watch that? Remember Sean Ray, they took the Arnold class away. Oh, yeah. One year, he didn't, he said it even used the windstroll and he tested positive for it. Yeah, like Ben Johnson, he didn't use windstroll, but John, well, we did that, uh, bigger stronger faster. Wasn't it, did Ben Johnson, he took, uh, I think, Bell told me that he was taking other shit. He thought he was taking other shit, which he, he admitted it. He admitted it. Right. But he was, he said, but it wasn't windstroll because he failed for windstroll. Right. But it wasn't windstroll was another shitty talk he said. And he admitted it. He said he was taking other shit. That means that means his dealer gave him fake shit. You know, probably thought he was taking test suspension, which is a water based test, right? Right. But it wasn't the water based. That's it was the fucking, you know, and it was windstroll because they fucking, it, it went through, you know, I don't know, the angel loan is that probably, if you, if she intentionally took some kind of a nanzilon based compound, that's probably the dumbest thing you could possibly do. Uh, that, that's as Victor County would say, he's failing an IQ test because everywhere he knows or anyone who's got, have to brain knows that an angel on compounds can last up to 18 months in the body. So you never beat the drug test with that, you know. And, but that's why I have to believe that something she used, probably Annaboggly speaking was not what she thought it was. You know, maybe she thought it was pretty long. But he did. But why blame the freaking pig because they can't blame supple and show who, what excuses you're going to make our loan. What the hell? What the hell? What the hell? What the hell? What the hell? What the hell? What the hell? Why do you pick the pig? It's what I want to know. Well, because the pigs always take it. They always take it. John, let me ask you, John, my, no, it's John. Isn't it, maybe I'm wrong. But what, isn't there a female runner that actually has so much testosterone in her, she looks like a man, they tested her, she's not on any steroids. Yeah. It's a, this big black woman who's like, I think she's African. Yeah, yes, she has so many of you talked about her. Yes, she's got high testosterone. They said she can only compete if she takes estrogen blockers. Yeah, I know. That's a thick, isn't it? That's another whole, the fiasco that we can, we can discuss. But this, this is just funny because this girl's like blaming like, you know, going with talk on her, on failing a steroid test. Even though she's the, she's the premier runner, you know, at 15,000 meters. Or 5,000 meters. She's been 15,000 meters. She's been 15,000 meters. Who else? Who else in the history of the Olympics to a, since the ancient Greece day, who has failed a drug test for a burrito? That's what I want to know. Well, I guess you feel like crying. No, I do try to see it get me because the meat was on, like, you know, quality. Well, I guess it's a very easy, a very easy verification. Let him test the meat, right? Right. Go back, get another burrito and test me. Wait. Did they say anything at the end of, I didn't read the article that they say anything at the end of the end of the, the testing the meat or anything that. We can clue the most likely explanation was a burrito of churches. It's 10 hours before I'm sure it is. We don't keep right there right there. Another blame in the Mexicans. You see, it's all the Mexicans, probably. He's just going to know Mexican food truck. I told you it's my mother and law. You should pick in Mexican. Where do they get, where do they come up with most likely? How does that show me? That's the most unlikely scenario, right? Don't know where. Well, it's all known. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, that Mexicans put the, an angelone in there and they're burritos. Didn't you know that? But that's what the burritos are. I want to know because it's better in the history of medicine as mandrelone showed up in pork. I want to show me one study. It's somewhere in the county. It's not fair. It's already jacked up. It's those Oregon on deck of ones, the 50 milligrams per week. They like to inject them into the burritos. I love those. That's why they're so metabolic. I've been telling you guys this for years. So here's thEQuestion. How do they come up with the term most likely? Where is my come from? Jones, how do you get, if it never happened before, how do you get most likely? Where does that come from? Because John, she's probably going to try to claim, well, you know, if they gave that pig steroids, they don't know. They just noted, an angelone's a steroids, so they just say, oh, it's, you know, even though that's the last thing they would give a pig, right? They would give it something else other than that. We never give a pig mandrelone. I know that. And a pig up anymore by definition, I think the pigs are fattening. The angelone's not to drug you're going to give them to flatten it up, right? We never give it, never. And a million years would you give an angelone to it. So this is so unbelievably contrived and stupid. Wait a minute, can I play devil's advocate? What if though, maybe it was a fucking, those, Trent, you know, like, because you get the pellets and shit like that, maybe it was one of an infinite jet pellets. And because that contest is, it causes right. Not for an angelone. No, I was trying to, I was reaching. You know, he, that was trying. I was just trying to be devil's advocate. There is no devil's advocate. IMean, obviously she was taking shit. I think you know what happens? They get these coaches and they, he's eating. I have a, I got this information. I just pulled up. It's been a long understood by water, the world, the anti-doping agency that eating pork can lead to a false positive for an angelone. Since certain types of pigs produce it naturally in high amounts, pig Oregon meat has the highest levels of an angelone. Oh, come on now. My son's writing a language with, with, with, with, with, with, with, marker. Oh, come on. If that was the nice legs. Like you should put fish in there. Harry, Harry, like, but um, they would look good with fish nets on. But listen, um, honestly, that's their reachy because you, you know as well as I do obviously. How many people eat fucking pork? You know what? Well, you know, it's, you know, it's, they needed to come up with something. And like I said, they went through a study prob, it was done, you know, a night, and five years ago, someone found that their pigs have an angelone, like compounds in them. Gary, Gary, some of the black men found that online and gave them the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, I want to see the receipt from Chipotle. Wait, my mother most Mexican, she's got a goatee, so maybe it's true. She's a lot of feet. She's got a lot of feet. She's got a lot of feet. You got a kick my son out here. He's hiding under the table. You got to make him talk. This is what you got to do. I don't know. You know what he's John, Emily, you're fucking coach. You know, he's, dad these coaches, look, we'll take this the way about it. It'll, it'll go under a radar that tested for testosterone, this is that, I don't know whatever the fuck. You know what IMean, it's the Momo coaches because they don't know anything. It's even bodybuilding coaches a lot of these guys that people people taking concoctions, you know what? You know what IMean? I had a girl, I had a girl cross-fader who failed a drug test for fucking anivar. IMean, like how do you fail a drug test for anivar? That's, you gotta like, you gotta work to do that. IMean, you have to do it on purpose almost. You can't do it on purpose. You probably took a fucking anivar tablet fuckinGHalf hour before she got tested. Cause it's just, it's just, right, it's really smart like that. I'm just saying, but that's because your coach is though, listen, these athletes, they listen of whatever the coach, if the coach is listening, I want you to eat fucking, you know, a pile of shit, they would eat it, they don't, whatever the coach says. You know what IMean? And I think that that is part of the problem. You get these coaches and they think all we'll take the mandrel in. It's like, Scott gonna show up like testosterone. You know what IMean? You'll get to, and now you get caught. So like, they just they go online and they think of what food can change a hormone like, natural, and what fucking idiot would give a big fucking, any food. Well they say that they take naturally produces and that's what the word I read. Oh, not a chicken worse. Oh, everybody, you know what more. If that was true, if that was true, do you know what any bodybuilders would be? Maybe back ribs, fucking breakfast lunch, I think I'm convinced McDonald has antibodies, properties, who knows what the heck's in that, and that need, I got news fear. I put a lot of muscle on with McDonald's, let me tell you. And it was the McDonald's, wasn't anything in the audience. It's Saudi, and it's in that fucking McDonald's. So I go to the doctor. I got an ankle problem. I don't know what my ankles have been killing me. I can't walk on it. It's been months now. I go to the doctor, and I'm sitting in the waiting room and I'm filling out this form, right? You got the medical history. And you know, I remember, you know, when I used to go years ago to the doctor, I felt these medical histories when you go to a new doctor, I just went, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, sign it, give it to them. Now I'm looking at the sheet. I'm spending a half hour filling out this thing, because I got everything on the checklist. Hard problem, yes, I got the fibroleter. Any kind of arthritis. Yeah, joint replacement. I got two shoulder replacement. Diurettectomy. For quad surgeries, it's like never ends. I'm falling apart. I have more things checked off on the probe on the past history than I actually have an unchecked off now. Didn't you got to explain what they want? That's the worst. I know. And it's like I don't want to tell the whole story. And you know what the findings? I don't even remember all the surges I have. I'm like, well, I got to find the first one. When I was, IMean, I had my appendix taken out when I was 17. And you know, who knows? I had so many crates. I had two arts. I had my shoulders scoped out, you know, when I was younger. It's getting old sucks. Anyway, to make it a long story short, they want to, they say, well, the only thing we could really do to fix your ankle and be fused it. Fused the bones in there. I'm like, that's obviously not an option. I said, so basically fucked. I feel like Jimmy to bolt today. What you know, my foot, my left foot is going to tell when you're underneath. And I remember I am pretty lean now. And I remember when I last competed in 80, whatever, three. That I used my foot fuckinGHurt. And it was, and I remember Dorian, subsequently many years later saying that he was walking around backstage, prior to what Olympian is feet were killinGHim. And he thought like he was cramping. I'm maybe because nobody dies. Yeah. He realized he got so lean that the fat pad on the his foot got disappeared. And I'm wondering if that's what's going on. I don't have any there. I have striated by the bottom of my feet as striated. I'm so lean. That's why I have no effect. But I'm wondering, is that why is that why my foot hurts? Well, you know what, you probably do aerothotics and issues? Yes. I hope not orthotics. You know, you've got to get customer advice. Now I always get them at the chiropractic because it's easy. I got the chiropractic. You know, they had to step on the machine. The guy I went to, he's a foot specialist, but he's a doctor. He's not just a podiatrist. He told me these things are piece of crap. He fitted me for a real strong pair. He goes, because you need a rigid, a more rigid orthotic, because I have no arch in my feet whatsoever. And so that's the step I'm taking. I'm not doing any surgery, obviously. Even though I probably need to get the orthotics, the full strength won't so to speak. So if you guys are having foot problems, you know, the orthotics made you got it. Your chiropractic, the ones you get in the store, even if they're custom, it's not the same. And you know what the technology, you want to hear how cool the technology is? When I first went for orthotics back in the 80s, I was one of the first people to get them, because I was a long distance runner. I see a lot of pork back then. That's why my time is so good. And I needed orthotics. And so when they fit you back then, they didn't have any scans or computers. They actually casted your foot like you would go for it. You broke your foot and they would put a cast on it. And they would take the cast and they'd send that out and they would make a mold from that. Now nowadays, they actually have a cell phone app. They actually take a picture of your foot. And all of a sudden, you see your feet and three dimensions. It's unbelievable. IMean, it literally took 20 seconds for this guy to do this. I thought it was going to take this big, this whole big process. Took him 20 seconds and they had my foot in the program already. And they sent it off the lab and the lab is going to make me orthotics from that. It's crazy. That's cool. Yeah, really cool. You know, you go back to eat and pork. That's right. I think that's my problem. That's why I haven't all these problems. I stopped eating McDonald's every day and pork and stuff like that. Thinking it's going to be healthy. I'm going to live forever. I think I'm falling apart because I'm not, supplementally properly now. I take all my vitamins, but I need my metabolic stuff, too. Why aren't you going to your key? I don't know. My testosterone's good. I think I need like the good stuff. I think I need like some nangelo. The be honest with you. It's just having pork sandwich. I can't take G.A. You're like, I can't say, I love my huge Greg. So we can't do that. More. I would never do H.C.H. ever. No, especially if you're a cancer person and I had the thyroid cancer side me too scared. But these guys don't understand it. They think that that doesn't matter. I keep telling people, you gotta be kidding me. You gotta be kidding me. It doesn't cause cancer, but if you have cancer, we'll make your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone faster, yeah. It's right. You're throwing a carousine on a fireman. You know, I went and got my, but so I got blood work done the other day to check my, because you know, I did this like at home, heavy metal test. Have you ever tested your heavy metals, mercury, ledil, that stuff? I test my metallic old time. No, seriously. You should test it because, you know, a lot, it's weird. Sometimes you get exposed to stuff you don't even know it. So I came back very high for ledil on this home test. So I was freaking out. So I went and had my friend send me for some blood work and on the blood work, I was normal, man. God, so I had no, I was expectinGHigh mercury, because you know, I eat sushi and stuff like that. But I don't really eat that much tuna. Cause black, remember, black, been had the high mercury, John. Yep, I remember some of them. Yes, so I stopped when he had, I stopped eating so much tuna, I eat more salmon. And salmon doesn't have mercury in itself. He would eat tuna steak a lot. Yeah, yeah, tuna, I had to stop the fish because too much mercury. So my, my lead levels were not elevated above normal on the blood work. So what I'm, so sometimes these home tests are not accurate. And the problem is, cause you've taken the test, you're putting blood on a card or in a little file, you send it off by the time it gets there to get heated up and stuff can alter it. So if you're getting, if you're doing at home testing, you know, you might want to go to a lab and get it done because they're getting a fresh specimen, it's going to be more accurate. I think it's important for me to say that because I know some people that do do home testing. And sometimes it's obviously, now this is the second thing. I once had my hemoglobin A1C tested and it was not right, too. Ironically, though, my hemoglobin A1C, which is a measure of your blood sugar over three months, has been super, super low lately, which is good. And I don't know if it's because of COVID and because I don't go out as much as I did before, but my blood sugar's been better. I don't even know what to attribute it to. Have you guys ever had your hemoglobin A1C's check? My blood can't be. My hemoglobin all the time. I thought hemoglobin A1C is a test of how your hemoglobin combines with glucose. So if your glucose is all the time, you'll have higher hemoglobin A1C. I'm a fucking diabetic. I have to, what's your hemoglobin A1C, do you know? Well, was fucking like 10 point. Oh my God, really. It's supposed to be. 5.6 is borderline high. That's very high, right? It was it. Yeah, that's why I take my, I'm on med form and lemma fry. You gotta be, you should be, IMean, I told him is before you should be able to insulin. Yeah, I don't know, I don't know anything about insulin. I never did. You should be able to long acting insulin, not a short acting insulin, we have to, the good thing about long acting insulin's Greg is number one, you can go to Walmart and buy a bottle without a prescription of 25 bucks. And second thing is, you don't have to worry about crashing from it because it's long acting. So it's, it's not like you take a shot and you're going to a coma, you know? How tough. It's insulin for 20, IMean, how do you get insulin like, without a prescription? Because they, they will, Walmart sells long acting insulin called novulin n and they sell a shorter acting a fast acting insulin called novulin r without a prescription. You have to ask the pharmacist for it because they keep it in the fridge, but you don't need a prescription and they're selling them super cheap right now because Trump enacted this program for diabetics who don't have health insurance and couldn't afford to get their insulin. It's only $25 a bottle, that bottle lasts a long time. Oh, buy two. Might know, do away with that. Yeah, they want it. He's trying to, he's trying to. That's sick, that cock sucker. But anyway, anybody who voted from your fucked up. Anyway, did you see that video from wandering around in the, in the cafe? Yeah, he's got bro. He was even more. Well, John, he's in that stage. Remember you said when you get old, you want to be like that, you don't know what the fuck's going on. So you don't get, he's in that stage. I think he's like, I don't even know if he knows his president. He's probably just maybe, sometimes he doesn't. They got a reminder every morning. Joe, you won the presidency. I did. Go, man, that's awesome. Every day, you think he's just won the president. I just, That's what they were saying. His whole life he wanted to be president. And now he's president. He doesn't know the agency. They can't even enjoy it. I was enjoying it every morning when they were mind him when he wakes up. So like John said, it's like, it's like having, you win in the lottery every single morning, you know? No, you know what he says? When he says, you know, you're the president. Joe, he says, what? You're in any of what? Like Barack Obama said to him before he wanted to think. He said, you know, good luck, Joe. You're going to win this. He goes, what? What? He's like, I think he's trying to. He's shot, he's fucking shot. He's really shot. He will do away with that insulin. He will. He won't be doing it. He won't even know what's going on. He'll get someone else to do it. We'll tell him to sign this. What's that? It's done him that's doing away with it. It's Susan Rice and Obama behind the fucking, he's like a puppet. He don't know what the fuck's going on. I don't know what the fuck he's doing. Right. Right. Here, you're talking at the G7? Do that's disgraceful. I was like, I'm expecting a fuss to get fucking invaded in any minute now. Sorry, you got all the military guys. No one's invading us, believe me. You got all the war mongers. Now you got to be the pushification of the military right now. They kick off a psychops. Do you see the other day? A car in Atlanta. A book. Bookhead. Fuck it pulls up along the cop. The shit right there was light flash. And another car pulls right up alongside the the car in front of the cop. And it just starts shooting at the car and drive away. And the cops didn't even do chase them. Then they said, we're not allowed to chase. Then they're doing fucking didn't mean well the fire standards. The ones got hit, you know. It's their fucked up. You can't do it. It's not the cops fault. I'm saying it's the fucking, you want more that go on my face. Bookhead just posted it. Yeah, yeah. It. John, how many people you got? I see you arguing sometimes. And many people you got their fucking actually think like, you know, all fighting's doing a great job. It's at so much better. Oh my God, things are so much better than fucking Donald Trump, which I feel like, you know what, you know, I told you, Greg, it's exactly the same. They're all cronies. No one did nothing changes. Very few things. No, it goes back up for the little bit. They're all going on. No, no, no, no, no, no. You're a big good woman. I fucking argue over to, you know, Melvin. I don't know what that was. He's a good guy, but dude, he shot. They just defined John, I see you sometimes going at it with people. Yeah, no, I do. This is, this is, this is, this fucking people are oblivious. And of course, I always get the ones that nothing affects them. You know, well, I'm a parent and affect them. The tax, but didn't affect them. They're stock market doesn't affect them. Fuel prices don't affect them because they don't drive a car. Anything that happens, guys, immune. So, you know, you get people like that. He's just, there's no talking to them. John, that's a good one. You know what I'll tell me? I said, no, no, it's, it's, it's, it's the crisis on the border. This is the going on for years. And I'm like, but, but, he goes, who's worse under Trump? And I'm like, no, why is it? Trump fixed that shit. Exactly. You're gonna talk about the punch. All right, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's change the subject for a second. Have you guys seen the big, liney video where he smashed the bottle over his head? No. A real bottle? Like, can they see this? All right, we watch this video. A real bottle? Rob Zillus sent it to me. Well, post, post conference, we're gonna hit the gym. But before that, let's make one thing clear. I'm just gonna get better and better. He's not going anywhere. Yeah, we talking to you as if you should be scared of me. As if you're, what, why am I ever scared of anything? I'll tell you something, dear. No, no, no, no. That's all. What do you fear of drinking slabs? It's not an hard time, Ben, at all. That was an acabond. You don't fucking scary that, don't you? Oh, that was a real bottle? No, it was a plant, right? It was a plant. It was a plant. It was a plant. It was a plant. I thought I walked that way. I thought I think I still walked better than Lenny does. It was a real bottle. You're gonna punch this way. He's so fucking, he's pretty, he's got a pretty hard head though. I don't know, you never know. You don't want to blow a shit. I whacked a guy one time with a beer bottle and the fuckinGHead. The bottle didn't break, but he got knocked out. Oh, yeah. And the bottle stayed one piece. Right, yeah. Rob Zillam must be a pretty good actor. He did respond to me well. I wanted it to break. I wanted to smash him over to have one of break and fucking stab him with it. Wow. But it didn't break. He just knocked out. He's the way that being broke so easy, John. I was like fucking broke. IMean, I don't know sugar. One of those sugar glass. I love big Lenny, but I don't know if I believe that that was a real bottle. That was not a real bottle. I seen that many cowboy movies. I like Lenny's rationalization. I'm only getting better. He's not. I don't think Mr. G needs to get any better, do you? Well, well, if you start where he started, yeah. And then you're getting better. IMean, he didn't get better for like a year to get to Mr. G's worst. So he's got a one-rotable. Yeah, he looks good though. I like that he shaped the beard down more. Yeah, he doesn't look as much. He looks younger now. I think he looks good like that. So I think that's a positive thing. The funny thing about Lenny is that Lenny is so into the whole body, the only thing that wouldn't you think he would want to like just lean out as much as possible. That's like pretty hardcore. That's not cookie cutter right there like that. That's like the body builder way. I would think he'd want to walk around shred it, you know. At this point. Especially if he's going to fight Mr. G right? Well, I think that there will worry about size. I think a lot of guys are like that. They don't give each. How many times you get every fat guy in a gym on the towel? But you know what? Lenny can feed stuff right? It's not like Lenny doesn't eat. Lenny does show. I like Lenny. I think he look. He looks like he's having trouble walking, bending a whole burner. Losing some of that fat would help. I don't know. And who trens for a fight and doesn't lose weight. He's not trening for the fight, obviously. And I think that, you know, as a guy who really likes Lenny a lot, I want to see Lenny live a long time. So I think he would lean out. You know what IMean? It would be one thing if he was like 250 or 270 and he was shredded. And he just wants to be big. And he's like, hey, fuck you guys, I want to be big. But he's not like, it's not a good quality biGHe is right now. And he's like 320 or whatever he's 330. But he's like he said he's got body fat on him. At least drop the body fat off. If you want to weigh 270 or 260, and at least you're going to be relatively lean at that weight, then I'm like, you know, then that's what you want to do. That's what you're going to do. He's not functionally big at this point, you know? It's dysfunctional. I talked to George yet a day on a phone. We were talking, I don't know. I'm not going to say what he was saying. You know, it's just it's, it's, you know, Lenny's a good guy. I just think that this whole fighting, I don't want to say it go off, but she's not good. Can you read this? What is that saying? Don't I'm can't get on this fucking thing, try. Oh, Jimmy the ball. Let me try to give him a break again. He should have, hey, he should have did what I do. Typing in all cats. So it looks like he's got work. Young man, I can't get on this fucking dirt. That's pretty good. Where is he been this pat. Well, I'm going to ask him to be here. He was supposed to be here to fucking guy, but he never showed up. Oh, really? Oh, I'm right. You invited him. Yeah, but now we says he's coming for fourth of July. So we'll see. He'll hold your breath. No, no, no, no, no, no. You want to fire up, so this is a lot of that, right? No, I told him, I'm going to fourth of July party, come on down. You know, he goes, oh, yeah, that's a good idea. I've got to great time. I'm coming down. I say he's not coming down. No, he was supposed, but then I said, after that, I said, you know, another opportunity is Valerie's going to Colorado to visit her family for a few days. I'm here alone. Why don't you come down now? I hang out. We'll cook, we'll laugh, we'll drink some beers, you know, and, you know, I like to look at you. And you lit up. That was such a good idea. I couldn't wait to come. So he calls, yes, I go where are you? How much longer do you get here? Oh, yeah, no, I got it. Because no, wait, because he called me up, I forgot the whole part of the story. He called me up about a week ago, not even a week ago, four, five days ago. And he says, he goes, we got thrown out of the Guadier port. There he is. There he is. Tell the story about how you got thrown out of the Guadier airport. Jimmy. Jimmy. Yeah, I think he's muted. Jimmy's about fucking, fucking thing. This fucking thinGHere. I don't understand it with the code. I put the code in and it says it doesn't exist. And I forget that. Well, you obviously made it work. So you're here. Tell him about the the Guadier. He got thrown out of the Guadier because the dump truck would work. Yeah, that's true. Oh, it's hard. Oh, it's hard. Jimmy, where were you last week? Where was that last week? I was home. How come you were in the show? I know I sent you the link. Oh, wait a minute. What happened last week? That last week somethinGHappened. What the fuck happened last week? I should get. I want to hear you out of the Guadier story. Oh, I just told you. I was not there. I was not the toy. The fucking bed would up. The fucking bed would up. The fucking third one. Come on. The guy had to come over with the excavated. They get out. You get the bottom of the fucking bed apart. I finally got it. The dump. And if they dumped the guy, they're more of a little lizard. He goes, look, come back. That's just what IMean. I just whatever you want, man. No problem. You know what IMean? I thought you got fired from the truck. No, it's just a different gigant. Yeah, I did. I don't work anymore, man. I was one day they called me and then did it half. I went and I was one day I didn't even get paid. The guy just to go. The guy who didn't pay. You hear? You hear? Why are you not paying? He didn't pay you and you work for the day. Yeah, he didn't pay me here. He owes me, you know, from last year. He owes me. That's, he didn't even pay me. Why are you lettinGHim get away from you? Probably two years ago. Why would you let him get away with this? Did Jimmy the bowl of past never would have allowed this? No, I know, but I'm out of here, man. I don't even give a fuck. I told him you need to go ahead. You need it. You think you can't have to talk to him. I don't need your fucking money. So now are you going to be here for a second? So I or no. Yeah, yeah. I am. I wanted to share a couple of things we get today. Because I had a hard day. And where's George? Good question. I don't know. I heard he's down the floor. I think he's back. I just talked to him on a phone. I think he's back. He was trying to get your plane back. But I'm pretty sure he's back. We did a press conference from Florida. He was some press conference. Yeah, it was him in line. He got a lot of hits at show. It was almost like thinking about it. He's 20,000. On that one. Oh, what did he do? Yeah, his client has a board of house in Bocca. So George was like, I think went down there with him for a little mini vacation. Yeah, I keep asking George of his moving. And he's like, I'm not getting a definitive answer from him. So I don't know. That's what that means. There he is. There he is. It's like somebody coming on. Rick, turn your phone sideways. Oh, Rick. Yes. How is Rick on sideways? Oh, it's Ricky. Ricky, you got the orientated lock on. Again, take off the orientation lock on the phone. And turn it sideways. That is sideways. You got the lock on. He's got to take the lock off. Oh, OK. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know where that shit. You went to Arlington? Yes, sir. That's cool. Did you go see the president? I'll take this. How do I take this lock off? What? You got an iPhone? It's just going to speak. You got to scan that. Pulled the screen from the top right corner down. You mean, I still got to flip the tape on it back. Hold the pattern. Hold the pattern. Hold it at best, man. That's your best. It's called the burner phone. Yeah, exactly. It's meant to be thrown in the garbage after you use it. Great. Ricky, you figured out? That's not nice. Oh, he's good. He's good. Alright. It's all Ricky. How's my reception? There he is. Good. I like that shirt, Ricky. It's got to get off. He's got a whole suit. I like that. I look like Lance Armstrong and Kurt Angle had a baby. You look like an avenger. It's what you look like. Is he in a cemetery, though? Yeah. It's an oral pain. Give me. Oh, Jimmy wakes up while I'm studying sea cemeteries. You know? Yeah. No, he's in the deep cemetery. Oh, yeah. Yeah, man. I wanted to make it special for you guys. I'm in hollow ground. You can just feel the respect to you. Jimmy, you might be a demigrant. Right. Here's a trivia question for you. How many presidents are buried in Arlington? And who are there? John Kennedy. Yep. I don't know. John Kennedy, yeah, past his grave. And who's the second one? Um, A blanket. I don't know. F. T. Little fat test. You're having good look at every tomblast and cruiseall your back. Three days. A blanket. I said A blanket. You already made me. I already gave the kids a rose of them. I would take your door. Cast. You already said Tafya. So Ricky, how many miles did you bike of the trip? Because we John, they were trying to figure out what you're doing. Because you've got a suburbany, says you've been driving. Yes, but at time I got, I had a breakdown in P. Westwood, the trailer. Right. Got it fixed when I got to Kingston, Georgia, about a hundred miles south of Savannah, broke again. Then I got it. IMade it to Savannah. Got it. We welded. When I crossed the lines from South Carolina to Georgia, I had to ride in a grass for about six miles. They had no shoulders construction going on. After that, I had to ride on. I'm coming trapping because I don't, I don't ride with traffic. I'm free in the market, killed with a mirror. So when the cars are passing, I have to get in a grass. The roads that the shoulders are very uneven. The trailer was bouncing around. It was about to break again. So IMade it. A hundred miles that day to Charleston. Then I called it. Let me stop you for a second. John, he rode on the grass for a hundred miles. So sick. You know how hard it is to ride on grass. He's pulling a trailer with him too. Well, he's six. No, no. About half of it was on a grass because I had to get off the road. We caused fast back on the road. Of the road, back on the road. So it was about half. I called my team back home and got there at the voice. We decided I'm not raising anywhere on that country roads. Where nobody's going to see me, I can get hit. So I picked up the suburban. I flew home at five in the morning. Grab this suburban drive right back. Got back in Charleston aT4. I picked up my little doll. Oh, wait. Hold on, Ricky. So you flew home to Louisiana. And then you picked you suburban. And I've been you drove the suburban from Louisiana to Charleston back to Charleston. How long did that take? But it was about a 24 out 25 miles. I had it. Let me ask you a question. Did you sleep at all in that 24 hours? I pulled over for about 30 minutes because the road was getting blown. How the fucking did you stay awake? Red Bull. Red Bull doesn't work after a while. I got news here. That's insane. That's insane. That's insane. Even biking and biking. And then you go back and you drive 24 hours straight. And you have to be in on a bicycle up to 14 hours a day. Sometimes driving was nothing. You're America. You're a miracle person. I don't even know how you're doing. I thought Mr. G was crazy. John, I really think that Ricky could could outbattle Mr. G in any kind of endurance event. That's what we should be promoting. Not a fight between him and big land. Yeah. Rick. I don't even should fight. I don't even want to create some kind of endurance obstacle course that they've got to do. Ironman course. Yeah. But not stuff you got to do like climbing walls and shit. You got to make something like it'll probably become a new sport. You know, when we're done with the 20 pound plate carry on. Yeah. You know what the Ricky's a little young. Yeah. I was just swimming in shit. Is George Ricky can you surf? No. I was fall down. That's a great idea. We don't have waves there. That's a little alligator. How about alligator wrestling? And the name and Mr. G. Russell and alligator. And come and come and catch. I've caught him since I was kids. I know how this thing works. I think it's interesting. And Rick would be great in a reality show, you know, Santa Mat and like the the wilderness together. How funny was that thing? I would like to see that. Yeah. That would be awesome too. As long as he brings me some cookies. No. Yeah. You guys Lee cookies exclusively the whole the whole time. Yeah. to me. Think about it. You know that movie. You have a show survivor. Just don't eat pig. Mr. G and Ricky together. John, you probably go to that show too. Because you know how to do all the like fires and stuff like that and you know, survive. I think Ricky and Mr. G would be hysterical together out there and survive. I agree. Maybe so. Everyone's been searching energy. Maybe swimming like laps and in the ocean, you know. How about you drop them off on a desert island and like naked in a freight. And they got to survive. They probably went. They could if you have big lighting was there. Then they probably rose up Mr. Big lighting and eat them from fuck them. The dinner. Guys, that's a race that I want to do next year. It's like five days in the wilderness. You got a bike kayak. You got to use a compass, no cell phone. It's called the ECO Challenge. Ultimate expedition race. Let me have a. That's the ultimate ultimate. I don't think you can be beaten Ricky because you know what, you just don't stop. You don't death doesn't deter you at all. That's a get a known fact. It comes to you. Well, when I was getting my polished license, I got about 140 hours of flying. I was flying as a coal pilot with a PIPeline guy. I was landing a plane. EverythinGHe would sleep. But when he told me to go by myself, I went down a runway. I turned around. I'll just go back and get out of the way. I was like, well, you're going to say that quit. I was too scared to solo. There's one thing I'm afraid of. Hi. Well, if you saw when you're flying, you died. That's why I don't. That's just natural. If you like that. Me too, man. Fuck heights. Holy shit. $20,000 worth of flying school. And I, um, I bailed. It's probably good. It's probably good. It's housing my younger days. And I probably would end up flying in the Mexico. There's some no good product. I think he's smuggling the Mexican pork into the United States. John, that's why we're all going to land to our government. And given it out to Olympic. Yeah. Have a great weekend. Much of the people. They, you know, they should at least get Patrick Arnold to make the Mexican pork. At least they won't be able to detect the stuff, you know. Right. Me fake me. It'd be pork. That might be just code word for DACA. Mexican pork, right? You want the Mexican pork? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The clear. Who Patrick's a three Patrick's definitely a Trump heir. Oh, yes. Guys, I want. No, yeah. He goes off. Get a bit. But, uh, my home with people. I'm seeing in DC. Yeah. It's unreal. Really. Because then it's a Tyler. There's tents on the side of the street. A block away from the White House and look. Pins of hanging out. The new is completely closed off. We guards in police. Not military, but police guards in front. So you can't welcome to the White House gate. It's completely. I've seen about 20 helicopters yesterday. Today flying over DC everywhere. Military. Close guard on. Alice. Why is that? I don't know. I don't know. Ever since what happened. Um. With the. The call. Overreacting to the fake shit that happened. You know what IMean? Yeah. Yeah. I'm guessing it's sex. You know, oh, because. There's no reaction. It's a reaction, shit. Meanwhile, San'tita, sleep in those fucking tents. They're a bunch of homeless kids. Very sweet. Sergio, you can't do this. You know, gold, shit. But that is hard. It's gonna take and shit and coffee cans and stuff like that. Fuck in each other. Do not. Should all day. I don't know. I don't know when. You know. And then at night, they get fuck a money to go out. money to go out if act like savages. That's exactly what that is. Anything of fucking Trump supporters or fucking red meat? I stopped with the Trump already. All right. Now we know what's here about the political views right now. That's another show. Ricky, when you're in the capital now in Washington, D.C. Okay. What are you showcasing? What do you, IMean, I know you're going to visit the homeless people and the veterans and stuff like that. You can get Tyler to look on his Facebook. He can pull up that video to the Central. So people can see I'm just making laps everywhere. We don't know you. We saw you riding the bike around the capital area. Yeah. What I'm doing at the past, IMean, hey, what are you doing? And I tell them what I've seen with the homeless veteran. Everything like that. I'm just getting the word out of a couple of YouTube. I said, pick me up. That while here, they, they, they, they, when got it, got a travel in channel with biking, you know, I'm just, it kind of fell through with the Congressman. I told you, why, we're not getting that's actually, we made the stripper comment or something that. Yeah, because I posted a picture of a strip club on my personal page. In the keys, it was called Woody's. It said, all new girls, subs and pizza. And I said, wow, I'm not going to place. And, uh, it's a, it's pretty ironic that the Congressman that you know, probably, you know, don't owe these illicit, you know, prostitutes and stuff like that. Now, I probably, because with guys, that's why we're having a problem. Ricky, make a joke about the club club. If it was a gay bar, it shit that said, it will move pizza and thought, IMean, the pizza and fuck and whatever, the Congressman would have been like, you know, where is that exact? Yeah, that's what. Yeah, CNN's league of journalists. CNN's legal analyst, Jeffrey Tubin got caught masturbating in a zoo called right with his colleagues. And he's back on the air. Wait, Ricky, what I want to do is have you had anybody give you trouble? Like if anybody like, yo, you got a lot of nerve, right now, that's flat. You know, because there's a lot of flaGHaters out there, man. I don't think I look like the type that they know would just keep going. Yeah, the boy fucking shoot. Ricky looks pretty dangerous today. I would stay away from him probably too. He's probably got a lot of people with people at him, like, and I'll like, right on. Yeah, that's what I would say. That's not a lot of people, man. I see a lot of, look like a bunch of the secret service guys. You can tell that look, they somebody, because I went around a pin of gun and it's pretty in shape guys while jogging around with each turntown. And it was all like giving me thumbs up and stuff. So I'm pretty sure it hurts. Couple of them look like yes, have guys with the beard and stuff. Well, I think that's what you're pulling around your pulling the trail of behind you. You know, they want to make sure you don't have a bomb in there or something like that. You know, I'm sure of it. Yet he acted like they want to say hi. He's like, got some kind of little meat of tech. Yeah, this can you know, like, yeah, they did a carcass rally. I surprised they didn't know. IMean, I'm a trail of them. You know, all my gears and the whole thing. They don't know that. You drive around with it. Right. Yeah, so I surprised they didn't pull you over. Like, sure it's your dad and you know, see what you got at the back. You know, you're really. No, but I tell you what, I didn't take no pictures close to the pinnagon because they have a sign. No photos. I took a picture of sign and that was it. I picked the phone up. I don't want to get no trouble. You know, I said, I'm waiting. Are you driving to New York now, too? Yes, I'm going to tren with Mr. Jumgons. You're jamming the bull and and go on. I want to go tren a couple days of Mr. J and then I'm going to head back to the bayou. I just signed a contract for a fight. September 25th in Louisiana. Jimmy, I want you to make it and I'm donating the promoter agreed to donate a percentage of ticket ticket sales to my non profit to help the homeless vets. And I'm donating everything IMake to it as well as a raising money during the fight. So then, so veterans day, I'm going to try to break my my wallet. I've done 120 in a day already with the trailer. I'm going to get on my fast bike and I have a police escort. I'm going to try to do 225 miles. Oh, that is the fight non stop. Wow, that's crazy. You know, I think John, I think IMight have solved Mr. G's labor, you know, his cookie problem with producing enough cookies. If Ricky comes up to see if Mr. G puts Ricky Ricky into the warehouse for, like, six hours, he could probably produce enough cookies for the next year. Mr. G. Probably, he's right. His productivity is going to be way better. Tell you seven reasons why that can't possibly happen. Why? Who knows, you got to let him cool the one. I probably can't. Can you imagine Ricky in that warehouse, he'd be whipping our cookies left the right Mr. G couldn't even package him fast enough, probably. Tell you, hey, when I was cutting trees up in a hurricane, I worked the most 90 days by myself 12 hours a day, no days off because I can't have people work with me. And I'm fast enough. Get aggravated. You want to go sit on, you don't have to drop a drone. No one wants to be a radio. They don't want to get their freakinGHead cut off with that chain. So you got it. People, yeah. Especially when he went to a relationship with the wood. Ricky single handedly cut down the entire forest, John. I got no balance. I was cutting trees. When I was cutting trees, I threw my big chains to one of my workers because he was smoking this the metro. You know what, if you took that chain so down here, you'd make a fortune because in my neighborhood, we got so many trees. They always hiring these guys. It's like a thousand dollars a day. These guys get to cut trees down. I think a lot of money. Yeah, you're missing the, you got to move to place the expensive in countries. Even where I live at. Ones. I was getting up in the brand of cake. What? We ran a day at this time. But look, I'm so long. I'm selling on my equipment, my protection stuff is picking back up and not a dissidies open again. Oh. Okay. What are you charging for? What are you charging the bodyguard someone for the day? We're just a burden. I got right now 600 plus tips and I get a lot of tips because the drug. Did he get the moody tip me? Right. Are you guys, but I'm about to buy a brand new escalate. All right. It's a big suburban version and now I'm going to charge 129 because it's luxury. And you know what people don't realize these celebrities are in danger. IMean, they really need someone to guard them because there's a lot of crazy cookie people. You see, I don't have you saw on TMZ, maybe tell a poll it up. Kendall Jenner is always getting these nut cases trying to break into our property. To say, you know, constantly, constantly. If she didn't have people working there, security, she'd be in, you know, they could, you know, tell this poor girl. IMean, I feel bad for them. She doesn't have her. She's just putting Nancy Pelosi at the front door. She's a fucker street fighter. Yeah, right. Dude, what are you doing watchinGHim fucking Kardashians? That's what I want to know. I know. I watched TMZ. I don't watch. I got to ask you. My girlfriend's fucking obsessed with that shit. Yeah. Oh, my god. Kim Kardashian got a new fucker. Whatever. And I'm like, I don't give you shit. Who cares? What Kim Kardashian gets is more shots and rest is what she gets. Oh, no shit. Well, she's like a trenee. Big try. I'm like this with skinny legs. Go to the fucking leg. Fucking fucking fucking fucking. You think you think about his fake shot? Oh, for sure. What? You think about the Chinese, Greg? Are you kidding me? Our buddies is making this a $3 bill. What do they got? I think you think it's an implant? Spat. They suck the dude Brazilian butt lift. They suck the fat out and shove it in your ass. Then they get fucking silicone shots and that shit. Can I do that with my teeth? But who would want a food? What a fabulous thing. Now, me, I'd say what it's all about. I'm sure the age, he surely dates black guys and they love fat ass. Oh, yeah, not me, bro. Greg only likes skinny butts. No, guys. I used to buy a go on a little way. I did a couple of times into all of it. Him and many fresh and little Wayne love marijuana and white women with big asses. They all do it. When you come up with it, Ricky. All I'm wrapped. Ricky, what are you coming up here? I'm going to be in Baltimore tonight at a 22nd. And I'm driving up Greg. Can I come by you, Lodge, man? Are you far from those guys? He's far. I actually, if you're a Mr. G's, let me know. IMight come down here. I'd love to meet you, brother. I'd love to meet you, brother. Absolutely. I would love to be great. Don't go crazy. Between me and Mr. G, we're all not. We get Jimmy there, forget about it. Yeah. Yeah, I'm a homologian. I would feel money. Hell, money. I don't need it. Oh, shit. John, I'm pretty good. And it comes to you, brother. Ricky, you know what? Ricky, what I think you should do is when you go see Mr. G, maybe we can get a little sparring session, get someone to hold the camera. I want you to assess Mr. G's, you know, fighting, you know, prowess. Yeah, I want to hold a midsbym because I know, IMean, I'm a, I come from old school. I want you in the ring with them. I want you to get in the ring, grapple with them. See how he is, you know, see, I want you to give us a fair assessment. Because you're, IMean, you're, you're, you're a high class or a high level fighter. I want you to see how Mr. G would fare like in a fight against someone, you know, maybe, you know, that big land is not going to be much competition. I'm just saying if Mr. G really was as far as fighting potential goes, you know. Just remember, a stand up. I'm wrong game makes it best. Remember, in Thailand, it called me white Tyson. Yeah. That a boy. But because I break it, I fight the, the more I die guys, I would close my distancEQuick because I didn't want them to be a little bastard to kick me in the late. They kick hard. I was like, Oh, yeah. Since maybe grab the back of my head to clinch so he can name me. Well, we made do that. I take a step back and dig to the body and that break the ribs. Then he scream, I feel really bad about it. So, we're getting this and we'rEQuestion, when you come to New York, I leave you all the more to 20 second. I'm headed to y'all. You tell me when. Oh, okay. I don't know how for that. What is that like five hours? Who's on the way first? You a Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Thomas River man by the fuck of this. He's in Jersey. Eight miles away. He's all week down by the South Shore. He's in South Jersey. I don't know. I don't know. I'm not an expert. I'm not used to the first Ricky and then you go to Jimmy. Because he's the, he's South. Yeah. George, right? Yes. What about Jimmy? Pick up Jimmy. He drive back through. We see a drop you off the Johns. So you're visitinGHim and you're flat back. I know Johns looks shut with me. I didn't make it out there. I got a lot of shit going on. Well, you actually didn't make it out there, Jimmy, for what? 12 hours? Well, when? What? When you didn't trip down the Florida where IMissed you. When I was getting my surgery. Oh, yeah. No. I stopped the Johns. I thought he was right off the highway. It was like fucking floor. I was more fucking fucking. Well, yeah. The fact that you stopped him. He drove really far to see me. Yeah. I did, bro. That was like, no. I got up 95. So let me miss you, John. I figured you were like, maybe hit my way. Fuck it out. You know what? You look at a map and you're like, South Carolina is not that big. It's just like a little, you know, if you go with, that's not the South. It's quick. But if you start going to the west, you can get this on trouble, you know? Yeah. I just, what I did. I looked at Johns town with the map. I should have said that. I did. I fucking, I fucking, I was fucking out. I was, man. I got to South Florida water. We'll go and come out of the house and it's on the way. I was in, I was in, I went to John and then I headed to more head beach. I went there to, I went there to, I went to a woman's better as they was last Saturday. I had to do a show. Yeah, it was there for a year. Yeah, it was there for a year. Yeah, it was there for a year. Yeah, it was there for a year. I was down there for a year down at Camp Lysian. We call the Camp Lines weenie. But that's, we station it for whole year. I was a camp guy, a two down the street man. Doing, doing climate trees. It's a ship for trening. Because we got a, I was in, communication. So we got to run wire into a tree top. So the tanks of ship over on the mountain, cut them on us, you know? So I went to that wire school was rough man. So a lot of guys dropped off that pole man. That was bad. And like, like, How do I say? Give me the day as we did those people die for one of those poles? No, what happened was those those telephone poles. They change them like I think once a year or every six months, they get you have to climb the poles with gas. Right. So after after a few classes, you know, like, you know, like, I think six weeks, these class or I forget what it was. But after like the very classes all splendid. The poles completely split it up. Right. And you still got a climate with that, you know, you got to use the belt, the climb up of the pole. Yeah. And then you got to twist it hang off it. And this sometimes the guys on GIF. And they go down the fucking pole. Yeah. Happ on. You know, and all of this gets, you guys split this from your balls to the bottom of your shiit man. All of the people. They got an ambulance down there ready to take your wigs. You're a fucking wood split. There's all of them fucking fucking. IMean, fucking it's killer killer. I see. I see you guys fall off the top of the pole 60 50 feet man or just take it on GIF. And they weren't shot in and just, like, we're right down. They had like a better chips on the bottom. But still, you know, IMean, 50 feet into a better chips doesn't really do very much. I would think. Hey, really, I doesn't really do too much. My guys are wiping out. It was, you know, the scariest thing is when you're up on a pole and you skid shit too. And also in the guy next year, because the poles aren't that far. I know. So you see the guy next year just go, you know, you watch the guy and you go lowly. You know, IMean, like, so you get even more scared because you know, you just want to get fucking. You don't break your legs or anything like that in full of those things. No, they got this really deep chips on the bottom, man. So the guy just hit it just like a big bed of, you know, wood chips, you know, yeah. So I think it does cushion it. But you get hurt. You don't think it hurt. The pens I, you know, you got GIFs on. Those are your phone with fucking GIFs on it. It's stabby self and cut your leg. It's stabby. My son used to do that and then have to go through another pole. You go for one pole because there was a rope. My son was an army intelligence. But when he was doing all that shit, I did that to the call that I called that a monkey bridge. That's a monkey bridge. Call that. Yeah, I did that to the one rope to another pole, then to another one rope. We had two. We had two ropes. So you hold on one and you got to geT3. You got to geT3. Yeah, you got to cross my de-guys just to fuck them. You used to go across the river. They used to grab the rope and fucking go like this. When I was in the middle of it. That's a, they fuck me to hold three months and I was like, Nowadays they call that ninja warrior trening. Yeah. Oh, that's what they call it. Yeah. Your feet are all one rope. It's almost like, yeah, one rope. Yeah, you got one rope out of bottom and you got one rope in the top of your hold on my rope. And then you're on the bottom. But you know, the rope goes like this though. I got to be, you got to have to have some balance. IMean, I got, I got pitches of my son up there when he was doing all that shit. You know, I, I envy anyone who can go up that high. I've never problem with the height. It is crazy. I, anyone can handle the height. I don't know, I take a shit. I do, you can't turn drop down. You've got to climb the eighth frame. You know, the eighth frame is on a, on a tilt. You got to go up there with the fucking rope. Then you got to reach out for the rope and you got to repel it down. But you got to get up there first. And then you got to reach for the rope. The rope's a little far away. So you should get your pants. It's like I, I, invagous that the closest thing I can even give. And this is not even close to what you guys did. Invagous. They have a one, the, the old strip. They got to go up this tower and elevator and there's a line. And you go, you can repel down the hole, the whole street on this line on like a zip line almost. I don't have a truck made to do it, but I did it. And I was so scared that when I got off the thing, when it finally went the whole distance of thing, I got down my whole, I was shaking like this my whole nervous is I couldn't stop my body shaking. IMean, literally, I, my nervous, I was running through shots of vodka to calm down. I couldn't stop. When you were, were you jacked in was that when you were. I wasn't that big. This was like 2012 or something like that, but okay. I was, I was, I'm telling you my whole nervous system was completely shot because it was, I was so traumatized by the height and what, and the speed with which I was moving along the zip line. Uh, I couldn't stop it myself. I was like, it was weird because it's like I, I guess it's a control thing with me. I don't like to let go of the control, but at the same time it's also very, very scary. When you're looking down the street and, and if you fall, you're dead essentially mean. And you're sitting at a swing essentially that the hardest cabal, the belly, whole you in there, you know. Hey, you don't remember that when we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, what this you for that movie with, uh, with Joel, it, with Joel, Schulmocker. Yeah, I didn't do that part if you noticed. I, I, I, I, I, excuse myself from climbing the, the, the, the, the, the, uh, castle. Right. Yeah, we had a climb that fucking thing. I don't know what it was, man. It was, it was like a steel, Gerda, uh, set up. It looked like monkey bars that went about. Oh, yeah, yeah. And it was like a, it was raining out. It was soaking wet and I weighed 320 pounds. I was like, there's no fucking way I'm climbing up this thing. I know I'm going to fall and tell myself, it was, it was a scaffold. It was a fucking scaffold. Yeah, so it was, yeah, you know what, they wanted to jump into a hole. Yeah, right. And the funding was the, they only needed five guys to do it. There was like 10 of us there. I'm like, you know what, I'm getting paid the same thing where they're doing it or not. You guys have fun. That was crazy. You jumped down that hole all night. You know what, you guys were doing it for three hours. Go down this thing. No, you know what happened to you. So when we jumped down that hole, right. They had these giant cushions down there. But they were like, they were like, move together. So they were scenes, you know, in between these giant cushions. So when everybody was, when one guy jumped down, he got stuck in the scene. Get out. So the next guy came down and stopped before you know, we have four, five guys. We're just fucking pulling on each other because nobody could get out of the seams. And we were filming this by the way, like three, four in the morning. Because everything was there. Right. So there, it's raining out their outside. They're doing this for like four hours. I was sitting inside a craft services eating for four hours straight. I think I added about 10 pounds of muscle that week. We filmed. They had a lot of food there, man. That was great food too. It's amazing food. That was cool, man. That was that they shot that part was filmed that. Wall Street. The name, no, that was the, the, the naval, the naval institute. Wasn't it? But maybe that's why that's why I filmed on there with Jim Kair. I read that. Yeah, but I'm saying we were on Wall Street, Dex. Yeah, that big bowl, you know, the bowl was, Yeah, right, right, right. Yeah, I forgot. Yeah. It was fun time, Steph. All right, George, George small is calling me. Yeah, I don't know where George is. I don't know why. He just called me. Maybe because he didn't get a hold on. Right. Yeah, we let him just come and say a lot on the move. Hang up on him. Let me see if I can find him here. He just called me. Is he a Florida? I think I've got to send it away. I probably might. I can choose. I just, I was on the phone a couple days ago. I think he usually, usually he harassed him. He was trying to come back. I knew what he was like telling me about the flight. It is, I think he was getting, I wanted to ask him how he was cookinGHis fucking cookies. If he's a Florida, he's been talking. Who's running in the cookie shop? I asked him the same thing. What was his answer, John? That he was, I don't know what his answer was. Probably he's on autopilot or something. Oh, no pilot yet. Where's George? Is he here? He had said this. Yeah, yeah, he had people helpinGHim. He's looking good. He's looking good. That kid might, that I got him introduced to him. He brought him, I think, where did him? I think that kid might be down there with him. I think so. That's fucking crazy. George is the only person I know shuts down the business and he wants to travel. That's how I got to play this. I got to fend like that. Down three months. All right, I got to wrap this up, guys. I got to have a stuff to do today. Um, no. Well, Jimmy, I'm glad you're back. I thought you were in a maybe depression. I'm glad you came back this week. We missed you. Yeah, man. Yeah, I had some shit I wanted. You guys, you know, I had some stuff I wanted to talk about. Well, we do it next week because, you know, Rick was on the show and everything. All right. I got, I got some good stuff to talk about next week. We gave you the option when we first got in a new way when you weren't talking. Well, you guys were talking. You know, I look, I'm respectful. You know, I'm all school. I'm respectful. So you guys involved in the conversation. Sometimes when I'm in a rare mood, I bust in at a given fuck. We're talking about. But I give you a little respect this time. Ricky, keep us the great work. If you need anything, let me know. And good luck and be safe on your drive up to New York. God bless you, Ricky. All right, guys. Because she's so proud of us. You guys, love you all, man. You guys love me, bro. All right, guys. That's going to take us to the end of this episode or after hours. I'm day polo for the entire WAC pack. We'll see you next time. Take care. Take care, guys. See you guys later. See you in the talk later, John.

=== FILE: Roelly Moving SERIOUS Weight + Hadi Choopan Next Level + Missy Truscott UPDATE! [KMv142x3rI4].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low carb hot tart. We've goT3 and four brands in that carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods of muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Tuesday, July 13, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. You remember back in the day when you played Marco Polo at the pool? You'd splash around with your eyes closed until you managed to bump into the person you were looking for. Well, here's the thing. Sometimes in our world you have to be careful what you go search for because you just might find it. And if you're in the fitness division right now, Missy Truscott might be the last thing you want to bump into. According to Missy's camp, she's full speed ahead from now until her back to back title defenses at the Arnold and the Olympia. They say that for as good as she feels physically, she's an even better place mentally. And she's hungry to show everyone in the division that what they saw last year was only an appetizer. So like I said, if you're searching for a title in a show that she's in, you'd better be careful because you might not like what you find. A few days ago, I saw our post from Ed Milet who said, people who win play offense, not the offense, which made perfect sense to me in the moment. And it makes even more sense when you consider the fact that Brett Wilkin has pretty much been on non-stop offense attack ever since he decided to make the move up to the open division. Brett's had this weekend Chicago Pro Circle on his calendar for months. And now that it's almost here, it seems like he's hitting the gas even harder. I know there's been a lot of talk about how deep this lineup is and who might do what? When they step on stage this weekend, but I'll tell you what. Brett's name deserves to be there in the conversations and when it's all said and done up there, he could easily end up walking away with a top five finish. As of yesterday, we were a little more than four weeks out from the Tampa Pro, which means that we're only four weeks away from seeing Rullie Winkler make his season debut. And that means that it's time for everyone else in that line after start digging deep, because I'm being told that Rullie's been in a mood lately. Apparently all the talk about this people moving up in the rankings and being considered favorites, heading into one show or another, hasn't pretty mad. And a pissed off Rullie Winkler is not something you want to be on the other end of. He knows how much is riding on these two shows and after being forced to sit out last year, I can guarantee you that he isn't about to let that happen again. When I was a kid, I remember fighting with my sister and my dad telling me just to ignore if I knew she was doing something to upset me on purpose. But here's the thing, sometimes people do things that you just can't ignore. And what we saw from Hotty Schupe in a few days ago is a perfect example. Hotty released a few clips of himself in the gym that he had to hurt some people's feelings when they saw it, because he looks so insane right now that it's almost rude to share those videos with other people who have to compete with him. I know I've said it before, but I'm going to say it again. The man is on another level right now. And whatever level that is, everyone else better find a way to get on because otherwise they're going to be left behind. And that doesn't fit at another edition of Lusselin the Morning on the Elevator Limbo Reminding You, always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Roelly in BEAST MODE + Blessing in Off-Season Mode + Regan Grimes UPDATE! [jKJlyddH72E].txt ===

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today, Palombo and today is Tuesday, June 15th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Bigger, thicker, wider and more detail from the back. Those are the key parts of the plan heading into the offseason according to the latest update from Blessing, Awadibu. After wrapping up his season a few weeks ago following the New York Pro, Blessings have been keeping a relatively low profile, which feels like a huge shift considering the fact that he was one of the most talked about athletes and bodybuilding not too long ago. All things considered, I think when most people go back and honestly reevaluate, Blessings rookie year, the big takeaway will be that the whole thing was a learning experience, like it is for most rookies. The guys obviously talented, but he isn't ready to be Mr. Olympia yet, which isn't a crime. And now that he's had a chance to see what life on the pro stages all about, I'm sure that'll come back next year and be a little bit better than he was this year. That's progress and at the end of the day, progress is what his business is all about. One of the best pieces of advice I ever got was don't put off tomorrow what you can do today. And from a bodybuilding standpoint, if you could earn an Olympic qualification at the end of one season, then take the entire half of the next season to make improvements and prepare for it the way regained rhymes has. That's about as close as you can get to putting that advice into action, winning the Romania muscle-fest last November, basically gave him six solid months to focus on gettinGHimself ready to be morecompetitive in the men's open this year. And all the signs I've seen seem to be pointing to him being able to do just that. He's definitely on track to come and bigger and they've heard from a few people that he was really strategic with the way he tried to address his weaknesses during the offseason. So when you take all of that into consideration by the time October rolls around, he should be primed and ready to make a serious push for a top 10 finish. One of the things I've noticed over the years is that some athletes do better when they adopt an FU mentality. For whatever reason, certain people tend to perform better when they feel like they've been disrespected. And I'm not saying that Rullie Winkler is one of those kind of guys, but the way that he's been trening lately definitely makes it feel that way. Rullie released a shoulder trening clip last week that was out of control even for him. There's never been a point in this career. He hasn't looked like an action figure, but he's getting to the level now that he hasn't hit since around the time he finished third at the Olympia a few years ago. This is the version of Rullie everyone wants to see. And whenever this angry pissed off chip of my shoulder version of Rullie, the sides and step on stage, people better watch out because I don't think he sees second place as an option. For the most part, I've always looked at greatness and sport like a perishable good. It has a shelf life and an expiration date. Once it passes a certain point, you have to put it off to make room for the next thing, or in this case the next person. But then again, we live in a age of GMO foods in 3D printed stakes. So if science can do it, I guess extending the shelf life of a given athlete isn't too far out of thEQuestion. And the reason I say that is because former four-time men's physique champ, Jeremy Boindy looks like he might be trying to make a comeback again. Jeremy's injury history has been well documented at this point, so it don't feel like I need to go over that again. But right now with this moment, he's healthy. He says he's put on 10 pounds of muscle and that he feels his strength is starting to creep back up again. Now does that mean he can stay healthy long enough to be a viable title contender again? Well, I don't know, maybe. But if he has figured out a way to extend the shelf life of his greatness, I do think that him competing on the Olympia stage again one day is another question. And that does a the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Malumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Ruff Diesel MASTERCLASS & INSANE Charles Griffen Guest Posing! [rAEI1UrjIMg].txt ===

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today, Palombo, and today is Wednesday, July 14th, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, we're back in bed of the never, and once again, we have a brand new edition of Recap Wednesday coming your way. Starting with this look back at the Omaha Pro. We're starting with the women's bodybuilding, and as the biGHeadline coming out of the weekend here was our pre-show favorite, Michaela A. Cock, being completely dominant in her bodybuilding debut as she soared to a really impressive victory. So congratulations to her. In women's physique, second year pro, Christelli, Zeroska put together her all-time best, and the judges decided to reward her with the first win of her pro career. And in the Vegated Division, Jessica Williams pulled out all the stops to secure the win and earned herself a well-deserved trip to the Olympia stage. The other show on the Docket this weekend was the Patriots Pro, which was the bikini only event held out in Las Vegas. And once again, when it was all set in done, I can't believe I'm saying it again. Ashley Colt-Wasser continued her incredible run by racking up yet another win right there in her own backyard. Venea Augusti secured the best finish of her career by sliding comfortably into second place here, while rookie Ariel Barley took third in her pro debut. Fourth place went to Lexus Redman, who looked like she started to get herself back on track and closing out this strong top five group with another solid performance was Corey Hageman, who's put together a nice season so far. Bodybuilding is subjective, there are very few things that people infand in this industry come to a consensus on. But now in times out of ten, when you ask someone to name the best poser in the business, think I'm going to tell you it's Terrence Ruffin. And last weekend, the fans at the NPC Twin City's open got to see him put his talents on full display. A side for the fact that he's mesmerizing to watch, one of the things that jumps out to you right away when you see this video is the new quality size that he's put on since the Olympia last year. I don't know what those numbers look like in terms of stage weight and truth be told it really doesn't matter because a few pounds on a frame like his goes a very long way. The man is going to be dangerous at the Arnold Classic. So you might want to get your popcorn ready because you know that he's going in there looking to put on a show. For his greatest Terrence Ruffin was last weekend, if you were a fan in the building, you must have walked out of there feeling like you got your money's worth because what you saw from Charles Riffin was out of this world too. Charles was one of the other featured guest poses of the evening there and as soon as he stepped onto that stage, you can feel the energy change. Even though he still for weeks out from the Tampa Pro, you can tell that this is the best that he's ever been in his career. This conditioning is great. His waist looks significantly small that it was last time we saw him, which was one of the big knocks on him and he's also insanely dense all the way around. He's got a wow fact that to his physique right now. So it keeps getting better between now and Tampa. We might have to start having some serious conversations soon about him walking out there as the eventual winner. And that does it. If you had another addition of muscle in the morning, um, they pull on Bo Ramining you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Rusty Jeffers Posing Routine at 2012 IFBB Desert Muscle Classic [BmFknJNjoDM].txt ===

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Rx Muscle Celebrity Bowling Battle of Sexes December 20111 [ZVbqGBAoJmI].txt ===

Alright, this is Dave Pulumball with RXMuscle.com. I am here at the Parkside Bowling Alley in Aurora, Illinois outside Chicago. We are here for the Bro's first pros at nine last man standing weekend and we are here for the celebrity Bolethon men first women battle of the sexist. Let's get right to the action and see who's gonna be bowling tonight. We walk over here to the men's table with the astrati-guys in figuring out how they will defeat the women here tonight. We have the white rhino stand effeting in the house. What do you do here all the way from Portland? We are going to beat the girls. No mercy. We are going to shoot whatever it takes. What is no rules? No, we have big daughters on this team too. We are going to put our daughters in the pot when it takes off. Just when people thought that you might be the biggest guy here, this guy rolls in the town. One of the world's strongest men, Derek Poundstone in the house. Are you a good boulder? No. The bowling is not your forte. No. That's just what it's aroundbol. I'm pretty good ground. Yeah, you pick them up. You don't even throw them now. Byron Hicks the owner of Jack Tard Quill will be hosting the Bro's first pros. This is your hometown here. Is this a monumental event here in Aurora, Illinois? Bowling. Bowling. I've never seen someone like myself assemble a group of competitors to nobody here. I've never seen anybody assemble a group of competitors. Thank you. Thank you very much. Standing citizens are still. And we have I have the reproach of Michael Libertori here as well. You're a Chicago guy. You live it up here in the Chicago area. What would this be considered Aurora as opposed to Chicago? Is this like a suburb? It's definitely a suburb. It's a little west from where IMet in the little Southwest, but it's definitely a suburb. Now what people don't realize is I didn't notice myself. You used to have a 210 bowling average. I'm setting up. So it doesn't do. I was with my late teens early 20. You without good a boulder? Yeah, I grew up doing it my dad and my uncle were scratch balls. So we got a ringer. And I'm going to be I'm going to be throwing my hat into the rinGHere as well to help these guys hopefully defeat the women over there. You know, I have a feeling we have a couple of ringers. I think Noah Trimbles are wringer. She beats me and we've rolling. So she might know what she's doing. Mom beats me people. Really? All right. So that doesn't mean anything. All right. Let's go over and check out the women. All right women you're supposed to be assemblinGHere and looking like you guys know what you're doing. Oh yeah, we're going to come over here at first to the Brows v. Brows eight overall champion, Michaela soda. I have to be figure pro. This is your hometown area here. Yes, it is. You're showing up. I know you're a little afraid of the germs at the bowling alley. You were telling me. She's got her. I got her. I got her. I got her. I got her. I got a spray it on everything. Do you have any bowling experience that I should know of? I don't bow. You don't bow. So you're going to try your hardest here. I'm going to try my hardest and you know, of course, I'll bring this with me. We know that you don't like to lose and you give your heart to everything you do. So we might be surprised and see some pretty goodboling scores but I play it. Oh, I have no skills. Okay. Does anyone in the women's group here have any bowling experience? No, I don't believe you guys. Melody Melo, I never expected to see you here. Everyone knows the ask me about you. How old you are? And I still tell them you're 16 because I think you're 18 now. You're legal now. All right. Now where are you? You're not living in Chicago. Are you? No, I'm in Buffalo. I'm back with my back in Buffalo. All right. Great. You shuffled off the Buffalo again. Yeah. So back there. I'm staying there. And now you're going to be competing tomorrow at the Bros first. Let's surprise the audience. Okay. All right. Well, we want to sit. I think they've tried to convince you. That Tammy is a buyer and it's beautiful wife here. The co-owner of Jack Tardcore Jim. This is your home town. You seem very familiar with this bowling. You sure you don't have any bowling experience? We don't go because he doesn't like bowling. He doesn't like bowling. He's not down here today. He doesn't like the she's. You know what? I don't like the she's eating. And if you look at the internet, my shoes are wearing. I feel like they have the pro kids that used to wear back in the 70s actually. But I think that is something to do with it. It could be. Now Noah Trimble here. I've seen her do bowling. We bowling. She's very good at we bowling. Did you have any bowling experience with the real balls? No, not really. You wouldn't be lying. You're a military guy. I know in the military they they bowl. No. No bowling experience. All right. The girls are all claiming. Let's come over here to I.F.E.V. V.V. V. Keene Pro. Perceano Voynich. Most of the co-host of muscle girls. Hank probably has the second most I guess audio visual video experience. Maybe home. You guys this is your new hometown now. I used to live like 10 minutes from here. Yeah. We now live about 45 minutes from here. Yeah. I was so close. Okay. So now I got the impression. I feel I'm in the Midwest here. It's a very Midwest journey field to the town. Yeah, you're not. It's Chicago. This is not Chicago. This is like Chicago land-ish. Far far. What's your bowling prowess? I think I've done bowling on the Wii a couple of times. And probably when you're a kid you want to birthday parties and you both. Yeah. You times like I've nothing professionally. Doffers. Your boyfriend Mike tells me that you were eatinGHoneybodies. Is that true? Is that you're carving up or for the bowling tournament? Honeybodies? Probably. That's jail food. Yeah. Except you if you could be like the Oreo cream pies and like his arms get bigger when he eats those though. All right. Well the ladies are playing posse I think here. I think that they're a bunch of ringers and hustlers. We're going to find out who is the best battle of this in the battle of this. Who is the best? The men or the women. There's four dolls over there on the table if you look that's the pot. None of the girls have put any money into it. So I guess they don't feel very confident. But I am confident this will be the first of many bowling tournaments to come for now. Let's get to the action. All right. Here with Tommy from Pride Nutrition. Who's going to be tossing the coin. Derek will be representing the men. Michaela's out of the women. Whoever gets Michaela will choose if she gets the coin correct. She will get the choose whether she wants to begin or she wants to let us start the bowling. Here we go. Cool it. Pick it up Mr. Judge. It's ours. It's ours. It's ours. It's ours. Michaela's out of it. Are you going to go first or shoot last? Ladies are going first. All right. You heard that the ladies will shoot first. What a world-strongest man coming up. Derek, pounds on climb lane 41. Correct Derek. Here he goes. The ball looks very meager in his biGHands. There's a approach. He's very awkward. Very powerful strike. Oh, he can. He's like Fred Blinso, Tickle-Toss. Yeah. Not. But she's afraid in the ball. It's disinfectinGHim. She claims he never falls before. And she might be right. Like a little toy out of it. I don't know what he's doing. The 18-year-old sensation lining up. She's looking a lot like Stuffy tonight. Right down the middle. Oh my god. Holy shit. I say stand out set of balls. He's got to see a bowling party. I bet. Baby not. Yeah, Tammy, the owner of Jack's hard core. She looks like a baller. She's got good form. She's held the ball before. Her deck. Here she goes. I'm going to use the air and drive my sweat off my hand. I am going to pick the, uh, the Lins ball. This is the 16-poundbol. I'm lining up. There you go. It's firing a hardcore Jack's hard core gym. It's on. Oh, she's the ball. She went the wrong way. I don't have to see anything like it. In the history of bowling. The ball went the opposite direction. Oh my god. Holy shit. All right. The women are winning. This is unacceptable in my body. So I'm going to have to step my game up a little bit better than it was. I need to strike you. Slip. I slipped. I choked. Oh, oh, oh. Hey, that's it. No. Now she's definitely beating everyone else. Holy macro, let's go. She's a ringer. I can't believe it. Oh my god. She got to strike. That's her strike. The bowl of who never bowled. She gets a strike on top of the spare. She's, I am very impressed. I'm very impressed. You're the first strike in the night. You never let me believe it. I think you're hustling as long. She like group. You've got to brawl. Now she can just spare. Now we're almost done to strike out and know where my we're big trouble here. These women I know are ringers. The role ring is they all they're hustling us. What do you mean here? This is a nice group. I haven't had one of these since I was like eight years all. We need a big walk for you. Actually, you know what? You're actually the one losing. I'm not even losing. I thought I was doing the words. You're actually doing the words. I need a frickest strike here. You can't let him get the momentum on us like this. Hey, can't even get it down the valley. His, his, his joke of the day. It's how many body goals does it take to his bowl of 300 games? The answer? Yeah. At least. You've got to, you want to beat Liverpool. You're going to have to, you're not going to spare here. At least. Wow! He's done. The women are easily beating the men right now as you can see. Christina Boynitz is bowling on a strike in the 10th frame here. Noah Trimble is in the lead with a 110 going into the 10th frame with Makela Soto 83, very close behind. He looked over at the men's pathetic scores. I am actually in the lead among the men with an 81, which is pretty pathetic with Derek Poundstone in second place, a fire and up the bowl. So I'm feeling good about this. You never know what your happens with the 10th frame. Derek, your promise the ball is too light. You've got to find like a hundred poundbol. You have to make one specially for yourself. Then you'll be fine. You think it's like throwing a marshmallow for him. Looks good. Oh, she gets a strike. If I think you officially have a loser here. That looks good. She got it. One more shot. She'll get it. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. We got to bring it over. I got it over there. She's you spare and then strike in the 10th frame. You finish with a 130. You are the winner here tonight. The champion of the bowling tournament. I knew she was going to win. I knew it. She was the ringer. That's right. Alright, I am over here with today's losers. We are the men. We are the inferior sex. We have one of the world's strongest men here. We have the world's strongest professional bodybuilder. We got an IFPB pro bodybuilder. It's some pretty sick arms. It claimed he was a 210 average baller who was the worst guy here today. You had the worst score. I just wanted to remind you that. We are times. And Pyron picks of Jack Tarko will be hosting the event tomorrow. I won't badmouth him because we still have to use his gym tomorrow. But the sad part is that guys, I beat you all. So I won't, I was the biggest winner of the losers. How does the field direct to finally be defeated? It's out of sparing you lose to a woman. You just don't like to lose to any men. No, you still beat me, though. Now, stand, I have a question. Who do you think would win any three-left powerlifting meet between you and the world's strongest men? I wouldn't want to after tonight and losing to the girls. I've never even wanted to venture a gas. I can't claim myself as having any title. There's two saving things to consider tonight. One. Dave Payne. So that makes him the biggest. I actually think by our paid. But you know, by our pay. I'm the biggest loser. And it really really proves that the girls are better and handling big balls than we are. And on that note, IMean, I say more than they should be there. Catch us all at Jack Hardcore Jim tomorrow for Bros. vs. Bros. 9. Last man, Stanley, Derek Pound, so we'll be in the house as the official guest referee. A stand will be doing some play by play with me. And my glitter toy will, what would you do to be known tomorrow? I'm just gonna shock and walk. You need ice cream sandwiches. Sandwiches and whatever other junk I can find. Let's go talk to the women, the winners. I am sad to say that I am standinGHere with the women's champions tonight. Actually, V champions tonight. The women have defeated the men in the battle of the bowling sexes here at the Parkside lanes in Aurora, Illinois. No tremble with the high score of 130 pins. Michaela Soto, I believe with the second high score of what do you want to want? 101. Woo! Two. The closest man was myself. I believe with a what 91 I got or something that I did. I got 91. I was the best high scoring man. Not that it matters. Like they said. They won. We're the money you guys won. The $4. $3. So we spent $1. I think so. I've swiked one of the dollars. I believe it was for there. We have a round there's only two. Wow. What they did win the $3 here tonight. And that's all that counts. And they got bragging rights for 24 more hours. And so tomorrow's Rose Rose Rose 9 last man standing at Jack Tard, Corrigim, that's Tammy and Byron's Jim. We will be there tomorrow. Deadlifting, curling and doing all the kinds of funds. I've maybe no little be a two-time champion. We won't know. Talk to Mar. For now. I'm Dave Palombo with the women champions here. And Aurora, Illinois's RXMuscle.com.

=== FILE: Rx Muscle's 2011 Arnold Classic Europe Hightlights Video [mhrUGmt7gCE].txt ===

I was happy with my condition, you know. The fracing wise, you know, of course, you know, that's not my job. So the European judges are judging in a whole different way like the rest judges do, because the rest judges are searching for some special, while the European judges are searching for which with this and false, and it's the main thing where the world is placinGHigh in the Europe and placing low in the US. This is the second whole for all of you. Thank you very much again for bringing this show here to Europe, Dr. Raffer-Senko. Thank you, Dr. Raffer-Senko. Thank you very much.

=== FILE: SAFEST WAY TO INJECT! Palumbo Demonstrates [IT7BaNblI84].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in this species nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toasts for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palombo here with our ex-Muscle supplement and science. Today we're going to talk about injections and a lot of people have been asking me about this and it's something I wanted to do and talk about for quite a while and I just kept putting it off and finally I guess it came back to me because I wanted one of my clients to ask me a question and they said, look Dave, I took a shot in my glute muscle and when I pulled the needle out, blood shot half way across the room. Another guy sent me an email saying Dave, when I stuck a needle into my tricep, the muscle was twitching like crazy and I had no if I injured a nerve or something like that. Another person said I took a shot of my lat and when I put the fluid in, I got like a shocking burning feeling down my hand and I was whacking it on the table and I'm a little nervous. I think I did some damage. These are very common occurrences that don't happen every single time but they do happen when you inject anything into your body especially when you don't know the anatomy of what you're doing. Even if you know the anatomy sometimes you can do things that just you had bad luck on. Number one thing when you inject into a muscle okay there are vessels that run through these through these muscles that number one provide the muscle with blood, arteries and veins, there's nerves that run through these things that innervate the muscles that enable them to contract according to what your brain tells them to do and these are just constantly running out. You know the anatomy of what's going on you can usually avoid the big vessels but there's always little tiny vessels in there and the big vessels terminate in tiny little what we call capillary beds which are the microscopic blood vessels but when you go through them with a needle okay they bleed. So when you're injecting okay a substance into a muscle and you maybe break some of these vessels in there all the pressure from that substance you're injecting creates back pressure which can cause blood it can cause some of the stuff you're injecting to squirt out okay of the wound and I've talked about this before I've said this ways that you can avoid that that back pressure by kind of moving the skin okay if here's your your muscle you can kind of just move the skin a little bit to the side and then you're injecting then the skin will go back and it will kind of seal off the injection side okay that's one you know thing that happens but I think more so what people are really afraid about it's hitting vessels thEQuestion I always get is oh what if I get the needle inside the blood vessel what if I hit a nerve and I damage the nerve very unliked and I'm gonna show you one yes my little I have all these cords all over my studio floor there's no organization okay so there it is so I got one of these cords here I think it's an HDMI cord this if you think about the inside and forget the muscles and everything inside the muscles sit okay your bicep muscle for instance or tricep muscle you have this array of blood vessels running through right the muscle some of these in nerve some of these are artery some of these events it doesn't matter which what they are when you inject when you take a needle yeah let's take our needle here and you actually don't mind needle pet I do this was sent to me by bobby muscles my little needle pet a syringe pet when you take your your syringe and you actually inject through the skin okay you perforate the skin now you have you have to navigate these vessels that you don't even know they're in there okay so most of the time you go in and you and you you don't hit anything and you you put the shot in and you're all good to go sometimes however you take an odd angle shot and you go in rather than go right into the between the vessels you actually hit a vessel now if you're going slow enough in what happens is these vessels are kind of just they're dangling they're they're very loose they're not like they're not really anchored in there so if you hit something they just kind of move out of the way if you're going slow see how this thing is just kind of pushing these cords away and going through them so you might feel a little a little twitch or something or a little a little something you're hitting but eventually it doesn't bother you because these this the syringe is going through and pushing these things out of the way now if you inject too hard very rapidly sometimes you can spear a vessel so instead of it getting move that of the way because it's robbery you actually can pierce it but you're not going to get inside it okay if you pierce something that can cause bleeding okay it pops out if you go slowly and you hit a nerve okay and you and you move it out of the way you might get the muscle twitching a little bit because you're you're actually it's like you're punching the nerve a little bit and the nerve is punching your back that's normal okay that's that's that's normal if you inject this thing too fast and you spear the the nerve which I have never heard anyone do but it's possible you can get a really big backlash now more likely what happens a lot of times is people get in there and they get very close to a nerve then they inject their substance in and as they inject it it starts occupying space and putting pressure on the nerve so all the fluid in there is pressing on this nerve and it causes the nerve to fire I see a lot of guys when they do their lat injections it'll inject they put a lot of fluid in there because it's a big muscle and then it puts pressure on that nerve and then all down there arm they start getting this like shooting pain or this fiery feeling or this tingling there's a lot of different sensations it's not because you damaged the nerve because if you you would have felt it right when you stuck the needle in you're not so much you feel just a little movement in there and then you inject them then all of a sudden you get this burning feeling or that's because you're putting pressure against the nerve now and it's causing the nerve to fire okay and that's not normal obviously now usually the pain goes away although this comfort goes away pretty quickly if it doesn't in the last a few days it's because that fluid is kind of still in that same area and it's near the nerve you might want to massage it a little bit in that area to kind of try to move it around because that's going to take the pressure off the nerve sometimes you know once again if you go too fast you could neck something or damage something it's a little bit and it causes a tremendous amount of inflammation around that area when inflammation occurs massaging is not going to help it might actually irritate it more a lot of times it's just got to heal you could take some anti-inflammatories if it's really bad the pain or uncomfortable that's less likely of a situation or scenario more likely is you're putting pressure around that nerve or vessel because of the fact that you've pumped or pushed a lot of fluid whether we three four or five cc's I don't know how much people put it in nowadays but even putting one cc too close to a nerve and putting pressure on it can be annoying and that's really where it becomes annoying and it can become a nagging a little bit of pain but like I said usually once the oil dissipates in a couple hours or even less than that the pain goes away so it just depends on where you put it but this is this network of vessels is the way it is and once again as long as you go in slowly that's why it's going to be when you put a needle in just go nice and slowly and it will push these vessels out of the way it's not going to spear them you're not going to get inside the vessel you're not going to be injecting oil in your vein or artery it's almost if I asked you to try to do it you probably couldn't do it that's how hard it's these these vessels are very rubbery just like this cord is rubbery it's almost impossible for me to stick a needle into this cord because and even if I hold it tight because every time I do it it just moves out of the way you might once again you might irritate it a little bit but you're not going to not going to get inside these vessels or these you're not going to and you're not going to spear a nerve once again unless you go crazy that's why it always drives me nuts when I go to the doctor's office and they want to vaccinate you and I get this nurse with this long needle that's way too long that they don't absolutely don't need especially in a person like me who has no body fat and they get on my shoulder and they go and they hit you with this needle like at a hundred miles an hour I'm like yo whoa whoa you don't have to put it in that fast oh it'll be over before you know it if I said that's all right I'm so I'm not worried about it being over I can wait five seconds more take your time because I know that if they hit something in there it's gonna hurt and I'm going to be in pain and soar for a couple days from it there's no need to go in that fast you push it nice and slow goes in like a nice little slight butter knife into the thing you push your fluid in in a nice steady pace doesn't have to be super fasty that because if you inject things too quickly to some of them you could put a lot of pressure against these vessels and we don't want that so don't think you you're you damage yourself permanently this is a common occurrence okay and people who do take shots and if you do shots in a regular basis every other day you're gonna take a couple of bad shots here in there take your time go in nice and slow you push your fluid in nice and steady don't use pins that are too small they have to put tons and tons of pressure to try to push it in and don't use pins that are too big either that are gonna damage the tissue when you put it in there and you shouldn't have as many problems it's always when we're rushing or we're trying to do something too quickly or we don't have the right uh instruments or the right syringe size or that's when we have problems so try to eliminate problems by being prepared that's my best advice to you on day polo with an R-X muscle supplement and science review

=== FILE: SAMIR BANNOUT Crashes Iron Rage! ｜ Lee Priest & Dave Palumbo ｜ Iron Rage [KDBS2LhiSi4].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. You should have your camera on right now for this show. I saw you said that like I like it, they mentioned you are on the Nick the Polar Show again. I love this guy from Australia. What was he talking about? If you don't check in the going to the store, down Sydney again, Jim's a shot in Sydney for the last two or not. We explained to all this contest. I put off Victoriaway Tony, don't even stay on their left closed the board. I see it's kind of Victoria. Because it's Delta variant now has jumped down to people. That's stuff like that. Now they're talking about this. You could go and put up a month and all these coffee shops and people's business are going under against now the government's scrambling to give out packages and money stimulus packages to the people who are like, oh, I can now. People just go on with life, just live with it. It's like the flu, just live with it. We can't keep shutting shit down every time someone coughs and sneezes for God's sake. Did you tell them that the things of these cops that I'm tripled vaccinated? I got my wife printing off the paper. I will throw it up when I go to the gym. I just would have passed down and when I started trening, I just take it off. If you don't worry about COVID, the gym's the last place you come because, okay, coverage your mouth. You're touching everything. I was at the grocery store again. There's five people ahead of me and they're doing all the groceries, touching groceries and she's touching everyone's groceries. And then I swipe my card and I touch the pin pad that the six people ahead of me are touching up, wiping that down after every use. So let's just stupid. It's like this whole board of your wear and mask. I feel safe now. It's like a security blanket and this whole scanning in. A lot of people too. There's some old people called up a radio station. I listen to where these old people have been denied service because they don't have a smartphone. And before they had thesEQR code thing, they used to just have like a, at the counter. They have a, like a, you know, a note pad where you put your name down. Your phone number at that time you came in and what time you left. So if there is an outbreak, they can call you. But like, though, and if it's somebody's right, if you do that, if you don't have a phone in the scanning, you can't come in there to store my father couldn't even work to remote control back in the day up for the TV set. I can't even, he didn't have a phone. So what would Valentina, someone's just a little flip phone. He couldn't even even Valentina couldn't check it over there. I just saw it. Guess joined us on there. Oh, he did. We have another person. Oh, I saw. Oh, yes, we do. Legend. Who is it? Legend is, is a legend. Oh, Samir. You can't, speaking of guys that can't use this, the bit the bar code scan. Samir would be on the figure and out either. Hey, that's Papa. Let me still. Let's see. Here. Yeah, so what's up, Samir? I've got a hit except audio. Hit except audio. Samir. Michael, yes. You'll get it. I don't know. You might want to text him and tell him he's got to accept the audio. What do you think? Hit except audio. If the see, think he has it on mute. What do you think the problem is? You know, if I didn't see him works, he's personally a set. I know, you got to take the video. Yeah, yeah, he's got the wrong way to select it. It's going to go to his manager. Yeah, he's pushed it's pushed there on. So what do you think about the flex Lewis say he's not going to be doing the LB this year? I think it's a good decision because you know, he just moved his his whole. It's exactly. It's just moved. I've been like, come on. It's like if you want to have a family, you know, things come first. If that's his main priority right now, I think he should focus on that. And there were people would be upset because even moving the home. Yes, the gym set up and I'm still sure there's lots of things to be doing. And during that whole move and setting it up, yes, he would have been trening but not trening. Oh, along. So it's like, why, why Russia, if you're not going to be 100% why go in, especially with the lineups the way they're getting now with for army and you've rule is there and you've got all these other people. If you're not 100% on, why waste your time if you can't give 100% Why even try 99, 98, it's not a good enough now. So you've got to be 100 if you can't do 100, just wait to next year. Still young Jesus. The moving people don't realize this moving and IMoved the right, this is true story and I've told this before. IMoved around the corner. I had board a house in 1997 and see for it on the water. And then I bought another house in like 99, 2000 or was it 2001 I think it was. And it was a literally, IMean, you could walk there was around the corner. Okay. And I decided, you know, finally it was ready because it was a day. I don't want to submit. And I wanted to go around the corner. And so I said, why do I have to hire movers, right? It's, IMean, literally it's like a, like, you know, like a half of it. And I even have a lot of work in English. Yeah. Doctors, I guess it's a problem. I get your story, David. It's moving sucks. Yeah. It was the most, it was the most. I'm calling that. I'm calling that for help. Hold on. It's like talking to your grandfather. Yeah. My father's talking to me. Anyone else is talking to me. My father would just leave. He didn't want to even do it. He just got a few center of attention. And it's okay. Come on. It's okay. Samir, did you know, the actor Bill Smith who died? Yeah. It's very unfortunate. You know, um, Yeah. You know, What, I remember when I was a kid watching the, I was watching the, Anyway, I was watching the movie. Where they had the, he was fighting Clint Eastwood. That was like the first time I had seen him. I loved him in that movie. He was like a real big. You know, You know, it's like I told him. To see him just like me seeing my saw him at Woldjim many times. I did the same to those thing out. Really nice guy. Right. And you know what I told him. I said, I am so crazy about the sport. And when I saw that picture of you in one of his movie, I think was the movie that I saw. Back then was darker than Amber. Okay. Front Taylor. There's rock Taylor. There's Australian pretty great actor actually. And so I told him, Well, as I said, you know what, I had to feel that photo because I loved your arm. There's no other way out to you. You're told this. He's the, It's funny. It's funny. You're making that movie. He's the tell me because you've come in to the gym every day. And you're at that room. Rest me voice. There you go. And Lee. Yeah. There's absolutely no 分. I'm writing down to the introductory reputation. I knew it pretty hard. But it got to that dóan's new ears.テ l'm only flows around to heart through the conversation of Turkey's discharge. The ugly photos happening. That's like poisonous evil mouth, which is�ish news. It might not be like there were any fights that were going downwards. Back then, he took part in an article. She grabbed a candle and doesn't exist. There's a typical fight between the three fights. Hard to tell. Whatever the fight. They, you did, when did you see the movie? Oh, long time ago and now, it would have been a while ago. I saw it when the first came out. And I would just survive starting by the building. And you know what, when you see a big arm back there, it's like, wow, this incredible. You know what's funny? I saw also, they've draper movie with, don't make waves. Remember that? Yeah. I remember that. At the same time, I saw the photograph and I was really, really impressed. You know, when you enter the body, you know, you just, once anything for me, it was just a crazy passion. But you know, still in. You look a lot bigger on the screen, too. IMean, Arnold looked in Conan, looked like he weighed 800 pounds. IMean, he was enormous in this one. No one had ever seen the body building that big on screen before. IMean, IMean, IMean, they had a big, even, they had seen it. Fiend damn inspired a lot of people to tren from his movies, Bloodsport, and he was even there. He was even there. But you'd see, you see, Fiend damn in person, he'd be like, this would be a bloody looking, but pretty thin. Right, right. Yes, yes, this mixed screen actually makes you look much bigger. That was one of the things we have. We have Samir Benus, Mr. Olympi here, who's joined us. And the, the name Samir and I used to have funny stories when Samir and I used to hang out in Venice, because Samir was always the tourist, we'd like to turn up the tren, the turn up for anything. God, if they start trening with AlIMalibu, for Samir up there, we didn't go down to Malibu. Samir goes, we'll go to Malibu, Baba, and we'll go down there. So we'll go to Malibu Beach, we'd play ball on the beach, and then go across the net, rest you on across the road from the beach, and eat fish and chips and stuff. Oh, the good old day. You know what, you know what, funny, the first time I saw Lee, please, I'm gonna like, you know, this kid is really good. So he came over to my house and Westwood, and then they hit a few poses, and I said, holy, I can grab this guy. This guy is different. And you know, IMean, really Lee, one of the most different different different different different house to me. Let me say different different different, my head, you know what's funny? Lee was saying, I know I'm gonna get a lot brighter. Lee was, Lee was hungry, and you can say what, you can feel it, you know, you know what's really incredible, at times I saw Lee box top to close to 80 or more. Didn't you go after that heavy? Two eight. Five or so. He was a fatso, we went to Westwood, we were walking in Westwood, and this guy was so big. He looked like bigger than his hammer. I don't know how he got this. He stopped the traffic and I'm going, what the hell Lee piece is going up to 285? When he did his best at 205 to 12 or something. Right now, remember, leave it great at 204 to 5, right, me or maybe under it. Yeah, I'm not sure. It was like you wanted to, I'm going forward to 10. Normally we're, not most pro shows us 206 to 08. Mm-hmm. The ball as man, it's the ball as baby, big arms and big legs. Yeah. Beautiful, tiny waist, no oil whatsoever. They're the joe, please. And then I was actually a fan some photos. I sent this to me today when Simea came the England with me and we had like a week and a half in England, an exposed and going to these cars or having cups of tea and stuff. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. Hey, Simea, I remember that. So you think of a Lee priest come back? Do you think Lee can do it? Now? Yep. Of course he. You know, muscle muscle. Yeah. He's gonna come back. So he can come back. Yeah. What's that? Muscle muscle muscle. He's on my memory. He's a muscle muscle. Oh, that's right. He's still there. Oh, oh. Unbelievable. I'm scared. The memory. I'm really muscles. My muscles have Alzheimer's. Yeah, yeah. Your muscles have a little hug and does on it now. Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha. Benning. You know, you know what's funny? Lee and I talked about how people overdo it and they get uh, uh, the complicating for themselves. And they get so technical. And then when I see Lee, you came to my house sometimes with butter and stuff like he ate like a monster and you know, in my opinion, I don't know why people overdo and complicate things. Yeah. I never saw Lee hold in a yellow water running on the street with it. You know, anyone in great shape? The whole key here Dave is having fun. Right. And Lee always had fun. Yeah, you know it. When you'recomplicating, you add more coaches all. You, you, you, you worry. You want to do okay. Relax, have fun. Let's do a good time. Roll. You got to have, yeah, but you don't. Lee also was a genetic freak. Anything you did he grew from. IMean, he, he didn't need a lot of drugs. He, IMean, was a teenager. He was a freak. He never even had taken a steroids. So yeah, but genetic freak. But he was as a, I saw him tren Lee tren hard. Yeah. He doesn't mess around. I'm just saying, but he always gives me, yes, sir. Let's not talk about me. Let's talk about what do you think of the, I've been coming on a classic line up. You think it's going to be a good show, isn't it? I asked him, I don't know who's in the lineup. I haven't looked. Well, let's go to be, we'll pretty much, pretty much the lineup's going to be like the Olympia. My honest big ramy, but Bonnex going to be in it. Really should be in it. Nick Walker's going to be in Valier's going to be in it. Who else, David, is almost going to be like, like the Olympia. James, like the Olympia. I came Williams, it's almost going to be like the Olympia lineup. Mine is Mr. Olympia. So it's going to be a good show. Well, yeah, show, you know, Arnold, he always invite the good guys in. And I know what, you know, he doesn't want to do a Mickey Mouse show. And you recall when you went to Arnold Classic? No, Arnold wants to have great show. So do you think it's a good idea to maybe keep the Arnold around this time of year because it's right before the Olympia, a month before it kind of makes it easier for guys to do both shows and to have a better level of talent. What do you think it should go back to more 20 normal years? You know, you know, I see some new guys, but sometimes I really don't really focus too much on the, you know, you know, there's Logan, you know, Logan. You think you think the Arnold should stay it back, go back to March. Do you like right before the Olympia? Because this year we're going to see it in September because of COVID. And it's like a month before the Olympia. So a lot of these guys who do the Olympia are using the Arnold's almost like a warm-up, you know? I like it. I like it just before. I like it just before. I like it for warm-up. And that way, guys can't complain and say, well, I'm doing the Arnold in March. I can't pick again later on in the East to me. I know is that on the old days people people could peek all the time. Some guys now get a bit lazy. So if we got to make it easy, if it end the little snowflakes that I can peek once and then peek again, a couple weeks later, the Arnold close to the Olympia said I can do a couple of shows. Absolutely. How far apart the show, Dave? There are months apart. Well, that's doable. IMean, you know, once you're in shape, you need to really make a difference. In fact, you need to get better. I think so. I like how it is. The way the New York problem is more than 100. I wouldn't think it was a good idea. Two, three weeks maximum would be good. Yeah. And maybe move the New York pro earlier in the year. Maybe you have that in March or something like that. That might be good. What it's like, so me said, too, when shows are close to give. But when I used to do shows close to give, it's easier to hold. That's why a lot of guys that don't understand now. We've had a use of too many chemicals and doing whatever they can't hold their shape. But I heard my shape and the more shows I did, the better I got. When I see these guys do one show now, they go, I can't hold my shape for another week or two. I'm like, it's easy. Once you're in shape, it's easier to keep your shape. And let's just do something that, unless you're doing something with chemicals that just messes your body up. Actually, in my opinion, the second show you should look better. Because sometimes, you don't really realize that, when you load up after one show, you get back to your maximum fullness. And then you have better control of, you know, sometimes we take it too far and we dip down into losing these tissues and stuff like that. I think it's a smart idea to fill up completely and get back. It'd be easy to do the second one and make the improvement in my opinion. Ms. Mirnyuris estimation, who is the most difficult Mr. Olympia to beat on stage? Not necessarily the best Mr. Olympia, the hardest guy to beat and why. Who is the best Mr. Olympia ever? Not the best. Who is the most difficult Mr. Olympia to beat on stage and why? Okay, good question. Good question. Look, I witnessed Ronnie Coleman 2001 or 2002. And I can honestly say he was beyond rip and he was wasted. He looked unbelievable, you know. And sad, I had a plan of visitinGHim with Prince from Qatar and want to see him. So I told Ronnie, I have someone when I step by. On the way up to the room, I saw Louvre ignore walking out of the elevator. It's the mirror. Did you see Lee? That means did you see Ronnie and I said, no, I am going to see him right now. He said, oh my God, I've never seen anything like it. That's what I did. Louvre's right. Lee, IMean, Ram Ronnie was so true and in full and wasted. I knew right then there's no way anybody can attach him. Any really walked away with the show? I think that was the most conditioned Mr. Olympia. Which one? I never seen. You talked about 99 or 98? 19 out, 2001 as a tool. And I think all one he was awful, probably 99 you're thinking. Yeah. Yes, I think so. I want to say almost beat him, remember? I think it's two years before Jay Cutler took him. I think a couple years before that. Yeah, so it might have been over. Oh, three is when he was the craziest size wise. You know, O3 was that insane like 292 million version of him. I always think the hardest Mr. Olympia to beat would be there could be two of them. Ronnie and Dorian. Of course, it would be a physique. The physique was hard to beat, but also when you look at the mentality Ronnie has and Dorian had just said, you know, that crazy trening mentality works just all or nothing all of nothing. I'm not saying other guys don't tren hard, but some just have that dual diaries, some sort of tren hard, but you just you can just see when someone goes beyond to the point where if they die, they don't care. That's right. Yeah, I don't even believe in that. I believe in that condition that I saw Ronnie up to now, I think about it because really he was the most massive, but still wasted. You know, the his missection was super tight. Yeah. And you know, when the missection goes away, it's just no matter. I'm not impressed. I'm not interested. You notice, like, for example, not because Lee here, but Lee always competed in tight missection. I never see Lee with a tummy too. Because he knew right ahead, it's not about being too big and sacrifice and having a little like, you know, Ronnie come later on, he lost that look. Yeah. So doing fill his, I think fill his, no bullshit here. I'm not talking about anyone personally about them as a person, but as a bodybuilder, I think without a doubt, Trilhis is one of the most incredible bodybuilder there is when he is on. Oh, when he is on. Yeah, because it's complete. You don't, you don't find weakness on fill. You know, IMean, Ronnie, we're going to get back and say, okay, where's the calves? Yeah. Or we may look, all, you know, his glutes is way down that we should the middle of his his hamstring. To me is all about how who is the most complete or put together, I would have to go to fill his. Wow, okay. Really. So, but most impressive condition ever was for Ronnie Coleman. I know, I, I, I, I'm just talking about Mr. Olympia's, you know, getting back to our, the actor Bill Smith who died. We just speak about him at the beginning of the show. He actually trened with Larry Scott for the first two Mr. Olympia victories that Larry had. The very few of them. First Mr. Olympia and I heard a story, I don't know if you know, heard the story. Suppose they bill asked Larry, he goes, Larry, you know, we tren together every day. How are you so much bigger than me? And Larry said, I am a bull. I'm taking the animal. And Bill didn't even know what it was. They, they don't never took any drugs supposedly. Yeah, they were both trening at Vince Jim's. Yeah, Vince, the runner. And, you know, they did it the old school way. You know, Vince Man, the way he died, in fact, and I know you and favor of this kind of diet. Yeah. You were the key to a man. Yeah. You know, IMean, could you imagine, IMean, create him in whole eggs unlimited amount of, you know, you can eat actually. Oh, they can, like, but, you know, no carbs. Right. Level caps, you know, what are you, what are you really saying about that? Let me ask me, please, about that because he's not going to be biased here. He's going to throw the truth. Yeah. What do you think about that, the high, you know, keep it. I try to put, I don't know, I'm my body loves carbs. So I try to eating, you know, because I love meat to look. I love bacon. I love eggs. I love high fats and protein foods. And I try to put as soon as I take carbs out of my diet, I just start craving, breads and pastas and rice. So I, I lasted maybe five days, but then I went off that. And I went to eat buns and bread and rocks. I just said, I got to keep a loop it. The lowest I ever went on carbohydrates starting was 250 grams a day. If I went low than that, I just felt crap and stuff. So 250 was my lowest time ever go. I don't have to agree with you because IMean, look at Doria Nes. Doria and always came in a shape. And he came in Narlie. Yeah. He never really go beyond 260 grams. This is when he's depleted. He thinks it's, yeah. Yeah, but every, every, every, every, every story. And Doria was a genetic freak. IMean, I, Sean Rodin would do zero carbs and zero fats for three weeks. You know, he didn't shave, but you know, we're telling you what? Zero fat and zero carb? Levroni said it now. Levroni would go six weeks without eating carbs. IMean, Levroni was a, was a big low carb dieter. So IMean, everyone's a little different. You got to kind of figure out what you metabolism is and kind of go from there with it. But guys, I got to go pick my son up at school. Samir, I love when you join us for these little special little shocking and little occasions. It makes my heart warm. It's my heart because you are such a, a bed of knowledge when it comes to bodybuilding. All right, so these are, when you, when you go, it's a, I'll see you. So me as a legend, and this is what I love about to me. When I see photos of Samir, even the older guys, this is where the younger guys today need to learn conditioning. When you look at Samir and the other guys back then, the conditioning, they had in the muscle. You don't wait didn't matter when you have the proportions and you have the muscle and you have that level of conditioning. You can throw the weight number out the window because they look like giants and that's where the guys today need to realize. Yes, mass is great, but not to the point where you have so much mass, you don't have separation, you don't have conditioning. When you look at Samir and those guys back then, the day, you think Samir way too 60, you're like, well, look at him, the small waist and that. But hey, and really, I have to stop you at this and tell you, you're like, hummer, you used to drive, right? But I'm going to tell you, Austin Martin versus Hummer. What's that? They've come on, man. I like the ass. I like the ass. The ass. My favorite cow. But you can't take it into the bush, you can't take it through the mud, you can't take it through the water. And you can't mount the 50 calabin machine, god, I'm top. Well, that's not what that's so much to do. They don't. Okay, they drive fast. That's okay. But, Jay, well, Jay, I'll take it back. Jay, I'm sponsored at machine guns that came out of the X-demath. So I'd rather have a course 911. In terms of turbo twin terms, I hope that. Hey, listen, day before you go. Yeah. There are some really important topics that we need to discuss in the future. And we'll go over it. I'm in the vein. You get iron to base, Samir. Let me know when you're available. What's doing? All right. We will do that again. And I love hanging out with you and me because I know you go. We'll get lay on two. I should, you love this. We'll do iron debate next week. And we'll, uh, have you in the lead on? Let chat with you. I'm short, notice. Because Lisa started out in this clip. You think I'm going to say, well, give me a break. IMean, I'm listening to you. I'm listening to you. Samir, we got to get you off the teaser. And then we get you off for the full blown one the week after some people get excited about it. You know, for now, you know, you know, well, I'm about to. The thing is, a lot of people sticking their nose in the game. And then that's from the heart of the game. You guys from the heart of the game. K- why I like to sit here and listen. Take us at it with your Joe Weeder impression Samir. Come on, you know what, you know, you can go on. You're a little Joe Weeder. Come on. You can call Paul Gillett. Not Paul Gillett. And it's to call Paul. Paul. This is Joe Wayne or hi Joe. How are you? You come over and you're like, yeah, yeah, Joe. And then you know, you need to get pissed off. I'll choose, I'll switch to me once in a quarter. Pull the let like that off from pull a contract and pull going all excited. You know, the photographers or the Japanese photographer. Missed them. Yeah, mature. Me sure. Yeah, I call them and I pretend to be Joe. I gave them a job of a $50,000 contract. It was a happy goal. Mr. Weeder. Mr. Weeder. Thank you very much. Oh, how's your Japanese style? Mr. Weeder. Samir and then we need. When he's on that, it was me, he goes, I think you. Samir the grads. Mr. Olympia, 1983. Samir Avenue. Lee Priest. I'm Dave Palambau. We'll see you next time. Mr. We're going to go get your boy. Thank you. Talk to you guys. I'll just make the light as for me.

=== FILE: SAMIR TROUDI OLYMPIA BOUND! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸31⧸18) [AclzqpS064I].txt ===

Welcome back to Musselin the Morning on Dave. We'll let you know what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. One of the coolest things about this part of the year, as a baseball fan, is that when you see your team call up some random guy from their AAA program. Well, now all of a sudden he's got his shot to live at his dream right there in front of the hometown crowd. In seven weeks from now, to 12 powerhouse, Sammy Troudy would finally get his shot to live at his dream when he sets foot on the Olympia stage for the first time in his career. The latest updates from Team Troudy show the second year, stand out, looking like he's at his old time best. Back at the start of the year, Troudy ripped off three straight top three finishes where it felt like he was really starting to come into his own. But now that he's been able to sit back and reassess the program, hopefully can hit the mark and deliver a major statement this September at the Mr. Olympia. But the Tampa Pro only a few days away now. I'm starting to see all sorts of interesting little clips float past my desk here, as these athletes start getting ready for action. But I have to admit, I haven't seen too many that may be slow down and pay attention. Like the ones I saw from Cleveland Thomas earlier this week. The classic physique stand out is on pace to brinGHis best conditioning ever this weekend, which will probably be good enough to land on a spot in the first call out once it finally gets rolling. Last year we saw this guy basically come from out of nowhere to crush it in his way at the Chicago Pro. So I wouldn't put it past a 100% Cleveland Thomas to creep out of Tampa with a big trophy in his pocket and in Olympia qualification on his resume. Here I watch the NFL or NBA draft. I always look at the guys coming in and ask myself the samEQuestion. Could they have made an impact on a playoff team last year? And pretty soon we'll find out of second year men's physique star, Cairon Holden, is ready to make an impact in the IFVV's version of the postseason. The second year stand out is coming off a monster when a few weeks ago at the San Jose Pro where he was heading shoulders above the group of athletes that were pretty damn good on paper. If you ask me the men's physique Olympia lineup is right behind the men's open and having the least amount of wiggle room for an athlete to break into the top 10. But if this kid can show up at 100% he might have enough talent to put himself in position to compete for one of those top five spots. And you're an athlete and an opportunity knocks you better make sure you're ready to answer the call because those windows can close before you know it. But I get the feeling that women's physique all start Danny Castillo knows that better than anyone with her second straight trip to the big dance right around the corner now. The Toronto Pro champ looks like she's ready to take full advantage of the huge void left by Julianna Melacorni's absence this year. Pound for Pound Castillo has one of the most complete looks in the entire division. And if we can get a 100% spot on Danny Castillo to touch down on the Olympia stage this year, I really believe she has a legitimate shot to be a top three contender. The most important thing is to be a mortal world of Gandhi. You've got to be the change you want to see in the world. I think there are plenty of people out there who could learn a thing or two from classic physique standout Edgar John Augustin. The man most people know by the internet handle by on a body. Yesterday Augustin and his team released a short new trening clip in celebration of international chess day where they gave their fans an inside look at what their offseason program is looking like. Everyone that I've talked to tells me that Augustin is a class act on an off the stage. If you can't get excited by seeing guys like this wake up every morning and inspire thousands of people to go out there and make the impossible become a reality that is probably time you sit down to reevaluate the things that are really and truly important in your life. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day below for mining you to always be true to your passion and they should have followers on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: SECRETS TO APPETITE CONTROL! #askDave [8MirSCKokGc].txt ===

Our X television on rxmuscle.com, ass Dave, powered by Species Nutrition and Liquid Sunrays. We have a new retailer, a powerhouse retailer that's going to be carrying us their base in Kansas supplement syndicate day plumbo. These are serious people. Kristen Numbi owner, an operator of supplement syndicate a series competitor herself. This store is all about the series athlete. Yeah, you know, I love the hardcore stores. There's not that many of them around, but they're in pockets all over the country. And Kristen Numbi is certainly the depiction of what we call hardcore. She believes in the science of supplements. She's knowledgeable. She's in this store. She lives the lives of the others. She can see her physique. And they're super supportive of Species Nutrition. And I really value that when someone gets behind a brand and can sell it based on its science and doesn't argue with me about, oh, it's too expensive or this is not. They want the best of the best. And if you're in the shoney, you know, Kansas area and you're looking for a hardcore store that has the best of the best, you know, the Mercedes-Benz of supplements, you know, stop by there. You'll get free advice. They'll tell you how to take supplements. They'll tell you what you should use, what you shouldn't use, what you should look out for. And that's the kind of store that I want to put my brand of Species Nutrition Prize in. A store that gets it, a store that's going to be then educate and not just looking for profit margins. So once again, guys, if you're in the shoney area of Kansas, stop in, say, a little Christian teller, day-palombo, RX muscle, species nutrition, sent you. And I'm sure she'll take great care of you. This is your 30 minutEQuestion, Nancy. Oh, what day-palombo, all your questions on diet, trening, supplementation, IFB, pros, competitions, of course, the Olympia one month away in Las Vegas, Dave. We have some big news to announce regarding the Olympia, which, of course, is going to be in four weeks time in Vegas. Yep, the big news is number one will be there, which was, which was a kind of like, an iffy situation, because I wasn't sure if we're going to do it. And now, I'm sure in Saint-Metrobredcon, one step up to the plate, he's sponsoring all our coverage as well as liquid sun rays, the official, our official tending sponsor of the Olympia coverage. And so we're going, you know, I hope my flight is not going to be like a million dollars. We haven't booked it yet, but Sid and I will be out there with Raphael Noble who are photographers, as well as Chris Isito covering the show as we always do with all our helpers out there who've come there to help us every year. It should be a great one. Obviously, Phil, he's going to try to tie it. I guess you could say a Olympia win number eight. Flex Lewis is last Olympia. We have the fitness Olympia crown vacated this year. So that's going to be a new one. Julie on a math, Malacarney is not going to be at the Olympia. So the women's physique Olympia crown will be vacated. So a lot of exciting stuff happening and a lot of great people stepped up to the plate to make this happen. You will be seeing over the next few days we've been recording interviews with already some top Olympians and we're going to be adding that list last year. I believe they we did about what 34 real Olympia interviews are something that I hope you don't do that many this year. No, but you know, again, it's no it's no state secret, but with a lot of the media contracts coming to an end, we are going to have a lot more access to some of the top Olympians pre Olympia during the Olympian. Of course, post Olympia. So keep tuned. The iron road. The Olympia is officially underway again as Dave mentioned power by Redcon one. And of course, our official tending sponsor liquid sun rays. So let's go to thEQuestions. Our first two questions from the Dave Palombo experience app. The first question, Dave lately, I've seen people starting to use the victim's own slash, like, send what do you think of those products? You know, they're interesting products. What they are is they are what's called glucogon like peptides. They're, you know, when you eat a meal and your small testing senses food, it releases the GLP peptides. And what they do is they basically tell you, you're you're telling you number one, you're full. It's it's slow as the digestive tract out, but more importantly, what it does is it actually increases the output of insulin. So if you don't produce enough insulin, it will help the pancreas produce more insulin. And it also reduces the liver from producing glucose via gluconeogenesis. Now, as we know, the liver is constantly producing a glucose from amino acids in the liver. We can't stop that from happening or so we thought. But we can slow it down a little bit. And the advantage of, if you, if you're, if you're a liver is constantly cranking out glucose, you've got to produce insulin to absorb that glucose. Obviously, insulin is a fat storage hormone. We don't want a lot of insulin output. Okay, by the body or excessive insulin output by the body because our body is a cranking out glucose. So a lot of people have started using this sacsend, the, excuse me, the toes are sacsend the product to help with weight control because it kind of makes you feel associated because it slows digestive tract down. And it also helps reduce the output of insulin by reducing the liver's production of glucose. Now, this is an advantage for people for weight loss. It's used to be used to, it's both. I guess you could say it's, it's medical use is for type two diabetics that can't control their blood sugar. I think mostly because it reduces the output of liver glucose. But I've seen bodybuilders start to use it now for appetite control, okay, for weight loss because it, it, once again, reduces insulin output. And it reduces the amount of insulin you need because you're not producing as much glucose from the liver. So I haven't used it personally, but I do know some people who are using it and have successfully used it. Especially a lot of people who have appetite control issues. It seems to be a much more natural way to control your appetite as opposed to taking, you know, ridiculous amounts of stimulants in at or all and stuff like that to try to, you know, kill your appetite. That doesn't seem to work well. And there's always a rebound to walk that. So I think we're going to see a lot more use of it as it becomes more available. And as people start experimenting it with more. Second question again from the Dave Plumbo experience at Dave Great Interview with Stan Efforting, do you think his approach is optimal using all food sources over shakes and vitamins if you can actually do it? Optimal now, practical now, but, you know, it works, you know, look eating whole foods. If you can get your nutrition from whole foods and I think it's very, very difficult to get everything you need from whole foods. And I think even Stan would say the same thing. He's a big believer in supplementing with, you know, multivitemins and multiminaroles and something like that. I know he uses a lot of my products as well from species nutrition. But, you know, his approach is for the average person. If you can kind of, you know, if you can kind of try to get all your food groups in and try to get, you know, the right amount of nutrients, not to stuff that they tell you about in school, the right nutrients that our bodies need from the food you're eating, that's going to help your body, you know, long term, especially if you're eating a lot of food. So, you know, it's difficult for a lot of people to do this because it requires a lot of pre-planning. So, for a bot, that's why I say from a practical standpoint, I don't think it's that doable. I think for most body bills, they have they really want to just focus on protein, central fats, carbs, and then all their vitamins and minerals, they just, they don't worry about eating vegetables though like that because it's just extra calories, so they take that in supplement form. The problem is if you don't use a good high-quality protein, like, excuse me, high-quality supplement minerals vitamins, you know, in the right dosages, absorbability, then you really are hurting yourself. And I think, from for those people who are not willing to spend a few bucks and get the right stuff and I'm not just saying that my species nutrition wine of the mineralism, agilize are the right stuff because it is the right stuff. But if you don't want to buy my products or you don't have access to, there are other products that they can fill that void, but if you're not doing that, then your damn is hell better eat it in your meals. To me, it just seems it's cheaper and easier to do it through the supplemental form. Probably the right approach is somewhere in the middle, as it always is. Try to get some of it from your foods, some of it from supplemental form, somewhere in the middle is the ideal situation. And I think that's the way it is in life. And I think it's good to always get people thinking about what they're doing and that's what stand and I try to do in that interview and I think what stands is doing with his vertical diet. It's getting people thinking about what they're doing. Because even if you don't follow everything you tell you, if you pick up a few extra tips and nutritional, I guess you could say shortcuts from him, then you take away a message was well received. We'll takEQuestions from our Instagram. Again, our Instagram handle is official underscore our ex muscle. We tease our Olympia coverage, follow our Instagram up until you lump in and of course throughout Olympia weekend, we're going to have loads of content on our Instagram feed on Twitter, Facebook and of course on the YouTube channel. They've you mentioned the women's physique division, Julia and Malacarney, of course, vacatinGHer title, Trent Riddle Hoover, your thoughts on the women's physique class. I read what they're looking for, but from what I read, it basically said, don't get too shredded. Is there a science cap or what he goes on to say about his friend and in overlooking the division, go into detail about your thoughts of the class and its specifications. You know, I've been watching and following women's body building from probably since 1988, I think I was the first year I really was paying attention to what's going on. And you know what, they've been trying to control how big, how hard, how this, how that, these girls have been getting. And you know what the truth is, every single year, the bottom line is that whatever looks best on stage is what the judge is vote for. At the end of the day, if they say cut back your size, but the girl was big, but it looked feminine and it flowed well, she won. That was the best physique on stage. That's always the case. The problem is that some of these people get so at a control with trying to be the biggest hardest, that they start turning it into like a, it's like it becomes a freak show and it doesn't look good. So you can't say to the hardest, biggest girl on the show that, hey, you're not the best up there because she might be from a physique standpoint, but from a aesthetic standpoint, she's not. So the bottom line is they try to keep it from getting out of control. And I think that's a good thing. We don't want women's physique turning into women's body building. The way I got when it was out of control, I think women's body building now is actually not too bad. Although there's not that many competitors left. Most of them have gone to women's physique or retire. The key is to look feminine. It looks very easy to take a ton of drugs, okay, as a woman bodybuilder or women's physique competitor and put on muscle and get shredded. Okay, it's a lot harder to take a small amount, okay, and keep your femininity and focus on diet and trening is a way of getting in shape. But when you do it that way, it looks better. Julianna Malakarni is the post-agre of that triad for this division. Why? Because she was feminine, she looked great, she presented herself well, she never put excessive amounts of muscle on yet. It was a look that people like said, hey, I like that. I want love to look like that. And that's what the division was created for. And I'm pretty, there's a couple of women out that I'm very impressed with their physique. Obviously, I've talked very highly of Sheneek Grant. I don't think she's excessively big. I don't think she's excessively hard. She's got syllogenetics and killer structure. And everything that she puts on to that structure looks great because of it's in the right places. And I think that, you know, she's going to be tough to be especially with Julianna Leaming. However, there's other competitors that are up there as well. I think if a competitor is listening to the advice that the IPB's getting and they take it literally, they'll come in too smooth and they'll do terrible. Comment at your best. Just don't do extreme things. Cole NPC, good friend of this show with active release and deep tissue worked on. Do you ever find that there's more growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in areas and less scar tissue around injection sites? With getting regular massages, that would be a point. Yeah, of course. Of course, whenever you get regular massages, you're breaking up the scar tissue before it forms. You're moving, you know, if you're doing injections into certain areas, you're moving the volume out of there. So it's not stagnating and building up, you know, connective tissue, you know, bridges. So yeah, of course, massages always a great thing to do. If you can do it, IMean, I know Jay Coffey is to get massages like five times a week or something like that. I think when he was competing. So obviously, at some point, you know, most people can't afford to do that. But when I was in the front my prime, I was trying to get a massage every week or pretty close to it. And it definitely helped with recovery. There's no doubt in my mind. Ronnie K Walker is extra virgin olive oil band to cook with. I've heard it's not a good oil to use. If cooking with it at high temperatures, I've heard macadamia not oil, which obviously used the jazz and coconut oil are better. Any truth to this? Yeah. Olive oil, extra virgin olive oil has a very low smoke point. IMean, if you heat it too hot, it degrades and it loses all its health benefits. And it actually could become a negative type of a bad fact. So you don't want to be heating. If you lightly start to heat it up too hot, it just goes to crap. That's why I don't trust any olive oil on the market right now because there's so many fakes out there with tons of soybean oil, padding it. It's almost like protein spiking. There's a couple years ago they're spiking the olive oil with cheap soybean oil. So I don't even go there. I don't even know people say, well, this brand is good. I don't even bother. IMake a brand of macadamia. Because I couldn't depend on the olive oil and because I truly believe that macoiles are better oil. It's higher in mono and saturated fats. It has a perfect balance of omega-3, omega-6 is one to one ratio. Only fat that has that. You can cook with it. It has a super high smoke point. It doesn't oxidize when exposed to light. It doesn't go bad. It doesn't go rancid. And you know what it tastes like butter. There's no disadvantage. There's no oil out there that's more or more oil purpose than that. You know, coconut oil makes everything taste like coconut. Plus it's not an essential fatty acid. It's a saturated. It's a short chain or medium chain saturated fat, which is not necessarily bad for you. But it just can be really only gets used as a fuel source. It doesn't have any other purpose in the body. It does have some immune system stimulating effects they found. But by and far, macoile is if you're going to put oils into your body, that's the type of oil you want to put in there. It's in volume. When you go for essential fatty acid, you could take them and supplement them. You don't eat as many of them. But mono and saturated fats should be the main driving fats source of the body. John Daniel will taking expired gear or H.H. having negative effect on your body. I always tell this to be. The worst case scenario is that expired gear just won't work or won't work as well. When somethinGHits an expiration date, it doesn't just deactivate itself. Okay? Most of the stuff is good for years afterwards. If it's not being kept in a stable temperature environment, it could start to degrade. But it's not going to just go from full policy to nothing because you hit a certain date of the calendar year. Okay, it was going to start to slowly degrade. It could take 10 years before it stops working. Back in the day, I had given a friend of mine some kids a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone home and I had. I don't know what was going on. I didn't want to keep in my house. I was paranoid of something like that. I forgot to gave it to him. Like seriously, like five or six years later, he told me, I got these things in my refrigerator. Do you need them? I completely forgot about them. I used them and they worked fine. I just don't believe like I said, as long as you keep things in a temperature controlled environment, you really have nothing to worry about. Sent Burger, your thoughts on sprouted wheat bread as a carbs source versus oatmeal. I get sick of eating the same thing all the time and it's nice to switch up here and there. Yeah, I like sprouted bread. You know, you got to be careful. Some of them have a lot of sugar. They put honey in them. They put sugar on them and that adds up quite a bit. Especially, obviously, you're dieting. You wouldn't want to be eaten that stuff. But the ones that don't have any added sugars to them, they're fine. I don't have a problem, especially the offseason. Offseason, you don't need to be so tightly controlled. Sometimes it's good to kind of, you know, loosen up your eating. As long as you're not eating foods that are going to get you fat, you know, putting tons and tons of ketchup at all of your every single meal you eat. In the offseason, it's not something I would recommend. If you use a little ketchup here and there, that's fine. I wouldn't use it pretty contrast, obviously. You can loosen up offseason, but that doesn't mean you should be just putting tons of extra unnecessary calories onto your foods that are really not doing anything positive for you. Be underscore, date day of I have a friend who eats a lot of fish in his diet. His mercury levels on his blood working back in the upper 20s could this be from thEQuantity of fish he's eating or would it be a quality issue of the fish itself? Both probably. If you're eating fish that has mercury in it and you're eating a lot of it, obviously you're going to get a lot of mercury in your bloodstream. If you're eating fish that has mercury in it, but you're only eating it once every couple days, you're going to have much lower levels, maybe not that much at all. Of course, it's always dose dependent. When Jason H. when I interviewed him, he had severe mercury toxicity. He was eating C-bass. He loved it. He thought it was a great fish. It was healthy. It was wild caught and he had tons of mercury in it. He was eating it like pounds of it every day. Of course, he had a much worse situation going on in his body than say the person who would eat C-bass, but maybe only twice a week. It just goes to, you've got to know what the fish is. I try to stay away from eating tons of tuna, even though I love tuna. I'm not so a tuna in the cans. I'm talking about the big sushi tuna. I love sour fish. I would eat it every day if I could, but it's, you know, it's got mercury in it. That's just the way it is. I try to eat more salmon. One of course salmon seems to be better. Yeah, this could be some PCBs in there. They're saying, but there's no, at least there's no heavy metals in salmon. That's where I try to get most of my fish. I also try to eat a lot of white fish that maybe don't like cod and something that they're small fish. They don't really accumulate these heavy metals in them. Once again, everything will kill you. If you eat the wrong type of food, you need to much of it. So try to spread it out and eat different sources of protein. It's funny. Nowadays, you know, bread meat was so out of vote. Now it seems to get everyone wants to eat bread meat because it's like the only thing that's safe nowadays. Dave, Dick Co. Dave, is there a way to minimize water retention in the offseason? I've holds so much water through the day and curious how to limit it. So what, you hold water and you want to know how to avoid the water retention in the offseason? Minimum in the offseason. The easiest way to stop water retention is to eat lower carbohydrates. Because the more carbohydrates, you can look, the reason why you hold water in the offseason and not pre-contest is because you're eating way more carbohydrates. When every gram of carbohydrates that you eat, you retain a certain amount of fluid with it, that's just the nature of carbohydrate storage in the body. When you store glucose, it's glycogen and the muscles in the liver, you store water with it. So if you're gorging on carbs all day, you're going to retain a lot of fluid from it. So if it's get that uncomfortable, cut back your, your carbon take and you'll see that water go down quite a bit. Likewise, if you're taking excessive amounts of G8, which will make you hope retain fluid, you might want to cut that those to your back as well. Let's go to one extra wrap on the type one diabetic and take lantus first thing in the morning every day. I have a new doctor who's suggested that I take it before going to bed every day instead. Since insulin and G8 combined to the same receptors, what taking lantus at night, negatively affect the G8 from reaching its receptors or vice versa. First of all, G8 really doesn't have receptors that we know of. When you take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, your body breaks the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone down and deliver and releases a hormone on his IGF-1. IGF-1 will bind to IGF-1 receptors. Now, sometimes IGF-1 can also bind to insulin receptors and have what we call an insulin-like effect that's where it gets its name, insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor 1. That's not negative because it's doing the same thing as insulin. So once again, taking lantus, which is supposed to be a 24-hour insulin, a long acting insulin. First of all, you shouldn't be taking it one today. You should be taking it twice a day. These doctors are inbiscules. Lantus is a known not to last that long. You should be taking a nightly injection before bed and you should be taking a morning injection. Now, lantus is a long acting or what we call basal insulin. It doesn't just have an immediate effect. There's a very low key subtle in the background effect. So that's why you could take it before bed and you're not going to get hypoglycemic. If you took a shot of like humalog before bed and didn't anything, you'd be, you'd be, you know, your blood sugar would drop to nothing. You'd be ready to you know, go into a coma. But that's not how long acting insulin works. So they don't really interact negatively with GH. GH and insulin actually works. They can kind of positively interact because the insulin will overcome the insulin resistance that the GH causes. So, you know, when I recommend that people taking fast acting insulin, I usually do have them take it in the morning with GH and the fast acting together. So it has a synergistic effect rather than an antagonistic effect. But when we talk about also, when we talk about these long acting insulin like lantus, it has no bearing on you taking GH. First of all, I would take GH in the morning. I don't I wouldn't take it in an accused of body naturally releases it today. And I would take my lantus half in the morninGHalf in night. Let's go to Kyle and Mara new G, please as Dave, what amount of T3 or Sinemel will be considered to high with 75 NG's be considered to high, how to taper down properly to avoid unnecessary fat-hain post-contest? I won't ever go over 100 micro grams a day. I find that to be a safe amount that people could take without having any negative side of me. So once again, you're not just going from zero to 100. You're ramping up over a very long period of time, maybe over two, three months, three, four months. Take starting out of 25 micro rams and slowly every couple weeks building up to it. If you did it overnight, you would have problems because your body acclimates to it. I never found any problems with 100 micro rams per day. I've even gone a little bit higher sometimes just to pinch higher from India week or two. But that seems to be the ideal amount. IMean, most people don't need to go that high, but you can go that high without a problem. Now, when coming off-site, what I use is I use two week weaning off period. So, no matter how high you are, the first week, I would immediately drop it down to 25 micro rams per day, okay? And I do that for a week. Then I would do another week at half of that, 12.5 micro rams. Per day. And then go off. Because what happens is it's a very thyroid hormone is a really a direct feedback type mechanism, meaning that when you take, when the body senses T3 and the body act a thyroid hormone, it shuts down the signal in the brain. Okay? The signal in the brain is the hormone that's released by the hypothalamus to tell the pituitary to release thyroid stimulatinGHormone. Okay? When you take away the T3, okay? Your pituitary kicks back on, so it's producing more thyroid stimuli, hormones, so that your thyroid methods can start producing. That's why taking T3 really doesn't have any negative effect on the body. It's a very easy back and forth process. Now, what happens in a lot of times, and I've mentioned this before, is that hey, we lost some lights here. I don't know. I have, it's funny, I hear thunder in the background. I'm not going to stop recording. I have a generator. I just pay a super amount high amount to money for a generator. Let's see if the generator kicks on because I want to make sure I got my money's worth. I have a feeling one of these is plugged in a thyroid to another outlet that probably blew a few years, but we do have one light on, so I'm going to continue in the dark. Right, so I'm having this too, so maybe you can see it. Yeah, yeah. Tiles try to get me, he wants to go home basically. But anyway, thyroid, so a lot of people what happens is that they have low thyroid and they don't know it, and then they take side of mell, T3, and they lose a lot of weight, and then they say, okay, it's time to lean off of it, and they lean off of it, and they like they never feel normal again, because they didn't really say how great they felt when they took the side of them, and then they going to get blood work, and they find out that they're low, they have low T3. Meanwhile, they had it all along, they just didn't know it, and they think that they blame the fact that they took the side of mell as to causing the hypothyritis of, when that's just not the case. Very, very, very few instances occur where a person takes T3 and actually shuts down the thyroid, going permanently from it, very, very infrequently happens. Oh, it shut off? No, we're recording, what's wrapped up? Oh, okay. So I guess no one wants to record in the dark anymore. Did we lose it? Yeah, we lost it. Okay, guys, sorry, you know, sometimes mother nature tells us when it's time to end the show. It is after hours here, you know, we were doing a lot of recording this week, and this Wednesday, especially we were going late today. I hope you guys enjoy all thEQuestions. Make sure you subscribe below, turn on your notifications, leave us comments, what you want me to talk about. Remember, you can always post questions to our official underscore RX muscle Instagram page, our on the RX muscle forums, on our Facebook. We have so many different avenues we can submit you questions to, and I will always answer them. Unfortunately, for Sid, Feruuki, and our producer, Tyler Shore on Daypalamba, and we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: SECRETS TO NATURAL MUSCLE GAINS! ｜ GuruTalk ｜ John Hansen & Dave Palumbo [K_0OHO8-FSQ].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Welcome back guys to Guru Talk and I'm here today with John Hanson and we're going to be talking at Natural Body Building. Can you believe it, John? I show that doesn't talk about drugs. I can't believe it. Right, right. So I'm not going to have a not used drugs. Right, well, you know, if you don't have the basis of proper nutrition, okay, trening, supplementation, if you don't have that part of the equation down pat, you're not going to maximize what you do when you take antibiotics if you decide to go that route. So this show is a dual purpose. It's not just for natural bodybuilders and it's how to get big. It's for everyone because that's something that I really felt that was part of my success at being putting on so much size was that I had my diet and supplementation and trening down so perfectly before I ever took my first pill of any kind of antibiotics. That when I did, I think I got a much better response than most people did. Absolutely, yeah. And I think we've seen a lot of other bodybuilders who were natural for a long time. And when they went on the drugs, then they really went up to the top levels like kaygrain and karate colon. How did they reign on the Sean Clarita? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sean used to be a natural bodybuilder. He's a neat and that bodybuilder. Sean wrote it. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. When I've seen Dave, I've been around the sport for over 40 years and I'm over when I started, they very rarely talked about steroids in the magazine. Once in a while, you would see an article where if someone like Pete from Caleski would come out and tell, tell all, but most times everybody kept it harsh for them. They just really downplayed it. They said they would only use them for three months before a contest and something like that. Well, and nowadays it's totally opposite. Where, because we have the internet, we have YouTube. Everybody talks about it. They talk openly about it. And I think what that's done is it's shown a lot of younger guys that you have to use steroids to get big. I don't think somebody's guys believe you can build any kind of physique without using steroids, which is ridiculous. From day one, they think they kick it. Yeah. I remember reading an article in Flex Magazine. It had to be in the very early 90s, maybe 1990, and it was about growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and how danger was. Because they wouldn't do articles telling you how to use stuff, but they would do these articles explaining why you shouldn't use them. I was so horrified that I thought it was like the worst thing of all time because you're going to get to type one, you're going to get type two diabetes from it, you're going to get, you know, acromaglia, you're going to get. Every possible conceivable side effect that you would get from someone who has legitimate a pituitary tumor where they're over-secreting GH their entire life. That's what they put every side effect in there that you would get from that, which is really not realistic. But nowadays, like you said, now if the opposite, now if you guys are like, if you don't take GH you're a chump, you know, that kind of thing. If you're not using 10-eye use of it a day, you're even even bigger chump, you know? Right. Just, you know, I think that the education curve is just not there, but what I found, and I tell people this even to this day, and no one knows, everyone knows, I'm not, I'm not by any means conservative about, you know, using antibiotics. What I am a stickler for is proper nutrition and supplementation because the food is what builds the muscle, let's face it, right? And the supplementation is what runs all the chemical reactions in the body. Realize that. Vitamin is minerals, metals, trace metals. They all are the co-factors in the chemical reaction. So if you're missing those, or you don't have enough of them, you can be limiting your muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and or your fat burning too. So that's why it's super important. You've, you know, you've been an advocate of natural body building, you know, better part of your career. And, you know, I can, you know, I'll give my insights obviously, but what do you feel was the most successful you were? You know, in terms of diet and supplementation routine during your career? Well, I had this growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone spur, when I was, I started body building when I was 14, I was 135 pounds and I was very skinny and I had a really fast metabolism and it was hard for me to gain weight, it was hard for me to get big. IMade a mistake when I was 16, I started competing and teenage shows, right? And I got hooked on it. And for the nexT3 years from 16 to 19, I did 10 show. Oh my God. I was doing a, I was doing like three or four shows a year. So I really didn't give myself a chance to get bigger. Although I didn't get a little bit bigger. I really wasn't focusing on side, which is what I should have did, especially as a teenage bodybuilder. But it's really, you can, you can gain muscle when you're young, even though you're dieting. You can't do that when you're older, but when you're young, you know, somehow you put muscle on while dieting. I don't know. Right. I think I was probably 180 in the offseason probably 170 for contest. Wow. I'm a table is so fast. I would get ripped in four weeks. Yeah. I've only had to die after four weeks. And I'd probably probably about 170. So when I turned 20 and I couldn't have longer competing in the teenage shows, I said, I'm taking at least a year too often. I'm going to give as big as I can naturally. Right. So I got up to 205 the first year when I was 20. Wow. By the time I was 21, I was up to 230. So I had gained almost 100 pounds from when I started without taking any drugs. And it was hard to do. I had it really eat a lot of food because my metabolism was so fast. I got one point out. I was eating probably 5,000 calories a day. Oh, I can't speak myself. A lot of protein drinks and things like that. And I was trening four days a week. But that totally changed my physique. My physique looked totally different. I had really expanded all the muscles as big as they could. And I also changed my metabolism. After that, my metabolism wasn't as fast. And I never had a closer that kind of bulking up period as much every time when I had any offseason when I bulked up, it was much easier for me to gain weight. So I had completely changed my body. But it took the seven years. It took seven years of trening. I found when I hit about 26 my metabolism slowed down a little bit enough for me to start gaining muscle. And so I forget who told me that. They said, when you hit about 25, 26, you'll see your metabolism will level off a little bit. Yeah, I was able to gain some weight. And they were right. My best years was probably from 24 to 28, or 29. That's when IMade my best gains. I couldn't really gain that much early on. But I started working out in high school. Then I stopped and went the other direction in college because I wanted to be a fast runner. I wanted to run, you better say, lost weight. And so then I did what you did. So I went down to 140 and then I didn't about face. I wanted to try to start gaining after college. I was in my last year of college. And I put on 80 pounds naturally. Who knows how much from that was really just fluid and stuff like that and proper hydration. But I noticed that the more protein I ate, the bigger I got. That was almost like a curve. As much protein as I can consume, that increased my rate at which I grew. And that's I think because younger guys in the early teens are not used to eating tremendous amounts of protein multiple times a day. So for me, the regimentation of the six meals, whether they be shakes or meals per day, is I found that's where the magic happens with me. Yeah. Just for religiously getting on that schedule of eating. Yeah. How many calories were eating back then, do you remember? You know, I never calculated. But it was like it was literally like a, it was, you know, you could almost make a graph. Increase protein, increase muscle mass. It was crazy. And then I found it's at one point I kind of hit a plateau. This is when I was still natural. And then I by adding a little bit of dietary fat to my diet, remember reading Lehanie, sayinGHe eats like one or two egg yolks with his breakfast. Right. Because everyone ate egg whites, right? Back then, in then, Haney was like, oh, I ate two egg yolks. Which seemed, you know, today that's tame, but it seemed like almost like sacralidious. And I said, well, I'm going to try that too. And this is before I even knew anything about fats, just by putting a little bit of dietary fat in my diet. Because everyone ate zero fat basically back then. I started growing again. And I hit another little growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone spur. I went from about 180 to about 205. I got up to about 215 natural. I couldn't go any, I couldn't go beyond that though. So it's funny you mentioned set points or plateau is because I did the same thing. When I did my last teenage show, I was probably like I said about 170, 175 pounds. Within six months, my weight went up to 205 without even trying. Wow. Because I think my body was like, oh, finally he's given us a break. We've taken these calories and grow. And I got to over 200 pounds for the first time in my life. And I was like, cool, I'm on my way. I'm, you know, I'm about the 230 in no time. I hit a sticking point and I couldn't gain a pound for eight months. I was stuck at 205. And I just couldn't gain any weight. So that's when I bought the nutrition. All of my neck looked. This is before we had computers and before. Right. We were really tracking things as much back. That's a good thing. So I bought the nutrition. All of my neck looked. I started writing down. I got the calories of all the foods I was eating. And I figured out exactly how many calories I was eating. And I really increased it a lot. And that's when I bolted up and went up to 230. And that was over a six month period where I went from like two or five to two 30. So I forced my body to get bigger. It wasn't, it didn't just happen. Right. It took a lot of work. I'll tell you, and I like to give credit where credit suit. Even though it probably wasn't the best quality shake, Joe Weeter had that mega mass 2000. You remember when he put that in that with that? It was 2000 calories. But you had to like do literally the scoop was not a scoop. It was like cup. It was a measuring cup. And I think you had to do two full measuring cups were like two thousand calories. Something like that. IMean, it was an enormous amount of powder. And I didn't want to guzzle the stuff down because it was almost like unbearable. So what I did is I used to make them into, I would mix them with oatmeal and raisins and some eggs. And I would make them into cook. And I actually baked cookies with them. So I would take like the two scoops, the two thousand calories. I don't, I think like 50 or 60 grams of that was like protein. And then IMade some whole eggs in there, obviously. And the oatmeal, which is adding more carbs. And I'm making cookies. And what I would do is this is what not is a medical school. I would, I would have a plate like, it would be like piled this high. And I would literally put it right next to me and I would just study. Because you know, IMeant to go out of study for like two to four hours every night. I would at least, depending on what I had to learn. And I would just sit there and eat these things nonstop. So I was constantly like slowly, you know, putting protein and carbs and some, some, some little bit of fat into my body, nonstop. And it tasted good. So you know, it was like easy to do. And for some reason when I eat when I study. And you guys might want to try this. If you guys are readers or you watch tea. And because sometimes I fall asleep really easy when I start reading stuff. But if I'm eating something constantly, I can stay focused on what I'm doing. And I don't know why it is. Even to this day, if I'm sitting eat, munching on something, I can keep myself really focused without having to do caffeine because think about it. I did my studying at night. He can't sit there and drink cups of coffee, you know, and then expect to go to sleep after. So that was my stimulant, so to speak. And but you know what, when I did that, I would not have to wholeplay the cookies before going to bed. You know, over the course of maybe four or five hours. And then I woke up. I was swear I was bigger the next day. Well, it's funny. You've mentioned the fats because I think a lot of bodybuilders always focus on protein and carbs. Yeah. But when I was stuck at that two or five, and I couldn't gain a pound, I look, you know, obviously fats have twice as many calories per gram as protein and carbs do. So I increased a lot of my fats. I was eating a seven egg omelet in the morning with just whole eggs, not egg whites. And I got it. And then I would have two protein drinks today with whole milk, eggs, bananas, protein powder, and I would have two of those today. That would be the whole wonder. You know, and I don't know how many calories that was. And then I would have hog and fast ice cream as a snack. You know, like, you know, he's the dog and ice. I had a friend who was dad worked in drostanolone, business, and he used to supply drostanolones with like, you know, chicken, cordon, blue. And so he'd have all these stuff loaded and it's freezing with these big, they used to, I guess, provide friendly ice cream to them and they had these biGHalf-gowns. And he was a pretty jack guy. He had good, really, genetics. We were going to his freezer and they're like, all right, we got to do protein. We would scoop out, you know, basically, you know, like a court of ice cream each. And we'd be eating that with, you know, blending it up with protein shakes and stuff like that. And we thought we'd get huge from that. And, you know, we probably weren't. That age you can burn everything, you know, and even so. All right. It was crazy. Yeah, it was amazing when your metabolism's going that fast. And this won't happen any other time in your life after you get out of your, you know, early 20s. It's old. But your metabolism's going so fast. You really got a force to food in. And then of course, the trening, the treninGHas to be there because that's what's going to stimulate the muscle in the first place. And when I look around the gym today and I don't know if these younger guys that I'm looking at are trying to be body-pullers or not, but they are trening completely wrong. There's really too many stats. They're using way too light of way. They're not doing the compound movements. All the things you should be doing, they're doing the opposite. Yeah. I don't know where they're getting their information from YouTube or whatever. But they're just trening wrong. You have to really, really push yourself to tren heavy and using the compound movements at that age because that's what's going to stimulate the muscle. And then the food of course is what's going to complete the process of building your body. That's a good point. And I'll tell you relevant to myself. When I was trening, I was doing the basic movements. But I was doing way too many sets because what I would do is if I wanted to improve my back, I would do every back exercise that there was. I'd ride them all down. I had bent rows, one arm rows, cd cable rows, pull downs from the back to the front. Pull ups. I probably did eight or nine different back exercises aT3 to four sets for exercise. Because that's what I thought you needed to do. You wanted to better back. You did more stuff because that was my runner's mentality. And I wonder, I think at some point when I was about two, 15 or two, 18, I said I'm going to start taking a little bit of gear. And that's when I did my first like windstool and premium of all in cycle. And I wonder if I would have fixed my trening. If I would have how much IMore, I would have gained naturally. You know, that always, I always wondered that that was my one, maybe people who's as a year one regret. That probably was my one regret that I wasn't trening properly. So they didn't have that tweaked out yet, you know. Yeah, yeah. I'm surprised you took, you only trened four days a week. That's pretty mature for, you know, most guys would never, you know, everyone was like a six day a week tren or back then, right? Because I hated it. Yeah, well, I was trening six days a week when I was a teenager and I was doing all those teenage shows. And then when I, when I switched over and I wanted to bolt go, that's when I said, I'm going to cut back. But I was still trening each muscle group twice a week. So I was doing this in same trening for my god. Just shoulders, triceps and calves on Monday, Thursday. And then abs legs, back, biceps and forearm and Tuesday Friday. IMean, I was in the gym for at least two and a half hours. Yeah, yeah, I could imagine. But I did cut back on my sets. I was using like a moderate amount of sets. And I remember I counted up how many sets I was doing for the whole workout. Yeah. And I would speak that plan so I wouldn't over tren. But IMean, that was young too. IMean, that's why I could tren that heavy. You just did six day reps on all the compound movements and trening, you know, twice or each body part twice a week. You can't do that when you start to get old. No, and then when you start to work, I was like, if you're not drinking something like a carb drink or something like that, you're never going to get through the workout either. IMean, because you're definitely running out of stuff, you know? You definitely, you know, because I would always, I would do these crazy long workouts too. But I had that like runners mentality that, you know, you're supposed to be suffering and you're supposed to feel depleted and exousted. But that's really not the case with bodybuilding. That's a big mistake people. You shouldn't leave the gym feeling like you just ran 10 miles, okay? Yeah. You should leave like feeling still pretty good. And I didn't, I had to get used to that. I never really understood that concept. I learned that much much later, though. I was definitely a chronic, because I trened with chronic overtreners too. These guys would, you know, the workout would be over and they still run around doing extra sets and then I'm thinking I'm missing out so I better go do them too. You know, it was a big concept. So if we had a summarize, not overtreninGHeavy compound movements, enough protein, enough carbs and obviously not eliminating all the fats. Recovery, we really haven't talked about that, but makes you sleep a lot. I was trying to sleep, you know, as many hours as possible, taking days off from the gym. These are all, you know, until you have all this stuff tweaked at and we haven't even got to supplement you. You're not going to maximize your natural gains, you know, I think a lot of people give up trening naturally, and then they don't even have all their stuff maximized yet. They don't even have the basics down. Well, I thought you made a great point together. Like, they was last week, they did a muscle in the morning or something where you're, or a ass Dave, where you're talking about how you should tren heavy and not just go for the pump. And you don't feel as good when you leave the gym, but that's what's going to stimulate the muscle. Yeah. You know, when you start treninGHeavy, I always stuck with six-day reps. So once I got to wait where I could do eight reps, I would increase the weight on the bar, you know, make sure and then go back down. And then sometimes I would even do stuff where I was doing like three reps on my own. And my partner would help me with two or three four strokes. Yeah. Just to force my body to get stronger, because I always believe the stronger you are in the basic compound movements for six-day reps. Mm-hmm. That's how, you know, you're going to be bigger. If you look at Kevin LaRoni, you look at Ronnie, you look at Jay Cutler, you go back to Arnold, Franco, Sergio, all those guys were super strong. Even go back farther to Regs Park, Bill Perl. Those guys were all really, really strong for that six-day reps with the compound movements. So that's the formula, that's the formula, that's what makes you big. Yeah. And believe that you're just going to get this pump and you're going to build up that sarcoplasm and all that. No way, man. You've got to build up those muscle fibers and that's six-day reps with that beauty weight. Compile movements. I remember when my friend Doug Wenz took me into the gym, I started trening with him and I think it was 92 or 93 around the night, right around there. And I thought I knew how to tren. And we go in there and I was, I think, Benchying like 185. Maybe I would do 225 for like two reps and he's like, all right, 135. Now let's put 225. I'm like, I do this for two reps. He's like, come on, he goes, look how big you are. You know, at that point I was starting to put some size on. So he was pushing me through, that was first couple of workouts, it was scary. And then he'd be like, all right, we're going to 265. I'm like, I never even did 265. He was like, you do it in today. And so he pushed me out of that, my comfort zone. I was in that I fell into a comfort zone of doing a lot of higher reps. IMean, a lot of higher volume trening and not really lifting that heavy, because I didn't want to be an out of that comfort zone. And he pushed me out of the comfort zone and man, I was, it was like he torped me every single time I trened with him because he was so much strong in the name when we first started out. And I was doing things that I didn't like to do, you know. And that's what you got to do. You can't be doing the comfort stuff every day. Like, I trened now comfortable because I'm not trying to, I'm not trying to compete anymore. I do what I like the exercise they like. Like, we're going to nice squeeze on it. I don't, I don't have to put myself in an uncomfortable zone because I'm not trying to make any improvements. I'm trying to just stay fit. And so it's a different mentality. If you want to get better, you have to go where you've never gone before. Right. Well, you make another great point different day about pushing yourself. And you really need somebody to push yourself to that level. Yeah. Because it's hard to push yourself and tren really, really hard by yourself. But when you have somebody that's more advanced than you and pushes you and goes to that pain barrier, that's something that has to be taught. It's very hard because I think your mind is always trying to protect your body from pain. Of course. You push yourself like that. Your mind's telling you stop, stop. But when you have somebody screaming at you to do more reps and do more away, then that's what's going to push you. And then once you pass that pain barrier, once you learn how to do that, then you can do it forever for the rest of your life. Every time you tren, you can flip that switch, I remember I was trening with Doug and we for like a whole year. And maybe we were six months into our trening together. And I was getting pretty big. I put on a lot of sizes. I was like maybe 250, 260. And at this point I was strong. I got very strong. And he said, one day we go into the gym. He's like, yeah, we're going to do power clens today. I'm like, the fuck's power clens. I'm like, I don't want to do these. And it was the most awkward move because I had no, I never done them before. You know, I had, you know, I don't even know where he came up with this, but he would always come up with something that I had never done before. And at this point I'm getting such good results. I'm like, all right, he's like, don't complain, just do them. And I did it, man. I was sore the next day. Like, crazy. And you know what, that's what I needed someone like that to keep putting me into the zone of of tricking my body, doing, even though it probably wasn't a great exercise, it was very ballistic and I really liked that. It was, it was something different than we had done and it shocked my body a little bit. And that's, that's what I learned. You have to constantly keep your body, you know, guessing. Yeah, you got to squat most almost every week because that's going to build legs, obviously, like, but some weeks you might skip it and do something a little different. Maybe a Smith machine squad or something that's just going to kind of throw your body off kilter because maybe we went too many weeks in a row or lifting super heavy. So he wanted to, like, kind of just change it up a little bit. And that, that's important if you want to keep me, if you hit platos, you want to keep making gains, mix it up. That's why when people ask you, what do you think of this routine? What do you think of that routine? I said they were all great. Find what works for you. But then if you want incorporate other stuff in there, just to keep, kind of, keep your body guessing and otherwise you're going to hit stagnation points. And sometimes people think, oh, I'm stagnating, I got to take drugs now. No, you're stagnating because number one maybe you're not eating enough food now because you game 20 pounds, you need more food or maybe your trening is the same every week and you got to change that up a little bit. Maybe you need a new trening partner or just to give you new ideas and stuff like that. There's so many variables that you need to manipulate before you say that said I can't make any more progress. Yeah, yeah, I don't love how you but I always stuck with the barbequeels and dumbbells. I always tried this. I very rarely did machines. IMean, you probably heard Mel talk and when we, when we and Mel used to tren, you said, like, I'm going to do like cable stuff on my head. No, no, no, no, no. All those dumbbell rows, dead lifts, you know, I think that's the basics. Right. That's what builds the muscle, you know, without drugs. Yeah, when I first started doing like freeway, it was like, it was like, I entered a new world. Like, I, you know, you remember the first time you tried a barbell, you bench press, the bars, all over the place that you can't even, you can't even worry about pushing the bar. You couldn't even balance the bar or dumbbells. The first time I got dumbbells up, they were like, you know, like, oh, I was fell off the bench from them. So that's the reason why those are good is because the stabilization aspect of that movement, freeway movement, you having the stabilize involves more muscle groups, which gives you a complete or development, which will help you get realized. Yeah. Absolutely. And, you know, now IMean, we haven't even talked supplements, but I can't tell you, you know, when you start increasing what you're doing in the gym, and you're trying to make your body engage in, you know, more protein synthesis reactions, oxidize more fat. The nutrients that normally are enough for your body, that you might just get normally from your food, now become scarce, and you start running out of stuff. You may not have an abv item as to metabolize carbohydrates. You might not have enough of the, you know, like, chromium, which is a very, you know, common, you know, trace metal that's necessary for insulin to work properly. So if you're chromium deficient, you might not burn fat adequately. I'm just giving you examples, but there's a lot of different, you know, calcium for muscle contraction, magnesium for muscle relaxation. All these different things come into effect. So now you have to increase your consumption of minerals, vitamins, and then we learn later, obviously, essential fatty acids, right, for repairing muscle cell membranes. No one got, you know, a lot of people don't take enough of that stuff, or they take cheap forms of it that they're not absorbing, because just because you're swallowing a pill doesn't mean it's going into your bloodstream. Right. And that was a, that was it a completely different science and different beast that I had to learn to conquer because, and that's what really interested me. I was in medical school. I wanted to know, I, you know, I'm learning all this stuff in my group, and, and excuse me, and, um, um, when I'm going to talk about biochemistry about how all these, you know, vitamins and minerals are used as co-factes, only chemical reactions, and I'm like, I'm not even taking this stuff. I said, how am I expected to maximize my performance? So when I started taking good quality supplements, I think you remember, uh, what was it, I don't even feel so rich, is um, saltgarstol around, I guess they are, right? All ground. Saltgarstol. Saltgarstol. You used to be like the, the number one. It was the most expensive, remember, came in a glass bottle with shrink wrap plastic, and I think just all around saltgarstol. I, I think nature's bounty on something like that. That was like the high-end line. I remember those products were really expensive. Well, do you remember they had those amino, what was, uh, it was like an Asian name, uh, what were they called? Those amino, they were just plain. They weren't flavored or anything. They, uh, I can't remember what they were called. Someone's going to remind me in the comments, but, yeah, I had to spend money, right? And people didn't, we didn't have money as kids, but, right, that was an important, IMean, think about, if you knew now about nutrition, IMean, if you knew then about nutrition, what you know now, in terms of supplementation, think about the progress you would have made. Yeah, absolutely. Or even just counting up the calories and all that stuff, that's something I learned later on. Yeah, when I was trying to, right, what were you taking, we taking an animal pack or an animal, if megapack from Joe Weiner, IMean, that's what most people took, right? Well, I was a kid, we were all taken liver supplements, those liver types. Oh, the liver tabs, yeah, and I don't even know. Yeah, 30 a day, I was taking 10, 10, 10, because it's been surrounded by the told you to take them, that's why, right? Yeah, yeah. We're taking all of the amino acids, it's a couple minutes, so then of course, the weight gain powder came in, you know, when I was trying to gain weight. Right, but I'm talking like pure like, you know, multivitamin mineral, you know, it's type stuff. I remember a Weeder Joe Weeder came out with his victory line of products, which was all, it was there, they were very overpriced, but it was all marketing with Haney and Kasparian, very denated, we're using. Yeah, but, those were, none of the fact, those were so high end that I think they went up this continuing them because they were so expensive to make. He had essential fats in there. This was before anyone ever did it. It was like a mega pack, but it was like the, he had his anabolic mega packs, but then these were like the next levels, like they were like, I remember I bought him a couple of times, they were very expensive, but they were essential fatty acids in there that were like hot, like, he laid in minerals because Joe was a big believer in healing. He knew about healing, minerals, minerals bounce to amino acids back then because, remember he was selling chromium, Pauline the codenate, which was a, which was a key-lated chromium, whereas a lot of people were selling the salt furs in the chromium, which really wasn't absorbable, you know, and, you know, that made a huge difference in people's response to a lot of things. And, and I don't think people knew a lot about it. They just figured I have to take this stuff, but it's, you know, it's, it's so important when you're trening at that level and you're consuming that much food to take the right supplementation. Yeah, I'm going to grab you take in multi-vitamin, multi-mineral, vitamin C, weak complex, vitamin E, you know, those are just the basics that you take every- You could have 40 bottles on your, on your kitchen counter, right? IMean, and you still, you still had stuff you wanted to take. That's why when I, when I produce, you know, the species line of products, you know, when I came up, we'd be mineralized and, and, and, oh, mega-lyce, I said, you know what, no one's going to take 16 different bottles. I got to put it all into, into two formulas. That's, and, and, minerals and vitamins, trace metals. And IMade it easy, and I put it in a month's supply because I remember the toil that I went through as, as a young body, builder, trying to get the right amount and how long is it going to last me because I got a budget my money. I need 14 different bottles, you know, and you start saying, well, all right, well, what can I afford and what can I afford? If it was, that's why I think that people love the animal packs and they, and about the mega packs because it was like all in one formula. All right, exactly. The problem was a lot of that stuff was never absorbed, they weren't good forms of the stuff. It wasn't really absorbable. Yeah, it was on the ingredient list, but I think someone did that experiment with those because those animal packs used to have like those hard tablets here, remember? Yeah, yeah. So, when put them in water, like, like, like, like, 20 days later, they still had the resolve to something like that, you know. People were taking it, and just pooped them out. They weren't even coming out in there in the toilet bottle. But it wasn't even, I can't even blame the companies. No one knew. You know, it was such a early science back then. No one really knew what was really good. You know, Bill Thurps was one of the first few people to really start, like, you know, let people start to think about, hey, I need this supplement for this or this supplement for that. And this is a better form of it. And I think that's what we do step this game up to when Bill Phillips did. Yeah, absolutely. I call the mid-90s, you know, that early 90s, mid-90s, that was like kind of a hey, they have supplementation when finally people were starting to talk about quality of supplements, right? Because IMean, before that, IMean, everyone was using basically powdered skim milk and sugar. That's what all the protein powders were. Yeah. And then metrics came out, you know, and then metabolol from from from from champion nutrition, those changed and then designed a protein. Those changed the way we thought about, you know, nutrition and supplementation. The creatine came along right around that time. Yeah. Yeah. And then, then, you know, all the other stuff, you know, dimediduring for, you know, for retrening, ultimate orange, which was, you know, de-chains, you know, work that. That was really the first, people were really, that was the first pre-workout, you know, of all time. Yeah. Was the ultimate orange, you know, was a fedra and like a carbohydrate mix. That was the only one of the fedra, right? Right? That was the other big, very extra. IMean, they were that, people think that, you know, BSN came out with, you know, an analogue, which was the first pre-workout it really was and it was really, really, really damn disheveled. I don't know if Danny, whoever put out the ultimate orange. I know Dan was Dan's formula supposedly, right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So IMean, we, and notice, we've been talking for what, 45 minutes, maybe, and we haven't mentioned drugs one time because, right, right, exactly. Think about how much there is to think about before you even get the drugs. Yet most people, the first thing on their mind is what, what's stack am I going to take, right? Yeah. I really think it's the mindset nowadays where people just believe you have to take steroids to get big. And, you know, you really got to push yourself. IMean, I was the kind of guy that, my, I wasn't genetically gifted as far as like a fast gainer. I wasn't someone like any from the Sean Ray. Yeah. Those guys grew really easy teenagers. I was very skinny. I had a trensform my body and I did it, but it took seven years of trening and it also took a lot of eating and a lot of hard trening, a lot of hard trening. There was many, many years of really bustling your ass in the gym. So, the other thing I wanted to mention, Dave, also, is these guys need to track their progress. You know, maybe take sure once a month and take measurements once a month and make sure they're growing and don't be afraid to get a little fat. You know, you should, you know, that age, you're not going to get grossly fat unless you have a terrible metabolism. But if you're eating clen food, I remember I even when I was poking up, I would eat food that I prepared at home. I very rarely went out in eight. So, it was all food that I, and it was a lot of work eating all that food. Like, as long as I was getting bigger everywhere else, I didn't care if my weight went up a little bit. I was just happy to be gaining weight at that point. You know, I was happy to be gaining as big as I could be. Well, it's also about, you know, it's consistently applying all the principles we just talked about, trening properly, resting, eating the right amount of foods, never missing a meal, taking all the nutritional supplements. A lot of people are not OCD enough to apply that every single day, seven days a week, every day in the month, every day of the year. People go in spurts. They, they're good for four to six weeks and they kind of get lazy. They go away. They go out with their friends. They drink. They miss a couple meals. You know, before they know it, you know, the six weeks of progress they made. They just went and they lost it all. And that I was of the mindset and it seems like you were to them. You know, we had this goal of how we wanted to look. And we weren't going to miss ever anything. You never were going to miss a meal. You never were going to miss a workout. You weren't going to, you were not going to leave anything to chance. Anything we had control of any variable. We made sure that we maximized. And that's how you make good gains because it's not the gains you make three days a week. It's the small incremental progress you're doing every single day. And it all adds up. And you mentioned the rest of my cooperation. I remember during that time I was sleeping eight hours a night. Yeah. It's probably taking an hour nap during the day. And I cut it back on all my outside activities. The only thing I did was weight trening. I wasn't playing around. You know, shooting basketball or running around and doing anything else. All I was doing was I cut back. And I remember those are saying, don't run. If you can walk, don't walk. You can stand. Don't stand. If you can sit down. If you're going to sit down, you must will take a nap. Yeah. No, no. I was a big believer of that too. It's funny. My father said, always told me too. He goes, if you want to be an athlete, play your sport. Don't play other sports because you're going to wind up gettinGHurt. And I took that the hard. I stopped doing like you said all the, you know, any other risky behavior that I would normally do. You know, other pick-up basketball, you know, back then the big thing was, you know, coming out of high school or in high school, it's football. The pick-up football games, right? You play like, you know, we used to play tackle football with no equipment. You know, it was crazy what we did. But it was fun, you know, and I loved it. But you know what? That's when you're a body building and you're building your body and one plane of motion and then you go play football on a weekend, you know, for one day, you wind up crippling yourself. You know, I wouldn't play beach volleyball on something like that because you go up for to spike the ball before you know, you tear a bicep or you can pull your shoulder out, you know. And just conservative in calories. I remember when I was like 15 years old when I was before I started competing, I tried out for wrestling just to, you know, try it. I never had done wrestling before. And these guys are running around and they're burning all these calories. And then they're trying to cut weight. I'm like, this is the exact opposite of what I'm trying to try to get bigger. These guys are trying to lose weight and get more grip and get smaller, you know. Yeah. It's weird because I was a runner and then I had to, I had to like, we and myself are running because I was so addicted to it. And then I got to a point where I got so big. I couldn't even run anymore. It was like my body, I could completely change how functional my body was from one thing to another. It was it's incredible how you can do that to your body. But if you want to be good at what you're good at, do what you want to be good at, don't, don't do what you don't want to be good at. You know, and I always tell that to people, you know, when you're trening and you, let's say you're trying to burn some body fat. It's stupid to go and do super crazy high intensity cardio when you don't have to perform cardio vascularly on stage for that. It's not like you're trening for a triathlon where you actually have to actually run a race. You know, you're doing cardio so that you can burn fat and look good on stage. It has nothing to do with functionality. And I think a lot of people start thinking, well, if I do high intensity crazy, 90 cardio, I'm going to burn more calories. Yeah. But that's not going to be functional for bodybuilding. You're going to also burn a lot of muscle doing that. Yeah, there's so, there's so many kinds of this more is better. I hear people talking about all the time. They'll do a contest and they're like, I got to bring up my back. So I'm going to start trening my back three days a week. Well, I've had every day the rich piano feeder feeder workouts used to do, which was I think more of like a, he, rich would kind of think up things that would shock people and then would do these videos. I'm like, you know, in trening a week body part every day, you tren it last, not more, you know, right, right, right, exactly. And I worked out town. And I see so many guys today trening six days in a row and I got a rest. You got to hit it hard in the gym and then recuperate. You got to run back to how was trening four days a week. Maybe I could have been made better games back then going three on one off. But you always got to have those rest days. Right. I remember when Ronnie Coleman was Mr. Olympian people would see that he's doing each body part twice a week. He's trening six days a week, like you said. Right. And people are trying to emulate that. I'm like, guys, this guy is a genetic freak. He can recover from anything. He does probably if he trened the right way, he would be, you know, 330 pounds on stage. Don't try to do what he does. That's not the guy you should be copying, you know. I always thought the Dorium was a good guy to copy because I just thought, even though Dorium structurally had it, obviously a genetically good structure for, for me, a great body He didn't look like he was like a, are particularly like a genetically blessed guy in terms of gym. I think he was all, it was a lot of intellectual and scientific, you know, study that he did. This is what would work best, what, you know, what routines he wrote everything down. He was very methodical. That's a guy you can kind of copy to try to emulate because he wasn't a genetic freak, like a, like a Laveroni or or Flex anything they did. He grew. He'd got them to be the best because he was, he was a scientist about it, you know. Yeah. Well, it's funny Dorium came along in the 90s. And when I was growing up in the 70s, we had Mike Menser. Yeah. Because my started working out, we all followed Arnold. Everybody was trening six days a week. Everybody in the whole country was trening six days a week. Arnold was. And then Menser came along and he goes, no, I only trened four days a week and you can just tren a muscle hard. You can tren that long. You can't do both. And that blew everybody's mind. And I think that changed everybody's trening. I don't think a lot of people letting it get exactly what Menser did. Right. But everybody cut back. I think everybody cut back from six days a week, 20, 25 sets of body part. Right. We all cut back. And I think everybody made more gains after that point. Yeah. And there are guys who can do 25 sets in growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone from it. Obviously, we've seen these guys, but not many people can do that. I certainly couldn't recover from that. Then anything I got small from doing like like 25 sets. I didn't, I didn't even gain any muscle. I would get leaner, but I wouldn't get any bigger. You know. So I remember Tom Platt said that too. He said when he went to California, he trened with Arnold. And he got smaller. 20, how Arnold really respond? I wonder if Arnold would have responded to more of a dory and trening routine. I know Arnold liked the tren for hours now. But you know, he was a tall guy. I wonder if he would have had better legs if he had not overtrened his legs and stuff like that. It would have been just interesting to say. Well, if you look at Arnold back when he was in his 20s, he did a lot of powerless thing. And he was much more bulkier. I don't want to keep out of your trip. That's true. And he thought a whole new way of trening. I think when he came to America. Yeah, California, you know, in general. Different mentality. Everyone's like, you know, very laid back there and everything. Yeah. That's why Arnold did so well. I think he had that like, you know, that Iron Curtain, you know, Eastern European, you know, work ethic. And then he goes to California where everyone's like, yo, peace happiness, you know, and just kind of like, you know, chillin' out. And so Arnold just ate those guys for lunch there, you know? Yeah, exactly. The best bodybuilders in California were the guys who came from the East, right? And came across the country, you know? Right. They weren't homegrown there. That's for sure. Yeah, not many of them. Well, you know, I hope people, you know, took some of this information that we put out there to heart and realized that, hey, if you want to be a natural bodybuilder, he has some great advice, but you know what? If you want to be a bodybuilder that uses gear at some point or it uses it now, you still got to do the same things. That's why when people say, hey, if you tren natural bodybuilders, I'm like, of course I do. It's the same exact formula, whether you're naturally you're not. Drugs just make things work better. That's all. Yeah. Yeah. I'm doing the same thing. I'm trening natural bodybuilders and getting ready for shows and, you know, it's a whole different mindset, but you just, you got to put in that work and you got to do it right. And if you tren like a lot of these kids, I see in the gym, you're not going to get anywhere. No. You know what it is? I think people think drugs can make up. And to some degree, drugs can compensate for mistakes that you make. But imagine if you do everything right, how good the results will be. People say, hey, how did you gain a hundred pounds of muscle in five years? And I said, I said, well, because I did everything right, you know, at that point I had got everything on my trening, my diet, my supplementation, my drugs, my rest and recuperation, my lifestyle, I set up for myself. Everything kind of worked. And that's that's the way you make the best gains. IMean, you can still make gains, but if you want to maximize your gains, that you've got to have every variable cover. And you know, and that's, you know, I teach that my secrets to becoming a diaper, of course. I know you talk about it all the time on your things. I stay, I keep pounding the same advice to the people's heads because once they realize that there's no secret, there's no magic bullets out there. Okay. And I know a lot of gurus don't want to hear it. They don't want me to, they don't want us to tell anyone this. They don't want to, they want everyone to think that there's a special secret that they're only going to get by working with this coach or that coach. There's no secrets, guys. A good coach is someone who takes a program that has all the basic tenants covered and knows how to manipulate it and make the changes to keep your progress moving forward, whether it be gaining muscle or losing body fat. And that's what makes a good coach. There's no secret magic, you know, formulas. I put all my diets and everything out there from free. I've been doing it for 30 years. I've been putting it out there. Here's my keto diet. Here's my supplement routine because that's not what's special. What's special is yeah, you've got to have the basics down, but then it's how you modify it, how you add the right foods at the right time or reduce the amount of trening you're doing or add cardio or whatever you're trying to do to that's a good coach. And that's that all that only comes with experience. IMean, joining me this long time, I would do this a long time. You can't teach someone that. You can, I could teach them the science, but coaching experience comes from just years of doing it. Yeah. And you got to have the passion and the hard work too. You got to tren hard and you got to eat good and that's not going to, you know, it's not what you do. It's how you do it. You really got to push yourself. Holds at the gym and at the at home when you're eating. Yeah. And if you don't do that, you're not going to get the most money gains you can get. Right. And if you're a coach, you can't, I'm not there with you in your house. So I can't motivate you to want to be the best that you can be. But if you have that motivation and I coach you or John Coaches, you're going to get great results because we're going to make sure that all of those variables are covered. So anyway, on that note, let's wrap this up. I want to thank everyone for joining us for another episode of Guru Talk. If you guys have any suggestions for future shows, put them in the comments below and we will, uh, we will absolutely address them then. I'm Dave Palombo with John Hanson. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: SERGIO OLIVA JR BATTLES ALEXIS ROLON： 2018 IFBB TAMPA PRO WRAPUP [-JV16iyllWY].txt ===

All right, this is John Hansen with Chris the Technician, the Ceto at the 2018 Tampa Pro Show. Chris, really good show today. Great show, great lineup everywhere. Congratulations first off to Tim Gardner for putting on such a great show. You know, I've been coming to the show for years. Like you have, you're from Tampa. Well, you're a trensplant from Chicago. And every year, it seems like Tim and his crew up the ante in terms of location. You know, you write on the water here with the boats. It's the first class hotel. Organization skills are like a plus huge show and yet they run it, you know, right smack on time. So without Tim Gardner, the promoter, we couldn't do a rap up because we'd have no show. So thanks Tim. And they said a record. This was two hundred and ninety pros competing this week. And that's the most and any IFPB show ever. Yeah, it's amazing. You know, what? The men's classic physique, the men's physique. You know, all these new classes, stuff, come around in the last five years. The amount of people that they've pulled, but not only people of quality people, IMean, the depth that you're seeing in these shows in 2018 versus 2015 is like night and day. People who could win in 15 or 14, we get slaughtered, you know, just a few years later. So it's a testament to, you know, thEQuality of the competitors that are coming in year after year. And there's more and more pros now. So we got bigger and bigger divisions and bigger more classes. And I think Tim is the only contest where he has every division. His fitness, he has women's bodybuilding, has everything. Yeah, IMean, it's, it's, you know, Tim is a type of guy who supports the sport. So, you know, he doesn't have to have every class. Yeah. But, you know, he's got a passion for the sport. And he's a businessman. So, you know, the business part could be like, I'm just doing these. Yeah. But he decides to take care of everyone and have a, you know, great outing for everyone. Well, let's start off with classic physique. They had about 40 competitors. So it was a huge huge division. And your guy, Henry Pierre, you know, you know, displaying an amazing physique really, really tall, very wide and extremely small ways. He wins the division. Pretty handily. I thought, yeah, I think like, and you know, Henry is somebody, like one of these guys was like a template for classic, you know, I posted a picture, you know, kidding me. And on, like, somewhere on the internet, and I said, I took this picture in 1983 because it's like a physique that you would expect. Yeah. Then, you know, he's got sweeping lats, tiny waist, deeply separated quads with a, you know, a decent sweep, but not the crazy sweep that you'd see it, like obviously people in the open. So great skin texture, broad looks good in all the poses. IMean, it was his show, you know, I thought he was like the, you know, hands down winner. Yeah. Just because he typifies, I think, what people expect or what they envision when they say, you know, classic. He's truly got classic lines. What do you, well, you're, you know, you're over 40, 30. So what would you think? You've been around the sport? When you showed me his pictures yesterday, I was trying to think of the last guy I saw a little waist that small and the only one I can think of was Brian Buchanan. So that's it. Brian has a different type of a physique thicker, I think, upper body, but Henry looked great, bigger, much bigger and person than he did in your pictures. He's got that tiny waist, but he's a big man. He's like, really tall and he really dominated the division. I thought, and his legs, like you said, I agree. They had that crazy separation. They weren't super big, but really perfect for classic physique. Yeah, no, I agree. And, you know, he's off to, to the Olympian six weeks. So second place was Keon Pearson. Keon Pearson is a young guy, a short guy, that stacks up well against anyone in the classic division because he's got round muscle belly. I'm sure he's heard that to the infigree. He's got, you know, a vacuum which is, doesn't define you as being classic. Just because you can do a vacuum doesn't mean you're got a classic lines. But he's got nice lines, nice shape. I think here, you know, he ran up against someone much taller, which is an advantage. And in better condition too as well. But I thought he looked great. He could have been a touch sharper maybe that's nitpicking. But he's someone I think he might bEQualified for the Olympian. If he's not, he's somebody in the future who will be in the mix for a good slot. I remember seeinGHim actually, I think it was at the Olympian this past year. Some one of the pro shows, I was hugely impressed because he looks good really from every angle. And this part of, you know, this part of bodybuilding to look good from every angle. But I think in classic too, you really have to look, you know, like you have flow from every angle. He's got a very thick physique, real good legs. And he does have that vacuum. Like you said, he was showing that off a lot. Yeah, so if he's not qualified for the Olympia, you know, I'm sure he'll get the as soon. And if he is, which I actually think he is, you know, anything can happen at that show because what's interesting about classic is everyone looks a little bit different. You know, you got like a Henry who's tall and he's short, you know, bumpsets tall. Yeah. You've got the bull guy who's, you know, brutally muscular for that class. You know, so Reagan Grimes, a Roshra bot. Everyone has totally different, you know, Brianna, the winner. Yeah. You know, IMean, everyone has totally different lines and things that are unique to them. So it's, it's kind of sort of a little bit hard to judge because people are so different looking. Yeah. Speaking to that, how do you think Henry would stack up against some of the taller guys in classic like Chris Bumstedt and also the new guy, Wesley Vissers? I think you'll see, you know, I think he's going to do well because I think it's, you know, height works to an advantage. I think at that show, I thought, like Chris Bumstedt, Lesha, you know, the height and the width, but the height was like really, you know, made a mark in terms of your eye going towards, you know, at least the initial life. Of course, you know, he's in condition. He's complete and everything else. He used to be a bodybuilder. Those are important, but I think height matters. And, you know, and by definition, if you have like key on in the middle, next to Bumstedt, tall, Henry tall, you know, he, he's either the winner, which is not or he looks like something's a little bit off, you know. You're going to get pushed to a push side, I think. Yeah, I agree. And third place goes to Jason Low, who is a client of yours and he's a Florida guy, so I've seen him before I've done some videos with him. A real thick physique kind of reminds me, and you know, I don't know if you agree with this, but his physique always sort of reminded me of Franko Centauriello. Yeah, that kind of thickness, they were around, yeah, the relegated round, muscle bellies, but this time he was in the best condition of ever seen him. Yeah, he was in tremendous condition, you know, he's been holding that condition, he did the Arnold and he's been pounding the shows after shows trying to win a show to get to the Olympia. Yeah. And I've been tellinGHim since like day one is, you know, you're going to find a show where you can win. This was one of them. Yeah. But he's, there's been shows that he did not do, IMean, you can't do every show. Yeah. But there's been shows where he didn't do, for example, he's very capable of winning, like minus, you know, so, you know, here in a crazy stack line up, he came in at his best, you know, has been dieting forever, ends up in third place. And IMean, there's nothing to be, you know, hold your head low, you know, on a third place finish in a class like this. And I think that as Jose Raymond says, I love to call you Jose, you know, this class has made few in terms of, you know, he lacks weaknesses, he lacks weaknesses, and he's got brings very strong to tremendous condition. So, by definition, just those attributes lacking weaknesses and having great condition, you're going to always be in the hardcore mix of three to five, and then you're going to pick a show where you're going to win. Yeah. I think he was overjoyed to play a certain. And his posing was better also. Yeah. I thought his posing was improved over what I've seen in the past. Yeah. You know, you know, he's new, like a lot of guys, but new to the stage. So, you know, the more time you get on stage, the more relaxed you are. Yeah. Okay, fourth place we had Damian Patrick. What can you say about him, Chris? Damian Patrick was, uh, had classic lines, classic shape, and was very hard and muscular. I think that the three people ahead of him had better, quote, classic lines, a better V tape or, and that negated his great condition to, like you couldn't put him higher than fourth place in that lineup. Yeah. And since he had classic, you know, flow and lines and shape like that, you know, so it automatically put him in like the mix atop six, and his condition was would have typically pushed him higher, but, you know, you have three guys with more classic lines before him. Yeah. And, uh, and I think that's what just kept him in the fourth side. And then fifth was Cleveland Thomas, a name from the past. I remember him. I think he was competing in the team universe for many years. So, uh, he takes the top top five. Yeah. Cleveland looked very good. And I thought he looked like a bodybuilder. And it's hard to explain, you know, someone asked me what is classic. I said, I know it when I see it. And I think he, you know, he's a classic bodybuild. You know, he has classic lines, but there's still like like a little power edge to his physique. Yeah. You know, which, you know, you could never say Henry has a powerful physique. You could never say Keona has a powerful physique. You, you, you, you sit on the word physique more than powerful. And I think that's what happens in, you know, his cases, although he looked good and just, you know, deserve to be up there where he plays, you know, he has like a power element to him that, you know, I think like it, from, if I was judging, I would say, okay, you know, he's not going to place higher than here. Yeah. At least in this show. Yeah. All right. Now we go to the two 12 division and a guy with a lot of high play lately, Nicholas, Phililudo, I think it's from Switzerland. He comes in and he wins a... Nicholas and B. So we don't box his name. Yeah. Yeah. He wins the first spot. He gets first place, displaying an amazingly massive physique, a super big legs, super big arms, really freaky looking, kind of like a leap-free Type of physique sort of. I was just going to say he reminds me like a belief priest, but the downside is that it reminds me of a leap-free priest. In other words, you know, tremendous amount of muscle, tremendous amount of density, very, very good condition, but he's already looks like almost too big for the frame if that makes sense. Yeah. So, and that's not to pick the winner and say this is what's wrong with that. He's the winner and there's a deservedly so, but I think that, you know, running into the Olympia, there's people who open up more on their poses, you know, especially the back poses. IMean, he needs thicker back and I'm sure that will come at some point, but there's something a little bit like bunched up about his physique, which makes him in the line up very vulnerable. But when he gets into the shots, of course, I just, his fantastic, I try to set most muscular back-lats spread, even the front double-bice up, you know, is very good. So, he packs a ton of muscle. IMean, this was a slam dunk I thought in a large degree for him, just if, you know, because you got a way muscle, right? It's bodybuilding and then two-12 divisions, but yeah, to ton of it. Yeah, I agree. I was looking at his pictures of this as he, after the Katta's was over, he's got very short legs, long torso, which in I agree with he is back as his big, weak point, and maybe because of the long torso, that's a bigger reason why. Yeah, IMean, a long torso with shorter legs throws off, you know, to some weird degree balance, and I think in my mind, I always think a leap-priced like that, crazy giant arms, crazy giant legs, it has everything, the only knock is the torso's a little bit long. Yeah, it's just a structure, and there's really nothinGHe can do about that, but he does pack an amazing amount of muscle onto his frames. Second place goes to Derek Oslin. Derek Oslin's got nice, like round muscle, good flow, lack of weaknesses, but I think if you weigh condition, it was odd to me that some people I thought were conditioned, namely Mike Argus, and Lloyd Daller, who were especially Mike Argus, I thought he was in tremendous condition, fell the 6th and 7th, and yet they got to be scratching their head and thinking, okay, the guy who got second, while looks good, you know, didn't have the level of condition that they have. How old is Mike Argus now? I remember him from the USA 15 years ago. Yeah, so Mike's got to be the youngest mid 40s, you know, but he looked tremendous, up there, so he's got to be frustrated. I would be frustrated if I was him, not knowing like how do I place higher in a show like this. So going back to Derek, I think he's got a good structure and a good future in the 2012, it's just that he needs to add density and condition. I think it's more like density, then it is like condition. IMean his body fat is low, but I think, you know, sometimes you can have the same level of body fat as someone else, but if they have a dense look, it looks way harder under the light. Yeah, absolutely. And that's just a matter of trening, right? Yeah, trening years. Yeah. Third place and the 2012 goes to as wilder against Alice. Yeah, and so here's a guy rewarded on condition. Yeah. Nothing wrong with that, but it's like at some parts of pre-judging, I thought he looked thin in the upper body, and I would have definitely rewarded him as well on condition, but I thought at points, like a lot of pre-judging, I just thought it was like, you know, I was impressed with the condition, but the fullness, or even it's not even fullness, it's just like size in the upper body was like a little off. And you know, looked a little bottom-heavy, a little and he's a little thin through the, you know, the structure in the show, there's so. Yeah. I was getting out of one of hard on it, but I am hovered on it, and my greatest I thought were, you know, easily comparative to number two and three. Fourth goes to Carrus Bajo, another guy in really great condition. Yeah, that was Dave Lumbels guy. Okay. Yeah, I thought it was a mass monster, and I personally would have liked to see him in better condition, to highlight that mass. IMean, he's freaky big, crazy, crazy legs. Okay. And this is the oddness of the judging, right? IMean, so what do you do with him? Like crazy mass, one of the thickest guys, if not, you know, next to Nicholas. Yeah. But nowhere near the level of condition of Nicholas, and nowhere near the condition of the guy who got third and, you know, say third place. Right. Right. So it's an apples and orange type show. Right. We have the top six, the top five were apples at all. Exactly. And then fifth place was Fernando Dielameta. Yeah, Fernando has been around for a long time, low body fat here, you know, very good condition. I just thought he was flat. I've seen him fuller. But, you know, when you chase condition, you know, nobody can chase condition, and it's very hard to chase condition and stay full. Yeah. So I've seen him bigger or fuller. So I think, you know, that's like a personal decision. He always is probably making recently as, you know, do I come in as hard as I possibly can? He can give up some size. What do I try to come in, you know, hard enough. And big enough. He's probably looking at the guys ahead of him, say, wait a minute. Because he was, how do they then the guy in fourth for sure, and harder than the guy in second. But for his own physique, he looked a little flat through the packs, which hurt his front last spread. And being like flat through the upper back, it hurt his front, hurt his front double as well. Okay. So, um, but that's, you know, that's how the contest goes. You have to decide on how you're going to come in hard to fuller. You know, be nice. Just to come in big flow and hard all the time. If you want to get that down. If you figure it out, let me know. Yeah. All right. So now we're going to the men's open. Now this was one of the most exciting men's open bodybuilding contest I've seen in years. Yeah. We had a real battle between Surgeleva, Jr. and Alexis Rivera from Puerto Rico. They had a big battle at the pre-judging. And then they carried it over to tonight. Another big battle. Yeah. Yeah. Great battle. And great elevation from the crowd. This is what bodybuilding should be, right, Chris? This is, this is like, you know, if you, obviously people listen it on the internet aren't here. But I haven't been to a bodybuilding contest for people to share like this in years. Yeah. And I think here coming out of pre-judging, I had Sergio interesting. The first call out they had four people to top for and I had Sergio I'll leave a not clearly winning but for sure winning. And then they called those Sergio who ends up second and Alexis who wins the last call out of pre-judging together. Yeah. And I thought, well, that was quick. The guy who got Alexis seems to really tighten up quickly in pre-judging. I thought, well, maybe, you know, was his nerves, you know, because when he first was in the first call out, he was hard for sure. But just not really popping. And then that last call out, it seemed like he closed the gap. But for sure, I thought that, in my mind, Sergio was winning. Come back tonight. And they, you know, I thought that Alexis was tighter than this morning. And actually had a full look than this morning. His collar was definitely better than this morning. And they compared those two, like we haven't seen, people being compared in years. Steve was holding the poses for so long. It seemed like a opposing clinic. And not only after that, it just ran them through it again. Yeah. And you could feel the genuineness of, we're not sure. Yeah. At that point, you could feel that that was a lot of times when they called two people out at the end, it's a show. Yeah. They know who's going to win. They know who's second. It could be a blow. You know, it's close. But let's compare them, you know, put on a show, whatever. You could feel when they kept on calling them and kept on calling them, we're not sure. Yeah. And that's why the, and that is exactly why the audience went nuts, because they could feel the same thing. And there were shots at the end. I think that Alexis won. And there were shots that Sergio won. Mostly the same shots. They both equally won in pre-judging. And you could flip a coin with them. Yeah. You know, I thought Alexis had tremendous legs. And just quad separate, straighted quads. Yeah. HugEQuads and straighted quads. IMean, yeah. Nice. Yeah. You know, his quads look even more detailed tonight. Yeah. And Sergio's legs are a strong point. Yeah. And I thought Sergio was a little bit better from the back and back. And Sergio's back was kind of his weak point before. Yeah. But I thought he really brought that up. I thought he definitely had him in the rear double. And back last bread. I thought he had him in the back last bread too. Yeah. How about front double front last bread? Front double. I had Sergio also. I thought Alexis was harder in the most muscular, especially in the abdominal region. You could see his abs were harder. And he just like, I think he looked harder overall in the most muscular. I'm going to front last bread. Probably Sergio, because he's got those high lats. So this is my point. And that's my point. How about side chest? Yeah. About equal. Okay. Side tricep. Okay. The point is, I try so I think Sergio. Sergio hits a pose better. The oddness of it is that I would agree with you. And yet I would agree with the idea that you could flip a coin. So I helped Sergio. I have him winning more poses than Alexis, but at the same time, this is bodybuilding. You can certainly leave there. And IMean, those, it's Alexis Quads were so detailed that you could say like, okay, you don't judge bodybuilding, show like we just did. Necessarily like who wins each pose. You know, sometimes you've left with force impression, last impression. So although I had Sergio winning lots of poses, Alexis looked tremendous and competitive and to his credit, and Sergio's credit. Nobody gave up on that. No last, yeah. And when it's close like that, it's usually the guy that has a little more charisma, a little brings a little more stage presence with that Sergio all the way for sure. You still can knock the wall. Well, Alexis looks a little more reserved. Yeah. Yeah. But Alexis was hard as a rock, so IMean, either one. IMean, you can't, you can't fall to judges on that. IMean, it was so close. I just thought Sergio with his, you know, extraverted manner on stage. I thought he was going to pull it off. Yeah. So IMean, they're both look great. Congratulations, Alexis. Dynamite showing. Dynamite consistency to come from where he was second in Vancouver a few weeks ago to, you know, hang in there, which is always hard. And do another show shows you, you know, his dedication to the sport. Third place was Max Charles. Max Charles was Max and third at the end. What's double check and I was. Yeah. Yes. Max Charles was third place. Lots of mass. You know, you can dissect this and two poses back last night, back double, meaning the level of condition that he had there. And it's always been his Achilles heel. Sometimes he brings it in, sometimes he does it bring it in. He's won the show previously. He won the show a couple of years ago, yeah. And, you know, I think the, you know, Alexis was just so hard and from from the back and Sergio was extremely hard in the back. And that's, you know, Clutz Ham's back up or back arm details. And I think that's what automatically put Max immediately out of the running for the talk to. Yeah. Yeah. It was a two-man show for sure. And if Max would've came in hard like he did a few years ago, you know, he could have been up in the mix too. Yeah. You grew with you. Yeah. What was Justin Rodriguez? Justin Rodriguez. Continuous to like impress and improve, you know, it's odd. I don't think he's like, you know, worse here because I hear people saying, you know, he looks off here. I don't know a lot of shows this year. I was like, he's done a lot of shows, but, you know, he hasn't run up to like against Sergio and Alexis at their best. Right. So, you know, and it's always who you stand next to. And that's as simple as that. IMean, you can look tremendous. But if you look, if you stand next to someone who's, you know, at not necessarily another level, but definitely, you know, breached out level of condition in first show like this, then sometimes you look, you know, you look flat or you people say, oh, you're flat or you're not hard enough because they don't know, but because really you're just being compared to really hard a guy. Yeah, hard a couple guys. Yeah. And then fifth was the Russian Sergei Kulukov, I think it was? Yeah. Yeah. I thought he was better three weeks in Chicago. When he did Chicago, he was round full hard. Here he was hard and lost some of the roundness that he had the three weeks ago. So, I think that knock came out. I think Eddie Ben in the level of condition that he had in Chicago and the level of fullness, then he probably would have, you know, been morecompetitive for that third slide. Yeah. We got to talk about six Rashid Oliker. Some of the thickest, narrowly as muscle I've seen since Rani Coleman. Yeah. Well, I think he was letting the stomach hang out. I noticed that and I think he could just be just a little harder, you know. It could be a little harder. I think I think the weird knock, again, some, I guess if you're going to make a knock, is he could be harder? But his muscles so thick and then he doesn't look soft at all. No. You know, I'm not spitting out the answer because I don't know it. I can justify the idea that he's got Nicholas, the two 12-winter syndrome, which is a lot of muscle packed on a smaller frame and it doesn't quite look bright enough, you know what IMean? Yeah, he's not wide, but he's super thick. Yeah. So it's almost like he needs more width for that amount of mass. But out of all the people who probably got frustrated, you know, he's going to go and look at pictures and say, I was bigger than this guy and it was harder than this much bigger. And which is true, which really technically could have allowed him, I think. You know, you could argue him placinGHis highest third place, his highest third place, and that's about it, you know? And once he knows about him, he moves very well. You know, considerinGHis trensitions, he come up on his toes and he's fly doing the one falls in the next flexible. Yeah. For a big guy like that, that was- I got a call for Zika. I don't think he's going to be moving down to classics, so Henry, and Brianna, they got nothing to worry about. And on-win was also in really good condition. Yeah, on-win is somebody who's, you know, heightened cold. Yeah. He looked good at this show last year. He looked good at a recent show. He's a little off here, even though he was in good condition. I think he was in better condition. I shouldn't say he was in good condition. Blondon Prasmy was, he was much bigger than I've ever seen him. And he's got a great physique. You know, he just says he's a dial in it. Yeah. He's got a dial in it. And that a catch word dial in it. That's from the Lennial phrase. Yeah. He's- He's somebody who can, you know, walk into a show like this and be competitive for the top five any day of the week. Maybe top four, top three, four, three, four, five. Somewhere, it just a matter of balance and out that new mass with condition. Yeah. Yeah. But overall, a great show that pulls down between Sergio Jr. and Lexus Rivera was really wanted to be seen. Yeah. It was tremendous. And lastly, I just want to congratulate Flex Wheeler. Yeah. Lifetime achievement, then we are lifetime achievement award. They gave a great video presentation. It was a great video. It was a great video. It was a great video. It was physical when they showed the videos of it, right? It's like, wow. Where were those physics at now? IMean, goal-gurgle Flex Wheeler images, and you see some astounding- They had some astounding video, gold's trening, just everything packed, show those triceps, biceps. One thing I noticed was he had the thickness, he obviously has a incredible shape, but just that sharp, sharp detail that you just don't see that much today. You don't see it. You got to dial it in. The striations on thEQuads, and just the small ways with those dialed in abs, the ripped abs, unbelievable physique. He's phenomenal, I saw him after and congratulated him and he's inspired a lot of people, both with what he's accomplished in bodybuilding, but you know he's got the disease and you know come back from that and all these things. He started talking about that I thought about that, and he did in the car crash and all that stuff you got to go through. That's why you need the bodybuilding in the whole thing. Dave, you got to get, we got to get from flex like the seat belt or whatever. The seat belt that he wore, I didn't wear it. He did wear it. Yeah, he did. And then what if he would've done it? I don't know if he would've done it. I don't know if he would've done it. I don't know if he would've done it. If he would've done it. If he would've done it. If he would've done it. We just like take a seat belt from like a Dodge Neon and nobody will know. Nobody will know. All right. Well, for Chris Ascito and John Hanson, we are at the Tampa Pro 2018 Fantastic Show Tim Gardener for our exmuscle.com.

=== FILE: SERGIO OLIVA JR DOING TAMPA PRO？ Muscle in the Morning (8⧸1⧸30) [aIpn4rstKs0].txt ===

Welcome back to Musselin the Morning on Day of the Love. But when today is Wednesday, August 1st, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I guess since we don't have any recaps on deck in the Pro Division for this Wednesday, the next best thing is to look ahead to the weekend's action at the Tampa Pro where the rumors have been confirmed that we will indeed be seeing Sergio Leavad Jr. brinGHis talents down here to the Sunshine State. Last week, we began to hear these rumors start to circulate that the second year star in the making was thinking about jumping into Tim Gardner's big event this weekend where you know he'll be coming in as a clear fan favorite. Love and were hate him, this guy is one of the most electric personalities in bodybuilding right now. And from here on out, it's time that the rumors are put to rest. Sergio Leavad Jr. will be on that stage and people will start paying close attention once the pre-judging gets started. Moving on to the 212 Division where all eyes this weekend are set to be on super sophomore Nicholas Voliad as he set to make his second appearance of the season. Voliad is coming off on monster performance at the Portugal Pro a few weeks ago where he went toe to toe with one of the scariest guys in the division in a hot-e-shoot and before he eventually ended up settling for a close second place finish. The Nick Voliad we saw in Portugal was bigger fuller, leaner and morecomplete and pretty much blew away the lucky brought through the Charlotte Europa Pro at last year's rookie debut. So if the performance in Portugal was any indicator of what might be coming down the pike, well I can say is good luck to whoever the poor souls are who end up standing next to him up there and that first call out. But less than two months ago now before the Olympia, this Tampa Pro is like Prime Real Estate for some of the guys in the men's physique division who are still looking to steal a later Olympia qualification. Before they do that, they'll have to get through Jeff Gabriel. The veteran Pro has been a quiet terrorist so far this season, racking up four straight top eight finishes to go along with the convincing wind back in March at the Atlantic Coast Pro. As far as conditioning goes he figures to do one of the top guys in this weekend's lineup. So as long as he doesn't try to do anything crazy over the next few days to hit his peak, he's so when they can be a real contender for the win before it's all set and done. Over on the women's physique side, the lineup looks to be a deep one from top to bottom, but one athlete we're eyeing to put our stamp on things in the top five is fifth year standout Diana Schnee. So far it's been a roller coaster season for the Schnee camp, but right now all systems to be a go. As they prepare to head into their fifth contest of the year. For Schnee, this Tampa Pro stage has been like a home away from home over the lasT4 years and if you look at her record, she's goT4 straight top ten finishes to prove it. And some of these women physique competitions, it feels like the whole field is so close that it could almost go literally anyway. And so long as she's up for a good fight, she stands as good a chance as anyone to separate herself from the pack by the end of the evening finals. And finally, if you were sitting around saying to yourself, damn, I wish something exciting would have finally happened in the figurative vision. Now it would be to time to sit down and buckle up because things are about to get crazy. The official competitors list with this weekend show was released on Monday and it looks like we're going to have a whopping 45 girls making their way down to Tampa this weekend. Now granted, this is the last chance at an Olympia qualification for the 2018 season, but even still 45 competitors serious that you might be the biggest figure lineup that we've seen all season long. And when you look at this list, it's a whose who have topped talent in the division mixed in with the time of veterans and rising young stars looking to make ahead line. So depending on how this thing ends up shaking out, we could have a pretty interesting narrative heading into the home stretch of this Olympia run. That does it to yet another edition of muscle in the morning. On day polumbo, reminding you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: SERGIO RETURNS TO HIS ROOTS! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸3⧸18) [wr5Jpziw4KU].txt ===

Welcome back to Musselin the Morning on Dave Palombo and today is Tuesday July 3rd, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you're one of those people who has a trip to Tokyo, scrimmel down somewhere on your bucket list, and today is your lucky day because I've got good news for you. This November the IFV Pro League is set to make its first official stop over in the land of the rising sun. At the inaugural IFV Japan Pro, fans planning to come out to the venue can expect to see some of the best bikini, men's physique, and 212 pros in the world take to the stage to battle it out at one of the most incredible venues in the entire country. And for anyone looking to get the jump on the 2019 season, this show will be an official Olympic qualifier. So you will not want to miss this opportunity to come out and be a part of this historic event from what I'm being told spot to already filling up fast, so make sure you get your tickets and your entry forms in ASAP because once they're gone, they're gone. Back in the day, I was always a fan of the early Sunday morning times in the gym because you knew the people who showed up then were there to get things done. And after what he did a few weeks ago at the NPCs junior nationals, I don't think there should be a doubt in anyone's mind about what kind of guy 2018 overall classic physique champ, Brett Wilkins is. Sunday morning Wilkins was spotted grinding out a few heavy sets in the squat rack, where he slowly but surely started to put plants into motion for his pro debut down the road. You can't take anything away from what Wilkins did up on that junior national stage because he was far away the most complete guy in the building. But if he has any serious plans to hang with some of these monsters in the division, he better make sure he gets real acquainted with those Sunday morning workouts. Because the only way to get better is to get there and beat these guys at their own game. The other day, one of the millennials in the office tried to convince me that Kanye West was the craziest person to come out of Chicago since Al Capone. But it's a verifiable fact that most millennials don't know, Sergio Oliva Jr. like I do. Last week, the Chicago native went on record in promised that it was ready to get back to his roots and put on the best performance of the year. And in front of his hometown crowd next week. And when you sit down and look at this kid's track record, if he makes good on his word, it will start to make people think that maybe he's not so crazy after all. There's always a point every athlete's prep, whereas a coach, you can just look at them and know that they're about to turn the corner. And right now my gut is telling me that branding curry is starting to hit that point. Ten weeks out from puttinGHis talents on display for the first time this year at the Olympia weekend. Curry and the camel crew feel like they're starting to pick up the pace a little bit. Afterward, curry did last year. At this point in time, we can probably all agree that the best thing for him to do now is just sit back and trust the process. And if Curry can up his game just another notch or two, he's got a great chance at breaking in that elite Olympia. That top six, it things break his way. There aren't too many people in the sport anymore who have that old school roll up my sleeves because it's time to get to work mentality. But Mark Dougdale definitely is one of the rare few who still does. Late last week we saw the longtime veteran come out of hiding when he released a clip from one of his legendary leg workouts. At the moment we still have yet to hear any word from the Dougdale campus to weather and 90s planning to come back for another run this season. But when you consider the fact that he has four wins on the books since 2016 and is coming off one of the best two year stretches of his career. It's hard to imagine that the itch won't come back to bite him sometime before the year's end. And that does if you had another edition of Muscle on the morning on day polonbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: SERGIO vs LOCKETT! VISSERS Next Big Thing？  Heavy Muscle Radio (7⧸9⧸18) [qNPWCBTPnsk].txt ===

10 and 9 You're my and I'm a group There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lumball Chris Asito Orange Russell dot com presents Every muscle What a deal What jazzy Welcome to another episode of heavy muscle Radio on the polumball And I'm joined as always by the technician Chris Asito On this July 9 2018 evening in Chris Big big weekend in the body building world Lots of shows Two big open shows one in Chicago one in Vancouver I guess that's kind of the biggest news of the week And I guess you could say because it was a great battle In Chicago Surgery or leave a juniors hometown Went back Went back It was kind of like a homecoming of sorts And battle it out with Michael Lockett And Lockett emerges victorious In a very close controversial decision Let's talk about it You and I weren't there So we'll we'll preface that right from the beginning You know when we're there we say we're there we're not there We're not there so we're going by pictures and video I did a nice wrap up of the whole weekend's events But let's talk about what happened What do you think about the outcome? Obviously you helped surgery so you're a little biased Give me your analysis Well I had my chief of staff Jose Raymond there You went to the Jose going to all these shows all the sudden he's like I'm just because his wife does is doing the shows Oh, and he's also coaching people so I heard that Jose was actually in both Vancouver and Chicago at the same time He was spotted Is that possible? No that would have been I heard you holographically trensported himself to Vancouver While he was in Chicago so he wasn't the spot in both places Now he was just in Chicago and he was he prepped Justin Randall and he prepped Michael Orgas They looked great and he prepped Lloyd dollars. It was fourth. Yeah, he prepped Lloyd dollars Who are you? Fantastic Yeah Lloyd is from this right from the Fort Myers a Cape Corral area where I am That's right and Jose was nice enough to go take a look at Sergio from me because I didn't go to the show Right And didn't feel good to be home this weekend? I'm all in every weekend No, I know I'm saying usually you are on the road a lot you're like me now you stop traveling Yeah, and I put an end to end Stop being said What a cabbage? Well I lost the power gave us your father would say I'm sorry But you're a staff can relate to that too I call my Jose Raymond my chief of staff I told my son it Jose you're going to be my chief of staff Yeah until he until he gets his girlfriend and then he won't be traveling anymore either Yeah exactly I wanted you know I used funny because my mom and Chad Nichols was banging out all those you know top guys Back when a callman was winning in flag and all of a sudden he just disappeared And I said Chad I don't see it any shows him because you know had kids and I didn't understand when he was met by that I thought he was just like trying to be this good dad you can't leave this You can't leave because if you do you get divorced you know No, well you don't have time for like when people go to be like what do you do? I say why I guess I can't even begin to start because I have kids Yeah, it's it's it's hard to explain but once they get a little older and they're in school and they get into the team Yeah, you know it is because then they don't care if they don't even want to hang out with you anymore After that then you have a little more to Chad has a little more time than that This kids are like grown up I see him a few more shows that he normally is but I didn't understand it now I do completely understand So get back to the Sergio verse the lock it battle Yeah, so Sergio came up came up two giants that's short Two mils, right such Take a view it to no, but so anyways, I wasn't there Jose to had you know Jose's pretty forth right not that it matters, but IMean he has a 25 year eyeball MeaninGHe's a very good judge of what win shows and he was doing the play by play for me In terms of you know just text me what's going on in the show and sure He didn't he didn't say by any means it was slim dunk for Sergio, but I know me no time did he think Sergio was losing So it just has opinion you know so when when I review the show You know I'm gone by pictures of course and video, but And I actually thought lock it looked good pictures and video and I I can see why you know he's got a freak factor going on but according to Jose Sergio was you know quote good enough to win that show You know what the promise and and I said this in my rap of Sergio actually looks better in pictures I think sometimes his body trenslates well into photographs and and even into video Lock it because he's so charismatic on stage and video you can't take your eyes off him and the pictures he knows how to position his body very well He has his good body awareness lock it has the worst body awareness. He's not a good pose or he has no charisma But he's grainy nasty hard and he's biGHis upper body's huge his legs however It's always been his his Achilles heel. They're not good. They're hard don't give me wrong and from behind they're awesome But from the front and the sides that their shallow the right leg is definitely got a problem I think he's got any problem there and that that hurts him. Now that's that's being super critical. He's still good enough to beat everyone there tonight But I think that Sergio's legs are so good because that's like his best body part that to me it over rides anything anything that lock it's got going on in terms of IMean He can't judge a guy with no legs, you know gets a guy who's got the best legs, you know on stage. It's very difficult But once again, we weren't there so you know lock it's grainy this might have really trenslated well if you're sitting in that front row, you know it might have had a lot more wow factored in Sergio's carerism or Sergio's legs I don't know it's hard you know for us to make that call Yeah, IMean so that's that's why I prophesied with You know I deferred to Jose's opinion Come you put Sergio and lock it on the Olympia stage Sergio blows his doors off Why? That's such interesting you know what I do someone else Because there's other guys that you'recomparing them against in Sergio stacks up very well against the rest of the line up It's just when it's locked in in him you start saying well, maybe you want to get a little harder and Griny air and he's got freak factor from behind, you know So Dave you're the literally like the fourth person in the last few hours Two of said well Sergio should just qualify for the Olympia because he you know He's not gonna be in the first call out, but you know who'll get a look somewhere down there You could be a top 10 Olympian Sergio Yeah, yeah, that's exactly what you yeah I agree I agree I love to watch him pose man he put what a what a performance he puts on so unconventional way But the routine when I I Jose had taken a video of his routine and sent it to me, I think I did see I didn't know what was going on Yeah, it was like Phantom of the Opera and crack I almost think he was a little too excited don't you? No, Jose said it's the cookies routine that only works for him. Oh, yeah, no one else can pull that off No, no But And that's the you know the crazy thing because Lock it's like I'm very He's not like an entertaining pose. He's just just lookinGHim because he's so freaky hard, you know, well, yeah, and he and Lock it does have a very interesting resemblance to Leighane he doesn't it in terms of actually He's got some big resemblance maybe people say that's racist Maybe dentally he does Not me they got that like same smile, don't you think? Yeah, yeah, you know what I said dentally. Yeah, they have the little bit of gap to put it big But they they they they have a very symbols smile, you know I don't know I it's AI ever since I saw a Lock it first compete. I thought of him havinGHim looking very much alike Get some resembles though But he's good. Lock it's good. You know, you can't take anything away from the guy. He's look I remember when this guy did the team universe back in the day and he you know That was a drug test to show back then he wanted he didn't even take the pro card turned it down And that's Boston Lloyd both by the way Boston Lloyd's dream and life is to win the pro card and turn it down That's that's he told me what he's gonna do in terms of 30 I said it both you may if you lived the 30 I said then maybe you can do that I said but you have to win the pro card first lock it one the pro Everyone said there's no way the guys natural Dave Lieberman had had him in the natural Ohio shell like a couple weeks earlier Or maybe the year before that and they drug tested him because they always drug test that show and he was 100% naturally pasted the team universe drug test. So he was a natural freak the following year. He did the NPC junior nationals if you remember any one that overall And then they need to superior You know, no one know it happened to him I think about the nationals of some of them. They did disappeared He was hot. He was like second of the nationals and then he came back at like ten years later. Some of You remember at the North American where a came one he was second Never returned in the fall. I think the national later that year we got his pro card, but he's just a genetic freak the guy He always walks around which striadical. He's got those freaky calves the only black I know with with crazy calves and He's a guy when he puts his mind to being the best he can he he's just genetically so gifted he he can win shows Just by his will power And you know like I said I don't I don't I think both for both guys. It's really a victory Don't you think it here tonight because I don't think by any means Sergio did not disappoint He brought even though he didn't come away with the win. He certainly brought a look that's worthy of SayinGHe's better than last year. Now thEQuestion is do you put him in another show now to qualify for the Olympia I think it's a mistake not to do another show. He too. That doesn't mean Sergio's going to do it though Yeah, no, IMean he's unconventional right? Yeah, what's next then that he can do? He did tamp on yeah, he could tamp I think he did Be exciting. Yeah, I think I think it'd be tough to beat that show like that. You know, IMean depends on who shows up. IMean he can be beaten. IMean if rocket can beat him other people can beat him You know, he can beat Lockdown any given day as well and you know depending on who shows up in Tampa. Let me just give Give some another four weeks to you know fine tuna's physique go back to the giant sense and What would you have like to see better one giant sets? What would you have like to see better on on Sergio condition? Yeah, you know, he could be a little bit harder, but I have to say you know, that's why I did post it. IMean I sent pictures to you of the way he looked amazing. I was pretty impressed. You know, you're just looking at garbage Chicago lighting. You know, meaning everyone looks completely washed out. Yeah. You know, and it's kind of like to it's probably one step. Well, it's just I don't want to compare it to another show to insult a promoter, but just the lighting, you know, I don't know if it's lit for the show and not photography, but You look at pictures of people and everyone looks washed out. Yeah, it's a little overlit if anything. Yeah, which works for Lockets advantage because he's very dark. I know you're going to say that. I know you're going to say that. It's a truth. It's a truth. Yeah. Very dark. He never looked washed out. So dark. So we'll see. It's got good skin color. Very good skin color. PaintinGHad the good skin color. That's another thing the other way. But have the same ones. Skin color to each other. Well, that's not good. Can you always had great coloring on stage? I always remember that looking at those Olympic A picture studying those muscle fitness and flex magazine to like, man, I can hate these. Got great coloring on stage. Yeah, I'm sure he can. Those days regular tan. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I'm tan. He probably sun tanned. I'm sure. But are we sun tan back then day with heart, what we sun tanned? Well, I've heard a lot of, you know, flex wheels. You just say you guys black guys got a tan. You can't otherwise you look gray on stage. You know, you got a sun. What? Okay. You got to be dark. Yeah. Justin Rodriguez, third place. Give me your analysis. Um, continues to improve. Uh, I think, you know, what that means is not only show to show, but yeah. Yeah. I don't think he looks that hard here to tell you through that. I think I was trying to come to, I think he's trying to come to watch out here. Yeah. I think it's just the light. I'll take a work. Really. Yeah, IMean he looks like, you know, IMean he looks good in pictures. But IMean Sergio looks like good in the pictures. Market looks like good in the pictures. So it's hard to tell. Right. Yeah. I'm looking at the pictures on NPC news and you know. I guess you're right. You can see he's got a lot of good conditioning. Who knows? You're proud to be right. It looks like it's overlit the stage. That's exactly what it looks like to me. I think Justin's put on a lot of muscle very quickly and I think it's going to take him sometimes to kind of solidify all the games. Yeah, IMean, the key words is right there. Solidify the games. You can gain muscle and you can gain quality muscle, but just to really hone it down and make it look like a rock. It still takes time. So I guess in a sense, Sergio wins the war between him and Justin, you know, that they had going on Instagram, right? Because he beats me. Yeah, well, what would they do? They have a better something? Well, they would just, you know, ribbon. They've been ribbon each other for months now, but who's better, you know? Well, that's still for two for Sergio. What the heck? That's enough. Sergio is fine with that. And once he beat Justin Rodriguez, like it doesn't count because like it does, you can't, I can't even get a phone number for like I can't find any way to get in touch. Well, look, there is only onEQuasi controversial issue with the show. Suds a terrible lighting. The first call out, of course, had lock it and surgery when they are. And then they put those guys back, right? And then they never compared them in pre-judging, even though they put them back. Right, they haven't had like a final call out. No, and they didn't do it in 90 though. Wow, that's weird, right? It's weird. The audience would have gone nuts for that. Yeah. Hmm, interesting. It is kind of weird. Yeah, I'll dissect it. I'll dissect it. I'll dissect it. I'll dissect it. Just to play this is just for fun. This is not like factual. But who's legs a better? Surgeos or lockets? Surgeos, obviously. Okay. Who's legs a better? Justin's or lockets? No, lockets or one more out. Probably, I don't know. It's close. It's like the locket. Who's up a body's better? One, that's what. Okay. Did Surgeos be born last year? Absolutely. And Surgeos can't be locket. Yeah, I know what you're saying. I just didn't want to. One wasn't as good as the other. I don't even believe what I just said. Yeah, it's very hard yet to compare. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah, it's very, very hard. It's a gross science analysis. Yeah, if A is bigger than B, then B is bigger than B. It's like, the load is tolling, right? Isn't that what the logic? The load of motors tolling? It's A, it's a B, and then D is to C, then A is to C. Well, I'm, here's another interesting one. At last years New York Prove, the last call out of Prejudgeon. They didn't do a last call out of Prejudgeon Deloroso versus Surgeos. Surgeos. They put them back. Right. They saved that for the night show. Right. And it was exciting in the night show too. Yeah, yeah. So, so this year at different shows, Chicago, Surgeos in there. And he's competing against Lockett. And they put those two back in Prejudgeon. But they don't bring them out. So you think, okay, they're going to do like New York. And they're going to save that for the night show. Maybe they made that the Surgeo move the way for Chicago. I don't know. You know, like when when LeBron James left the Cleveland, everyone was pissed off of them, you know, because it went into Miami. Yeah. Now we saw, you see, they have 150,000,000. Yeah. Four years. And now, like, Delacos, he'll make them a fortune. It's worth every penny because in LA, you know, those people will pay big bucks. They go see him every single game. There you go. Check, Nick, will son of be there in the front row. The funny thing is that if someone broke it down on Instagram, like, like, how many? He's like making like 163 bucks a second or something. I can't believe that. Every second he's on the court, it's 163 bucks. Crazy, right? Yeah. That's a good salary, you know. And that doesn't even include all like his Nike contracts and all that other stuff. He's making a good job. Well, that's what you told playing basketball. I love when they, I'd if you remember when LeBron came out of high school, he went right to the pros and everyone was like, big mistake. And this guy will burn out and he'll never make it. What, he was, was he driving a hum or a nice school? Who knows? I don't know. But he said, fuck, and I want to make money. I don't, I don't need to go to college. I don't want to go to college. I don't want to go to college. I want to make money. So, go to college to learn how to make money. So what does the people do? He could have gotten injured in college. Who the hell knows? IMean, we didn't have made a penny. So, he went right to the, well, he had that all important degree though. Well, he can, he could buy 40 degrees with, with how many he's got. But, so yeah, IMean, sometimes you got to take a risk in life. And he must have had people advisinGHim. It said, fucking man, you could, you can play in the pros now. IMean, even if it takes you a couple years to really get into comments your own. That's why he's not, what is he like? And he's in his, he's in his late 30s now, so might that, anything. Oh, he probably hasn't, probably hasn't. Probably has another couple. You could years under his belt, I'm sure. Oh, he's a, at leasT4 more. He's, he's, he's banking on that. So fourth place, Sergei Kuluk, Kuliav, Kuliav, would you think about him? You had mentioned him to me. And I thought he was all right. Yeah, I really thought it was a three-man show to be honest with you. But here's a guy who kind of comes out and I know where I like to mention new names. IMean, he was good, he was very hard. It's very hard. Maybe not under that Chicago lighting, he looked hard. But he was hard and dense and complete, big back and superstriated glutes. Good width. New guy, new face. So, IMean, it's, I do, to come from Russia, right? Yeah. And please top five, it, it's a pro, first pro show. It's a big accomplishment. What about Brad Ross, sneaking into that top five there? He won't go away. This guy, he just doesn't quit. Brad, Brad should get an award for least, he should get two awards. Consistency, of course, three awards effort. But consistency, and then he should get a special award for just never coming in. Out of shape. He's got the best legs on stage. There's no doubt about him. His conditioning is second to none. He's got a small waist, he's got a good back. He's got probably the smallest arms in the pro ranks that I've ever seen. Well, he's much, he, he just, he needs to muffin them up. Yeah, do something to him because this is. IMean, his right arm is literally, you know, the worst pro arm I've seen. And that's not insulting Brad, because I like him, he's a good guy. And like I said, he has the best legs on stage without doubt. But, IMean, let's face it, arms are really important in the pro's. Yeah, for sure. That's why they always, people jump in up. He, he was bad though, better he had them dead. Yeah, it's grossing was a superb. Much better, the best we've seen. Well, another. Fuller and harder than he's been in the last, they two years. Absolutely. Kevin Jordan sixth, just, what's your assessment of him? IMean, here's a guy who is, people we're saying, you know, but the next coming of Jesus Christ here in the bodybuilding world, it's just he never really has produced what we hoped. Good, very good condition. I think he needs like, maybe he just needs to do one of those, you know, blow it up, get fat and go to 300. He tried that already, which would, would Chad and it worked it well. Yeah, it worked. Yeah, it worked. Well, yeah, it was like 60 pad. You made fun of him fact that he had a me lose 60. Did I see, I have a terrible seat. It's my dementia kick and I did I say that. Yes, we talked to Chad Adam up to like 320. What did you say? Three ten. Yeah, I think that was that good. I was ten pounds off with Kevin Jordan. Three giant sets off with Sergio. He just needs more muscle. That's all there is. He's a big guy. He's a tall guy. I don't know. But, but he's didn't say he doesn't tren hard by his own mission. This was a couple years ago that he might. Yeah, when you went to video, you don't have to. Well, Brad beat him. I think that's first time Brad's beat him this time. I think we should maybe Kevin Jordan, she got him. But, who ate? Yeah, he'd probably get him to 440. Yeah, he might need it. Maybe he needs to be sequestered over there with the camel crew. You never know. All right, let's talk about the two 12 division. Your boy Craig Richardson wins that. Finally, they give this guy a victory here in a qualification for the one. Yeah, he's not taking. He won't Chicago a couple years ago when Deloros are won. Yeah. I thought the stars were lining up because he won and Deloros won a couple of two or three years ago. And that's the year I helped Deloros. And when Craig won, Craig said, Sergio is going to win. And I said, don't jinx it. But anyhow, Craig did win and apparently, unbeknownst to me, he's definitely not to the Olympia. Why not? Why did he do all these shows? And then not to the Olympia after hEQualifies. But he only did two shows. Right. IMean, I'm assuminGHe did the second show because he wanted a qualified for the Olympia. No, he just wanted to get the win. Oh, he was just looking for some money, basically. No, but there is no money. He just getting wanting to get the win, meaning I think to go out on top. Well, but why would if he's this is his last year? Is it his last year? Is that what you're saying? That's what Jose told me. Well, if it is, then the result finishes the Olympia, right? What's one more freaking shit? I got to call him up and talk to some sense. This is your last year. You do the Olympia. You finish the Olympia. Good day, Dave. You're good. You give good advice, Dave. You don't know. You know, I don't feel like I got to work. I got to work at school or something like that. That's what that's exactly. Dave, you nailed it. You nailed it. He's got work. You nailed it. You nailed it. He's got work commitments. He's got 20. He's got 40 kids and like four grandkids. He's got 30. What? He's got grandkids, birthday, to go to. IMean, we got to talk some sense. This is the last year. You tell him, you tell him that I said, if this is your last year, you've got, you is probably listening to the show. You got to do the Olympia your last time. Come on. Not case. I've helped him for shows where he's been second. And I'm like, well, there's a show in Charlotte next week. There's no way you'll lose any, like, well, you know, I got a commitment to the school and, you know, and to any other body, both of these last year. Yeah. But any other body, both, you'd be like, I just, you got a second in the pro show. And there's a show next week. I'm telling you, you can absolutely guarantee when. I'm getting married. Well, just reach casual. Okay, no problem. This is obviously a guy's assistant here with reschedule in the second. Well, so a lot of people would. Craig, Craig's one of these guys is very humble. Never really, you know. So he'd never really, we probably talked higher about him than he talks about himself, you know. Anyway. Yeah. So he would pull up the Caleb Blanchard second. Your ex, buddy, the Maradona third. Yep. Lloyd Dala fourth, the tren by Jose, Adam Young fifth. So good lineup. And, uh, follow a foreigner who's in the lineup. What happened to him? Third place. Third team. Third team. Third team. Big, big. IMean, you got people like, uh, I told Farndsworth to stay in that men's classic physique vision, but he didn't want to do it. He wanted to go back to bodybuilding. He probably would have been top five here. Classic. Let's talk about classic. Wesley Visters. The next Arnold. I gotta tell you, I look at this guy's pictures. I see Arnold. I do. He's got the same, it's amazing. He's like a physique, not a facially physique, why he's like a clone of Arnold. Well, that's what they like. Of course it is. I said it in my rap, but I said a mid-roy was the most condition guy in stage. But Wesley Visters is Arnold. How do you be Arnold? You can't be Arnold. Well, and he's got, let's be break it down another way too. If classic is going to survive, and not more often to like a, you know, IGF competition, you have to weigh flow and structure. Or I would even put structure ahead of flow. Structions, low flow and structure. They will fuck it up if they overreward condition, even though I love condition. Everyone loves condition. They will screw it up if they give it to, you know, quasi bodybuilders. And the expense of structure and shape, you have to, you have to fight to keep structure, flow and shape as the headliners. It's like, okay, everything you need to know about what was incredible about female bodybuilding. All you need to do is think, lend a Murray, nipper, quarry, the person. Those two, you know, the way they, they, they, they were, they're flow, they're structure, they're lines. Even if they were a little loft, they were still easily able to be people who, you know, would quote challenge them. And I think that's what needs to be implemented and forced down people's throats no matter what. Unfortunately, people are going to do this. Purists will say like, oh, he's not hard enough. And oh, he's just lazy. He's just going on as God, given structure. Well, if it's going to be a God-giving class, then it's a God-giving class. Yes. You just, just need to, and that's no date. So it comes back to this, you know, amidst like a junior bodybuilder compared to, IMean, he's, he's muscular. He's more muscular and more condition than he was in New York. So he's a tall woman too. Yeah, more polished than he had in New York, much better than he was in New York. In fact, the New York, he could have, you know, fell in a couple spots lower. And he's, and he's the, the feel good story of the whole weekend because, IMean, IMeant Roy, you know, came over from India. Does, you know the story, right? Yeah, another story. You've told him million times. Poor guy, you know, contact us just in, comes over from India. Can't even get, he wants to be a pro-bodybuilding and it's like the biggest joke of all time. Whatever, you're going to be a pro-bodybuilder. And can't even do the, can't even do the national's here. He moves, he leaves his family, moves to the US. Can't do national's, he can't do anything because he's, he's not a citizen here. Finally, marry someone, you know, he falls in love with this girl. Actually, he can, I thought a lover before he moved here, they get married, he becomes a citizen. Then they create classic physique. He, he wins in New York, American. You know, now the guy's competing is a pro. Probably the most successful Indian pro out there now. The guy is, you know, one step away from the Olympian now, might even be, make the Olympian be on point. So, this is the field good story of the weekend. But Wesley Vissers, you know, this is his first pro show. He makes a million amateur mistakes here. He's not dark enough. His tan wasn't good. Could have been a little drier. But his structure is so impressive that when I'm watching the videos, I'm just seeing Arnold standing up there with a bunch of little kids, you know, look, you can make it. You could make a case that Franco, Columbo, was way morecomplete as a bodybuilder in terms of balance in his physique, conditioning, density than Arnold. But he can never beat Arnold. And it wasn't because Arnold wasn't a mythical creature back then. He just had that stage presence that when you look at the two of the months age, all you see his Arnold, you don't even see Franco. And that's exactly how I, when I watched that first call, I didn't even see a mid up there. He's short. He's got a great physique alone on stage. But I didn't even see him. And all I saw was Wesley Vissers posing. And that's all my eyes went to. I didn't even notice anyone else on stage. Did you notice that? Yeah, IMean, yeah, I did notice it. You can't take your eyes off the guy. And that's called stage charisma. That's what Arnold had. And then that bamboosles and the judges. And that's what that's fun. I think that was, it impresses the judges. Let me say that better. Well, I don't know, just to clarify, I don't still had the best body. Right. But what I'm saying is if you broke down Arnold's versus Franco on paper, Franco would win. I think. I don't think Franco would win the front double. Give Arnold two poses. But I'm just, my point is that Franco really has a morecomplete physique. Because Arnold's legs were on great. You never saw Arnold hit a front lats bread or a side tricep. IMean, Franco killed him in those poses. But it didn't matter, though, because Arnold just had that Arnold presence on stage. Yeah. So IMean, that's what Wesley has. He has the same thing now. If he times himself up a little bit and puts, it comes in with better polish and correct some of these amateur mistakes that the Olympi, he's going to be good. You know, he's going to hang with these top five guys. I think. Yeah, no, I think you will. So get the program. God, to send up some programs. He's got to be working on his dad. Get him in the sun, right? IMean, he's like the widest pro competitor. You can. All right. No, he's right. He's like, from Amsterdam, you know, the hall and those guys are like, they've been on the same sun. Most of the, they got to definitely get a tanning better. Something. Give him some melanin to or something. Oh, yeah, yeah, you can give him some baby oil. But like red dye. Yeah, I had dyed like these. I did. I got a good guy. Yeah, wouldn't Bob love to work with him. Send him the Bob's house for like two weeks before the show. Oh, no, you'd say he'd make a mistake. So what happened? He's doing the open. Bob would love to crank out a muscle. Go on, right? Yeah, Bob, love to see a crap out of his face. Absolutely. The vacuum. The next car, oh, boy. Let's call him in the car. What a call. He'll call Ed Ed, Ed, or call her. Did you ever ask anyone who's posed with Bob Gruskin, how grueling posing sessions would be? Yeah, Doug went. He's the tell me all the time. Oh, it would be for some waterboarding. Yeah. You know, Bob would call Ed Conner's up. And he'd be like, hey, did you check this guy? Yeah, I was like, I'll send you a poll and write him tomorrow. You'll get it in a week. Ed, you can text me in picture. IMean, Bob, you can text me in picture. What's that? I don't even know how to text. Wesley would have Arnold, you know, he'd have him standing for an hour. Arnold's got a CS, Physician. If I were Arnold, I'd be super impressed. He'd all, he, it's all the Arnold poses. Exactly like Arnold does. But be great video to see Arnold showing, you know, teachinGHim some poses that would be, I'd love to see that. I'm sure he'd love to have Arnold teach him some poses to that would be crazy. So, we'll see. I think I guarantee Wesley does the Arnold classic next year. Oh yeah. God would be a full lot to do it just to get in for Arnold. Arnold loves the crown him, too. They dropped a two, 12 from the Arnold. They did? Yep. Wow. That's what I hear. I wonder why? HavinGHad a confirmation, but I heard that from that's terrible. The cheapest that. See, the COS pose a Raymond. That sucks. You know, I can, Arnold classic is always about body bone. He certainly don't want to lose the men's division. Get rid of bikini. With the hell cares. Not that I don't like bikini. I work with a lot of bikini competitors, but IMean, the Arnold classic is body building. You know, if anything, you shouldn't get them or anything. Really, you should have all the divisions represented there. But that's terrible to get rid of the two, 12. That's the kind of like a real dis on the two, 12 division. Yeah. Maybe that's why Flex Lewis is leaving the two, 12. You heard that announcement, right? Yep. Well, I heard a rumor. What's the rumor you heard? That he was not doing the tutorial after this year. No, he's not. He may not sit on Instagram. I did all video on it. What's he going to do with the open? I think you will. I think you might take your off. Then do it. He doesn't want to suck down anymore. Because you know what? Here's the problem. He sucks down and then he doesn't look as best. Everyone's like, oh, he's a lot this year. But it's not really the result. He just can't make the freaking wait. So he's got to go down too low. Because Flex at 220 is awesome. Look at, you know? He looks like you see those offseason pictures of me. He's like, he's like, he's like, he's like, Doring the 8's at 5 foot, whatever. He's 5. Well, a lot of people are. Not even better at 20. Well, I believe we know Flex has done well in the open class before he's placed top 3. IMean, Jose did open guy to Saninus, done open. Why not Flex Lewis? He can win some small shows. I'm sure of it. He's got nothing to prove in the 12 anymore. He's only one. He'll win it seven times. Come to the Olympia time. I think it's a good move. But once he gets out of the, they'll probably shit can't let. Yes. IMean, if they are Donald, I hope not. I don't know why you Arnold will get rid of it. Well, that's not confirmed yet. So let's, let's get a confirmation because we got a confirmation. Well, I'm going to have to do a take at the bubble head doll of Donald makes Donald like anything. What do you think of that guy Kevin Johnson and third in the classic physique getting back to classic? He's good. Yeah, very good. What'd you think about? I like him. I think he's going to be a future, future good guy. Got to watch it out for him. This is just so many good guys in classic. So he's very deep. The thing is, everyone's got their own little, you know, unlike the open word, a lot of people tend to blend. You know, everyone's, it's like the olden days and bodybuilding people have different physique. They completely different. Yeah, that's what makes it exciting. I think really. I think about it. They have different heights. They have different heights. They have different heights. They have different heights. That's another thing. Right. And but everyone's got the same proportion because you can't weigh over a certain amount the other way. It's still make the way. Now in the men's physique division, Michael Bevin's wins that with surEQuads, Shabbah second, the team Scott third, in figure, Julia wearing wins, bikini, Laura Lai, Shabbado Swins and just a note in the Apolloino. Just got off having a kid. She's back in the next few things already. She finished the second year. So the congratulations in India. Now what a what a turn around in physique. She was my wife and I were looking at her physique on Instagram because my wife obviously just had a kid. I know you. The different is that India go away. But his, I don't know how he's time to go to the gym with the new boy. Maybe but she looks like she didn't even have a kid, you know. So congratulations. That's a nice little comeback. That was a pretty quick tip. It's called good genetics. Fitness, Danielle, Chicales, wins. Should we go to the Olympia. Women's physique, Sarah Villagas, Belegas, wins there. She'll go to the Olympia. So big show in Chicago this past weekend. We also though had a lot of action over in Vancouver. Canada there. Big show, big weekend. I want to give a big shout out to all the winners there because that was a well. It was a long trip to go there and compete. And you know, my thing is how do you pick where do you go? You know, that's pretty crazy, right? I'm paired to what's your goal. You could have gone Chicago. A lot of people went to the Vancouver. I guess you can make it. It was a strategic move. I actually helped the guy who won the overall amateur there. Brandon Rieger or Reggie R. He wins that. It's his pro car. So congratulations to the Brandon. Yes. Let's talk about the open. Men's, you know, whenever you split a lineup, which is what they did basically. Some people want Chicago, some people want to Vancouver. You know, I, I don't know how to get to side, but there were a lot of Canadians obviously who did the Vancouver, which was a smart move on their part. Lucas Osseldell, let's talk about this guy. He wins the show. But Lucas Osseldell is the most underrated pro out there. This guy has a bunch of wins on the wrist belt. He's one of these guys like when people forget, you know, that anyone else is around and he kind of just shows up at his best. He's one, he's like an Andre as a loser. Muncher never had the best genetics, but he was the hardest guy out there. And when he nailed his conditioning, he was one of the most impressive guys on stage. That's what Lucas is like. He's not the best guy. He's not the biggest. He doesn't have the best structure, but when he comes in crazy, freaky hard, and the lineup is not loaded with crazy talent, he wins and selling skin. He's got soft hands. Yeah. But on a good, on a good day, when he's really good, he's really good. I guess anyone that can be said of anyone, when they're really good, they're really good. But when he's really good, when he's really on his day game, he's tremendously dangerous. He's got crazy Christmas tree, crazy, crazy quads. We'll take a look at him full packs. He's dangerous and can beat a lot of people you wouldn't expect to beat when he's at his best. Remember when he won that Arnold South Africa a couple years ago? Yeah. He was crazy and president too. But he beat a good lineup here. He beats Lexus Rallone, who, you know, he's, remember when he won the NPC. And he's going to win Puerto Rico. He's really good. And he beats Josh Wade, who's been, I don't even have a guy still going. He's, how many shows does this guy done already? It's amazing. I don't know, but he's been, you know, the last 14 months he's placed top four or five, and just wrote every show that he's done. And in Valieras, crazy impressive in this line of the four place. I think he was, I think he was, it's weird. I thought he was overlooked. I'm just going by pictures, but he's right. I just, I would have rewarded him probably on his width alone. IMean, granted, he have to be in condition which he was. Granted, you got to be full. IMean, big what he was. So if you're, you know, big and you fall, and you're in really good condition, which he met those great area, and you lied, you know, you think that helped a little bit. But the top five here, Chris, the top five, that's the top two. The top five here are better than the top five, and she got it. Yeah, yep. Better than the overall top five, but of course. Because we're now the Gary, who finishes 50s awesome too. Every one of these guys has tried to glue. This is like almost like a 12 show. The conditioning was unbelievable in this top five. Yeah, yeah, they make you drop another 15 pounds and you pull over the, the terrace. Because you're the drop in pounds, going to Canada. Exactly. There's a terra from water. I think what happens is these guys can't bring their drugs with them. They take off all the water from taking their drugs. Exactly. So I take this and I can't take that to Canada. Take this and I can't take that. What can I take? Well, nothing really. I haven't seen that many pictures from the show yet, but I've seen enough to say that I was a press with the top fivEQuality. IMean, it was not an easy show to judge by any means. I didn't think. No, this is certainly judged as a conditioning show because Lucas definitely had the best conditioning and that that seems to have wanted for him. IMean, is that an accurate statement? Yeah, IMean, he's got the best condition plus he's, he's got true muscle density. You know, he's got a lot of, you know, IMean, it's one thing gap grade condition and have, you know, super separation, but it's a whole not just to have great condition and mature looking muscle that's really dense. And that's his calling card. Yeah. Sometimes he's a little off, you know, he'll fall and you know, pretty hard in the play things, but when he's on his sake and we could be a lot of people. This was a tough line up and I like I said, I'd like to see Ian Valier, hitting on the show maybe Tampa because I think you're right. He might have been a little overlooked here, which is weird because he's from Canada. I think this guy is very impressive. I've been impressed with him since I saw him turn pro at that Al Capoko Latin America, Amateur, Olympia there. And we've talked about him before. I posted, I was so impressed with someone sent me a picture of him in like a crab most muscular. I posted on my Instagram like last week it was people were like blown away by this. He's he's got a lot of freak fact to him. I think he's gonna be a guy who's gonna be a top six Olympian over the next five years. I really, I'm gonna say it right here. Oh, he's young still. He reminds me of cotton. I'm when cotton was first coming up and he was killed at that, what was it the Orlando show. And obviously he has some health issues now, but he's like reminded me of a of Compton coming up, and he's been doing it nice and slow and consistently. And I think he's gonna be a guy. You watch out for this guy and tell him you over the next year or two. He's gonna impress the hell out of a lot of people. Now, I grew with you because ever since you quote, discovered him in Mexico, you tell me that there's a Canadian who won the Mexico show. Which should make sense to me. Yes, somehow it was a Latin American show. Somehow Canada got involved, got invited to the Latin American Olympia. I went after the team Canada showed up. And they won, that's the funny thing, they won. Yeah, well, he's the fact that the matter is from the bodybuilding standpoint. Every year since that show, he's improved. Just a big statement. That's a big statement. Absolutely. And he's taken his time with it. He really didn't rush it. That's sometimes the best way to do it. Now in the 2012 division, a Chris Mamudel D'Rah, or as he goes by D'Rah, wins. I interviewed him about two weeks ago in my arcs muscle show. And this guy's got like the biggest following in the Middle East there. Matter of fact, he would, I don't even say it. But he, a bigger name than Big Romney in Egypt. He's got more followers, which is kind of funny. It seemed that he was in Canada. He's got a soft little line. He's a business man. He's a real businessman. I liked the guy a lot. I really do. I enjoyed, if you haven't seen the interview, go watch the interview with him. It was a great interview. I did. I didn't know that much about him. He's got a great story. And like I said, he's got more followers than anyone that was this guy. And he went on YouTube or Facebook. Well, over the place. So every social media media, you can think that he's got a crazy YouTube channel. YouTube channels outrageous. But he does a lot of, he does all of his videos narrowbick. Because he has a big Arab following. And you know what the funny thing was? When IMade him, I didn't make him. He asked me. We, we, we, to confirm with each other because he's got a guy who does all his video. I said, what if he trenslate the video interview I do with you into Arabic? Put some titles. And he did that. And that's the way everyone can watch it. He got a lot of hits of things. So he found that he found the niche for himself. I tell people this all the time. You gotta find the niche for yourself. You know, if you are good at something, you can speak and you're bilingual. Why not? He found the great niche for himself. Got his own. So I'm wondering. Then I'll follow this one of his favorite words. Shanti town niche. Shanti town. Shanti town. Fony. I followed that of his fucking. My father, Lord. He's doing much better after his surgery. To get his other head prepared because I told you he fell down and he broke his femur in four places. But he's completely wacked. I don't know, I hope it's just the anesthesia that still hasn't worn off. So he's, he was, he was, he was talking about flying and that he has the ability to fly. He's put pushes hands together. I said, what do you, you look mean like the most muscular post? I did a most muscular post. Because yes, yeah, you put push my hands together. I fly. Then he's telling me about this, he's telling me this company. And I'm like, what the fuck is he talking about? Then I realized, after 20 minutes of him telling me about this company and where they're manufactured and what they're producing, the products they're producing, I'm like, what the fuck is he talking about? I realize he's reading the, the, the, the little, like meal replacement thing they gave him. He's reading the cart of it. And then he's talking about this gym and I don't know where he's getting this gym from. And then I realized he's reading my shirt. I was wearing a shirt from some flex gym that someone had sent me and he's reading all the words on it. Over and over repetitively. So here I am picking, he's got some kind of brilliant insight and he's just reading the, he's like just like like Rayne Man almost, can say over and over and over and he's doing this. Like he's giving the infvalued information. Look, valuable to him. Well then, then he said to me, he got me to start with something. Sal, Palombo signing off. Is it something from where he goes from the planet earth? So now I think of he's dying. He's trying to tell me he's dying. I'm like, and so I'm actually takinGHim seriously now but then he starts talking gibberish after that. I realize he's just completely whacked on something. And he's not even on that many payments. That's the funny thing. He does have a fentanyl patch on it but he doesn't, they actually reduce some of his oxygen content. So I don't know what's doing it. Sometimes you know, when people, the mentors patients get anesthesia, it makes them more demanded. So, not in all that. Yeah, that's why a lot of them don't, he was under for six hours, my father. People in this locker. Yeah, long time. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it makes sense. You get to mentor after you come out because, right, you're. Is that a case? Yeah, it's whack out and more. So, this happened in the last time to so hopefully he'll come out of it. But yeah, he's definitely not in his right mind. So, the raw wins and candidate here in the 2012, they'll go to the Olympia, congratulations. And men's, a classic, because they had classic because they got too. I don't even know who this is. Caledit, Chickawalu. I don't know if I've been ruininGHis name yet. Chickawalu, Chickawalu, I don't know who he is. Khalid, Chickaw from Quebec. He wins, I don't know him. Do you know him? Nope. I think he won the Canadian show a few weeks ago though. Oh, he did. Well, that's pretty much every year. He's having a year. He's going to the Olympia. That's the national. Yeah. Yeah. Peter Dillinda, D'Orlindo. Also from Canada, finished his second in David Patrick, who's been tearing up the scene. He's the finishes third here. Congratulations. A year boy, Henry P. R. Now, fourth place. Yeah. Yeah. We'll give him the award for a fastest trap, which means total offseason days zero. Oh, and I'm easy yet another bad offseason. Total offseason days zero. He just decided that. Think it's he documents that on his Instagram. I think eight weeks out. Like I haven't trened for 50 weeks. That takes Paul's to do that. It doesn't work. 40 weeks. And I'm going to do classic. So here I go. So that means he just has to, well, that's he did a 56 day prep. Wow. That tells you the genetics. After not trening it on. Yeah. I was thinking that coming out of the grocery store today, I was thinking the genetics on him in that he did a 56 day prep, meaning what he probably had 14 days to try to put on some muscle. And then the rest of it, try to burn off that baby fat. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Israel, the Mingus wins men's physique for Mexico. Congratulations. I wonder if that's the first Mexican guy going to be in the Olympia. On the Olympia stage from in men's physique. I bet it is. Sheaian is olfigari for my ran. I guess the Iranians can go to Canada. They can't go to the US though. He finished that second. Third place long woo from China. Good physique. He's the first ex of the way. Fourth. And then to the place is Bolvian Shahem, from Canada. I'm sure I bought you this name. The pro-finist division our friend, Allison E. here wins. She'll be going back to the Olympia. Congratulations, Allison. Love her. And in figure, Bojana Vassajab, and another friend to the show. Finish his first national drug of the Olympia. Jennifer Dory wins in bikini. No, she doesn't. Sorry. It's actually called Wasser. On the comeback trail, it's our second big win. Obviously, she's a former Olympia champ. She won in Colorado and actually wins here. I think the comeback is complete. We'll see you on the Olympia stage. We'll see her gain the title. We'll find out. Women's physique. I was just saying to you before the show started. I don't know anyone in women's physique anymore. It's weird. How many new competitors? Alyssa Copelino from Canada wins. Congratulations. And she'll go to the Olympia. So big show in Canada this past weekend. Congratulations all the winners and everyone go to the Olympia. Except for the only person who qualified this week to go to the Olympia. And who won't be going is Craig Richardson. How stupid is that to? How stupid is Craig? He's retiring this year and he's not going to the Olympia. Well, the flip side is someone who may say in five years how brilliant this Craig, he went out on top. That's true. What do you mean? He's the last pro show that he did. HEQualified for the Olympia. The problem is no one will ever remember that. Because it's not a real exciting statistician. Johnny Jackson's final statistic was great. He won that Arnold. What was it? The Arnold South Africa. He's going with that. And then he did do the Olympia. At least he got the Olympian. Make a speech on stage. I'm sure Craig goes to the Olympia. They'll let him get up there and say thank you to my fans. You have to compete for 600 years. And I want to just thank everyone for all the support. And you get to say in front of the Olympia crowd. You think that that's something prestigious? No comment. No comment. I'm just trying to pick up the. I had on the other comment. OK. How's that? That is the comment. Yeah. You know, we, remember we talked about a couple of weeks ago about the Jeff King. Yes. I'm trying to figure out why you didn't get the pro. Why didn't get the pro card. John Hansen is a true like crazy fan of bodybuilding because he broke it down for you. And I said, you got to read that. I don't think I was to present to you. Oh, that was John Hansen wrote there, right? Yeah. Of course. Only John would know that stuff. That T clarified. What did I just say it? Yeah. I'll read the explanation. Go ahead. It was perfect. In 1982, the NPC started and they and the AAU were running separate organizations. That was in 82. In 82, the NPC ran the same national shows they have now. The junior USA, junior nationals USA and nationals. Haney won the first junior nationals beating my quim. Dale Rupelund, Rupelundger won the 82 USA and fill out law on the junior USA. In 83, Jeff King won the AAU, Mr. America and Bob Paris won the nationals. The only way to get a pro-card in the early 80s was to win your way class at the nationals and then win your class at the IPEB, Mr. Universal, so known as a World Outer Championship. So it wasn't enough just to win the nationals. You had to go to the Win the World Championships. Thanks Bob. Think about that. How hard that. Right? To do with both of those. In 83, or Ernie Santiago won the NPC USA, filled Williams won the USA in 84. David Hawke won the USA in 85 and JJ Marsh won the USA in 86. Dave Hawke got his pro-card in 85 but it wasn't from winning the USA. It was because he won this class at the IPEB World Games that year in England. The World Games were held as an adjunct to the Olympia Games and it featured spots that were not official Olympic Games sports but were vying for that position. That's when Ben Weed, I thought he was going to get the Olympics. Yeah, the World Games were held every four years, usually two years after the official Olympics. The World Games that year, Sean Jenkins, from the USA won the middleweight class he got a pro-card. I remember all these guys, including Sean Jenkins. Dave Hawke won the light heavyweight class in the last year. And Matt Mendenhall, the heavyweight class winner of the 85 USA lost the heavyweight class of the World Games to bury the mag. How he knows all this stuff I don't know. Also notable in that contest was Doring Yace who took seventh in his first international contest that I did not know. Did you? IMean John Hanson is he not so what? Did you know that? Did you know that? I did not know that. But Doring? Yeah, I did know that he was. I thought Doring never lost a show but I guess. Well, there's a story behind it. I think people in England pushed him into it. Oh, that's right. He did tell me that. You're right. I think you said that on the interview. He hated it right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. He hated it. Yeah. Yeah. He hated it. There's more. John Hansen, more. In 87, the NPC decided to award another pro-card to the guy who won the overall at the USA. So it wasn't until 87 that they gave a pro-card to USA and that was my quinn. I said that year and he turned pro. JJ Marsh petitioned the NPC and I FBB to receive his pro-card as well because he won the USA in 86 and never got a pro-card. Well David Hawke, 85 NPC USA winner and MikEQuinn 87 USA winner got it. So the NPC actually gave JJ Marsh his pro-card retroactively. How was that? How was that for a fucking explanation of what went on guys? How does he remember this? I can't remember what I ate for lunch today. If you asked me, what would you go eat today? I couldn't remember and tell you. Well you weren't a golden girl. I did, you're right. How did you know that? Well because that's the only place you know. I really had only an ad on him or I did to actually a rarity but I did go to Golden Girl. My friend called Hansen moved down to Florida. He's going to be working for us at species and we went out with him. My mother and my mom and my mom and their two kids. My son, my son was a complete nutcase because he didn't take a nap today. Oh yeah. He was a great person. He was freaking mine and then he was eat shoveling food into his mouth and my wife, I thought he was full already. My wife came back with some dessert from the dessert bar there and he was digging into the ice cream and a carrot cake and all of a sudden I saw the look on his face. My wife spotted first and she's like, get the napkins and it was like mouth to sousvience coming out of his mouth. That way through everything up. Yeah. He felt better. Well because he's so tired he doesn't know where to smell. No he was acting like a cookup bird. He was going crazy and as soon as he threw up he was fine. He was like something. He was like he took a, so he took an oxycontin after that. Yeah they need the nap. App he absolutely. Oh they're wild. They're wild. Yeah they act irrational. It's so weird. Yeah. It's so weird. I feel the same way sometimes. I feel irrational if I don't take an app. I know. But you know what? I don't have the time. No. I drank. We went to the, I had a flat tire in my van minivanthabe. We were at the dealership getting a change and I was drinking. I drank so many decaf coffees that I actually got caffeine buzz from it. Yeah because it's like what? 3% caffeine. Yeah I was drinking like expressive. It's a very deep caffic process. Like 40 of them. I'm like, wow caffeine does feel really good. Maybe I should start using it. I'm afraid it looks like I got in the rhythm. I don't want to, you know, I'm afraid. I don't know. I'm sure I won't, but you know what IMean? I'm an extremely subtle and I'm so I get that little caffeine buzz today. I felt great. I think I'm actually still feeling right now. 2012 hours later. Yeah. What's it, it's a few, you like me and you drink coffee all the time. Then at night time I put you to sleep. I learned that from off-gross and it didn't drink a coffee and go to bed. Me too. I, I was drinking so much coffee when I would, I, no I was drinking regular coffee back when I would compete. So I didn't got me through the day. I would drink, it's a trip quadruple expressos from Starbucks. I'd ice him put equal in there and it's splendid. Whatever it was back in the day. You're making your own. Bob Graschner was getting put in the sweet and low in there, but I couldn't handle the sweet and low. No, he put sweet and low in and, uh, splendor mix them. Right, right. So that's the deal. Look, it was a good weekend in body building. We'll believe it at that. We'll keep it to a contest prep like kind of or conscious. They're contest recap. Heavy muscle radio. Next week we'll be back to our usual stick, complaining about bed bug employees and the like, you got to get some apartments down here, Chris, on the west coast, a Florida downtown. Oh, yes, you're missing. Down the line. I'm missing your missing the boat here. I know. But, uh, what do you, here's, do you think Cape Corals can have more people less people in 20 years? Way more. This is the number one growing city. So there you go. So real estate is going to be more real estate. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. You got to buy it now. I need you to come down. Yeah, I'll buy some real estate with you. But I need your wisdom. Well, buy the main house. I'm afraid to do it myself to be honest. I want I need some Chris Ascito, uh, because you'll investigate. You'll do some, you know, diligent, two diligent, six to eight. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Because I work due to, to, uh, I don't think they'd be. Oh, I do. I do. I do. I talk to Don, I believe the show on this one. I talked to Don Long, Don, Mox texting because, John and I kind of, did we did a little, uh, I arranged, and in the I arranged, we mentioned Don Long, and, you know, Don Long was this, had gotten arrested about a year over a year ago, and he finally got sentenced to a year and a half in prison, uh, and to, I think you got a $250,000 fine. You know, the fine is not so bad, because you can always pay money off. You can never get your life back, you know, time in jail, uh, you know, you like, but it seemed extreme to me, but I don't know. I didn't know what he really did, and so I, we were speculating, you know, Ramana, but said, well, if he stashed away a couple million bucks, you know, then, you know, a year and a half in jail is not really that bad, I guess, you know. So, Don, Tom texted me, I guess after you heard he's like, I have no money. IMade no money on selling the drugs. I was just sending, I was sending people to this guy, you know, my clients to go, go talk to this guy, because he wasn't used like, I wasn't selling drugs because I was making money money, you've caught this guy, but, you know, if you're involved in sending people to someone like a drug dealer, you're involved in the conspiracy in a sense. And I guess they felt that Dom was a big name, and they wanted to, and they wanted to headline and, uh, unfortunately, at his expense, it, whatever he is, 51 years old, and he just has a newborn kid like I do, uh, it's going to be very inconvenient, obviously, to go to prison. The, the, the irony of the whole thing is, why would you give someone a $250,000 fine if you sendinGHim to jail? How the hell they're going to pay off the fine if they can't work? You know, you just want to get out. Well, you know, what they should do is they should either find you really, they should have find him a million bucks and, and gave him house arrest so he could at least work, let him pay the money off, or they should have given him no fine and gave him, you know, given the, the jail time, it's, it's one of the other, really. IMean, it's kind of stupid to get, it wasn't like the guy was, it was, had money laundering, the guy paste taxes, and he has, you know, he's, he's an upstanding member of the society, now he's not a criminal, but, you know, they, they, they look, when they see a body builder with a big name, they see a headline, they figure, you know what, we'll use him, we'll send a message to everyone else out there that crime doesn't pay. And I ain't a stand-looking, you do the, if you're involved in doing this stuff, you know, I got caught, you know, you got to do the time that's all there is to it. Don's not a rat, he doesn't want to, he didn't want to rat anyone out. And so he's going to have to do this time. It's going to be tough, obviously, but, you know, look at through his wife was involved, too, because she, I guess, I don't know, because she does the contest prep with him. She might have get luckily, she gave her house arrest for a year. She's very lucky. Yeah, and she, she's got like four years probation from that. So it's, it's a pain in the ass, you know, it's a felony on your record, you know, luckily for them, they have their own business. But, you know, Dynas and officially got all the paperwork done. So when he does, we'll get him on the show and we'll do an interview with him, because I know he wants to tell people what happened, because that's always what happened. And you know, before you get sent, you can't talk about it, because until they finally gave you the sentencing, you don't want to screw anything up. And so that's why I know you haven't talked about it since he rest. And he told me, when it first happened, because Dave, I'm going to tell you the whole story when it's some one at the time. And, you know, he pretty much came to the story, but we'll get him on the show and we'll get the whole thing out there. So, you know, best of luck to Dynas. Also, I want to send that out. I don't know if you heard. I don't remember if I told you not. But I want to say that I can do all this. I have to be women's physique pro-tracy has died. She was a good friend of mine. I did a contest prep a couple times. She was driving with her husband Steve Webster. He was driving the car behind him. And obviously, they came through a stoplight and the car kind of kept rolling and hit a pole or something like that. He got out. She was like having a seizure or something like that. He punched his hand through the windshield through the side window. Got her, trying to get her out of the car. She fell forward and then the step on the accelerator and the car rolled another 50 hundred feet into a tree. The paramedics came, they revived her, but she had, I think she had brain swelling. No, I don't think this is official cause of death yet. It's the terrible thing. She had kids, she was in her early 50s and it's just one of these tragic, you know, passing that you don't know. You can't even explain. I don't know. She was a great person. I saw the picture on your Instagram account. Okay. Yeah, she's, they were in my studio. Ironically enough, if you look in the picture there, you'll see Steve or husband her and it was me and then there was my friend Cole. He, Cole is in the back. He was the young, the young kid there. It's pretty funny. It was a while ago. It makes me sad. I saw the picture in the wreck. I actually sent me the picture. I was going to post the same picture anyway, but it's a shock. Yeah, it was terrible when you hear something like that happened. And she was propping, I think, for her last show, another one, it was going to retire. No, the Craig Richardson. Maybe Craig figures, you know what, why should I press by a bucket at this point? You know, I'll go out on top like you said, I don't need to. No, the first ever, it's a good feeling to be able to look back and say, what do you remember? Yeah. What's show did you do? And two, about the 2016 or 2018 or 2000, whatever. And you say, whatever, you reply, which show you did and I got the win. Yeah, I finished on, I finished with a win on my belt. IMade 20 bucks. What did he make for the show? Did he get prize-good prize for any of them? I don't even know. I never even asked, but I can imagine more than two grand. Which is, we did. I don't know three grand. I think that's the minimum. That's good for Craig. That'll buy him a couple of dinners, dinners, I don't know if it'll cover. What do you chart by? Do you have to tell me, charting? Did it cover your fee at least? What's that? Craig's prize money. It wouldn't cover it. It's still lost money. It's in body buildings, it's just funny sport. It's such a freaking money loss. You know, it's really hobby. I just tried to define what a hobby is for my 14-year-old today. That was the homeschool experiment. To define the difference between a business and a hobby. A hobby is something that you spend money on, because you enjoy it. That's what body building is. Because if you try to figure out as a business in your, it's the most failed business you could possibly help to. It's like more than a restaurant. Yeah. Yeah. A restaurant's way more profitable than body building is. Yeah, but it's also, you know, like one of the easiest to fail at. Yeah, if you don't know what you're doing, sure. Absolutely. That's why the selfie restaurants at St. Business, right? The length of time. Exactly. All right. That's enough. Chris, you know that we've really gotten old. Saturday night, Chris and I hang out together doing a radio show. Oh, I'm wondering if that's. They are. I heard my wife, my wife, I'll say, really early tonight. She was really tired. It's been a long week for her. And I heard her just, I think she went out to get a bottle to the baby or something like that. I'm like, I'm like, I'm semi-wisping. I don't know why I am. But I, I, for some reason when we do this shows really late at night, I'm not as loud as I normally am during the day. So when people listen to this. When they go into the day, you're shot by the end of the day. Sure. You're right. But you know what? What I do is when I put my son to sleep now, which is usually we try to get him in bed early, but it's never before 9.30. I fall asleep when I'm laying, I lay in the bed in the room and he's in his bed and all fall asleep. Because I have to wait till, if he doesn't fall asleep, I can't leave the room. Because then he starts going, dad, dad, dad, dad, dad, dad, dad, we watch him on the monitor. I fall asleep for like a half hour. So it rejuvenates me. Now I know what my dad used to do. Growing up, my dad used to take a nap after dinner so that he can write, do it because he's a writer. He would write all night. Like before, in the morning, go to sleep, he'd get up in 6.30 in the morning and for go teach. I've become my dad again. We always say when you become a, I'm on the same schedule, so it's unbelievable. Not really. I thought I would never do it. I'm like, I'm going to sleep. I'm going to sleep. You're, you're a doctor. You're a doctor. You're a doctor. You can't, you can't fight your genetics. That's the tolder. It was to it. All right. Press enjoy the rest of your weekend and guys, congratulations to all the big winners this past weekend. And we're getting close. We're going to be 10 weeks, 9, 10 weeks after the Olympic now. I don't even know. I hope them were the 9. I think we're about 9 weeks out. So we're at least 10 weeks out the most. No, it's going to heat up. Tampa is going to be next big one. I guess coming up on the schedule. Yeah, a month or weeks. I'm looking right now. Hold on. What's next week? I think there was another show this week. Because it's too late. Too bad. You're right. You get it. I have all these snakes hatching. I have snake eggs. You know, they take 60 days to hatch. So every week, every day I go down to my snake room, I got new eggs hatching, which is that's my excitement. I tried to distract myself from all the work I have to do. I go on snake eggs. I get pigeon eggs hatching on my room. Did you know Flex Lewis used to breed birds, speaking of pigeon eggs? He bred fentches, parrachetes. He told me this. professionally. Or professionally. He said he made more money. He was making more money. Listen to this. When he was 17, then he got from his disparity contract per month. Why do you give it up? I don't know. He didn't tell me that. Because he wanted to be a bodybuilder. Once again, the worst investment of anything you could possibly do. He gave up his profession of professional bird breeding to be a bodybuilder and spend all his money. Luckily, if I haven't worked out. Right? Great. You got to come up with the top five birds to be enjoys. You know, I can't wait to be on the interview this guy won. They got forbiddies. The stupid exclusive contracts that don't even count for anything. No one don't even count to views the guy. He's got so much to say. What the hell say so much and he can't even do it on the air? Oh, speaking of speaking of flex Lewis as predicted last week on this TV show. Right. Radio show. I said that Teddy Chopper would not be doing the vink over. Now why didn't Heidi shoot me do this? I thought he wouldn't do it. Why didn't he do it? Right. He could do. He can go to Canada. There's another irony in the lineup. Yeah, I know. That meant specific guy who took second. Shane. Yeah, that was my prediction that he would not be doing the show. You're right. So what show is he going to do then? I don't know. You know he can't do it. Limpia. I'm going to give the visa. Which by the way, I think is the stupidest fucking rule of all time. I think the stupid Trump made some stupid rules, but there should be exceptions for professional athletes for actors. For people who are well-known, who have no variety, they should make exceptions to the rule. It's one thing if you want to keep the terrorists out. Why you keep in the professional athletes out? It's ridiculous. I'm probably going to talk about it. I'll be called an acido sympathizing after that. That's funny. And it has nothing to do. I don't think that Donald Trump's doing a bad job. I just think that it's a stupid policy to have for... You can't just across the board by a damn people from coming into the country, stupid. Not going to solve any problems. You're not solving terrorism by keepinGHeidi Schupen out of the country. No, Heidi is so Heidi is out and he missed the Vancouver show. That means he's out at the Limpia. Well, he wants to be able to do Limpia anyway. So why do Vancouver? Why do Vancouver? Because Vancouver is supposed to be like a done deal for him. Yeah. You should have done that. Could they... Maybe they can go to Canada and then they can sneak him into the US. Possibly. Maybe he's driving by my house. I can see Canada. Drop them off of Mexico. They can get them from one of those tunnels over there. They got right? The drug tunnels. Both of the woods. It's the longer you get enough tick bites, stuff protection on you. All crystals, send you some bug bad bug bad bug medication or whatever. Bad bug spray. They kill everything, right? If you can kill a bad bug, you can kill any other bugs. That's what I always said. Totally. Yeah, well that's 100% right now. I see, Jeanade Colowala from India. He's the first men's physique pro from India. He was in Vancouver, men's physique pro too. Took 10 points. Congratulations. Jeanade did his dive for a little while. That's all she wrote, Chris. Until next week, remember, with heavy muscle radio, the truth hurts. Good night, everyone.

=== FILE: SHANE STEWART： A YOUNG BRANCH WARREN？ Live With [K_aWW6_fqYc].txt ===

Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com on Dave Palombo. And today's guest is our 2018 NPC USA overall men's body building champion and the YFVPRO team is doing. Hey, how's it going? Congratulations. Thank you. It's an honor to be on your show. I've been watching your show for a few years now. Pretty much got all the ass-daves, uh, bands watched. That's good. It's never too much knowledge, IMean, say, a shame. Interesting story you got because you've been in the military the Air Force 20 years. You started competing 17 years ago. And, you know, you really pretty much competed on the regional level for many, many years. Last year was your breakout year at the USA when you play Second Behind There are ones for talk to me about how you got into body building initially, you know, and because your story is interesting because you said you wait a hundred twenty five pounds when you joined the Air Force. Yeah. So basically I got into lifting weights because, uh, joined the basic trening came out of a basic trening at one fifty five. It's got a little chunky. I haven't that carrying around that much weight. So I thought I'd start lifting weights and turn it into muscle. And after a few years of trening, IMet this huge power, our body builder. Uh, that said, hey, you might do pretty good. And the show here, I was stationed at Little Rock Arkansas at the time. And I was like, okay, what do I do? You know, and he's like, okay, by these posing trunks, get this, get this. I first show, uh, play Second and Little Rock. Didn't didn't know how to pose. Didn't practice posing very good. I probably could have done a little better. You know, you know, it was my first go. And I was like, you know what? Let's try it again. I play Second out of six. So, wasn't too bad for my first go. No, this is interesting. You said you went to basic trening in you gained weight. How do you, I thought you just was a lose weight when you go to basic trening? Yeah, it's all, if someone's heavy, they normally lose weight. And if you're underweight, you normally gain weight. And I, at the time, I never ate a lot of food. So it'd be like twice a day. So when I come out in there, I was like, I guess I'm a nervous eater. So I got nervous. I would just pound cheeseburgers down like there are two bites. So I gained quite a bit of weight in just in the six weeks. So we, and now you're obviously about five six or so. So in high school, were you, were you an athlete or, you know, what did you do? Uh, and high school, I, IMean, it just said martial arts. I didn't do too much football or anything. Right. I didn't even know if our school had a wrestling team or I'd probably have done something like that, but I think our school was too small. And when did you go to school, where were you again? Uh, I was in Arkansas. I went to Van Buren and then I finished up in Alma High School. Okay, so it was pretty small town type of a situation. Yeah. What made you decide you wanted to go into the Air Force? Um, I kind of didn't. My mom was going to pay for my college and I didn't want to. I was afraid that if I went to college, I'd screw it up and, and then I'd, I'd feel indebted to her for her money and I was like, I can just go to the Air Force and get free preschool. So I was like, okay, this will be the easier way. And then, you know, firsT4 years, I hated it. And then after I re-enlisted, I, my whole mindset changed. And I, I love the Air Force after that. So do you think you changed your life in a sense as an air of going into the Air Force at the time? You did. Cause you think you maybe weren't so confident when you were younger. Yeah, I would have gotten a lot of trouble. Were you a trouble maker in school? Was that? Were you a trouble maker in high school? No, I wasn't a trouble maker. I just hung out with people that did stuff they shouldn't be doing. So I probably wouldn't write there with them. That was not the story of most people who went to the military. It's to get away from, you know, bad influences. Yeah, that, that's probably 50% I'd say. Some people like did it off of patriotic reasons, but for me, was this to say out of trouble? Well, what happens a lot of people start out with, with, with, there's trouble like is then it becomes the greatest Patriots of the country that the country has ever seen. Right. Which is tremendous, you know. Is it, you know, weird to see how you trensformed, like your family, that they noticed the difference, you know, when you entered the military, because you said you hated it at first, obviously. And at some point they, they brainwashed you into thinking correctly. You know, right, right. IMean, it's been a slow trensition. I haven't really, like gained a lot of weight at any one point except basically, I think basic trening was like the most weight I've gained at one time. But it's been a slow trensition. My, obviously everybody that sees me now from back in high school, obviously can tell the difference. IMean, I look at the mirror. I feel like I'm 125 pounds. So when did you, when did you think that you also were involved in power lifting too? And you've got some pretty impressive tools. You've, you've squatted six eleven, you benched four sixty five and deadlift sixty three six thirty three and that meet that you kind of had your personal best, seventeen, six total, which is very, very impressive numbers for guy 200 pounds. Did you, were you torn between body building and power lifting? Because a lot of times you got to kind of pick which one you really want to focus most of your energy on. Yeah, I'm, I'm torn because of the diet. There's a, you know, like power lifting diet. I can eat donuts. Right. Bodybuilding diet. I can't do any of that. So I'm torn between the diet, but I think I have a little bit better at bodybuilding that I am power lifting. So I'm kind of this year I decided to leave out the power lifting meat that I was going to do just so I could really concentrate on making sure I was lean enough and not hurt myself. You know, like ten weeks out. Right. So, but always enjoy liftinGHeavy too. So that's, that's my favorite thing to do is just lift heavy. Now, it's interesting. You know, when I was doing my wrap up with the USA, I really didn't know very much about you at all. I'll be honest with you. But I, I looked at your physique and I, and I get tell that you tren heavy. And I compared you to branched Warren. I said, you know, this guy looks like a like a midi branched Warren when branch first term pro. And I had no idea you had a power lifting back, back around. You have a lot of dense, mature muscle on your body. Do you attribute that to all the years of heavy lifting? Oh, yeah. It's definitely from that. Even back when I was competing in the NGA naturals, like no, no one would touch my back or or my legs. That was like my two two spots. That's just from heavy squat and heavy headlets. Sure. Now, last year, you told me you could sort about your current coach. You had placed really bad, I believe, at the USA in 16. And then tell us what happened. So, yeah. So in 16, I, I placed 11th and I had seen my, who's my coach now, Shane. And I told him I really wanted to go with him and, and give it a shot. And he said he would have me battling out for first place in 2007. And, you know, I'm, I'm a skeptical, but I was like, you know what? He's probably going to be able to keep me on track better than I can keep myself on track. So, there we were, you know, first and second. So, you know, I was right there with him. You were in lunch for battle at that, on that same stage. And once for obviously went on to some great things, you know, winning the first thing. Going to the Olympia place in top five. So, you know, we're certainly good company. That was inspiration. See, in him go, just that far, that quick. I was like, I never really believed I could ever compete with the guys that they Olympia until I seen him up there. And I was like, I wasn't that far off. Yeah, no, you were right there. I remember what I was just, no. No, what's interesting is that, you know, a lot of times we see guys, they don't want to, they have no patience. They want to do, they jump in, they want to turn pro one year, and they want to be on the Olympia stage next year. And that's just not the case for most people. Like, you're a true testament to a guy that hard work over one period of time, pans out to great results. IMean, you're not a young guy. You're not like in your 20s. And you've been trening for, you know, seven to committing for 17 years now. And you finally got the pro-court. Does it feel like you've been validated? You know, now that all that hard work you put in his finally, you know, gotten you the so-called diploma from the, the amateurs? Oh, yeah. IMean, it's definitely, IMean, even here. And when I watch the, the USA recap from you and here in my name, it's like, hey, he's talking about me. I've ever, I feel like a celebrity. Like, this is cool. So, yeah, IMean, it's a definite step, huge milestone to make pro. Now, a lot of these guys now that just turn pro with the USA are jumping into this week and stamp a pro. I had that come across your mind, it all, hey, maybe I'll test myself out and see how I do. Yeah, originally I thought that plan would be a good idea, but I had promised my woman that we'd go camping this weekend. So I forgot about that and my coach was like, oh, let's put on some more weight. So I want to try to get up to around 2, 10 before I try to go up there. I think I would fair better if I had a few more pounds of soul of muscle on. Once for did pretty good after winning the light heavyweight class, you might have done pretty well. Also, did you feel that that 2, 12 division is your category? Oh, yeah, there's no way up the heaviest I've been in the offseason is 2, 20. Oh, okay. So I'll struggle to, I'm on a struggle this year to try to get to 2, 30 will be my offseason goal to try to get me right around the 2, 10 mark. Do you still have trouble eating? Is that your limitation at this point? Yeah, it's not eating enough. I see people who can put down some food, but I just have, I don't know, I get sick way too easy to say I end up half in death. I can spread them out, but this year I'm going to try to stretch my stomach a little more. No, explain to us what are you doing the air force? Like what's your full time position there at this point after being there for 20 years? All right, now it's called the production superintendent, basically just managed all the jobs on the aircraft. So if aircraft is broke for a certain shop, I'll get to make sure that shop gets out to the aircraft and fixes it and set priorities based on which aircraft has what mission. Right. Now, these current aircrafts that we have in our military are like spaceships, they're like crazy. IMean, do you have to constantly go for continuing education to learn how to fix these computer systems and all these crazy stuff that they got in there? Yeah, IMean, depends on your AFSC to depends on what your job is. For my original job of aircraft structural maintenance, it was structure structure fiberglass. Oh, I got to see it all like, you know, but the guys who are an avionics that are working on, you know, the computer systems, those constantly get upgraded and they constantly have to go back to get. Schooling, but for my job, I don't have to do that because the metal metal never changes carbon. That's the same. Now, when you go, I always wanted this, when you go into the Air Force, because there's different branches of the military, obviously, does everyone learn how to fly a plane or is it just the people who want to be pilots? Yeah, you got to, you got to be a pilot. So yeah, that's definitely not the case. There's all kinds of different jobs, security forces, services where they, they cook the food. Right. You know, basically anything that's on an Air Force base, there's a job for it. So everybody has their own job pilots fly, because you don't, I don't think you'd want someone that, you know, I don't know that be a little dangerous of this. What if I'm going to fix my own aircraft and then. Some people are just jack-able of trens. They can do everything. I just didn't know, maybe you knew how to fly anywhere. You just could just be in the air force. You would not try to fly. Now, have you ever been stationed overseas or it's always been domestically been here? Yeah, I've been stationed at Ocanal, Japan, Ekinadina Air Force Base. How long was that? That was a three year tour, and it was awesome. I tried staying overseas, but I ended up getting sent to Utah. So what's in Utah? Is it you've been there so long? Utah was there for about five or six years. I worked on F-16s. And then the reason why I left there was because they were going to shut down and get some F-35s. So one of the squadrons was going to shut down and I had to pick a base, because I'd been there for over four years. And that's probably going to get, you know, like some crappy base. So I got to pick a base and pick California. It's a beautiful place over here just like the taxes and all that. I know it's expensive over here living. Very expensive up there. You're in like Northern California right by San Francisco. Yeah. That's not that Silicon Valley area in areas. Do you, so I guess, you know, like I said, you want to put some size on. So what would you say, you know, what's the golfer next year? Would you have a pro debut picked out yet? Yeah, I want to do the Tampa Bay Pro. I want to give it a good solid year off. Make sure that I can put on that weight and and give me about 20 weeks to die at again. And try to, you know, do what Derek did basically, you know, I've, you know, I was inspirational what he did last year. So I've been, that's kind of my goal is to try and see if we can't hit hit the Tampa Bay Pro and get qualified for the Olympia. And that would be the ultimate goal. But you know, everyone else is thinking the same thing. So, it's all right. If you're better than then then you do it. I think it's a good plan. I think it gives you a full year to kind of, you know, get better. And then obviously this would be the last qualifier before the 2019 Olympia. So if you did win, you know, you probably, you know, that would be a great little feather in your cap to finish off the year with the Olympia. So I think it's a good strategy. Anyone else you want to thank out there? You know, Shane, I'm sure you have a lot of people that supported you through this competition. Oh, you know, my family. They had to put up with the zero carbs. Anger. So I give them props for supporting me and, you know, not getting too pissed that I was so angry. I thought you were going to say zero gravity for me. I'm still stuck on the whole Air Force thing, but zero carbs have to be worse than zero gravity, I guess. Yeah, definitely is. Congratulations again on the big win. Enjoy this philosophy. The victory doesn't last very long. And pretty proud. You beat a good group of guys up there. I appreciate it. Thank you, Dave. All right. And guys, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with brought to you by species nutrition. Visit species nutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: SHANIQUE GRANT'S TIME？ Muscle in the Morning (7⧸30⧸18) [4Mmg3vxZCNE].txt ===

Wake up everyone, it's Smell the Coffee, it's Monday here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm Dave Palombo and today is July 30th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. You know that feeling you get when you work your butt off for something for years on man without ever actually being able to get your hands on it and then all of a sudden the clouds open up and you see the opportunity of a lifetime you've been waiting for right before your face. Well, how much do you want to bet that that's exactly how Shiny Crank is feeling right about now? With a Juliana Malacarney out of this year's Olympia, it looks like the stars have finally aligned for Grant, the athlete we dubbed the future of the Women's Physic Division back in 2016. But before we go ahead and start pencilinGHer name on the title, let's not forget about the history lesson we all learned back in 1998. When the whole world thought it was a lot that Flex Wheeler was on his way to being crowned the next Mr. Olympia. These even though the door is open, there's still no guarantee we'll be the first one to make it through. If you've ever heard writers or artists talk about being in the flow state, then you know once you get to that place, the best thing you can do is just let it ride. And apparently, Julie Mayer isn't having any problems embracing the wave right about now. Yesterday we saw the veteran stand out release a new trening clip, less than 24 hours removed from hitting the stage at the IFBB L.A. Championships where it looks like she must have caught a little bit of that Southern California vibe. Every time we've seen her this year, Mayer's done a nice job of making little tweaks and adjustments to bring something new to the table. So as long as she can keep riding the wave, I think we'll probably see Julie Mayer continue to keep chipping away at her masterpiece. Maybe on to here for a minute. Nine out of ten times when I hear a guy tell me that he's been growing into a show, I just roll my eyes because I know it's a giant load of crap. But my old friend, Juan Morell, is one of the rare exceptions. Over the weekend we saw Juan Diesel Morell flash some new updates, nine weeks at from this year's Olympia. And I have to say that this is the old World Beta 1 Morell that I know fans have been waiting for to see for the last two seasons. According to one, he's tipping the scales at right about 277 pounds right now. And feels like he's really got everything clicking. And one guy's like Juan Morell with top 10 Olympia potential tell you that they've got it all clicking. It usually means that some poor soul is about to end up on the outside looking in. We wouldn't be doing our due diligence over here if we didn't make a point to celebrate international chess day on this fine Monday morning. And thankfully for us, Jose Raymond looks like he's in the mood to celebrate too. Right now we saw the Boston Mass out getting on an early morning pump in with a few sets of heavy incline presses. As phase three of us prep starts to kick up at the high gear. Over the last two or three weeks, it feels like Jose is starting to get back into that super nasty East Coast group once again. With this year's contest literally set to be one for the ages, I'm sure he wouldn't mind a headline at the top of the page that read Jose Raymond 2018-2012 Olympia Champ. Even though we're a little past the halfway point in the season, it still feels like it's been a crazy year in the classic physique division. But it might be about to get just a little bit more interesting if former men's physique Olympia Champ mark Anthony decides to become the latest athlete to make the jump. Earlier this year, we reported on some rumblings from the Anthony camp that they were considering making the switch over to classic physique at some point this season. And that time might be gettinGHere sooner than we all thought. The latest updates from the champ show him rocking a size and conditioning combination that looks a little different than anything we've seen from them up until now. So if he does decide to hop in at some point between now and the end of the summer, it'll be interesting to see how he stacks up against some of the juggernauts in the division. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day Palombo remind you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: SHOULD ONLY OLYMPIA TOP-3 RE-QUALIFY？ #AskDave [FAXpS2bDIQU].txt ===

My name is Tau Amini and I am the CEO and founder of Ulysses. The protein, bakery with low-shoulder ketogenic and high protein in each and every item. I specialize in making brownies, cookies and cupcakes. As of 2021, we will have the variety of traditional, good and free, and protein to choose from Every product. Come check us out at www.ulyssesbater.com And then also check us out on our donation by the word. All proceedings will go to the wheelchair body building community with your order. Thank you for checking us out. Take care. If it's been 3.5 hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out. You are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for 5 minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. I'm Dave Palombo. Founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest body building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the species nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your apps to look best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry for the Ocar Poptart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this. This is our best place to be in LA. We're going to be doing this. We're going to be doing this. We're going to be doing this. We're going to be doing this. Alright, television on rxmuscle.com. This is ass Dave better known as hashtag ass Dave. You're 30 minutEQuestion and answer. Feel what they've lumped up all your questions. Diet trening supplementation. I've been pros and news. There's some big news last night. Always check that out. And whatever is on your mind, it is all on the table Dave. Before we get that big news, Heart of Knee. I know that kind of coming from out of nowhere, but July 4th weekend is right around the corner. It's here. And speech nutrition is going to ring in July 4th weekend. whatever what they expect as PC-contrishing.com for our July 4 sale. Well, I'm not going to tell you what the sale is, but I will tell you this we're going to have a sale. It's going to be Saturday Sunday Monday. You guys are going to be able to get some really nice discounts on the site. Stay tuned. I don't want to tell you that because everyone's going to go to the site and to have them to sell. It's only Wednesday. So check this week and there will be a sale. There are a lot of people who need to restock for the month. They're for the next two months. And they've been asking me hey, you're going to have a sale. I'll tell you that we will have a sale. I promise you it will be in a really nice one. And just stay tuned this weekend. It will be Saturday Sunday and Monday. And then that will be it. So make sure you check this week on the site. Look, you know, I can't believe July 4th is here, ready. It did come very, very fast. And I was planning my guru course. I wanted to do it before the July 4th weekend. Then July 4th obviously came up before I knew it. Next week after July 4th, the following Saturday the day the secret to becoming a guy guru course online. You can sign up via the link on my website. And I know a lot of people have been asking about it because they want to get into taking the course and obviously educate themselves. And you know, I have a lot of people who actually take the course multiple times. You got to remember when you are a coach and you're making money off of, you know, helping other people and charging them. You have a lot, you can write expenses off. And continuing education is an expenditure right off with your account and at the end of the year. So I have guys that every single year they take it once a year. The secrets of becoming a guy guru and then they just submitted to their accountants and they get the discount. You know, obviously they get that taken off their taxes. So it's free education in a sense. You know, take advantage of it. You know, I spend a lot of time with the very long day. It's nine hours. But it's a lot of great information. So before we get into thEQuestion again, we talked about that big news. Well, the big news announced yesterday from the Arnold Classic committee is that this upcoming Arnold Classic is going to have two big new names that is Nick Walker and really winkler. They're added to quite possibly the most stacked competition in this stack line of brother in this competition's history. Dave, some big news. We had discussed to a Sergio Leva Jr. Just a couple of weeks ago and heavy muscle radio. And that is that bodybuilding needs more of this more of these mega show these blockbuster shows aside from the Olympia. And you talked about a key Williams his plans after his big win at the Puerto Rico Pro. He twos in a compete there. So that's going to shape it up to be a blockbuster show at the Arnold. Do you think that Sergio's little message he did on Instagram influence these other guys and made them jump into the show? What do you think they just really say? How stupid am I got a month before the Olympia? I can jump in and make some prize money here. I'm trying to think of if he motivated them or brought them to their senses or if they just said why not? I'm going to say it's a combination of both. And I'll tell you one thing that Sergio said on the episode that I think will really kind of triggered something. And it's sort of good conversation. And here we go. The end result if that had anything to do with it is that you're going to have a blockbuster show in Columbus this year. And that is in Seymour. IMean you look past over the last 18 months, right? Aside from the Olympia side from Big Romney, winning the Olympia, what could you say is like the most talked about storyline? And it was a manufacturer storyline, right? IMean it was thEQuote unquote beef. Right. Nick Walker and blessing I would do with that never quite paned out that I guess whatever. But to his point, the fact that bodybuilding was essentially leaning on that as a real highlight of the year kind of the fucking point. That kind of goes to show what you need this. You need mega shows. You need a sophomore in the Olympia. You need a mega show where you have some of the bodybuilding's up and coming stars. You know, stars that you expect to be in that top six in the Olympia. And I think that you know, messing really was receiving a resounding fashion. So whether or not that had any of you do with it, you know, I'm sure history will tell. But nonetheless, the bottom line, you're going to have an absolute, you know, absolute gem of the show, September 25. And and his other people didn't really think about either is that, you know, the Arnold this year will be a qualify for the next year as a Olympia. So hey, if guys go to the Olympia in October, they're already early. Let me jump in. Let me make some money. And then I'll qualify for next year, salimpia without even having to do a show. I don't want to next year. And we're better to qualify than at an Arnold. And you're going to be in shape anyway for the Olympia. So I think it's a no brainer. To be at high to shoot and couldn't get into that show as well. I think that would have been a blockbuster, you know. What it's funny that you mentioned that because after the announcement, that was going to be my next move to message honey, Rabbi ought to see if that was a possibility. But I do know that obviously the plan is for a hotly jupon to come way earlier than the Olympia. To start, you know, very, very deep prep here in the United States, not have to deal with any of the travel issues. So, you know, we hope to see the best hotly jupon come Olympia time. Let's go to thEQuestions. Two questions, of course, from the day below, I'm going to experience that the first question. Dave, can you discuss the synergy with GH and I get one together dosage timing, etc. Thanks for the brutal show. You know, it's funny because I used to when I would compete back in there was doing offseason a lot of times I would do when I would do my IGF. I didn't even use GH. I said, you know what? I'll take a break from the GH. I'll use my IGF one with insulin and then I would do the GH with insulin when I wasn't using the IGF because I would go off the IGF for, you know, a couple weeks here. And that's because I found that my body had used to it a lot. But then the research came out and showed that there is a synergism between using the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and IGF together. So what I have a lot of guys do is use, you know, depending on whatever dosage or the part with how the weight of the person or what their experience levels. Think about two to four I use a GH a day and then 10 to 20 micrograms of IGF one post work out and the IGF one is always rotated on a forward four weeks on two weeks off rotation. The key with the IGF one people just don't realize this because it's cheap and it's available is you can't do too much of it. Okay, more is not better like with GH, you know, to a certain degree of course. Because what happens is your IGF one receptors downgrade very quickly to IGF one. So if you're taking 50 or 100 micrograms a day, the stuff's going to stop working after a week. Trust me. I know so many people to take huge massive doses of IGF one get no gains from it. You get a pump from it because that's an insulin like effect, but you don't get them to get gains because their IGF one receptors are just not receptive anymore. If you do less less is more so 10 20 micrograms the most per day and only do it for four weeks in a row and then take to at least two weeks off before you restart it up again. If you do that you're going to get better results. I know it sounds counter productive because we're such we're so enraptured in this more is better culture. But when it comes to IGF one, you can't do too much of it. It just doesn't work that way. Second question again from the Dave Blumbo experience app. Dave, you've always liked long acting compounds. Why pre-contest or better use short like trinacetate and mass tron. Well, you know, the reason I like trinacetate is because it actually it seems to work a little differently than trin the long asking trin balloon metabolites. This is a long acting trin balloon. esters. I don't know why, but for some reason trinacetate has a very very quick hardening effect and I like that pre-contest. I don't really like the side effects of it. I always had trouble sleeping on it at night. I can never fall asleep. I was always having to take like something to go to bed at night. The lasT4 to six weeks whenever I used it. It gives you puts you in a really crappy mood. Some people have digestive issues from it. And if you take too much of it, it'll definitely jack you blood pressure up very high. So I recommend less is better also to try and acetate. 150 milligrams every other day is plenty. I used to do a hundred with people and you know, people have a lot of side effects with it. It's just not worth it. You don't really need that much of it. When it comes to the other kind of, of course, I like windstral pre-contest the last six weeks or so like that. Because I just think that it has some sort of hardening effect on the body. But as far as testosterone goes, I like the long acting esters. Because testosterone is testosterone. We want high even levels in the body. It doesn't matter if you're using a faster slow acting testosterone. The end result is the same. The only difference is you've got to administer the fast acting one more frequently. And most no one uses test suspension anymore, which is the fastest acting because it hurts too much and it leaves you well. But same thing with test propane. Propane at less about 48 hours, 24 to 48 hours in the body, you know, at a nice level. But the problem is it feels like you hate going to hit with a hammer wherever you take a shot of the stuff. And a lot of people have like a immune system response to it. I know I used to. You get like flu like symptoms from it. So it's just not worth taking because it doesn't make you feel good. You don't need to have well-tool over your body from injections. So I find that sipping eight and anante esters of testosterone seem to be the most reliable. You get the same results. There's no toxicity from it. They're they give you nice even levels of it. And then play around with the antibiotics when you get close to the show. You want to use faster acting on a box. It's fine. I don't really cut testosterone out on my athletes at all. I always found that whenever I cut testosterone, I kind of lost some of the fullness that I wanted on stage. IMight have them take their last shot Wednesday before I started a show. But by far I keep that in at a high level. I play with the antibiotics a lot in terms of like masteron trying to acetate winstrol. Those are my favorites. Those last six to eight weeks prior to that the first eight weeks to the diet. I usually use longer acting esters like Decker and Eccropoise and testosterone. So it's really all of those last eight weeks to things start to change around. And the truth of the matter is I know guys that have looked amazing on stage. When I asked them after the show, what did you use? It took testosterone nothing else. I couldn't afford anything. I couldn't get anything else. And it just goes to show you. A lot of times we think it's you have to have the perfect drug concoction and cocktail to be the best on stage. A lot of times it doesn't matter. It's about diet trening, getting your body fat low. And just having something on board. Some add a ball time board to keep you full and preserve your muscle. And at the end of the day having a million compounds and the perfect, you know, drug cycle might improve your little bit. But maybe not as much as people think. Let's go to our Instagram questions again if you're not already following us on Instagram. The handle is official underscore our ex muscle. If you're watching us for the first time on YouTube hit the subscribe button below. Hit the notification bell. Obviously now that we have our build up to the all classic and then ultimately the Olympia. We're going to be doing all sorts of contests coverage. Iron debate episodes interviews with the athletes are going to be on stage. Previous segments a lot more. So if you haven't already done so hit the subscribe button and hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss any of our show segments or updates. A little clawed up right now. If you can't already tell, but appreciate your patience. No comment. No comment. No comment. First question from Neil Zaluski. So we talked about. I guess contests having more of the stars compete at contests aside from the Olympia. And this has been a much debated topic over the last few years. So he asks, do you think the I.D.B. should change the rule about the top five and open automatically qualifying for the Olympia to just the top two to make an effort for top pros to compete more on the top five. And he says it's a little bit more of a challenge than he is doing. And IMean, I would never promise if I'm following the Olympia champ or you qualify. IMean, why not make everyone compete? I don't know. I don't know what the right answer is. You know, I think it's a shame that these guys don't want to compete more than once a year. I'm glad I'm actually really glad to see that pretty much everyone is jumping into this Arnold a month before. The package goes to show you that, you know, the the stereo type of everyone just sitting back and waiting for one show to compete at is not necessarily true anymore. And so should they make these guys recall fight. You know, if you place top five at the Olympia or at the elite level, you really shouldn't have to. But at the same time, should you compete if you are top five? Yeah, I think it's not a bad idea. Especially if there's a couple shows close to the Olympia like they're doing the Arnold this year. Maybe now that's going to have the Arnold UK, maybe that'll stay later in the year right before the Olympia. Maybe you'll have guys do the Arnold in March and then right before the Olympia. There'll be the Arnold UK guys from the US will fly over and do that and then you'll have the Arnold classic. And then you'll have the Olympia right after that. If that becomes something that happens every year, that can inspire a lot of people to do that show because maybe that show will have more prize money. Then of course if the rock ever comes out, what is that? Let it come. I don't know what is what is what is plans are for that. And then I put up a lot of prize money. I think the top guys will do the shows or do more shows if we have the top level prize money at these shows. I understand what they're thinking, if I'm a second or third, the Olympia. And I'm only going to make $5,000 from winning this show. Why should a risk peaking twice, but if there's a hundred grand on the line, you're going to be much more likely to see a guy jump into a show. As questions from 20 when it's so after we record this show, you're going to be on with Lee priest and thEQuestion is about Lee. Can you in your honest opinion, can you see Lee priest really doing another show? He looks huge still as one of his many fans. It would be great to see him get it invite to a major show. IMean he goes on to say I guess to see some of the other 90 stars would be great, but Lee in particular realistically obviously you formed a really tight release. In a really tight relationship with him, you know his habits. You know his trening style, he is trening regimen. Now, can you honestly realistically see him step back on a 9th BB stage? I know for a fact that Lee definitely wants to compete. There's no doubt in my mind. And when we talked about this before, he definitely wants to compete. I don't think Lee will get on stage unless he thinks he can be competitive where he's going to win a show. In other words, if his injury doesn't completely get to a point where he's happy with the way he looks, I don't think he'll get on stage. He's not going to just get on stage just say I did it. He's going there to win and that's Lee's mind set. And I think it's a good mindset. In other words, I always felt the same way. If I couldn't be better than I was before, then why compete. You know, so say thing for Lee. IMean Lee's a guy who's one pretty almost every show aside from the big Arnold and the Olympia. So why risk, you know, ruining your legacy and if you're going to come back and head half your best. So if you can come back and be competitive and he knows, you know, it's not two 12 class or open whatever you decide to do. I could possibly win this show, place top five, whatever his goals are. I think he'll definitely do it. And I think we'll see him in 2022. I don't want to see him this year. But I think in 2022 he's going to be ready to roll. Let's go to DE main. What is his science theory behind taking a Q and R with your morning GH notes? We all know that growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone works antagonistically. That means the opposite of insulin essentially. So GH mobilizes move stuff out of the cells. That's what you burn fat. Where it's insulin drives stuff into the cell to be absorbed and utilized, whatever. If the muscle, if it's not a muscle cell, it's driven into a fat cell. It can store things as fat. Okay. So when you have a lot of GH around and you're eating, okay, meals, like you do when you're awake. Okay, especially in the morning, your first meal today. If there's too much GH around, the insulin can't do which job, pushing stuff into the muscles because the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormones in the way, it's a very big molecule. And the insulin doesn't do it. So you could be runninGHigher blood sugars than normal. And if you're not absorbing all these nutrients that you're consuming, then obviously you're not going to grow and recover well. So for some people when they take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, they become very insulin resistant. Sometimes they run high blood sugars. Just because you're insulin resistant doesn't mean you're going to run high blood sugars. But sometimes people have both. And in which case is then not really utilizing the nutrients that they're consuming properly. And in those situations when you add something like humile and r or humile in the morning, to kind of give your body the ability to overcome the insulin resistance from the GH, you seem to grow better. Now, if your person who tends to over-secret insulin already, that means you have fat genes, we say you get fat easily. And you add insulin into the equation, it can make the situation worse. But in a lot of people like myself who are very low insulin, people who put out very low amounts of insulin, because our bodies are efficient at absorbing when I would take GH, I couldn't absorb any food. I would be flat as a pancake. It made me very insulin resistant. So when I added in a short acting insulin, I started to grow pretty, pretty, noticeably, pretty quickly. So you have to assess on a person, my person base. It's not everyone's the same. Let's go to IFBB Tynacity. How do I kick star minimum metabolism again after five surgeries and two years and being unable to tren effectively, not yet able to fully tren, but we'll be able to do so in the next 34 months. That your methodology for restarting the tablets. I think the metabolism will restart on its own once he starts working out and increasinGHis food intake to several meals per day, spaced out throughout the day. The body is a wonderful machine. It really knows what to do when you put the right inputs into it. So if you go from doing no trening, you're injured and you weren't maybe eating as you should have because you figured, why should I eat six times a day, I'm not able to tren. Now when you go into that eating regimen and you go into that trening regimen that you're doing, your body is just going to respond. You're going to create a positive nutrient partitioning environment. Your body is going to start building muscle using stored body to have as a fuel source. And you're going to see everything change in your metabolism. You're going to be sweating all the time from eating more food. And your body is going to start doing, you don't really have to do anything. The body is a very, very smart organic machine, as I like to say, and it knows what to do. Let's go to Severano Benbino. Thoughts on different trening methods in a month example, different rep range every other workout, six to eight reps to say 30 plus reps to hit different fibers. You know, I always say that there's no such thing as a bad trening regimen. It's just a trening regimen that either works or doesn't work for the person's body. I know that high rep, you know, high, you know, a lot of sets workouts that required me to stay in the gym for long, long periods of time work counterproductive for my body. So if I were to do a 2 1 1, half hour workout, you know, and do, you know, 35, 40 sets, I probably would lose muscle rather than gain muscle. That's the way my body worked. So for me to just, because I wanted to do something different than I normally do to change from low volume heavy weight to super high volume, you know, long workouts, that would be kind of productive. However, if I'm stalin what I'm doing, and I don't want to go into the gym in squat 600 pounds today, because I just don't feel as strong, IMight go in and do 425 with a couple drop sets to kind of increase the intensity level, but not necessarily do more sets. Just enhance what I'm doing using lighter weights. And I don't know if that makes sense to people, but so basically you're changing the tempo of your workout, you're changinGHow you're creating the stress and your body, but I'm not necessarily increasing volume as much or time in the gym. And that's what you need to do. I was some people, like how do I change, I will, you know what, if your squat goes squat, do something different, maybe squat and superset that with, with leg extensions. Or if you do bench pressing normally, maybe do a set of a giant set, do a set of incline barbell presses, go to flat dumbbell presses, and then go to cable crossovers in a giant set, like me and let's should do. You don't do it every time, but if you go into the gym and you do it, you know, once a month or something like that, once every six weeks, it'll shock your body a little bit. Still doing the same number of sets, you're just doing them boom boom boom boom boom boom. So you might do three sets, three giant sets like that. And leave the gym. So you're working out my name and be shorter than it normally is, but the intensity and the way you distribute the intensity to your body, or the stress to your body during this workout is a little different. So it has a shocking effect in the body and the body has to adapt to that. And that's what it's all about. We want the body to have to adapt to what we do in the gym. And if you're still on what you're doing in the gym, did you do the same thing every week? This is a good way to get past that. Well, it's good. The leopard, how do you feel about low insulin and GH in test for all season blocking combined with high calories versus a combination of multiple antibiotics? One more time, sir. So how do you feel about low insulin GH in test for all season, bulking combined with high calories versus a combination of multiple compounds? So in other words, when you, I think you try to imply that when you're off cycle, you would still do insulin and GH or something like that. IMean, I think that sounds like that. IMean, I don't have a problem with insulin and GH, as long as you're giving your body some time off the antibiotics because the energy and receptors need to regenerate. It's the antibiotics that are, you know, gunking them up, so to speak. Think about it. If your body's always exposed to high high levels of testosterone or any kind of metabolic steroid for that matter, it doesn't matter. We're just using testosterone for instance. The energy receptor is not going to be as receptive. It's going to save that as plenty of testosterone. We don't need that many of our set. We don't want to be overwhelmed. But if you take away the testosterone, you take away the antigens. Now there's very little around only naturally what your body is producing and your body might be producing very little. The sensitivity of the engine and receptive must restore itself. Now whether you're taking the insulin and GH at the same time, okay, it's going to have nothing to do with that engine and receptors. Sure, you can take some low-dose GH in a little bit of insulin and still get some antibody response from it without affectinGHow your energy and receptor recovers. Let's go to Irish with Little Marinera. How do you feel about mixing weight isolip powder and cream of rice? It seems to be the new thing. We used to mix the weight isolip powder and oatmeal all the time. I used to do that back in the day. I would do it in sitting in front of the TV and it would just make my oatmeal and I would take a scoop away. I still took the mix it in and it was a good way to add some extra protein. They even sell oatmeal packets with the weight isolip powder and the flavor. The only thing is to do a cream of rice doesn't matter. What I noticed is it gets a slight clay-like consistency because the whey protein gets a little thicker. You might have to add some extra water to it. I always prefer that if I didn't feel like eating protein, I don't want to make a chicken breast. I would just add a mix 50 grams of weight into this much water. Mix it around and go up and down and then eat the bowl separately. If you like the way the taste of this up mixed in, that's fine. You can do it that way. What I used to do it, I still sometimes do it. Cream of rice, grits or oatmeal, put your eggs in there. Let's see how it's in the morning. You can put that into your dry oatmeal, mix it around and get the right consistency. Put that in the microwave. The microwave will absorb the grits or the oatmeal will absorb the eggs. I've shown this video before. I've done videos on this before. It makes it a little cake. You can eat that. That tastes way better. I think putting the whey protein into the oatmeal or eggs into the cream of rice is seems to be better to me than mixing whey protein. What muscle in your opinion is key to having great looking arm from the last week, we asked you about it. You can have your biceps. Dellets try to set the biceps in your opinion. I just missed it. You can have a great looking arm from the last week. You know, everyone thinks the arm is a biceps and triceps. If you look at Ronnie Coleman's arm, I don't know if Tyler has a hip-hop, but I'm not big anymore. The muscle that sits between the triceps and the bicep right here, which is not big anymore. That's called the brachialis muscle. Ronnie's is like this thick. That's why his arm is pushed out this much. The brachialis is one of the most under-trened muscles. The only way to really work it would be to do hammer curls. You can do them with a dumbbell. You can do them with a cable. I like to get the cable handle. Here's your handle. I grabbed the material apart with the handle and I do hammer curls. That really hits right in here. That really jacks that brachialis up. Once again, the wider the brachialis gets the thicker it gets, the bigger arm gets. You can build bigger arms by enhancing that brachialis muscle faster than you can by adding more tricep or adding more bicep to the arm. I think a lot of guys are just missing. We got an outside view, like the Tyler, not an inside view of the arm. You can show the outside. You can say you have a side-chesh shot of Ronnie or something like that. You can do that too. That'll probably show it better or back double bicep. The point is that the guys with the best arms look at really wrinkled. It has a tremendous tricep. You see that peak bicep that you can see that like there's another muscle underneath the bicep. It looks like a second bicep almost in the middle. That's your brachialis muscle. A lot of people don't realize that that's a good third to maybe more than a third of your arms mass. You can't have a good arms without having a well-developed brachialis muscle. That's just the truth of the matter. It's going to AS PIPes in your experience as a bodybuilder and then I guess how you coach your clients through it. That's the way to get through post-show blues. You've got to have something that interests you other than bodybuilding because it isn't down or it's like women who go through post-partum after the pregnancy. Or even if you have a plan of wedding, the planning of wedding is more fun than the wedding. After the wedding zone people get bored. They want to get divorced after that. You've got to have something that interests you because after the show, if you put everything into that show, then after the show's over, you've lost your job, you're a girl, you broke up with because she was getting the way of getting ready for the show. Then the show's over and they got nothing. So you got to find balance and understand that there is life after the show. My friend Dave Watson, he worked for Firestone. He was like one of these top mechanics. He always quit his job and always tell him to go out for himself. Two or three weeks before a show. I think he did a purpose because he didn't want to be bothered. After the show's over, before I knew he had his job back, he got your job that you quit. He made up. It's hard. It's hard to focus because you don't care about anything before a show. You remember Kai Green telling me, why wouldn't you pay a phone bill? He said, it's not that important. It wasn't a priority buying chicken breasts and all the stuff I needed for bodybuilding was the priority. I figured I don't need a phone. I just need to be able to go to the gym. That's what happens if the problem is that when the show's over, everything's falling apart around you. So there is a way to balance everything. So that you have your life in balance with the bodybuilding. So when the bodybuilding's over, you still have something to go back to. If you have another interest or you like to, whatever. I don't know, win sur for you. You like to draw. You like to write. You like to do videos for your YouTube channel. Have something else that you can kind of immerse yourself in when the show's over. Otherwise you will be depressed because they'll be nothing for you to look forward to. I have guys that I got them under offseason program after the show's over. Then after two or three weeks they're like, I'm just not happy. I got to go back to the contest diet. I'm sorry to disappoint you. I'm like, well, you're not going to make improvements if you don't do an offseason. I can't handle it. I'm not ripped because the good thing is that whole body, the whole personality is so invested in how they look now that they can't see themselves not looking like that because then they think they're not going to get enough attention. And they can never go away from that. And so it's a problem. It's a very real type of situation that people face who compete that post show depression. And the way you get past it is you find other things. And it doesn't have to necessarily go bird watching. If you don't like bird watching, find something you like to do. If you love bodybuilding, immerse yourself in your coaching or work out in your Instagram, following or work out a YouTube channel or work on your own supplement line. Whatever you got to do, put yourself into that so that you can just put bodybuilding aside in the sense that that's something most important thing in your life. Last question from Joe is C-880. A couple of days ago, Kai Green posted a progress picture of him, which was allegedly a tolerist into the picture if you're showing it right now. 317 pounds. Of course. So here we go again. Everyone's speculating whether or not it's going to be the year the Kai Green stuff back on stage. And seemingly we've gone through that every year. Kai likes to have fun with the fans. It's entertaining, but whether or not it's actually going to happen is you have to be seen. Question is, do you think we will ever see Kai Green or Sean Roding compete at the Olivia? I think there's a way better chance of Sean Roding being at the Olivia than Kai now. And then Sean is once the trial goes through that he's cleared. He wants to compete. He's desperately wants to compete. He misses it. That's his passion. You know, so the fact that he's not being allowed to compete and it's been whaT3 years almost now. IMean, I feel back for the guy. Now if he did the crime, he deserves to go to jail, obviously. And he will. If that's the case of his founding guilty. However, at this point it's taken so long. But almost, you know, I almost think that they should just let the guy compete already. You know what IMean? Because I don't know why this case is taken so long. I hope it's, you know, this is the last year that he has to deal with it. And he's going to get through it and he'll be on stage again. If he doesn't go to jail, you know. Kai on the other hand, I think like you said earlier, is playing the fan, so to speak. He's teasing us a little bit. He wants to keep us interested in what he's doing because that's how he's making money now. And I don't blame him. That's a good marketing movement is part. I don't think he has any desire to compete. If he did, he would have competed the year Brandon Curry won the Olympia. Because I think that would have been his best chance to win it. Now that Randy's in there, I don't know if he can beat Randy and I don't, and you know, Randy can, is bigger than Kai. He has, you know, younger than Kai. He's got more bells and whistles at this point. So I don't know if, maybe Kai doesn't want to go against someone who's as good as Randy. Maybe he figures maybe he was waiting for someone to come back that was worthy of beating. I don't know, or competing against, I don't think we're going to see Kai on stage anymore. All of these throw in this wrinkle. Dave's obviously now, IMean, as opposed to the year that Brandon Curry won the Olympia. Now Kai has red-tog one as his sponsor. Would that not be, I'm not saying that red-tog one would anyway, again, I don't know what the contractual deal is. Do you think that might play a factor in it as far as if now having that sponsor and maybe that being part of the, I guess, agreements? I don't think Kai would assign a contract that, that made him have to compete. I think he would have said no to that. I think Kai has enough cloud now in the industry that he can kind of set up his contracts the way he wants him. I think he would set up a contract based on his own terms in other words. If I want to compete, I'll compete. But I don't want to be forced to compete, you know, and I don't think he would sign a contract that would make forced into compete. He might be, he might be contractually obliged to tease people that he might compete, but I don't think he's actually got that in his contract. Now, we never know, Kai could wake up tomorrow and he could say, you know what? I feel like he's beating again. I'm going to do it. It would have been nice to see him, you know, maybe jump into the Arnold or something like that would have been great. Who knows? You know, I just don't think Kai wants it anymore. I think he kind of lost that eye of the tiger. I think he loves being big. I think he likes going around and posing and doinGHis little appearances and doinGHis Instagram posts and doinGHis creative YouTube stuff. But I don't think he has that same fire in him to do the Olympia anymore because if he did he would do it, you know, at this point. It's not like he has nothing else going on. It's not like the guy has got, you know, he's filming movies with a rock or anything like that. So there's no reason for him not to do it if he wanted to. I just don't think he wants to. That's going to do this episode of Astabe. Dave's going to have leap priest next so you're going to have that on the channel by tomorrow already have episode of heavy muscle radio with the live appearance of machine Williams and then yesterday's episode of the after hours podcast. For Tyler Short Dave Lumbo, I'm city for review. We'll see you next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: SHREDDED ANTOINE VAILLANT 9 WEEKS OUT! [ldAtSESZwAo].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today, Palombo and today is Tuesday, August 11th, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. As the old saying goes, sometimes you have to strike while the iron is hot and as far as bodybuilding is concerned, earning a convincing win at one of the biggest shows that the season in your pro debut is about as hot as it gets. So if I were advising the Andre Campbell, my advice for him would be to take advantage of the moment. There were so many eyes on that tamper pro lineup that it felt like more than just another regular season show and the fact that the Andre was so electric in that moment when all eyes were on him means that he has everyone's attention right now. This is his moment to strike and if he hits it dead on again, that'll make him one of the hottest commodities in the division. The best selling author, Ryan Holiday, one said, and pressing people is utterly different from being truly impressive. But I think even the powerful Ryan Holiday would be impressed with what our buddy, Mom, Legald, DeRah, has been able to do recently. Despite undergoing spinal decompression surgery a few weeks ago, DeRah's already back on his feet and slowly starting to work himself back into midseason form again. When he's healthy, DeRah showed that he has the ability to be one of the most dangerous competitors in the two 12 division. So if he feels like all systems are a go, I wouldn't be shocked to be wound up makinGHis presence felt at some point before the end of the season. I don't want to speak for anyone else but myself. But I can say personally, I've learned way more from my failures in life than I have from my successes. So if I were a guy who learned a lifetime of lessons and came out stronger on the other side of the way Antoine Valiant has done, I'd be looking at everything that came my way like it was, well, light work. Right now Antoine's night weeks out from makinGHis season debut with the Boston Pro, which will be the first time we've seen him on stage since last summer in Toronto. I'm told that Antoine and his team have done some tweaking to help bring some more balance to his look this time around, which is something every athlete could use more of, to be honest. But if he can deliver on the plan, I don't see why a top 5 finish wouldn't be on the table for the big guy. I've been to a ton of live sporting events in my life and I can say for sure that watching a fighter make the long walk to the ring is one of the coolest things in sports. There's a certain energy in the building that I can't describe because it's one of those things you just actually have to experience to understand. And that being said, following Ashley Hall was when she's locked in for a prep, is a pretty cool thing in its own way too. Over the weekend, Ashley announced that she was planning to compete in the clash world championships at the end of the month, which is one of the few contests on the circuit that she actually has at one in her whole fame career. So if she shows up looking to prove that she's a three-time Olympia champ who still has a lot left in the tank, I don't see any reason why she wouldn't be an automatic top to contender. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: SMART Personal Training Certification Teaser #1 [2_0umIqz5ts].txt ===

Now, we talked about fats, we talked about protein. How much of each of these you eat is going to be dependent on whether you're trying to gain weight or lose weight and we'll talk about that in a little bit. But these two fat and proteins, these two macro nutrients, are essential for building muscle, for burning fat. Okay? The third component in the equation carbohydrates, okay, is essential for nothing but energy. If I can swallow a pill that do my 100 pounds of squats for 10 reps, I can come back in 20 or 30 pounds in muscle. Meaning this, if you don't look like a little bit that causes muscle fibers to be recruited, which causes muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is the weight and we'll weight you use. We'll also find ways to come into play.

=== FILE: SMART Personal Training Certification Teaser #2 [fDL9Lq19baY].txt ===

Well, the new chance to see amino acids from the protein, the glucose from the carbohydrates and fats from fat and jacin will all get absorbed in the small intestine, believe it? I'm not the largest. The larger intestines will flow it in electrolytes, get reabsorb. However, you're right. When you add other foods and combine them with the proteins, it slows the jacin trensit time. So, if you take fat, for instance, whether it be peanut butter or a tablespoon of oil or whatever or a whole eggs and you mix them into a way type of a shake, you will create essentially a food and a complex food that will then once again slow the absorption of the amino acids into the bloodstream. The problem is once they get in the bloodstream, they're still absorbed very rapidly because they're ready to go. But yes, you can create meals out of shakes and that's a lot of people do that. And I recommend the people do that. Carbs and it's a protein don't slow the trensit of it as much as fats added to protein do. Because what fats do is when fats hit the intestinal tract, your your gallbladder and your liver releases bile and bile tells the intestinal tract to slow down. So instead of going at this rate, it goes at this rate. When things move more slowly through the intestinal tract, you can absorb more of the and you absorb it as slow or rate. But you absorb it more slowly also.

=== FILE: SMART Personal Training Certification Teaser #3 [2264Pc0Enl8].txt ===

If you want to build lean muscles, you don't want to just go up and down, up and down. You need to consistently consume protein every two to four hours depending on whether your man or woman throughout the day that you're awake. Very important point to make. It's very hard to do that by eating food meals all day long, because who the hell wants to eat six, seven food meals a day? It's the preparation time alone is crazy. So a lot of us rely on protein shakes. And I'm going to tell you something, it's actually a good thing to rely on some protein shakes. The reason being is that food is absorbed in eight grams of protein per hour. What that means is if you eat a meal, if you eat a meal, that has 48 grams of protein in it, it's going to take you six hours to absorb that food meal completely. That's just the way the body works. However, if you would have taken a protein supplement, a protein powder, specifically a way I assume, which is about as pure as it comes. Your body would absorb 48 grams of protein in about 15 minutes, because there's no digestion required of the stuff. It's pretty much an appredigested state. So if we made a graph of blood protein levels and we ate a food meal, we would notice the graph would do this. We would gradually increase it and would stabilize it and it would do this until the meal ran out and it would go down. If you eat a protein shake or if you drink protein shake, I should say you're going to get it's going to spike up immediately up very high and then it's going to come right down. So if you combine your meals to be meal, shake, meal, shake, what you'll have is this gradual rise and then every other meal you'll get this huge spike from your protein shake and you'll always have a high baseline level because there's always going to be food in your body. That's the most efficient way to build muscle and to sustain muscle when you're dieting.

=== FILE: STANIMAL： CLASSIC PHYSIQUE OLYMPIA DARKHORSE？ Live With [06wIo3-GkMY].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is a well-known internet celebrity. He was the champion at the San Marino Pro in the classic physique division and he's going to the Mr. Olympia in a few weeks from now. We got him on the show by popular demand. Man only needs one name. Stanimal. Welcome. Thank you very much Dave. Thanks for having me. You know you made it. You have one name that identifies you to the whole industry. It's like Madonna. Stanimal. I love it. I had with the name come from. It's an expression in France like when you say like look at these beasts like a guy like you know, freaky looking, boy impressive. You say, I'm just telling you, I'm just telling you, you say wow, that's Stanimal's huge stuff. It just stuck with my name. It's the same thing as it's got stem in there but it has nothing to do with Stan. It means actually you know, this animal guy you know. Exactly. That's why you would say, well, just be a student French with it. Wow, Stanimal. I like that. I like that. I just how you would say. So it's really Stanimal. It's not really right? Is that a preface? Yeah, I say Stanimal because it's just more international but in French you would say Stanimal. Now you do have a French last name. Your real name is Stan Delongu right? Yeah, that's right. Stan Delongu. Yeah. Delongu. IMight French is not so good. I took Spanish and school. Right. You know, Stan, you have an interesting story because you're one of these guys and I've been to a few people like this. They've lived pretty much in a lot of different places. You grew up in Paris. You moved to Virginia, moved to Nigeria. You were in Switzerland for a while. Now you're in the US. What is it like growing up in so many different places like that? Well, Nigeria, I don't have much, much memories of it. But I don't know. I always been very attached to that part of my story. But yeah, it's very interesting because you see different cultures. You can see things from a different perspective. When I grew up in France, I was very proud of being French. When I left France, we would just have to the first walk up we won in the United States. So I came to Switzerland. I'm very proud of being French. And then I saw the first group of Swiss people who saw all these French people and so proud of me. So I guess, you know what IMean? It just won the walk up. We see it every day because they watched French television. And it was a little bit too much for them. I was first at the end of the stand and I started getting there, you know, the point of view. So it just opens up your new perspective a lot. Are French people of notches? You tell me. I don't have any, I never had any, probably French people. But why do the French hate Americans so much? Are you always here that? Is that true? No, no, no, I don't think so. No, I don't think so. No, no, I'm not. Me, for sure, not. A lot of Americans say when they go visit France, they get, they don't get treated. Well, I don't know. I've only been dealing with things yet. People sometimes in France to get a little, I'll say that. But no, I'm American people, just assume everybody's being English. Don't say I thought everyone does to get English, though. Yeah, usually, but that's why the thing like Americans just don't make the effort of trying, you know. Yeah, that's the only thing. No, of course, no, and not everyone's to the exchange. But we do think, I think Americans do think that's 100% accurate. And they think that if you speak louder, that the people who don't understand you will understand you better. No. Yeah. Yeah. Talk, let's talk about how you got into this sport to begin with. Because being a guy who is moving all over the place when you're younger, where did you actually get into just the bodybuilding? Who was like your first person you looked up to and said, wow, that's what I want to look like? It's an interesting question. I always played a lot of sports. When I grew up, I was playing judo tennis, soccer, fan saying, I was actually French champion of fan saying when I was like, eight years old. That's a good title to have in France, too. They really are doing it and everything like that. And sword fighting is important, right? And French. I actually my master was a world champion in 94 with a French team. So I went to a really good school. Then I started playing basketball. And since I love basketball, I was looking up to the NBA and the guys were built more than European players. So that's when I started trening more, doing push-ups, all kinds of things. Slowly got into the gym. And then when I didn't have really time to tren as much for sports, I just, you know, it was part of my identity to be active and being, you know, like fits. So I couldn't just stop sports altogether. So that's when I started picking up on the lifting weight. I actually started in my bedroom for about a year, making sure I was, you know, committed enough to get a gym membership and not just being one of these people, get gym membership and pay every month for nothing. Right. So once I saw it was really hooked, I joined my first gym. And that was in January 2006. And I've been trening since then. I never had the pretension of competing at all at first. And she liked to go kind of around 2013, that's when I started having the idea of competing. And of course, I was looking up a lot to what I, I think what started me when I was really young is watching Dragon Bozy. I don't know if you know what it is. It's like Japanese camp in comics. I think that's what got me into that a little bit. And then yeah, when did you know you were good? When did you know, hey, man, I'm really good at this. IMean, this is something I can do for a living, you know. I never thought, I don't, I think I just, it's when I started putting stuff out there, you know, in social media, it was on buddy when I'd come, I'd show it to myself, so I had putting some pictures and you know, because you had like, I don't know if it's still to them. They had a buddy space or something. And you could put progress pictures and stuff like that. I don't remember that. And by the moment I just, yeah, and at the same time, they were starting Instagram. So I was starting putting pictures on both platforms. And I started getting some feedback. So and at the same time, actually, they came up with the men's music division. So a lot of people were saying, oh, you should try, you know, men's music show. And you, you're like, you're lean, you got a nice build. In my first show, got a third place. And then IMoved on. I came, I wasn't really beat my first show in Nassau Mania in Paris. And then I, that was when I finished college at the same time. So I decided to come to United States for, you know, five week vacation, enjoy, you know, the bachelor degree and all that stuff. And what I was, you know, I did a couple more shows. Got second in Nassau Mania World Championship, men's music. And then I went to, I did an NPC show in between. And that's when I saw the big difference in between, about some mania NPC. I was having just the athletes who are not, well, they're not completely watching the show. You actually have people coming to watch the show, you know, and you see a lot of people. So I'm just a right away that that's where the, it was, we happening, you know, we think we should, I want to make a carry out of it. I had to move into the industry journey NPC and we beat pro league. And so I got lucky because what I was here the first day I came in 2013. Could just make that to understand the timeline. In 2010 was the first time I came to United States and came to experience the life here in, you know, goals in Venice. I was here for about 10 days and did like the West Coast World trip to usual thing. And I really wanted to meet Jack Harper. And so the last day I was here, I got lucky enough to see him. That was just before his last title. And I was like four, five, six weeks out from the Olympic Games 2010. And when I came back in 2013, I was the first day I went to the gym. I was trening legs and the guy who came dressed right after me. He asked me if he was the leg press would be was Jack Harper. Oh my god. So I was funny. So then I started talking to him. And they, you know, they fully, they probably know him. They've my max. So he was there with that, with Jay and Jay was trying to really understand why I was saying. So he, I was talking, speaking French today, and they would trenslate to Jay. I was trying to say, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, because my accent was even worse than now. Yeah, I was doing this. And so then after you know, we spoke for like maybe two hours at Jay and Jay to keep a picture and put it on Twitter and wish me good luck with my next show. The next day, Jay was into doing the next third Jack Jackson. So he took me brought me with him to that maximum store where we needed the interview with the techs, sir. IMet Dexter and then I got offered by the owner of the store a job to work there under the table. What I was saying there. I just said, yeah, of course jumped on the screen and he said, I wouldn't use my savings on my savings at once and maybe we were able to stay longer. Yeah. And what I was saying there, then Jay said, oh, this is the next point of January. Would stay and want to come and help me. Dave asked me that was of course. I could, you know, get the opportunity to spend some time with one of my idols. Right. I love to. So now I have to post for my flight of first time. And what I was saying there, IMet the guy wanted to send me to the owner of classic to try to get my pro card in 2014. And I got my pro card in Man's physique with the help of buddy by Kirk and Chilik who was coaching me. And my company was the Mr. Olympia. And the time he had been with my posing because the posing was the main thing I needed the help was. So that's how I started and then was the getting my pro card. I've been able to apply for the visa and getting my visa being able to stay. So I never left and yet. Wow. So that's it. The real cool story. You know, the one person you wanted to see, you meet him on the last day, you hear pretty much. Yeah. It's crazy. You know, I always say this is no such thing as coincidence. So yeah. IMean, it was really just the right time. Really like when I came back here in 2013, it was everything just clicked. And just everythinGHappened one after the other and just yeah, now I'm here. I call it for the Olympia. I know. We're going to talk about that in a minute. Why do you think you're so popular in social media? You have like 180,000 followers on Instagram. What what is it about you that people find interesting? Well, I think I think my story inspires a lot of people because a lot of people are like me. I'm trening with Sean Rodin for example right now. And IMet him in 2013 at the Fibo. I thought with him for like a as long as like when people were being really boring, you know. And then I came when I came here, I saw him at the golf. And he was like, oh, you're here. I'm still trying to follow that dream. And after that after a few months later, he was like, you see, yeah, I just got one from Carter. And then moved to class. IMean, you know, it's just everything been happening for me like this. The same thing was to come on when I came here in 2013. That's when IMet Kelanton Mugger. He was, he had like 5,000 followers at the time. He was just really starting. And we became friends. And I've been lucky. I think one of the main reason is beinGHere at Golgimp Venice. I'm the chance and you're planning to meet a lot of influencers and people were in the industry. And I've been lucky to like build a relationship with these people. And you know, you, so people start seeing you, you know, on their social media. And then they're like, who's that guy? I see him on this guy's page on this guy's page and then they want to know more. And then they learn the story and they're like, oh, this is inspiring. And maybe I can do that and then they just, you know, start following you too. So, you know, it's interesting because you know, a lot of people feel that Golgimp Venice is not is not, you know, significant anymore. You don't need to go there because of social media. In the back, in my day, people would make pilgrimages out there. But maybe not, maybe it is important because there is a lot of people there. And like you said, there's a lot of networking that's going on still in that gym. And you obviously took advantage of that. Obviously, your physique speaks for itself because you had a great year last year. You had a number of shows. You play started the Fragna Legacy Classic. You won the San Marino Pro in the Classic physique division, which qualified you for the Olympia, which you'll be competing in a few weeks now. IMean, you're living in the dream. Oh, yeah, absolutely. It's, it's, yeah, it's an absolute dream come true. When I've stopped and think about it, I just, I just can't believe it. You know, I have to pinch myself a few times a day. You always had legs. You got good legs. Like, why did you even do men's physique to start off with? Why? Because there was no classic, is that was why you were doing it? Yeah, exactly. There was no classic physique. And so I was too small to do anything else, you know, really. And I was considered myself a bodybuilder. You know, I got a wistring the whole body. I was thinking the whole world was symmetry. I didn't want to just look good in chores. I wanted to have a balance. So, and I always looked up to the old school physique, got Paris and Lille Brada, some European, all these guys always inspiring me. This had to be some European, it also played a big role in my tradition to classic physique. So, does it taught me how to pose? Yeah, that's, that's impressive. Yeah, IMean, IMean, yeah, I'm team and really don't mind. That's the thing. You hear, it's the goal, and then it's still the make out to me. I was a bit everybody. Everybody wants to, everybody comes here, at least once, you know, and you make a next-gen, you do collaborations, there's so many things to do. I was going to ask you, you know what? Because you mentioned Roy Leadermar. You kind of pose very similar to his, because you got a similar physique. But I was wondering, yes, is that why you grew the beard to look like more? Probably in the back of my mind, I had such a conscious knee. I couldn't be. You guys look like twins now, right? He still looks great. Yeah, he looked amazing. He looks amazing. I got to get him on that. I got to get him on the show one of these days, and he's got a great story. Oh, he got some amazing story, a lot of them. Yeah, he can just tip him top for like the whole day. He wouldn't be down with all these stories. No, you know, it would just be a six-part interview. Oh, yeah. He's a great story, tell her too. He's just, yeah, he's got like a photographic memory. He doesn't even remember every detail. Oh, every detail. Yeah. Now, stand up. You just started working with Chris and Cito for the Olympia. How did that come about? Well, I've got the huge opportunity and chance to be able to follow Sean Rodin the last two years of the Olympia. And so that's when IMet Chris, because he, you know, he checks on his artist every two hours, between, you know, each me. So we can tell them what they're going to get the next. Yeah. Next, you know, and so I got the chance to meet him and seeinGHow he would be worked with Sean. And, you know, I was coming for men's physique. I don't think he ever coach any men's physique. So I never really think about having a coach of his caliber before. And then I was doing my show. I think before the very no last year, I was doing the best particularly well-guest second place. And that's when I wanted to maybe work with him. So through Sean, I sent him some pictures and he said, you know, great, you know, we took close the show to me to step him and try to change anything really just not enough time and you doing really good job by yourself. So we didn't work for that time. But after our qualified for the San Marino Pro, I decided that when I did the San Marino, the first of all, for the first, you know, the immersion he showed, because like, he made better conditions. I loved that, you know, a little percussion, percussion on the mic or something. So then I had to drop another six pounds and I had a few hours to do that. Oh my god. What? Let me ask you a question. Don't you think your situation have like a one height and they should give you a card that has your height on it. So you don't have to keep getting measured in every show? Absolutely. We were just talking about that with Jim Manion, Tyler, and it just makes sense. Once you turn pro, you should have, you're high to register it and that's it. Right. And why should you be stressing out not knowing if you get to make weight because they're going to measure your wrong. It's stupid. Yeah. It's too, it's really hard and really stressful for sure. No one's growing at this stage unless you're under 18 years you should have a standard card of what your height is. That's it. You know? Yeah, and if you're really you're growing, you can maybe like, you know, ask for a remission and do something. Right. Right. But yeah, I totally agree. I should have that, you know, and it would be easier also for the after checking, you know, just come in. There's this next to your name, the way you have to make, you are either under or you're not. Yeah, much easier. Much easier, much easier. Now, you're also going to be promoting a pro show in France. That's going to be exciting, huh? Pro qualify for it. Pro qualify. Excuse me. Which is even better? Yeah. You'll make more money. Pro qualify. I want to do pro for a show later on, but I want to make sure I run the show. It's going to be my first show. So I want to be sure it's, you know, runs smoothly and everything, you know, it's with the athletes, so then I can bring pros and they can have a really enjoyable experience with them. Being an athletes myself, I know how it is and I don't want them to be, you know, not in good conditions to compete. What part of France you get hold of it? We just figured out right now, probably the pro qualify for it would be in Leon, because it's close to the, you can think either access through the Geneva airport or French airport, and then you have trened quickly. Oh, good. Yeah, to be able to. That's smarter. That's very smart. Well, Stan, it sounds like you're doing great. Obviously, you got a couple. You got what, five, six weeks now, till the Mr. Olympia competition, will you be doing a classic division there, go up against Brianna Ansley and Chris Bumstead and all the top guys in the division. Yeah, actually, you got to be super psyched to be standing on that stage. I'm really pumped for sure. Especially like, once before, that I used to do like, I chose a year or so. So I never had that time to really grow. So this year, I've been at the chance, you know, like, what if I early enough ever. So I had the whole year to really make some, you know, pretty, I think big changes. Yeah, absolutely. And I, and I stayed really, I haven't put it any of the pictures. So nobody really knows how I look at it. I'm a smart, smart man. Very smart. Playing playing it old school. I got a call for a first to see. Don't get some tax messages of your pictures sent to me. So I can see what you look like. Yeah, you sure won't. Sure. But yeah, keeping it rubbing like, oh, we've up and actually everybody posting the pictures. So it's good for me. I know like I can really bring that element of surprise. And I also had the chance to tren with Chris Bumster that was your last week. Right. And I also tren with Brian last Sunday. He's going to put weight actually tomorrow. And yeah, so in the region is a good friend of mine. We tren together last year with Sean when he was getting a leap of temper. So it's going to be fun to be on stage with all these guys. Of course, Danny Hester is a long friend. Like, long time friend of mine also. Being able to be on stage a bunch of friends is really like bringing the old school. I feel like really bringing you know the bumping Aaron spirit. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I think together going on stage together. Good com Rotterie. Yeah, exactly. I told you guys are standing on stage and you all want to beat each other's ass. You know, so I don't think that's really my type. IMean, I want to win for sure. Of course you want to win. Don't, if you said anything other than that, I wouldn't believe you. Stand best of luck. You live in the American dream here and everything's going great for you. And I, so happy to hear that. And if you want to. So what's the name of your, your Instagram is Santa Bull 9. Correct? That's right. Yeah, Santa Bull 9 is my uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh where it's everything in French. It's different content, but just uh um right. I want to address you know, both public have so they can really understand me and and if they want to follow both pages then I could, I at least have something different on the page. What do you, YouTube channel? It's Stan Emole in two words and I'm vlogging every day to the to the Olympia. I've been, I've been doing so many days so far. So people have been that. Yeah, I've got a lot of people following that journey with me uh uh, it's a great support too. It's been exciting because they see like the change and they just see on my face because they don't see my physique. It changed a lot already and I think that's the, that's the, IMean, honestly, I think it's the best part about the Olympia is that journey to the show and being able to share with with people because I'll put you some, I'm not a huge UFC fan or anything but like if I watch the UFC fight and I see the guy, the art is getting ready for the show like for the fight. I like I want to root for that, that's the guy I'm rooting for that. I get attached to him and that's what I like the most is seeing that journey to the fight that what leads to the fight, the fight itself, I don't really care myself and I think that's what people really care also because they see the attitude on stage being, you know, looking amazing, all that but don't see all the hard work that comes of course. That's they want to see the process. Yeah, they want to see the process exactly. So I'm showing, I'm sharing that raw process really like low editing but I'm able to post videos every day but yeah, it's pretty fun. That's the lock up on that Olympia stage. We'll see in Vegas in September and hopefully you'll emerge as the new champ. Thanks very much. I'll visualize that every night so hopefully you worked. Thanks a lot and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with brought to you by species nutrition visit speciesnutrition.com. On day polon boat we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: STANIMAL： WHY I'M GOING TO OPEN BODYBUILDING! [Dakwmek3kUs].txt ===

I'm Dave Pullumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Pullumbo and today joining us as our good friend, the stand-able. Stand-alongue, get ready for that California Pro. It's a great honor to be here. I'm going to be here with you. Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Pullumbo and today joining us as our good friend, the stand-able. Stand-alongue, get ready for that California Pro. In the man's open division, welcome back to the show. Thank you Dave. Thanks for having me. I like the beer. Looks good. Thank you. Are you going to shave that for the show? Yeah, at least one of the studios I've been getting on the show. Yeah. You look like a... I think about that two days. You look like Jessup Wilcox. You know? I think you're a Jessup. The guy from my team. Oh, yes. The German bodyval? Yeah. You look like him. Now, let me ask you a question. It had to be a pretty tough decision to say, you know what? I'm going to go from classic physique to men's open. IMean, that's a huge jump. Obviously, you are bodyval of right from the beginning, but still, it's a little intimidating. Especially since you were placing well, you know, in the classic physique division, what was the final straw that broke the Campbell's back, so to speak? Well, IMean, I started immense physique. I didn't really mention physique. I don't know if you would know that. Oh, I asked her. No, yeah. So I already jumped, you know, from men's physique to classic. Yeah. And then I was just natural progression last year. We were giving you the leap for your limp yeah with Chris. I think we were about 10 weeks out, and I was about ready around 2.30. And Chris was like, that's the last time we, you know, we make that way that 2 or 7 was just too much weight to lose. So, yeah, that's it. Well, there it was decided that we're going to do a bodyval in the next year. And how tall are you? Just on the 5. 10. Okay. All right. So, IMean, 245 is obviously if you're 23 and you're in shape, it's not at that point you weren't big enough for open, but you certainly were way, you were tackled by a sea muscle to make that classic physique class. Yeah. And I wasn't, like, showing my full, like potential on stage, and I was having a flat on stage and just I don't, yeah, they look quite right. So how did you make weight? It all, although shows and actually qualified for the Olympia. That's a miracle in it of itself right there. Well, I qualified for the Olympia the weekend after my, the 2018 Olympia. So I did my first Olympia in classic and then the following weekend I went to South Korea, qualified there. So then I had to hold you out. Yeah, I see you put all that muscle out over the course of the year. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That makes sense. Now, and then this year we had another, like, one of the more silent and because the thing I'm going to be around that weight on the stage with 245, are you still living in the California? No, IMoved to Chicago in July first. So I've been in Chicago in our first six months. What are you doing in Chicago? Man, again, I'm like, just happened. I was thinking of moving somewhere else because you know, IMean, I love Belgium, but, you know, nobody left there and I'm sure moved to Wayne, in Northsner. So, you know, you know, that's what I'm saying. And then I was going to go to the next thing about to retire, and then flooring that was the COVID-19 or that stuff. And the gym was closed and, you know, I was expecting to live there. And there was no real reason to pay that much to be there anymore. So, an opportunity came up. My girlfriend, she's others when you're from Chicago. And, yeah, I came with the place, check out the gym, I liked that whole atmosphere. Where do you tren over there in Chicago? So I'm trening at Chicago Barbel, Tom Towns. It's in Park Bridge, and trening with Mendos Bockel from the Underground Athletes, Dr. Anand Rickston, Chris Hester, reaching Silverback. Yeah, a bunch of good guys. And we have a really good energy in the gym. It's really fun. I've been coming to another fund here. Did they still havEQuads, gym over there? Is this still open? Yeah, quads here? It's like only in maybe five, six minutes, it's going to go in the middle. That's why I know, I've been to that area. That's why I was wondering why you're not there. It just goes, Mendos was saying, you know, he was trening on the ground there with the brand-unit and all these athletes. Checked out the place that parking on there. It's just easier to pause gym, it's hard to park there. So I just went there. You could probably walk. You could take a mass trensportation. I think I took a bus. I think I took the bus to the gym. What I was there. Yeah, I could totally, IMean, probably if still like, end up trening there sometimes. But I once got here, I signed my prep and it was easy to go there and having to put people to tren with. So we were just trened, then pause and you know how it is. So just do all the things we need to do. You went from such beautiful weather in California to the freezing, frigid cold winter in Chicago. Are you ready, your mind? No wonder why you have a beer. No one had a dress yet that you have to be like a Viking to live there. You know? You go right now. I'd say you were goinGHere in California. Not that long. I get loose here. No, no, I know. But actually I'm looking forward to that because I think my group in Switzerland and I live in France obviously. And when it's cold outside, it's much easier to eat. So for me it's hard to eat enough. Yeah, even right now I'm cutting. People asking me when I'm going to start it. When I'm starting my cut because when this, you have much amazing. They don't believe I'm cutting. But yeah, so I'm looking forward to that. And that really good for the year too. I think the Austin is going to be really pretty pretty next year. Sir, Sir is new break. It was also from France used to use to go outside between sets and shivers. And that's how we burnt all the fat. So maybe maybe there's something to it, right? Yeah, it's what he was trening for hours to. I know that he had Switzerland. He was drinking Coca-Cola durinGHis workout and for like four or five hours. That's when that he learned how to like snake out. You know like just a tear and a male over the workout. Yeah, that'd be right by again. But I think it's not that hard. First of all, you still like to tren volume. He said that's the only person he couldn't finish or work out with. The surgeon, Brey, wanted to kill himself. Yeah. That's what I heard. Yeah, so you're interested. I still think you're crazy. I got to tell you, I understand why you left California, but and it's the traffic sucks there too, but then it's weather. I think is it is perfect. Because it never gets too hot there. Like you said, and it never really gets cold there. It's kind of like the perfect weather. But sometimes you can stagnate in that kind of a situation because it's like it never changes. You know, that's everything. Yeah. Yeah. But IMean, honestly, when I was thinking more to move to Florida, I come to a flex Lewis. But in April or something, I was thinking about it around Bocca Ratona. But just the opportunity here, I can't just say, it's not bad. But it was good opportunity. Honestly, everything is falling into place. So it's working great. The airport is pretty close. So I'm looking like, or during when I'm not competing, doing more traveling and going to more shows and doing more collaboration with different people in the industry. Yeah, you've got my social media even more. Hopefully. Yeah, I like to do more things with more athletes. Because in California, it's so expensive there. Yeah. You can have to stay there. Here, I really need that chance to be able to travel around their old US. Yeah. The truth is for you, it doesn't pay to stay in a place that costs a lot of money to live. Because you can do what you do, no matter where you are. You can do it in a basket. You wanted to. IMean, really, you think about it. IMean, you made sense before. When I first got here, obviously trening was shown running from Charles Glass, Cycle Fitness, all these guys, but not that opportunity and I've learned a lot. And that's all that is going away in a sudden sense. You just need to make sense and more. So that's why I wanted to get back to work. Like, you're just kind of a atmosphere having like, that's why I really started talking to Flex, but I wanted to be like around other people. Right. We're, you know, we're trening together. And here we can have the same, you know, energy like, Bernard Rixen and obviously trening to, from carrying style on the men's music division. We have like, Chris Esther was like really hungry to get his pork hard. The national is this year. And we have like people already like flyinGHere to like, you know, get some trening session with us. And so it's really coming together nicely. Now, are you had a good relationship with obviously Sean Rodney when you say Sean, that's your referring to in case you don't know. What's going on with Rodney? Have you, do you speak to him regularly? So. Yeah. IMean, I'm going to meet him this week. So I'm going to meet him next week with the finish my prep with him. I just want to, you know, go back to the room and tren with him. I was going to ask. Oh, you're in charge of that. You moved back to, you go back to California to finish trening with him. Well, they're sure what she's supposed to be in that race. I'll write it. And that is actually a day. It's right. Sorry. The show is in Vegas that they moved in. Yeah, they moved it to Vegas. So, you know, that just, this information came last week. Right. You know, I talked to him. He wants to come and support me. Good. So what's going on with Sean? We get to see his case coming up or what's what's the progress report of him? I don't know. We talked about all things, but like, I know it's been on a whole so far. So I'm not really asking until once something comes up and he has a date, he's going to tell me. So there's no trial date yet. IMean, I know you kept being postponed. I can't see positive to be an away from all. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So then he kept, you know, with the whole virus and all that, like, the opening and re-crossing. Yeah. I don't know exactly what it was right now. Do you think they'll settle the case before the Olympia? I'm also. Yeah. I know he's trening like he's doinGHis insurance. So, five, he might as well. And he's the case comes up before the Olympia. And he wins, you know, and he's exonerated, then he can do the Olympia. Obviously, he got to be in shape. Yeah. He can't start trening, you know, two weeks before the show for it. Obviously, you know. Yeah. But that's why he did last your own story. We're helpinGHim out. Could be able to compete. And he was right. But he knew he wasn't going to do the show. IMean, he knew that the case wasn't coming up before. He was just trening and hoping that we would let him do it. You know, right? Yeah. I've been facing the difference. If the case is settled, you know, the definitely in the Olympic doing it. Because they wanted me to show, obviously. I would think. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Of course they wanted me to be six, almost what Flex Lewis, Vector, Jackson, feel he's running through. Yeah. And Sean, we find Mr. Olympia crazy. And then it's going to be far. Yeah. Yeah. That's not that. So you're going to be doing the Cal Pro, which is now been moved to Las Vegas. So they're doing it in some kind of biGHanger where they hold parties and stuff like that, which is smart, which is smart. I always said, I'm surprised all the shows that I'm going to be. They should be like, you know what? We're a rogue state. We don't give it crap. What the rules are? We're open for business. That if I'm shocked that Vegas hasn't done that, that's that was always their whole stick. We're open for business. We don't care what the other state's doing. You guys want to come here. You can hope whatever you want. That they would make a fortune if they did that. But yeah, I don't know either. But like, I know why they're doing that in Tampa, I can't know. And yeah, just the only thing is, I don't know exactly how the situation in Tampa, like the audience, I think they still allow some people to come watch the show. I'm not sure. But in Vegas there's no audience. There's only like 50 people. Oh, really zero audience. Okay. I don't know. Yeah. I don't, I don't, I'm surprised Vegas doesn't say F you and do whatever they want. That's always been there. That's always been there. That you also have the Chicago pro coming up after that. So that which we perfect is isn't your backyard right there. Exactly. Unless they move it. Yeah. The Chicago having problems is, well, I what that's what I was going to ask you. What's the status update over there? Oh, that's why I also have to be here is get everything just, you know, it's life files you're home here. IMean, of course you have to wear your mask and stuff. Yeah. But for the most part, it's a it's regular life. It's not that impact that we are thinking we're pretty like one of the big cities that are the lowest number of cases. So it's pretty pretty good here. Yeah. What's good? So when you go to the gym, are you concerned about getting anything like that? I'm not concerned at all. I think, you know, I think I think virus is going to run for a long time. If you catch it, you know, you know, everybody is trying enough to fight it. I believe I also got it like early on because I was struggling on the ground this time, but that's how we got sick then. So I got some kind of flu like last week of this time or first week of January last year. I was out for like two weeks. It was pretty strong. Like the one you might have. Yeah. So and I went to Asia and yeah, I traveled a lot. I think this time were last year. Maybe. I don't know. What do you think your way on stage? IMean, I don't really care. Like I just want to come really, really feel like, you know, like for conditioning, plastic, plastic stuff. But I think I'll be around 24 years. I was there last year. After the Olympics, I did my first showing, you know, I learned that the, I really, probably tell me. We're really well-clawed and late in the Asia. I werecompeting to. Right. And I was 220, 4 back then. And Tyler, man, was judging the show. It told me, he come back with 15, 20 more pounds. You should be really competitive. And that's pretty much what that were. Well, good luck. You know, we love you. We, IMean, you're a character. I'm glad that you're not afraid to take that jump and evolve with the times. And because a lot of guys are afraid to make the jump. We saw George Peterson make it successfully from classic to two, 12. Obviously going through the opposite. A little more difficult, but you're a tall bodybuilder. And I think you fit perfectly into that realm. And let's face it. The guys today and not as big. IMean, the guys that are doing well, I should say. It's the shape and the condition guys that seem to be placing well. So I wish you the best luck in, in Bolin Vegas, but it's really the calpurau. Yeah, thank you very much. Yeah. But for me, it's just, like, naturally, volition. Of course, like, you know, I've learned from Sean like, my strength's never going to be like being the mass monster. Yeah. So I'm always, always, always, we like more of my shape and bring that classic color. But the way that I'm in classic was just to low for me. Yeah. And some people were told me why you didn't do, uh, to 12. It just, five times. I was already like 20 pounds over 25 pounds over last year, but to 12. So like, there's no, no, he makes no sense for me. Yeah. Well, hey, Sean, you already. Yeah. Sean, wrong wasn't the biggest guy won the Olympia. So IMean, look at the, it's conditioning. Sean, he was a pressure presentation. Yeah, that's all important. Yeah, exactly. So he was only 238, 21. Yeah. IMean, he's got, of course, you know, uh, crazy aesthetic, like, small ways to know all that stuff. But that just shows you don't need to be, like, new to a stage. Now, if you come really clear, there will be a condition and then you nail all your presentation. You're imposing it on point. You can really, uh, I think you can get away today in the big shows. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You want to spot the fake idea responses? Yeah. I'm going to thank Olymp's for nutrition and traffic and nutrition. I can carry me and allowing to have the best, perhaps, you know, like, to be a career so far. So it's, IMean, traffic and nutrition is really making really easy for me to have my food, you know, deliver it every week. Okay. But, um, you know, how much put it is important for us. So I think this really, um, the daily basis and we'll have to worry about it. And it's, it's a huge plus and all this for nutrition, just makes everything else easier. Um, and of course, I want to, you know, thank my coaches, uh, Chris Asido, always the best trener coach out there. And I'll never, never doubt that he important things. If everything is just worked and, um, men's buckle since I've been here and, uh, Chicago is to interfere with me here. Uh, we got. Thank you, Ross. And we're working on my four things up in this kind of course, on the FBI, my overall presentation on the stage, we need to audition for everything in this. Thanks to all this people. Well, tells you, you got all the boxes checked off their stand. Uh, best of luck. Uh, we'll keep us updated and, uh, we're rooting for you to hopefully, uh, crack that top five over there in the CalPro. All right. Thank you very much, Dave. All right. And now guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with brought you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo. First, stand em' we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: STEVE CARDILLO： THE CARDILLO BELTS STORY! [JRS0jeR3RgM].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brokey by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is an old friend of the show. We got him back here for an update on what's going on in his life. He's the Beltman. Steve Cardillo. What's up Steve? Dave, thanks for having me on the show again. I really, really well last time. I appreciate it. Yeah, you know, people just don't stop asking me about the Belt. And you know what, you know, you made a bunch of species belts. I see one hanging in the backdrop there. I got that green one a couple of years ago. And there was a couple of them we gave out. We were out for the month and people went nuts. And I'm still to this day again, like five or ten people, you know, every once in a while, every couple months emailing me about how they could buy one of these belts. And you know, you've been doing this for, what about? And you've got 35 years now belts, custom belts? 32. 32 years. And you know what? There is popular now as they ever were. It's one of the few things in our industry that has maintained and that you've still held a strenglehold on. No one seems to be able to do what you do. I don't know why they don't. But you seem to still be the only game in town that does belts on a regular basis for not only top body bowls of the top celebrities and the like. IMean, you just, you just have that's your niche that you carved out. And no one seems to be able to move in on you. Thank you. It just, you know, again, it comes out to consistency and building something that would last forever. And, you know, I was very fortunate coming out of the gate that I had all professional wrestlers, whole clothing in the very, very beginning. They all wore them. So I got kind of head of the pack pretty quick, you know, IMean, and my vision to what Michael Jordan was wearing. We talked about it before, but you know, Michael Jordan was your stuff. It's pretty significant. It's just kept rolling over and rolling over. It's just weird. It's a very small niche, but yet, you know, you're the only one who does it. So it's like everyone who wants a new belt, you know, calls you up. You probably have belts for every single Mr. Olympia. I'm sure in modernity in the modern era as well as in every division across the, you know, the scope of the physique world. Every Olympiaromasince 92, every female Olympia, every physique Olympia, every bikini Olympia, every onel champ for the fast 30 years, every one of them. It's pretty, you know, ice it back and it's kind of mind blowing. It's hot to wrap your head around it when you look back at the history of it, but it's nice though as well. I, you know, worked out well. It's cool because you kind of have contact with all these top people on a regular basis. IMean, because they obviously contacted you to get the belt. They see the, the fill, he's gift belt in the back. They are hanging them on wall. Yeah. You know, he's obviously going for number eight this year, which would put him in the elite, you know, class of, of Ronnie Coleman and Lee Haney for the only two other men to win eight Olympia. So, IMean, you, you've done belts for the best of the best. What was the most unusual belt you've ever done? Um, I just recently, I don't want, I do want for a prince to do why it was pretty interesting. We had a lot of stipulations on this particular belt and, uh, red inside all kinds of stuff all over, but it was pretty cool to have someone like him. Um, obviously when Duane calls the rock. He has, I had to do one with the tattoo on it. And it was two winter kit to embroider. So, ironically, I just, I've been after this, um, me or a lot of the styles for like five years. I'm going to try and get them to come on board to do some painting, paint the belts for me. So, after that is named Patrick Geneo, he finally, IMade them, you know, after five years, I basically made them an offering. You can't refuse. So, he was basically the first one to do the rock belt, which was pretty significant. And then from there on, it's, you know, but that's probably the tattoo of the rock. Um, on a weight belt was pretty wild. That's awesome. And that's the, you got a guy who's actually painting on the belt by hand. Yeah. Yeah, he's, basically he's a mural artist for, he does a lot of celebrities. So, I've been askinGHim for a long time if he would, you know, do some belts for me. You know, going from obviously 10 foot building murals coming down to doing a small belt. So, he wanted to, but he's been so busy. So, after all this time, he finally said I said, guy, I got, I have to do the rock belt. You know, he's pretty, you know, important to me. He said no problem. So, once he did that, he said, let's sit on a talk about it. We cut the deal. So, what I'm going to be doing now, I just did Dennis Rodman's whole coat. Wow. Yeah, he's going to be painting for me. Yeah, this one, he did, you know, Dennis Rodman. I don't know if he can see it. Wow, yeah, that's awesome. That is awesome. That's the rock. That's the rock. Right. Yeah, the rocks back there. One like, this one here, but the rock one tattoo he has, I don't have that one. But then he did one like an Amani thing, all hand painted, all hand done. He did one for us. This is all cold. But what I'm going to be doing, he's on the sale. These are just, but I'm going to do a lot of giveaways with these. That's awesome. From the rock even. Yeah. Yeah. All pretty wild. So, you know, I'll be doing a lot of deal. If you're doing some of the money for charity and, you know, it's just, it's just more something that I had to add to the game. I'm wanting to do this for a long time. Right. I want to get the right person. This guy's the guy. So, that's the real world. For a custom belt like that, that's hand painted like that. I assume that belt's got to be a little bit more expensive. Yeah. Honestly, I wouldn't even put a price on it because I'm giving them away. So, it would be, it would be kind of, it would be kind of, probably out of the ball, pocket, except for, you know, some celebrities. But even then, then they just want to hang them on the wall. So, a couple of wrestlers want them. So, I'm going to, you know, they're going to hang them on the wall, which over the years, sometimes that's what happens. I try to tell the guy, hey, where the belt, if you want another one for your wall, I'll make it for you. But the purpose of the belt is so you're wearing it. So, I get them on the wall, I get them the wear and wherever it goes, I'm happy with it. Did you ever do a, I think we did, we talked to that left, and I can't remember. I got that, that was on us now. What, what did you do for the incredible Hulk, Luke, for now? You made a belt for me? We made him. IMade him for him. His kids, his wife. All his gimmicks. Yeah, he's been on. I'll be with WVF. That was the big inaugural belt they gave him. Yeah, it's signing on. Yeah, IMade him a lot of belts. Yeah, that's what I thought so. You know, it's an amazing industry because everyone seems to work out in the sports industry. I'm sure it's from football players, to the boxers, to MMA guys, to, you know, and everyone wants to have like some kind of identification tag and let's face it. You know, in the gym, you can't weigh your football jersey necessarily. You know what IMean? But you could wear a weight belt. It's kind of like makes you feel special, I guess. And I think especially when guys turn or girls turn pro, it's like they want to get that like acknowledgement. And a lot of times, I'm sure you do a lot of them to say I have to be pro, so and so or so and so. Yes. It's kind of like a graduation certificate you're wearing on your back there. Right. Well, that's kind of a, that's kind of been a real problem where everybody wants to wait to lay term pro to get a belt. And I try to say, get, you don't get my belt and it'll get you to become a pro quicker. You got to have that. IMean, you got to get the belt. So it works out well. Luckily, there's a lot of pros now and a lot of them need the belt. So it works out well, but obviously it's going to help you. It's a tool to help you. We come pro. You can get, you know, you know what it's all about. What was one of the like coolest nicknames that you've ever had to put on a belt? That you said, hey, that's a pretty good nickname. Oh, boy. Um, probably by, I don't know, the Boston Masters are pretty good. Yeah, that's a good one. That's a good one. Like, quadzilla obviously Paul was the one we did the logo. Those were a couple cool ones. I didn't want to remind you that we should have called them the route, the route kid. That one worked out well in high school. So I've basically closed. This is, it's a great. What is like a typical custom belt like the stand in one cost? Like if someone wanted to purchase one from you, just that. About about about about two 25. OK. And that's reasonable. These belts last forever. That's the great thing. They're indestructible. I've seen them. I have a couple. They don't, they do that. You cannot, the only way you're going to screw these belts up is you're going to lose them. Yes. So I was, I actually left the belt. One of the belts you gave me at a gym. Because I, I know, toriously, we'll do a leg workout. And I forget and I leave the belt there. And if it came the gym belt and everyone who went to the gym would bar on the belt and they would all give it back because it had my name on it. So like, you can't walk out with the belt on it. And it's funny because no, I felt bad taking it back when I realized that the gym had, I had left it the ex. I thought it was gone. And it was a gym I had, you can go to all the time. And I went there one day and I saw my belt. I'm like, holy Mac on my belt. And they're like, well, Dave, everyone uses this belt. So I kind of left it there. It's like a moment though. But yes. That, your belt, you can see everyone knows it's a cardinal about immediately. You're so recognizable, your brand. IMean, if you sat down and tried to, I'm sure you didn't figure this out ahead of time. It just kind of happened. But if you would have tried to figure this out ahead, then you never would have been able to figure it out as well as you did it. Never. You know, it was just, it was just basically one belt at a time and being persistent in office saying, you're doing it so it's never been worth for me. So not having to really work and just promote and do I, I surround myself with, you know, I had a re-blocked deal pretty early on. So I learned a lot about marketing and, sure. But going back to the belt in the price, you know, a stock belt is $150. What does a pair of sneakers cost at last six months a year? That's a lot of money. It doesn't make sense to me. No, yeah. It's a, it's a non-expanced in terms of weightlifting equipment because like I said, less forever. Now, Steve, I'm watching your Instagram, you're, you're, you're face book page for the last number of years. And I'm always seeing you doing these, first of all, you do these workouts by the water. They're like these with buckets of water and all kinds of crazy equipment outside by the water. I've been seeing you do this for years. But where did that come about? These are unusual workouts. Well, the buckets that I always thought of when I was almost a teenager, I would go to my camp and I didn't even have any weights there and I always wanted it. You know, I was trying to get to a gym, whatever I was young. My father would fill up five gallon buckets of water and say, go ahead. So that is it at all. I put it, you know, as I learned more about drop sets and stuff, I put a hole in it. And it all started from a five gallon, two five gallon buckets. Then later on, what I, you know, had my home and I was able to put a gym on the talk, then I, my mind went crazy and I'm telling you, Dave, there's nothing I've done everything trening ice in, because I designed it. But the pump you get from this is think about doing, think about like say, to drain the bucket, a big bucket is 50, about 50 reps. Think about 30 maximum singles and then the last 20 is a pump. 30, 30 max singles out of a jug. Right. It's pretty amazing. You must live in a really nice area, because that's a pretty big, big doc you got there, I see. Yeah, yeah, I keep, I keep and a little bit, a little bit more on and on. But I think I've picked out, I get everything I need on that right now. It's beautiful. IMean, where is that located? That's up in Massachusetts, right now in Hampshire. What, what, what, what, what are we, is that on? It's on a, it's just on a small, small little private lake. Oh, okay. Beautiful. And what was I see is squatting with these huge logs. When do you get those from me, enormous friend of mine has a lumber yard and stuff. So he said, let's cut these. So there was stuff doesn't rush. So it started out as kind of a joke, but honestly, when you're loading the weight, I don't know what they weigh. So it really doesn't matter. Yeah, I know it's heavy. Yeah. And then it just has like a cushioned field to it. It doesn't feel like steel. Right. No, you know, you know, it's just, it's a weird feeling, even like when you're going from steel to rubber plates, you get that different cushioned field, the wood even feels better. They look like they weigh a million pounds. They're huge. I don't even know how you load them onto the bar. The bar is bending under these things. Yeah, I would drill them out and you know, you go with it. It works, it works well. But the water is the way to go. Well, what are those things? What do you, I see you got, you're squatting with like these three humongous things on each side. And then you got chains on top of it. How much weight was that? Because I've never seen a bar bend like that. It looks like this 600 pounds in your back. The power you, ironically, it's called the, it's called the, it's called the Bell Bar. It's basically for kinetics. So you get that little bit of flexion in the bar. Yeah. I even started switching from steel to that because obviously we don't want to protect the joints. It's better on the joints, it just has a better feel to it. I'm more about now, I get a more of a longevity. I want to keep it going. So I'm not so, IMean, I'm not so much into the weight as IMuch of trying to stay healthy and shape while not killing my joints. And the great thing, right after you do a set, you can jump right in the water and cool off, right? Yeah, I do that through the swim. I do whatever it takes to, you know, to get the good work out. That's awesome. Now, how many pieces of equipment do you have on that dock? This is about eight pieces. I just keep adding, you all you could do is knock off the stack and get the right jug to fit in between, put it on, put the holes from anywhere from a dime up to a little less than a quarter size. So you can regulate how quick you want the water to come up. I see one of these videos we're watching. It's like snowing out in your trening. Are you trening all year round out there? Yeah, IMean, I have my gym is right off the side of the dock. So I'll tren inside heat up in there and then I'll come out and just, you know, honestly, once you get moving, you're sweating, it's really nice trening out there in the environment. And once I get the once the water still cold, the water thaws, I can still get the water going. It's really, IMean, it's nice. I've not done it all. I've been in gyms. Once you get outside, I'm at a pool to get up in the water, go out on the dock and get some sun and tren. And it's just, it's just really nice. Yeah, it wake you up to the old and nice air that comes off the water there. It's a big experience. Yeah, it's a big experience. But how does the equipment fare in the winter there? Because you guys get a lot of snow. It's just like gold. IMean, it's just like Venice Beach, stuff stays out. You know, the Venice is probably worse because it's salt. So it rust mind is just, it stays smooth. I throw a little WD faughty on the joints and on the stuff and it's good to go. I really don't have any problems. You get a little dirty from some of the stuff. Lost him. Very creative Steve. I love it. Thank you very much. Now, another, you know, probably one of your most successful businesses, I would say, is the A and C nutrition store. It's, you know, I've been there before. It's a very small store, but it's a very, very busy intersection. And you guys do a ridiculous amount of business there. I know a lot of supplementment companies will beg you to take their products in there because they know you're going to crank, you're going to crank stuff out of that little store. That little place becomes so successful. Well, it started 21 years ago. My nephew just was getting out of just deciding if he's going to finish college, you know, we decide to AP. I'm in the industry already. 10 years, start a store where I'll help you and it's your ball you run with it. If you want to take it as far you can take it as far as you want to help you all the way through. So over time, you know, I gave my, I put my belt here as my showroom. Right. You have people coming in off the planes. I try we try to make it like, you know, like Steve Jim and New York. When you're going to New York, you've got to go to his gym, you go to gold, you've got to go to Panna speech. You know what IMean? So when you come into Boston, it's an environment. It's friendly. He's fun. He's out of his mind. So the whole deal is to, you know, come in the store, you get free stops, you get a nice feeling up to buy anything. Come in. He's sure you come in in from New York, wherever you're coming in from, you get, it's just, you know, we never, we never sold online. We stuck to the, you know, played the rules away with folks to be with the industry. So all of these guys now that are whining about Amazon, you know, I hate to say com or, but this is what's happening. You're getting a taste of what you people are doing to people like my nephew, who stuck to the rules, you know, sold what you gave him the right way. So now we're still here. And we're going to be here because this is a unique, special, fun place to be. That you can only get my weight belt here because of, you know, how we created. You know, I deal with everybody in the industry, all the owners. Right. It's a beautiful thing. You know, IMean, it's just, so this is, you know, it's just, it's just a lot of work he's here all the time. You're command you're going to see him. He's here. It's his store. Right. That's how he becomes successful. I love it because you guys got product stacked in the ceiling in there. If you guys go, and, and it can be stacked in the ceiling today and then tomorrow, it's all gone. It's amazinGHow special you move stuff. Stack them high, watching fly. Stack them deep, sell them cheap. That's what he does. He's the man. That's how you got. Doesn't. You got a special going now. If anyone goes into the store and they buy one of your cardillow belts, you have a product that you give away for free. What's that deal? Let's talk to him about that. So, you know, all the stuff like he gets all of these, like slightly polymerized stuff. He gets all the one-ups, all the samples. I can't sell them, but he can sell them. So, he has, you know, you come in, you're going to get special deals from him on the belts. But the bottom lines, he's just doing the program where he's starting to come in by a belt. He's going to have a product of the month. Ironically, you obviously, this is your show. This month, it's going to be, he's doing the fiber-lies. I love this stuff. And, you know, saying it commercial, but it's going to be, you're going to be able to come in by any belt you want, get a free product, like fiber-lies, off the door. And, you know, it's good for me. It's good for his customers. He's good for you as a supplier. It's just good for everybody. And nobody can do it. So, a free Tub of fiber-lies, if you buy a belt. So, that's a great deal. It's almost worth making the trip up there. I think Jose Raymond made by a belt for me just to get a free Tub. Jose, he's got a lot of belts. He's the best. And, you know what IMean? Like I said, it's all about customer service. We know Amazon is killing everything, but you still want to come in. You know, when I play sports, I went into the sporting goods because I wanted to talk to the guy about shorts, knew what you still want that feeling. You know what IMean? So, this is the place that all happens at. And, you know, with all the specials and all the cool things, this is, you know, we want to keep it. Amazon ain't going to hurt us. You're one of the few stores left. And there's a bunch out there. And I've seen those who have made appearances in some of these stores. And I tell these guys, they say, if you have a store, you service your customer. And you explain to them and help them with diet and supplementation. And you explain them why they're taking the stuff they're taking. People will buy from you and they won't buy from Amazon because they want to give you the business because they're so grateful for the information that you're giving them. Because let's face it. A lot of people just start working out. They just start getting into this. They have no idea about anything. They're so overwhelmed. They don't even know what to buy from Amazon if they even, if they even could go to Amazon. So, to come into a store like yours, be educated, find out what they should be using and why they're using it. They're willing to pay for that knowledge. And the way they pay for it is they patronage, they patronage, excuse me. They get patronage to your store and they purchase products from you. And I think that's a great thing that you guys are doing. And that's I think why you're so successful. And you know, besides the customer service, you come in and you're looking for something. He doesn't tell you get this, get to get all these things. He tells you what you need to get. He could make more money by selling different things, right? Everybody. He gives you what you want because what good is a customer that you dump something on. And they never come back. I have guys want all the belts, X number belts. They say, you don't want extra smalls. You're not going to sell any. I could sell a hundred more belts if I was just a dump belts on them and they stuck with a hundred belts. What good is that to me? I want them to buy the belts that are going to sell and keep re-automatic. Same thing with the customer. He feels comfortable. He comes in. Peter was a national policy champion. He's done it all. He's knowledgeable of what he's telling you. He gives you what you want. You're going to come back again and he's going to get sell you more stuff. You don't have to buy it all on one day. So it's trust. Trust is 21 years. I'm 32 years. You have to have a trust. You have to have loyalty and you have to have. That's what you have to have. That's what it is. You can't just screw people. Yeah. Where do you see the supplementary industry going in the next five, 10, 20 years from now? Would you see it pretty much saying the same? What do you think? We're going to have less companies, morecompanies. What's your take? Have a good historical perspective because you saw it from the inception. Yes. I am as on obviously is going to kill a lot of people. But I think they're going to kill everyone anyways. I think they're going to kill themselves eventually because we all know they're selling the stuff cheaper than what you sell it to them for. They're going through the old USA today deal where they would sell a paper for nickel to cost a quarter. They got the customers. But I don't think it's going to work like that in a supplement industry. I don't think it's going to work that way. I don't know. I hope that it doesn't hurt us, but you don't know what's going to happen. I got news to you Steve. I think Amazon doesn't sell as cheap as some of these other websites out there that I've seen. They're pretty good. They're not ridiculously low. But I think that some of the other websites will be more damaging to them. Amazon will probably write. But it just comes down to like, you know, when you want to find information, what do you say? Google it. What's the point where I want to get something to say? Amazon. It's just two words that are thrown out there. Well, people go there and they read their reviews. But you know, sometimes people, a lot of the bad reviews on Amazon are because of this gruntled customers, not necessarily because of product is bad. So you have to really interpret those reviews. For me, as a guy coming up, I still like going into a store and talking to a human being in person. And getting the information and hearing them say it to me and explain it to me, that is invaluable. I will pay for that information every single time. Now, obviously, once you know what you want, you know, where do you go by the product? Well, you know what, if someone gave me that much information and I found them to be that reliable, then I'm going to give you the business because I'm not going to shop you for a dollar. I'm not going to do that. Right. You'll loyal. That's what that's how it's supposed to be. You come in, you get the knowledge, you know, people, but some people will sell you well for a dollar. So they have to live with that. IMean, it's about, again, the customer service, the feeling you, IMean, he's friends with all these people. It's cost me said, but yes, he becomes friends. You, I would feel horrible buying something. You know, if I have a friend as a restaurant, I don't go to a different restaurant, and I feel horrible. I'm happy to have a guy cheat on my friend's restaurant. That's kind of the, that's kind of what I'm about. On his loyal is against it. If that's what I'm about. Let's see, you wrote people up there. Yeah, you've always been a whale type of guy. That's just your character. Let's see, you wrote a book a couple years ago. You told us about Coltones weightlifting, and you're making it available now on your website for free. Is that right? Yes. Well, what I did was my uncle, when I first started younger, he taught me, you know, IMade some mistakes. I taught my, you know, I trened. Then when my nephew came around, I started him and was like, eight years old, the book is kind of written about him. It's called Howard Champion is made. So back in the early, I'm talking before, computer, and putting images, I actually documented his trening, his records, all his things from the time he was 12 to the time of your 16 and a half. Wow. So I wrote the book on experience, my experience, making my mistakes, trying to take the time to stay for a while, giving to my nephew that turned out, you know, six, two, not something to grow. All that, both of you. Right. He became a successful athlete. He didn't make it to the next level in sports, but he became a successful businessman. That's what weight trening does for us. It makes us, it makes us dedicated. It makes us, it makes us, it makes us, it's what it is, you know, you dieting, trening. You just can't do it. It sounds easy, but it makes you a stronger, better person. So with that, you carry that through your life experience, and then he, you know, now he's in business, he's successful. He carried all those things with him. And now, you know, the book should be read by all kinds of kids, because it doesn't stop your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. It doesn't slow you down. It doesn't do all this bullshit. It makes you a better athlete, makes you fast, a stronger, bigger. It's nutrition. It's so much. So everything I documented is in there. So I say, hey, selling books now with social media, you know, the world is the limit. It's not, money doesn't motivate me. I would rather help kids, kids, I was a school teacher. Kids still come up to your kid ran in today, dangly for being a good teacher. I was in, not he was in that world, not so, but, you know, we had a good feeling. And I, I said an example. I don't drink, I don't smoke, I don't party, I could look at your son or your daughter and say, oh, you don't drink it. I don't drink it all. So I have no problem. I want to set an example. So I want the kids to know that you can, you can be successful in something. If you all get these traits early age and this is all done to weight trening, I believe. So yes, the book is available. You just download it for free. The parents, the kids can read it. It's, I don't know. To me it's a good read. I have another little nephew coming up. I haven't hit him with the yet, but he's going to be the next generation where I will do more functional trening where I have my nephew to power, if you know, you know, 15, looking back, maybe maybe not 1,500 to 15. But the next one will be more functional for athleticism rather than, you know, trening. I think it's great. My son is obviously only 2 and a half, but you know, I'm already thinking, all right, what are we going to get him into a little league and football and all this, and obviously you know, weight trening and eating properly is going to be a big part of his program. I think it's for, you know, I obviously have a lot of experience in this, but you know, for the average parent, they don't know anything about this stuff. So that's a great book to them to be able to download for free, go through and use what they want out of the book and at least not feel like they're lost and they're not misguiding their kids, you know? And you know, it's, it's document that is not just someone reading it and telling you, it's documented. I've been on studies at Tufts University on protein. I've done it all so I'm giving you my experience, some the haulage, but more experience on experimentation and the outcome is, is where you want to be. You cannot compete today in any sport if you do not wait for him. I agree. I agree. I agree. You know, you're way behind it. If you don't stop young in the guy that is a stronger faster, dedicated to terming guy will out be just a talented, which does nothing. Cultures don't even want them anymore. No, you know, you know, back when we were kids, we did pushups and pullups and sit up to somebody that, but now wait for him, he is the thing and you're right. It gives these kids an advantage because they're stronger and, you know, they're more powerful and the field they're more explosive. And let's face it. That's what, you know, athletics is all about having those those traits. So I think it's a great service you're doing and the website is what Steve Cardillo.com. No, my website is Cadillula USA. I'll be pumping it up on it. I'll be pumping a social media. I get a lot of celebrities going to be kind of throwing it out there a lot of athletes who be throwing it out there just because like I said, I don't want any money. I was going to try to get a doll of the charity, but I'll get charity in other ways, which I usually do. But the belt is, IMean, the book is strictly free. I just want kids to be comfortable in their parents to be comfortable, so that it's just good. It's just the way it should be. They should, you know, they should be able to feel comfortable about it because parents are concerned about stunting the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and all the other stuff. Steve, a final question. How many belts do you think you've solved in the last 32 years? Oh, God, man. We can't go to that. We can't go down there. A lot of belts. Just a reboc deal alone was good enough. Over 10,000? Oh, wait, wait more than 10 dollars. Wow. When I was a reboc, I was in 13 of the major chains. Wow. Yeah. It's done. I'm sports authority. All the big boys. I didn't know that. And that was five years into the business. So I pollinate a little bit and just kept going. Congratulations, Steve. I know all your business, uh, acumen and accomplishments and thanks for always supporting us species nutrition and the arts muscle website. And we'll get you back again. We'll get some more updates on what's going on in your life. And you're an interesting guy and the fans love you. I really appreciate you. The show I appreciate you having me on. I love your products and anything you've been through and what we'll do is we will have a giveaway with the species belt when this is is. Oh, we'll be good to go. All right. How are we going to do that? We're going to win that thing. Well, they're going to go to like Kiddillo weight belts, Instagram, right? And there'll be a whole thing. Basically, just simply just follow both of us. Put a comment on your waist size and I pick one person who's deserving of the belt and that's how you get them. All right. I hear you. You guys. It doesn't get much better than that. That's it. Species belt is up for grabs. Hit the cardill. That's the gram and make sure you put your wet waist size up there. Put a picture yourself up. Tell us how much you love the cardill of belts. When you might receive a free species nutrition, one of a kind green belt. So, thanks for coming on. Appreciate you. Take you time. Thank you, my friend. I appreciate it. All right. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with brought you by species nutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: STEVE KUCLO UNFILTERED ON TEXAS PRO & OLYMPIA HOPES! [eysd01pO7ng].txt ===

Dave Palomo here with an RX muscle news update. We have with us today our IFB Texas Pro men's open second place finisher Steve Kouklo. We got him here direct from the stage. Dave, welcome back to the show. We love you here and show a lot of support for you. It was a tough loss for you and Texas this past weekend. It was, well thank you Dave for having me. I always love being on your show and your reports, man. You're always on top of it and yeah, it's kind of the smokes clear a little bit from the weekend. So kind of digesting what happened and evaluating the show results. So, you know, yeah, yes, you could say this appointment is there. Yes. Let's go over Steve's strategy. IMean, you look great. IMean, you can see in the pictures here. IMean, the tremendous, I thought this was your probably your best luck ever. IMean, you looked like you actually added some muscle from where I should. Did you? I did. I did. Through this crap, my body was really fresh. I really took the time to rest, let my body recover and he little magic injuries and, you know, just let everything work. You know, rest of my receptors, everything. You know, I'm a guy that likes to, that's why I've been doing this for 17 years and how I've been able to do it for so long is just I've played the long game. I play the try to be the smart one when it comes to, you know, supplements, trening, everything that's involved and what we have to do. So, through this prep, I think I added, I started my prep at like 278 and I finished it at post the two night, two 90s. Wow. Wow. Literally Thursday, I was 291 before the show. Are you kidding me? You weighed that much. IMean, you look like you did. I, that's incredible. You've been sitting in same games over the years and you're right. You've done it very incrementally, gradually. You don't compete too much. You don't put your body up to much stress and, you know, it shows. IMean, you had a fresh look. I thought your body was real fresh here and I thought it was like I said, I think you guys picked your, pick your perfectly. Thank you. Yeah. I think we, we've, Gene and I've really kind of dialed in what is my, what it takes. Obviously, you haven't such a big physique and big flame. It takes a lot to fill out. And if I, I can't get away with a flat look because it just makes me look soft and out of shape. So we need to have a real full look and that'll give me a drier appearance. And so we have to really push the food. And we did, we didn't, we didn't go for in same fullness, but we went for full and dry. And we got a good formula that really kind of blends both worlds, you know. Yeah. And Gene and Davis is your cousin, you got a man who's a pro in her own right. And we know Gene and real well. And you know, it's it's she, there's not many men out there that actually have women coaches. You know, how did you a Gene kind of like, you know, get together in terms of like, you know, saying, hey, she really works well with my personality and, and she knows my physique. Well, she, she's an Oklahoma, which is a couple hour drive for more on that, which is nice. But I saw her take a few local guys that didn't have a lot of, it didn't have great genetics that weren't great bodybuilders. And she made them look really good. And that was impressive to me. When you can take a piece of cold, turn it and then I'm, I'm impressed, you know, not taking somebody like, you know, flex Lewis or, you know, and just saying, you know, my mom could prep flex Lewis or he could get a job. But I think, you know, she did a really good job with that. I sat with her. We kind of talked about strategy and how she likes to do things and it really align to what I knew and what I liked. What I think are kind of works for me. And I just, I put, she put me through a trening session. Damn, they're killed me. And I said, that's, that's the, the person I knew in my corner. And she really, she cares, she spends a ton of times, she's very attentive to details. And it's, she's, by far, the best coach I've had. Yeah. Well, you know, like I said, do you have to find, I always tell people this, this, this coach should never feel like, hey, I have to have every athlete because there's so many people out there that you'll always, if you're a good coach, you're going to have a ton of people. I always have a full stable of people that I work with because, you know, my personality meshes with the right people and that's, people I work with. And that's exactly what happened with you. Now, let's get, let's go to the show. You pick the Texas Pro. It's in your own backyard, obviously. You know, you, you don't have to drive anywhere. You know that that's going to make you, you're, you're, you're best at the end of the day. And you kind of put all your cards into one basket in the sense you had a win this show to qualify for the Olympics. Talk to you about what, what was the rationale behind taking the show? Well, I knew it was getting light and season and, and like we've discussed and like we know there, there was limited shows this year. There was a lot. There wasn't quite the schedule with a normal year. And a lot of them were pushed to the later, it was pretty, it, it, it, it, it, it, it came up to the deadline of what the, it wouldn't be a cutoff is. So IMean, I knew there was Chicago, I knew there was Tampa and the Texas show. And I figured, you know, if, if any show, I feel like I can go to a regional, I have enough confidence in myself. I can go to a regional show and I could, I could win that show. You know, bar somebody like, you know, bone actor, big brownie or curried coming in, we're going to be like, man, it's going to be a battle. I feel like, you know, I got enough confidence, like I said, where I can go to a show within minutes. And I said, if I bring it, like I need to, and I, I feel like I can, I could go to this Texas show when it, and I trened for it, like it was a, the Mr. Olympia show. I, I, I didn't kind of go half assets. You know, if I come in 80% or 90% I can win it. I was like, no, I want to freaking mail it. I want to bring a, of package that is, is undeniable. And I felt like I brought a very solid package to this. And the Texas show was, like you said, is in my backyard. I was, I've been able to compete in front of a lot of my friends and family in, in many, many years. Um, just because they haven't had a Texas pro show and it's hard to, a lot of people to travel, you know, with families and stuff. So I've been million people that too. I did. IMean, that was that was just pre-judging. I had probably 40 or 50 more show up at finals. And that's could, um, which was great. IMean, I just, that energy that gives you is incredible. So I, all those things play factors into reasoning why I really want to put all my eggs in that basket. And I feel like it was, um, I think it, I still believe it was the right, the right choice. And you know, I wanted to do the Arnold and then Olympia, which I'm going to do the Arnold. So that's, that's, um, you know, still the plan. Yeah. And obviously, you know, as far as qualified as, oh, this was the last weekend of qualifying in terms of like the Olympia. But then they made the Arnold, um, I guess they made an extension for that. And they said, okay, you know what, the winner of the Arnold will qualify for this year as Olympia. Now, I have a couple of issues. First of all, let's, you know, before we talk about thEQualification, let's talk about the show. So you're ready to do the Texas show. Pretty much, it was Steve Couplo show, everyone's talking about it. And the E in Valier decides, you know what, I'm going to jump in this show too. Because you know what, there's money up from grabs. And I'm in the U.S. Anyway, I had to come in from Canada. I'm not, I'm going to put it up there, which I think was a good move on his part. IMean, I can understand him doing that. Um, obviously, now you know, you got a guy who's who can match up to your size and structure wise. So obviously, the strategy doesn't change. The strategy is bring your best. But obviously, did you feel like, oh, now IMight have an issue in terms of qualification goes because now it's only really the winner. You didn't do a lot of shows that she just was your only show. Obviously, you weren't going to be able to qualify in points. You had a win the show, essentially. Right. Right. It put a little bit more pressure factor in that, absolutely. And if anything, that kind of drives me to say, hey, we got to, we have to win this. It's not like, well, I could do one more next weekend. Um, you know, I start seeing the, I figured a lot of the guys were just kind of just continuing the shows, which some were continuations from Chicago, the guys that did Chicago, guys that they tamper. Yeah. So I knew it was going to be kind of the guys that wanted to just keep on trying to qualify. But Ian jumping in, it didn't change the game plan at all. And if anything, you know, I knew I'd rather go get somebody like Ian and Phil and Hassan and these guys that, you know, are good bodybuilders and then beat them and prove to everybody that, hey, you know, I am a real contender. Right. Yeah. And obviously, I know you're not a kind of guy that's going to like shy away from competition. But sure. What happens now is obviously, Ian steps in, pre-judging goes on. Everyone pretty much, I, everyone I talked at least. IMean, I wasn't at the show, but I looked at all the pictures in the videos. Pretty much people had you winning pre-judging. IMean, I did a wrap up after, and I was like, I think Kuklo's got him, you were little tighter than Ian at pre-judging. Strutually, you guys match up really well. You both have big structures. And I actually think that you're back double kind of wanted for you in that sense, because you got a better back double than everyone aligned it pretty much there. Did you feel confident coming off the stage after pre-judging? I did. You know, the Tyler worked us real hard. And it was probably one of the hardest I worked that stage, which was great, because I love to work it. IMean, they get the adrenaline, especially when you got all the people there cheering you on. It was incredible. And I, I think there was at one point during pre-judging when we were doing. So we had the initial call out. I put me in the middle, felt great. You know, did some, did some moving around, and then they pulled us off. And I knew they were going to call us back out. The call was back out for the final call out. There's three of us fill Ian in myself. And then we ended up, put us three, had me in the middle. Rantra all our poses. And then we, they did it. They switched it around. I think they put Ian at that point in the middle. And they're playing games. They're like, man, they're just thinking, they're just thinking for the fans. Yeah. Landra all the poses again. And then Tyler looked at us. He goes, let's do it one more time, guys. I know that point. And then it was that adrenaline's going. And you got like, I got to slow down my heart rate a little bit. Because I'm amped up right now. And it wasn't a stage. IMean, I want to, it's like a, it's a battle. It's fight. I'm not just kind of, oh, this is great. And happy. I'm like, fuck. Yeah, I'm ready to rock. Yeah. So we, you know, they moved it around. And obviously, for people that are watching online, the people that are seeing pictures, like, oh, it's still going to win. It's either going to win or Steve going to win. So it definitely had the entertainment value to it. But walking away from prejudging, I felt like it was, it was my show. Yeah. And I like, you know, I like the fact that Tyler actually is mixing it up and letting you guys all match up. Because when you're in the middle, there's a different energy and there's a different look. So it gives everyone a chance in that middle. Now make your assessment who's the best. I looked at all those pictures. I really thought you had it after pre-judging. And I'm a big Ian of value, I fan because I think he's got a tremendous physique. As well, I thought he wasn't quite as sharp. So it comes back. So nice show comes. You guys come back at night. Ian comes back a little drier. Okay. I thought you guys still match up really well. I said, you know what? Steve won pre-judging. I think they're tied at night. I think Steve's going to win this show. I can't see him losing it. And at the end of the day, obviously, it comes back that Ian wins. And I want to look at the scorecards. I was a little confused because I was surprised that they had Ian by one point winning pre-judging. And I really think that's kind of what pushed them over the edge. Even if it didn't mathematically push them over the edge. I think psychologically, but the judges that pushed them over the edge because they did have them winning pre-judging. I was having trouble coming to grips with, I think. Yeah, it was now seeing the scorecard how it was scored. IMean, obviously, it was very close. Tyler even announced during the pre-judging in finals. Okay, this is really close. Right. More live judging the finals just because, you know, and we ran through another show around of comparisons for that. IMean, you made this work and that was for now. I loved it. And that's, you're kind of walking away from it. I think the, now kind of thinking about it because Sunday, or, or, or right after the show, it's kind of a blurry yesterday was a little bit of a blur because I'm still kind of amped up from the weekend. And this morning I was just kind of thinking about it. And, you know, like you said, it's done. It was disappointing. I felt like I felt confident enough in what I brought to get a W. So, IMean, my hat's off to Ian because he won. He looked great. There was points during posing with that, that I felt like he was fading a little bit just from, I think struggling a little bit getting some poses. That was ready or hitting the pose. And I look at over it. I'm like, you mean, you're even imposing. And I'm like, you're just trying to call him next pose. So, that was one of my only things. But, you know, it was, it was, it was a very hard fought show. IMean, I had some friends that never did a show before. And they all were like, man, that was the energy. And everything you guys did was incredible. Yeah, I agree. I loved watching the pictures and I saw all the videos. And I, I almost wish I was there that I could feel that energy was definitely palpable. And I know I, I've been to shows where your family's there. I've sat next to your mom when you turn pro. IMean, there's a lot of energy in that place because your family goes crazy. You know, when you're there. The family was on fire for six. And so I understand that. Now, my, my thing is, you know, I believe, and I don't want to miss quote because, but I believe that you're roped to show that they held the day after in Spain gave two qualifications spots. And I believe they did that because that there wasn't that many shows in Europe this year. But, you know, seeing that and seeinGHow close you guys were and knowing that you're legitimately a top six Olympia guy now, I'm surprised that since Ian qualified, they didn't extend another qualification spot to you. Because it only seems like fair given the fact that, you know, they're going to give to in Europe. So, I, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't know. I, I, I think the wholEQualification series is a little screwed up because of COVID, you know, that wasn't enough shows to do. Guys had, you know, picking, choose what they were going to do. And I knew this was, we predicted, as I've been talking about this on heavy muscle radio for weeks, I see, someone's going to get excluded, right? Guys that belong on the Olympia Sage are not going to get to go because there's just not enough shows. You're going to get these guys that have the ability to peak 400 times a year. They're going to do 20 shows and they're going to qualify. And that's exactly what we see from the common L.A. mom and, and, and I forget to also, from, like in my mind a minute, those guys qualify because they did so many shows that they accumulated points. Yeah. Now, you're going into the Arnold, you have to win the show to qualify. Why not, why not open the Arnold to top three? IMean, I think at the top, top three in that line, would deserve to go to the Olympia this year. Absolutely. IMean, the Arnold's always been the Olympia minus one or two guys. And it's, it's, it's, look at the line up in the Arnold right now. It is the Mr. Olympia minus big-rowing curry. And I think you look at the line up and with, if you take top three, those top three guys are going to be in the top five of Mr. Olympia as well. Absolutely. They were. I, I think that would be something awesome if they could do that. Absolutely. I would, I would encourage that. I would be behind that and, and I think that needs to happen. I think that would solve the problem because let's face it. You and Ian were essentially tied. IMean, I, I had you in a tie at night show. If they did give you in the pre-judged and then you deserve to win, but you know what? The truth is, you both deserve to go to the Olympia. And so rather than do a special invite because we, we know that that whole thing because then if you get one, he should get one. Make the, make it a qualification. You have one more big show. You got the Arnold. Make it top three. Send those guys to the Olympia. I don't think anyone would complain if it was a qualified or qualification inspired, you know, invite, so to speak. Absolutely. Or, or like if, if a guy's qualified, just, let's go down in the next one if he beats him and, and, you know, in the case like Ian was qualified and he could pass thEQualification down. That, IMean, they do that a lot of times in national level shows. Yeah. With, with Procard. Yeah. Guys, crossover. They'll just go down the next one and get the, you know, Procard kind of thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think I'm going to know what the stage for sure. I want to be there, you know that. And the fact that you're so, yeah. IMean, it's, it's, and it's a weird year. They have to make a combination for weird years. IMean, this is not typical. I'm a rule, I'm a rule guy. I like rules. I, I, I live my whole life around rules, maybe too much so. But when you have things that go wrong and the season gets shortened and it doesn't start to April, you got to, you got to kind of make a combination for that. It should still bEQualification inspired, but I think that you got to give guys the ability to, to qualify, you know, more so than they might have in normal years. So it's absolutely absolutely. I don't even understand why the Arnold would be a qualification, qualify for next year anyway. What, it's, they afraid that if they can have to buy an extra plane ticket in a month out and then not to have a, IMean, what's the problem? IMean, what they, they probably, they have 30 or 40, you know, classic disease, men's disease, we're taking a competitor. So why not have the bit? I'm gonna have 25 big boys up there. Right. Right. Right. But the point is back in the, I remember in the 90s, if you qualified the week before, you were at the Arnold, IMean, you were at the Olympia the next week, you know? Yeah. Exactly. Absolutely. I thought originally they made the rule in a month out because they wanted to book flights for people and stuff like that, you know, I think that, yeah. I get, yeah. This is a different story. This is the Mr. Olympia. It's not the bikini Olympia. Or not to take anything away from that. Well, this is Mr. Olympia. You want your best men in the world on stage on that day, you know? And you're certainly belong on that stage. There's no sense. Yeah. And, you know, I could be, I'm confident saying not in an ego way, but I know I bring a lot of stands to shows. I know that, you know, I have a good fan following and I don't think you'll, I bring 25 member, your family members to every show. But I think, you know, the fan side a bit, there's a lot of fans that want to see me there. A lot of stands that are, you know, would come just because, hey, I'm a huge fan of Steve and I want to see him compete. It's going to be at the Mr. Olympia. So there's a lot of value there, absolutely. Well, I know Steve, I see, I know you and I know Gina and I know that we're going to see if the Arnold Plastic is going to be knock your socks off, Ku Klow on stage because obviously now there's a, assuming they don't change anything, you got to win this show. You know, if you want to go to the Olympia. So this is your Olympia. Steve, you better bring it. It is. And you know, IMean, another, what is about five weeks until the Arnold, yeah, that amount of time to kind of make some little refinements and sharpen up, it's Arnold's going to be an nasty package. IMean, I'm, it's, it's going to be something that I want to bring an undeniable package that could, could absolutely win it. It's not good. I'm not going there to place top three. I'm really going there to win. And I think I want to stand next to William. IMade the improvements I need to make to get to come out with the W. Well, you know, great job this past weekend. You look off. I think that you guys, you know, I always tell people, if you look your best on stage, no matter what the judges award you or don't want to award you, if there's someone better than you, if you look your best, you did your job. And you made your improvements and you brought the conditioning you need to bring. So there's nothing left to do. You know, that's it. That's show, you know. Yeah, absolutely. And I think, you know, a lot of people when they see photos of me say online or stuff that I post are like, you know, we look good. He's a big guy. And then when they see me on stage next to people, they realize how big you know, my structure in, in person, in person, you know. And I had people before the show, you know, talking about a few of the guys that werecompeting, that it's a freakinGHuge. And you got, you're worried about it. And I was like, just wait, I stand next to him. And then I did, like, man, you kind of made those guys look small. I remember when you did, I think you won your class or maybe even came in second of teenagers, what was that? Oh, four and oh, five. Yeah. Oh my god. Were you second in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, I won the teen. You won the class. Me, didn't win the overall, right? I won the heavy weights both years. Uh, full of. And what did you weigh this back then? Uh, two, two, ten and two. No, first one was like two, eight and the next one was like two, twelve or something like that. Wow. And so you're like, you're like almost like 80 pounds more muscle now. It's a thing when you think about it, right? It's the same when I think about it. Yeah, but like you said, you know, we played the long, we played the marathon game instead of the sprint. And it's how I've been able, most guys have done the teen nationals. They're not around anymore. Now, now they burnt out, yeah. Yeah. You're one of the, you know, the, the, the, the guys that actually made it Nick Walker. Obviously, in the guy, you know, who's been around. Hopefully we'll see what his staying power is. But, you know, he's another. Another guy who kind of has a physique reminiscent of yours. But, sir, Steve, congratulations to you and Gina. We'll see you at the Arnold Classic. And thanks for joining us today. Thank you, Dave. I appreciate it. And hopefully we can get some traction on getting some morEQualifications. Absolutely. We'll put it out there to the universe. And hopefully it will come back and there will be some, there'll be some new rule changes. But let's see. Yeah, that's great. We're out of time on Daypalomo here with Steve Kouklo for another RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: STEVE KUCLO vs. IAIN VALLIERE FTW？ Texas Pro Prejudging Recap [Dem82X_aLjU].txt ===

Day, Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. The Texas Pro pre-judging is let out and the men's open division. Three man race as we predicted. Ian Valleier coming off that big win in Chicago coming into Steve Kouklo's home state there where Steve was trying to qualify for the Mr. Olympia competition. This was his show, he picked, this is his show that he usually owns and Phil Kohar coming off that close second place behind Valleary in Chicago. So we knew this was going to be a big battle and Steve Kouklo obviously was ready well rested and you know what, it's shown here. You can see Kouklo looks real good, obviously he's got the big structure just like Ian Valleier maybe bigger. He's a wider, he's got a really dramatic shape on stage and he takes up a lot of space. When you occupy a lot of space on stage that looks very impressive and that's why Valleier and Kouklo are both really impressive bodybuilders kind of like if you think of Jay Koutler you think of Dennis Wolf, big structures in the lineup they stick out. Kohar, smaller structured, good shape, small ways, good taper, great from behind but doesn't look as much in terms of wow when you see him standing in the lineup you have to kind of see him as he goes through his poses and that's when he starts getting super impressive. So when I see a lineup like this I say to myself man these judges have got their work cut out to them and you know what, I wouldn't want to be up there judginGHim because you're nitpicking at this point because there's so close these guys up there and if you look in the lineup here you can see it you know Kouklo on the the App thigh shot very, very dominant he could stand. He hits this shot straight on very few people can hit that shot straight on and look that good because he's got a really good V taper he's got the good legs you know in Valleier obviously with the great abs you know I think it's a mistake that he doesn't hit this shot straight on because he and has a very you know small waist and really good structure too so I don't know why he hits it in this side position. He could have just been an intermediate shot he was saying Kloha are also good but once again not as big structured. When you start to see from behind when we start to look at the breakdown from behind that's when we start to see Phil Kloha shine and the reason is because he has got a lot of wow from behind he is the second guy from the left there in the green trunks and you can see that he has got a great V taper from behind his back. He's probably get the best back in the line if I would say is glutes and hands are shredded even probably the most shredded in the line of even Kloha's shredded but I think Kloha has got nicer glutes and hamstring tians than Kloha does but Kloha is just so big from behind. I think you know if you're asking me and you know once again this show is not been decided yet. To me when I look at this line of I see Kloha all day long because I see a big structure I see tremendous conditioninGHe beats in on the back double by subshot because in his is a little his back is the belt man is not quite as good as Kloha's he's not opening up in that shot as well either. Kloha smilinGHe's confident I don't know why he and this is my one stage but he's got to learn to really project more IMean Kloha looks like he's you know the million dollar man up there and Kloha unfortunately gets caught up in a in a situation where he's really good probably his absolute best but from the front and the size he doesn't have as much with as these other guys and I think that's gonna relegate him probably to second or third. I think that Ian's gonna be a solid second I think Kloha's gonna win this show and Kloha fight for the Olympia I think also he's got to be once again a favorite just because he's in his home state. Ian's already qualified not that the judges are gonna pick someone just for qualification spot but I think Kloha did enough here to win this. Will he win the event we don't know until later today this show is hardly over and that's what makes you know it exciting because tonight they can come back and I'm sure they're gonna read judges thing and we can see a completely different you know outcome but my money is gone with Steve Kloha for the win value area is second and Phil Kloha and third we'll find out later and I'll do a full wrap up of the entire top six for now I'm Dave Blumbo with an Rx muscle news update.

=== FILE: SUPER HEALING SUPPLEMENT! TB4 by Titan Medical Center [kC1JdkGZbsQ].txt ===

Daypalomo here with another RX supplement review and you know there's been a couple of healing peptides on the market and to let everyone know what a peptide is. A peptide is the sequence of amino acids, protein basically. When linked together in a certain sequence using certain amino acids create some sort of a hormonal product and the peptides that have been cell sold on the market probably for the last 10 years now in a great type of area have done a lot of different things anywhere from growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone release to IGF-1 simulation to now this whole new category of what we call healing peptides that are out there on the market. Now as you know I'm very good friends with the people at the Titan Medical Center at Titan Medical Center dot com and they have been having their compounding labs work on some of these healing peptides to help provide a viable source of them from a legitimate United States pharmacy to people who are interested in using them to help tissue regeneration. I talked a little bit a few weeks ago about BPC of 157 and I had a really good experiment with that. I was feeling really good on it. Well I just received the newest healing peptide from Titan Medical Center and it's known as TB4 or thymus in beta4. This is a slightly different healing peptide. Once again it's involved in tissue regeneration. Matter of fact there's been a lot of studies on this one particular healing peptide with regard to cardiac healing. So if you've had any kind of cardiac episodes or damaged your heart possible you know possibly maybe from blockages there we had some you know some lack of oxygen to the muscle and you had some death in the cell muscle maybe you're not producing a good cardiac output from your left ventricle maybe you just have rhythm or abnormalities like I do I have a slight rhythmia supposedly at least from the research I'm reading TB4 has some great cardiac regenerative effects and the way it implements this is it stimulates satellite cells also known as stem cells we know them today as stem cells and it takes these tells these stem cells to turn into new cardiac tissue so it'll help repair a damaged heart or maybe fix a heart that's not working exactly the way it should be. The good thing is that that TB4 can do this in muscle tissue as well so surrounding all the muscle cells in our body we have a different shape of cells that we used to call satellite cells now we call them stem cells and supposedly TB4 can help you know repair damage there mostly but it's mostly works it's magic intendons ligaments okay and connective tissue so if you have joint issues if you have tendon problems TB4 might be a good solution for you I received mine in the mail the other day I started taking it I'm going to report you know I'll report exactly the benefits that I'm getting from it but I will say this I'm not a sore when I do go to the gym I don't go to the gym that much and here's the problem because I only go to the gym sometimes once a week I get really sore after okay because I'm not you know when you go regularly you just don't get sore anymore but so I do and I've noticed that when I started taking the TB4 I'm actually regenerating faster I'm actually not getting that's soreness for two or three days after that the lay the muscle soreness and I think my body is healing it and for me I know this is an important thing because I'm not taking anything else I take no hormone replacement right now I'm on a little bit of HCG you know maybe once every two weeks but other than that I'm on nothing else so just adding the TB4 definitely has improved my ability to recover from workouts how it's doing that like I said I don't know specifically but I think from the research it shows that the body is is recruiting these stem cells and allowing them to help heal the tissue and actually add to the tissue so theoretically you could be increasing your your genetic pool of muscle cells but I think more so it's really target it seems to be targeting tissue muscle tissue as well as connective tissue I have joint problems once again I have a really bad right shoulder the left shoulder has been replaced so this is my good shoulder now and you know I'm trying to delay getting this one done maybe till the end of the year and I'm in you know having trouble sleeping in night since I started taking the TB4 I haven't been in in pain at night and that's a good sign for me so once again I don't think I'm going to heal all the joint degeneration in there with the stuff but if it's going to help delay and help my body recover that's that's very promising and it's promising for for guys who are bodybuilding who maybe just started to damage their body and then there's IMight be too late and I shall do but you guys out there you know you're damaging muscle your repair muscle tissue by eating your protein you take animal austerity build muscle tissue but what do you really do if you join to connective tissue TB4 maybe the answer you know how much to take I've been taking 400 micrograms per day and from what I've you know the research I've read from the people I've talked to if you do that for about two weeks you can then kind of cut back to maybe twice or three times a week as a maintenance type dose you don't have to do it every day but I would advise doing for two or three weeks in a row initially to heal whatever you know is yelling you joint wise or muscle wise once you feel better then you can implement a maintenance dose to the stuff and once again I love the fact that it has great effects on cardiac tissue I also speculate that it might help kidney regeneration as well and liver you know because it it seems weird that it would work on connected tissue muscle and and heart but it wouldn't do these other things the reason why we don't know for sure is that they have another research yet the research has been on cardiac tissue especially which is very promising is after so-ins had a hard attack and they've actually had hypoxic damage that means the the tissues of them a heart haven't been exposed to enough oxygen because it was a blockage in an artery and the tissues died or had you know cell death there when they gave the TV for these tissues regenerated or new satellite cells or new stem cells came in and took the place of these old dead cells and remodel the heart very very promising product if you guys want to check it out you go over to titemeticalscenter.com you can tell in day Palombo our ax muscle set you they're going to give you a great discount and they're going to get you started on this product and I'm telling you you know it you have no fear because you know it's being made in a US pharmacy it's not coming from China you know the word making time and answer or whether what you're using is really TV for this is the real deal check it out once again titemetical center dot com telling day Palombo sent you

=== FILE: SUPERSIZED Derek Lunsford + California Pro Recap! [eNz4kRZDLdA].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, so it's 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Polumbo and today is Wednesday, June 2, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's the first Wednesday of June, and hopefully the sun is shining wherever you're watching this from. But if it's not hopefully this brand new edition of Recap Wednesday, we'll be enough to get you through the day. So let's get things started with a recap of the Cal Pro. With the biGHeadline here coming from Patrick Moore, as he secured his trip back to the Olympia stage by delivering the best performance of his career. Muhammad Shabon slid comfortably into second in his season debut, edging out another strong effort from third place finisher, Hassan Mustafa, fourth place went to Mokamit, Elamon, and closing out this really impressive top five was Eddie Bracamante's, who's actually placed top five or better here for three straight years. Midwest, we had another big event on the slate at the first annual Milwaukee Titan Pro, and we're starting off our coverage here with the classic physique division where we saw George Calalau bring in his all-time best, which helped him punches ticket to the Olympia weekend for the first time in his career. In men's physique, one of our pre-show favorites, Rodriga, Chesner, kept his hot streak alive by earninGHis first win of the season. The bikini division was a little bit of a surprise here, mostly because second year pro, Chanky Lee basically came from out of nowhere to beat a lineup full of current and former Olympians, so congratulations to her for a job well done, and in wellness, the two names we gave you in our weekend preview last Friday came out and made us look smart, as Isabella Nunez earned her win and second place finisher's sunny Andrews finally earned her Olympia qualification after stringing together her third straight top three finish of the season. For going to keep it in the Midwest for this next second because what we saw from Derek Lundsford at the NPC Grand Rapids last weekend was too good not to share. Derek went on stage as the featured guest poiser and damn the ihrbwrote the entire house down by stepping out there and looking like some sort of cartoon character. We followed Derek throughout his entire offseason process and after seeing this, I think we can honestly say that he's never been this big and look this good before full stop. I know there's been a lot of talk from Keon Pearson and even George Peterson to a certain degree and those two both deserve all the praise they get. But Derek's name deserves to be mentioned right up there with the best of them. He's at another level now and hopefully everyone else in the division is paying attention unless of course we see him in the open. And finally, I wanted to close out today's show by sending my thoughts and prayers out to Dusty Hanshaw who's dealing with some serious medical issues right now which many of you may have already heard about. I don't want to go into the details of what happens here because I don't think it is the right form for that. You want the full story behind what's going on. You could find it at the Go Fund Me link on this Instagram page. I'm encouraging all of you to go out there and check it out and if you're able to make a donation to support Dusty and his family, I'm sure your generosity would not be lost on them. But even if you aren't able to, we all have the ability to send our thoughts, prayers and best wishes out to Dusty family and friends in a time when they desperately needed. Get well soon, champ. We're all rooting for you. And that doesn't be any other addition of muscle in the morning. On day polumbal reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: SUPERSIZED RAMY! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸5⧸18) [J7ZTiU0hEoU].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Day of Palombo and today is Thursday July 5, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Sometimes a little change of scenery helps you get your mind and your body back into a clear space. It allows you to grow and evolve. But if you don't believe me, all you need to do is take one good look at Classic Physicist standout, David Petra and you'll start to figure it out. After spending a few years battling it out of the 2012 division, Petra looks like he's finally found his natural home over in Classic Physic. Where you put together the best effort of his career last month back at the Omaha Pro. The rumors I'm hearing from my people close to the Petra camp tell me that he's ready to brinGHis talents across the border to the Vancouver Pro this weekend. We're hoping to put together his second straight top five finish from a conditioning standpoint. This guy should be right up there as one of the top two or three athletes on the stage. So if you can come in full enough to really make it all pop, he's got enough of the tag to put himself in contention for the victory. Listen up, if you're an athlete competing in the 2018 Mr. Olympia, now a big good time for you to turn away quickly, otherwise you risk taking a mic Tyson 1988 style gut punch right here. But for everyone else, what you're looking at right now is in some Photoshop deal. What you're seeing is a brand new big ramen update that was released earlier this week from Oxygen Jim owner, Beta Vedaid. I don't know if Beta's been out there casting new spells on the magic mirror or what, but the ramen we see in these photos looks like something that steps straight out of a spaceship from another planet. Whether or not this ends up being another desert garage 10 weeks from now is still really anyone's guess at this point. But if this crazy is fine to wait to actually touch down on stage, I'll go and record right now and say that Phil heats run to tie the title is in some serious trouble. About a month or so ago, I had someone tell me that the NDC TV show Chicago Fire is one of the most underrated binge watch TV network shows of all time. But two days from now, the only fire I'm concerned with out there in the Wendy city is the one that Sergio Leave Jr's bringing with him to the Chicago Pro stage over the last two weeks. So Sergio has been cranking up the hype machine to another level now that he's knocking on the door up performing right there in front of the city that made him for his season debut. Even if you take the home cooking element out of the equation, you still can't forget the lingering beef that Sergio has with you know who, which only as even more fuel to the fire heading into the weekend. So now that he's about to have the pressure all on him, let's see if the young kid has what it takes to handle the heat that goes along with putting yourself in the spotlight. Speaking of a Chicago Pro right now, at least on paper, it looks like the two 12 line up as anyone's for the taking and one athlete who looks like he might be ready to step up to the plate. It's soon to be rookie sensation on me, Juma. The former UK national champ is less than 48 hours away now from touching down for his IFBD Pro League debut. And what a lot of people in the know have been saying is that he's got a shot at coming in and pushing for a top five spot. So when you look at what he did at the amateur level, it's obvious that Juma has one of those super round 3D looks that always seems to do well at the 212 level. So if you can handle his business from a conditioning standpoint and show up at his all-time best, he's a guy who could really upset the lineup by sneaking out there with the win before anyone even knows what hit them. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thanks for watching!

=== FILE: Samson Dauda ALL IN For Arnold UK + Ashley Kaltwasser WINS #26 + William Martins UPDATE! [NnXYZy47B9k].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the Ocar Pauktart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Polumbo and today is Wednesday, June 9th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to Recap Wednesday. It's the first week of June, the sign is shining and we've got a great show lined up for you today, starting with the Recap of the Mile High Pro. It thens physique Javier Mullings continue to strong run by cruising to his first win of the season. Second place went to Joseph Lee, who looked great in his season debut, and last year's win a Corey Morris rounded out a really strong top three group. In bikini it was all about Ashley Colt-Wasser, who came back and successfully defended her title with ease on the way to wrapping up another easy win. Corey Hagueman brought home a well-deserved second place here in her pro debut and closing out our coverage here is third place finisher Jimmy Marley, who also put together her best look of the year. Down on the beautiful shores of South Beach, we also had another prime time event at the Miami Convention Center, where they hosted this year's MiamIMuscle Beach pro. And we're going to start off with our coverage here with the classic physique division where Zee canjrew's put an exclamation point on his standout rookie season by locking up his first win and a well-deserved Olympia qualification. immense physique Daniel Amons came in and dominated from wire to wire on his way to collecting another huge win here in the open and in the master's bench physique, Tampenate of Winston Sullivan scored straight first across the board to brinGHome the W. In master's figure Jessica Horté was in a class by herself as she crews to an un-cantested victory and we're wrapping up our coverage here with the master's bikini where another Florida native in Abiletta Garcia brought home the win. Those were the only two shows on this schedule last weekend and we're going to shift gears for a minute and look ahead at a few shows coming up down the road starting with this update from William Martin's who's preparing to make his I.F.B.D. debut at the Puerto Rico pro three weeks from now. Rumor has it that William will also step on stage weighing somewhere north of 270 pounds which would easily make him one of the biggest athletes in the building. From a conditioning standpoint, he's already in better shape than he's ever been at any point in his career which only makes him even more dangerous because when someone with his size comes in peel and dry it creates problems where everyone else in the lineup regardless of who else his up there on that stage. We talked a little bit about the inaugural Arnold UK and some of the implications it could have on the Olympia in October since they're only two weeks apart. And even though it's still a little early to have any real sense about who we can expect to see on stage in that first week in October we did find out a few days ago that Samson Douba announced that he's officially planning to compete there. Samson's been a little bit of a unicorn over the last year and a half in the sense that we've heard about him and we've talked about him but we really haven't seen him all that much but I will say this when he's in shape the guy is really impressive so if he shows up and nails it there depending on what the lineup looks like it feels like a top three finish should be within the realm of possibilities. And that does it be yet another edition of Musselin the Mornings. I'm Dave Palermo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Sarah Villegas' CASH CHALLENGE To Shanique Grant! Shanique RESPONDS! [kluvMArKQnQ].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart, we've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Friday, May 28, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and happy Friday. I know there are a lot of you tuning in right now who are looking forward to the Cal Pro this weekend. So I figured why not start off the show with an update on on-win, who set the step-on-stage less than 24 hours from now. Earlier this week, on release, they've behind the scenes video from inside the Dragon's Lair, that showed him getting some presentation advice from Flex Lewis and Sean Rodin, and considering the fact that they have eight Olympia tiles between the two of them, he should be taking any advice he can get as gospel. So if you can take even a tiny bit of that deep championship wisdom and put it into action, the talks about him being a potential winner here could easily come to fruition. The 15th Mark that date down on your calendars, book your tickets and get your popcorn ready because the Arnold class that gets back, in case you missed it on Tuesday, received words from officials at the Arnold Sports Festival that the Arnold class was coming back to Columbus, Ohio this fall after being postponed indefinitely back in March, due to mitigating factors from COVID-19, the early report from the promotional team. There is that the show will feature men's bodybuilding, men's physique, fitness, and bikini, and they're expecting to have about 412, $100,000 in prize money up for grabs. From a timing standpoint, the late September window is interesting because it's right before the Arnold UK, and a little less than a month before the Olympia, which opens up a lot of possibilities. And now that we have the date set and stone, it makes the entire fall schedule even more interesting. And I just say this before we get started, there's nothing better in sports than a rivalry, and IMeet any sport, not just bodybuilding. But in our world, there are some rivalries that feel like they're more fun than others, and for me, whatever's going on with Sarah Belegas and Sheneek rant right now, falls into that category a few days ago. Sarah laid down the gauntlet to Sheneek, and an Instagram post essentially saying that she would give her a $20,000 cash out of her own pocket if Sheneek came out of retirement, and beat her at the Olympia this year. But here's my favorite thing about this story, if Sheneek decides to do this, and she does lose, Sarah once heard a give up her 2019 Olympia medal. Now there's a part two to the story, which I'm about to jump in right now. And in response to this, Sheneek didn't come right out and address what Sarah said on the record. But she did release and not so subtle comment in a post-onore Instagram later in the day, that said, the woman who does not require validation from anyone is the most feared individual on the planet. Sheneek's been pretty vocal about not planning to come back, since she announced her retirement last year, and my assumption is that she isn't going to be backtracking just because someone calls her out. But pride is a real thing in athletics, especially the great ones, so even though I don't see her taking the bait, she's only like 26 or 27 years old, which means she's still in her prime, and I don't think it would be completely crazy for her to give it one more run, even if it just approved herself, and that she still the goat. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Mornings on day, and they pull up all remaining in to always be true to your passions, and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: Sergio Ready To STRIKE + Regan Grimes Chest Day + Hendrickson Eyes #3 [ab4XWRZ9YaQ].txt ===

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, muscle in the morning. Today, Pellumbo and today is Monday, July 26th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. If you woke up this morning feeling like you need a boost to get you through your Monday, you're in good hands. Because your wrist and eye eyes got you covered. Over the weekend, your wrist and a reminder everyone why she came into the year as one of the pro-givative favorites to win the first wellness Olympia title after she released an update on her status 11 weeks out from the big dance, even with some of the other names in this division that havEQuarter attention this year. As far as sheer star power is concerned, your wrist and eye might be in a class all by herself. And if she can seal the deal 11 weeks from now, it'll cement her status as one of the biggest names in the industry. Here's a fun fact, few. Did you know that every coastal area on Earth experiences two high-tides per day? Since Florida is, well, a coastal state. It explains why Brandon Hendrickson has had so much success bringing big waves to the Olympia stage year. According to Brandon's team, today marks the official start of his prep for this year's Olympia. As the two-time champ looks to successfully defend his title for the first time durinGHis championship run. For the most part, this sense you get from Brandon's camp about where he is heading into this prep has been nothing but positive, which is exactly what you'd expect from the defending champion. And whenever Brandon's been able to get to that place, the tide usually tends to flow in his direction. You remember when you were growing up and your parents told you that you could be any video on who, as long as you put your mind to it, and worked hard. Well, I hate to be the barrow of bad news because they lied. Yes, they did. Because for 99% of the people on the planet, all the hard work in the world still won't be enough to get you to the same level at Regan Grimes. A few days ago, Regan released a chess trening clip where we saw him manhandling a pair of 150 pound dumbbells for reps, which was his way of saying that his Olympia prep is firing on all cylinders. There were points in the season last year when it looked like Regan was ready to jump up a level or two, which would put his name squarely in the middle of that group all vying for a spot the top 10. So they can dot those eyes and cross those T's between now and October. This could end up beinGHis moment to finally break through. What a good thing don't come to those who wait. But they do come to those who wait to strike at the right moment. Because that's the case. Surged you all leave a junior's decision to wait for the art of light and the proving to be pretty wise in the end. Since he made the official announcement a few weeks ago, all of a sudden, it's like someone flipped the switch. The Sergio we're seeing in the gym now feels like he's pouring everythinGHe has into every set. And that's the Sergio that is fans of him waiting to see all year long. I don't know why it is, but when Sergio's in his zone, he has that it factor, like very few other athletes in bodybuilding do. And if this is the Sergio we end up seeing Columbus, I don't think it would surprise anyone, the ends up placing in the top three. And that does it the end of another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day a month of reminding you to always be true to your passions. If you should have followed us on Facebook.

=== FILE: Shaun Clarida & Mountain Dog Turn Up HEAT + George Peterson LOADING! [ixO6NkeVQ7U].txt ===

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Tuesday July 6th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Sometimes when you're young you think new always means good. Then as you get older you start to differentiate a little bit more, and you realize that new doesn't matter. Good is good, and then every once in a while you come to realize that something can be new and be good at the same time. And as far as the two 12-Division is concerned, new and good might be the two simplest and best words to describe Nathan Eppler's season so far. With less than four months to go before he makes his Olympia debut, this year's leading candidate for the two 12-Rookie of the Year. He looks like he's on track to bring something new and good to the station on tober. When you look at where this division is right now, I think we have a really strong group of four or five athletes all battling it out at the top. And then after that, things start to open up. So if Nathan can figure out how to dial in whatever the right combination of new and good is for him, a top 10 finish should easily be within striking distance. You've been paying attention over the past few months. We've talked a lot about all of the big events coming up in October. We've got the Arnold Classic in September, the Arnold UK in October, and the Olympia in October, which is basically like the holy Trinity of the contest season at this point. It's on October 22nd through 24th. This year's Legion Sports Festival will be going down in Las Vegas. And according to reports, it looks like that might be where we see stand-alone youth make his open debut. Stand-made the move out to Vegas from Chicago a few months ago. So I'm paid for doing this show, makes perfect sense. It gives him plenty of time to get him in shape. And he can tren at his home gym all the way through. Anyone have to deal with all of the stress that traveling puts on his body. He senses less control as many of the controlables as possible. Hopefully it'll trenslate into a solid, open-day view and put him in position to potentially earn a qualification for the 2022 Olympia if everything goes according to plan. I'm paraphrasing this idea from Chris Ascito, so hopefully he won't get mad and yell at me when he sees this. But in bodybuilding, weight doesn't really matter unless we're talking about what someone needs to weigh to make a weight class or division. Sometimes a person can have the exact same stage weight but look like they have two different bodies. All based on the improvements they made. And the reason I say this is because I don't need to know what George Peterson weighs or what he will weigh on stage. All I know is that when I look at him, last year versus this year, I see two different bodies. And that tells me that he's better now than he was than. And if consistent improvement and being your best of the two biggest keys to success in this game, then I'd say that he's doing a pretty damn good job. Wouldn't you? For a time's in life when hearing the truth can be ugly. That's why people like little white lies because they're pretty in cute and they can make you feel better in the moment. But Sean Clarita isn't a little white lie trying to guide. And the ugly truth that a matter is that he's out for blood in his first title defense this year. And the photos and videos we saw with him and John Meadows last week, Sean looked like he was already four weeks out, which means that he'll probably end up growing into the show like he did last year. The man eats, sleeps, and breathes this lifestyle 24-7. And when someone with that kind of mindset decides there's no plan B, it usually means that everyone else is just competing for second place. And that doesn't be at another edition of Lusselin the Morning on Day full of reminding you to always be sure to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: Shaun Clarida： UNSTOPPABLE？ + Ahmad Ashkanani UPDATE + Oksana Grishina at Work! [VX7Bwgzg_wk].txt ===

I'm going to be lunch of tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs. And we love to this show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Pulumbo and today is Tuesday, July 22nd, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Hey, here's something I haven't said to open up a show for a long time. We have a brand new update from Amara Ashkenani. After going zero dark 30, through the first half of the season, all of a sudden Team Ashkenani started cranking out content left and right over the last few weeks, which might be there not to settle away of saying that he's back and open for business again. Even though he has generated as much conversation as some of the other athletes in the two-twelf division, the fact of the matter is that Amara has placed top five or better at the Olympia in every year since 16, which is something no other athlete in the division can say. He is without a question one of the top two-twelf athletes on the planet. And if he's committinGHimself to making another serious title run, people better start paying attention. Speaking of serious title runs in the two-twelf division, is there anyone in the division who looks like they're taking their prep more seriously this year? Then Sean Clarita. Every time Sean puts out new photos or videos, he has that same angry or work-to-play look on his face. He had years ago when he was still trying to scratch and far as way to the top. For better or worse, Sean still looks like he's walking into the gym every day with that same underdog mentality that he's had throughout his entire career. Even though he's the one everyone's chasing now. The top five in this year's Olympia has the potential to be one of the best that we've ever seen. But even in a line-up that could be historically great when Sean's locked in like this, it's hard to imagine anyone else pulling off the upset. In the last segment, IMentioned this year's two-twelf lineup having the potential to be historically great, which is absolutely what it could be. But the way it looks right now there might be a spot opening up in the top 10 after Bow Lewis's announcement that he was switching to the men's open division. A few days ago, Bow and now, on social media that the next contest he was competing in would be an open event, which would effectively take last year's ninth place finisher out of the equation for the foreseeable future. On the surface, one of the interesting things about Bow's decision here is that it comes on the heels and then having the best season of his career, and that night's place will be a finish, which was one of the biggest highlights. With that being said, if trensitioning into the open, feels like it'll create more opportunities down the road, and I guess there's no time like the president. You know how they say that in order to be the best you've got to beat the best? Well, what about if you are the best already and the best of all time? Because when that's your situation, like it is for Oxana, Grasina doesn't think the best just come down to doing what already comes natural, even though she made her big return to the Olympia stage last year, I think Oxana, Grasina, wouldn't admit that getting back to who she was before she decided to step away was harder than she thought. And that doesn't even take into account the fact that she ran head first into two giant buzz-saws in Missy Truscott and Whitney Jones. But like I just mentioned the moment ago, we've never seen anything like Oxana Grasina in this division when she's firing on all cylinders, and if she gets back to that level again, there are still a lot of people who believe that she's in a class all by herself. And that does it the end in another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palamba, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And remember, follow us on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook.

=== FILE: Shawn Rhoden Posing Routine at 2011 Europa Super [54UiciPh738].txt ===

Music Music um I'm going to take the phone I want to say that this is for me I can play To hate the key Take a good Count free Say that I'm so I'm the one I'm so close Take your kiss I'm the one Say that I'm so close I'm so close I'm the one I'm the one I'm the one I'm so close Take your kiss Say that I'm so close I'm so close Take your kiss I'm so close Take your kiss I'm scared of you I see This is for you I'm so close Take your kiss I'm so close Take your kiss I'm so close Take your kiss I'm so close No, it's not a matter It's for you So just go straight Take a good one Take a good kiss For my heart Don't want to bring your life Never seen you never saw You saw

=== FILE: ShawnRhoden [haWp5t-mXqQ].txt ===

We're streaming the night. All of us actually live before. All of us must have the flag. We should actually keep going. We're coming down with the flags of Captain V. We're coming down with the flag of Captain V. We're going to show you the cool thing. We're here to show you the cool thing. We're here to show you the cool thing.

=== FILE: Stephanie McMahon of the WWE on Heavy Muscle Radio： 1⧸2⧸2012 with Dave Palumbo.  Part 3 of 4 [FbK4YnkIiKo].txt ===

Do you get recognized in the street a lot? You look very. Definitely not. What about back then when you were on TV a lot more? Not really actually. IMean if I was wish, kind of, they would, you know, but honestly most of the time all the attention goes to him anyway, so I wouldn't really get noticed. And I looked different than I do until he was. Especially at that time, my hair was really curly on TV, and I wore a lot of really heavy makeup, and I don't really do that in real life. Most of the time people look at me kind of like, I think I know you from somewhere, but they can't place it. See, see, you actually, you had no, you really didn't know triple H back then. You just kind of got forced into the skit with, there was written up by the writers. Oh yeah, I heardly known. It's a handy thing. IMean, I know him enough to say hi, and whatever backstage, but I didn't know him at all. How hard is that to, how did you guys actually start dating then after that? Well, it was actually a long way of into the whole shabang met. But the thing is, we just had this incredible chemistry even from the get go. And I would say he did use to come to the production meetings, which is a big meeting that we have. And I, I don't know, I could never stop looking at him. And I said this in the interview in there. And every time he looked at me, I would just blush. I'd just go be red, even just by him looking at me. And that still happened to this day. I just had this incredible chemistry with him. And we started doing the storyline and I think it was really him, it's playable, it's just an unbelievable chemistry. I just wanted to be with him all the time. And how did you dad feel about the fact that you were dating a wrestler in his organization? They were all doing for bidding. I was so lonely for bidding for me to date a wrestler. Holy cow. How did you get over that helping? Well, I think my dad really tried to set us up. Oh, you think he pulled that off so I don't need to. IMean, I don't think he did the storyline to set us up. But I think he knew, you know, we'd call him around here. Yeah. And he knew what kind of person he was. And he always kind of pushed me towards him. You know, I was dating a guy at the time during the storyline. And I was, what always, you know, when talked to my dad about a fight for it, I've heard of him. My dad and my brother would always be chatting after the show. And, you know, after we watched reruns of Nitro and we were laughing about a lot of stuff. And then we, you know, we would just talk. And I'd say, you know, is this normal? This is whatever my dad would always say. We wouldn't be with the guy who's more like AAAAT. How would he say? You know, my brother would immediately jump and, well, I liked your blate, not actually AAAAT. You know, my brother's very overprotective as of my father. So then my dad actually gave us a blessing today. Right. And then took it away. Did he get? Yeah. No, why was that? Because he got so much hate from so many people. And it was a really precarious situation. IMean, there's, you know, AAAAT is one of our biggest stars. And O'Weddy's going to be champion now, because he's married to the boss and got her. And whatever. And O'He's getting all of these, you know, perks and whatever. When really that wasn't the case, IMean, got nobody worked harder than my husband ever. You know, IMean, that, but that's what people were saying. And I think, you know, my dad realized it was going so fast that maybe it was time to hold it up. And I think my mom were the big influence and holding it up. Really? Yeah, my mom thought it was not, it's not, she didn't know my husband, you know, she thought that the whole situation was back. So he took away his blessings. And that made you want to meet him more probably. Actually, no, because there's other stuff going on at the same time. And, you know, we, we decided that we were going to, okay, that's it. Call it quits. And, you know, we still talked every day. Right. But we would just talk business. And, you know, but we couldn't not talk to each other. IMean, and I did, I tried to date other people and he tried to date other people. And, you know, just, I know with me, any time I was ever with anybody else, all I could do was think about him. Wow. And, um, couldn't get away from him. I just, so then we got the blessing again. And it's still that happened right away. And, um, then when it finally did, you know, it was right. Then we were going to give it a shot. Because, you know, if you, if you, if you, if you're to try it, old expression, but it's true if you really love something and you said it free and it comes back. You know, maybe it's meant to be. Yeah, that, that, that must have been tough, especially in your industry. You know, come, show your, you're seeinGHim, you know, you're dating people. I was married to him and the show. I know, I was. So my heart would break every time. IMean, there's a lot of times in the show, where I'm tellinGHim I loved him. And IMeant it, but I couldn't really, me in it. Exactly. You know, IMean, there was a lot of, very interesting backstory behind everyone of those scenes. Wow. That must've been incredible. And really, IMean, that's, that, it's, it took a very tell almost when you think about it, I think about it that would happen. It was, but there was a lot of a lot of heartbreak in the middle. When you, on a lot of sides. Really? Yeah. I believe you on that, a hundred percent. When you actually guys finally did decide to get married and got to blessing and how long did you wait before you said, you know, we want to have kids. It was a pretty quick or it was a to-get. Oh, I wanted to be a mom, my entire life. That's what I wanted to be more than anything else. You know, I loved our business and I wanted to be a mom. So to me, I couldn't have kids fat enough. But we did wait, I think, was abouT3 years before we had our first childhood. To me, felt like an eternity. And I think, in reality, it's really not a lot of people are married a lot longer before they do that. But, you know, I really, I really, really, really wanted to have kids that was just the ultimate thing to me and to empower the ultimate guy. Can't put him over too much. No, you don't want to give me too much kids. You're going to get a little bit of a slow. You can't much of that. I'm going to get a slow a little bit. They had baby too, okay. And that's when I started helping you with the diet. We got you to lose all the weight. You were very happy. And then boom, you went in and got pregnant again. Third time. Yeah. And you had baby number three. Three daughters. I know that you guys love your children because you would love any healthy children. Yeah. But in the back of your head, I know Paul's got to be thinking too. I think they have a son. Are you guys done? Or is there still a possibility of another one? I know, we're done because of other reasons not because of what your body goes through. Right. In terms of appearance. But I would have loved to have had a son. You're probably loved to have had a son too. But, you know, it's not like we don't either. You know, so we have just been awesome. Amazing kids. We really do. And save a lot. You know, a lot. I don't know. Especially take care of. You know, we have people who have more than that. And they say, if you're here with the morning, you have, but no, I think we're done. And what was your, what did your decision come from that you were going to raise your kids? And they were not going to be raised by, you know, helpers or other people who come into your house. You got your very hands on it to you. Well, you know, Paul, in our both fortunate and that our parents are still together. IMean, his parents are, we just came back from, you know, from being with them for the holidays. And, you know, it's just to, to Paul and our raise with the same family values. But a lot of times for me personally, and I can't speak for him, except for what I've seen. And I'm witnessing a really close, tight, loving family. And I, as you I, my experience growing up with very different than his, but I was on my own a lot when I was a kid. And my parents have worn around a whole lot because they were building the business. And I was raised a lot by people I didn't really like very much. And I thought to myself, then, when I was a kid, I'm not going to do that to my kids. I want to be there for my kids. That's a tough decision because people don't realize how busy the two of you are. IMean, really, IMean, you know, why have kids if you can't be with them? You're like, I agree with you. I 100% know a lot of people who are very business oriented. And they, they want to be with their kids, but they don't find the time. You obviously make the time you always have as far as long as I know you. IMean, you guys take them on trips. If you when you have to, when you guys go away on vacation, you take them with you. Of course, not a vacation without your kids. IMean, you know, get away for a night. Don't get me wrong. But every now and then, things went for a year. But, you know, that's a decision that we made. We wanted to have children who wanted to be together. It's about being a family. He has my question because I always, you know, people know your family because they see you on TV. Is your dad and your mom? And I think your mom's, I love your mom. You know, she, she obviously has died with me as well. I hope, is she, is she going to be running for, uh, for fun? Oh, yes, she's trying to get her. She's running again. She's running again. All right. But, are you, are the grandparents supposedly? The grandparents? Can you drop them off at your mom and dad's house? Your kids? And for the night, you will, they watch the grandkids? Yes, but with my parents at that, to be planned. Right. And, uh, because they are so busy. IMean, you know, my dad's on the road all the time. And my mom is running for spending and Connecticut. And she's on the road a lot. But, you know, whenever she can, she's wings by, even on the campaign trail, even if it's for 20 or. And yes, well, first of all, if I ever needed them in a heartbeat day, day, day, day, day, day. You know, but to drop them off for a night, that's like a big kind of commitment. I got you. But, you know, my husband's parents, yep, anytime. That's great. Now, um, what, what made your mom decide to want to run for Saturday? Just at a curiosity, because, uh, you know, I just always wonder what most of the time. I just always wonder what motivated people to do things. Well, I think my mom truly believed, and I do believe as well, that she can make a difference. I just want to. She has business experience. And that's one of the things around the breakfast table, you know, I've moved more of the dinner table in the breakfast table. But that my family would talk about is, you know, politics and trying to just, the lack of, common sense, really, you know, what would when it comes to our government. And the way that money is spent, and when you think about it, that none of these people, I have ever, not none of them, but that a lot of these people have absolutely zero business experience. That they're making decisions that affect the economy of a nation. It's really remarkable. I know they all have created advisors, so don't get me wrong. I'm sure they're really smart people there. But in general, I think you are lacking politicians with business savvy, you know, you need people and I'm talking my opinion, obviously, but this is all what fuels my mom. I've learned a lot since my mom's been running. And, you know, you need somebody in there who has some experience who knows what business people are going through, who knows how to create a business out of nothing like I said before, my parents were bankrupt before. And, you know, I'm sure they came close a couple of other times because they did take risks, but they know what it takes to make it truly, to make it, and to make it happen. And you need people like that. I agree. Why do you think that the process so hard on your mom though? Well, I think the process fueled a lot by, you know, I could do some of the process really good, and some of them aren't, and I think that Connecticut is a very democratic state. And I think that a lot of the media is swayed by that. And, you know, I've followed the media and seen so much of the BS and the hype that it's just difficult to spend. We're low-ending fruit and why not, you know, go after the Jaguar when you don't want to Republican and offer. Sure. And it's tren, you know, and I think that there's a little jealousy has to be involved in this. You guys own a very big corporation, you know, it's like, people want to, they, the people don't want to see you do too well, you know how that is.

=== FILE: Stephanie McMahon on HMR： 1⧸2⧸2012 with Dave Palumbo.  Part 1 of 4 [ZtDf3PxVzRo].txt ===

RXMuscle.com! Now, you have a place to turn when you want the truth. On bodybuilding diet exercise, up to the minute news and more. Visit theRXMuscle.com forum, featuring celebrity Q&As, with IFBB Professional Athletes, top-amateurs, and brightest minds in the industry. Visit our weekly radio shows, includinGHeavy muscle radio, muscle girls, eight cast-throwers and more. Contest coverage videos, even our own social network excite RXMuscle place. Visit RXMuscle.com! Sivvy Muscle. 3-0! Our next guest is not only the first daughter of the WWE wrestling organization. She's also a client of mine, and a mom of three, and it's my distinct pleasure to have Stephanie McMahon. Hey babe! Hey, Steph. How are you? I'm so happy. You know, it's funny because we did the little interview with you. We showed some of the pictures when you were pregnant to what you look like now. The pictures are a Christmas and a lot of you. And I got so many regular women emailing me and messaging me on the barric... about what you did and what I had you eating. They were so amazed because they felt like, they could relate to a little better because you're not like a fitness or figurecompetitor. They compete on stage, but you're kind of like a regular person to them in their mind. How difficult was it to get a girl from being a girl who's in shape, to getting out of shape, being pregnanT3 times, and then getting yourself back into the shape that you are in right now? Well, let me start by saying that I am a regular girl in terms of, I'm not the kind of girl that's always been skinny, that you know, always looked great or anything like that. I always have to try to eat right, to keep my weight down. I just have a tendency to get weight. And you know, I don't think that I would ever say that I looked good before I started working with you and I'm not to say a math. It's really true. IMean, I've never been as lean as I've been until I started working with you. And then I've never put on the kind of muscle that I hadn't still I've been to. I started working with Joe DeFranco. So, you know, I would say that I am a regular person and it's just getting the right kind of advice. You know, and what works for you is an individual and sticking to it. Yeah, that's really the key. You make a very good point. And I know everyone who's listening to his interview is saying, talk about the wrestling. And we're going to talk about wrestling a little bit, but I want to make this point because we had Joe DeFranco on the show a little earlier. And you know, we talked about your trening. And so you obviously, you know, rather than try to just roll the dice and try to figure it out for yourself, you basically went in your hired someone and do something about diet myself. Obviously, your hired Joe's new about trening. And you really got great results. And you're probably saved yourself a lot of frustration in not doing things the right way. Do you think that a lot of people out there who are frustrated with the way they look should employ people? Even if they maybe can't afford it, go that little extra rat to teach themselves exactly what they should be doing the right way. I think definitely, I'm not feeling for me to take as I can afford it. But it took me 30 years of frustration before I found you guys. I've been in there. I know what that feels like. And you read books. It's as learned as much as you can. And you talk to people who have success and it's just not the same thing. But even still just hiring people. You have to hire the right people. And that's what makes the difference. You really have to get the advice from the people who know. Right. And how did you go about finding gel for instance? Well, you know, I'm really lucky because I happen to be married to this guy who's really into fitness. I hear you, sir. There's a lot of research and you know, he's got a lot of connections, you know. You know, I've obviously taken my husband that's how IMet Joel and that's how IMet you. And I was really lucky that way. But, you know, I can't say enough about the two of you in terms of the things that you guys have been able to do for me. Obviously, he has been being a WWE superstar triple H. That's right. For those who do not know. And he, you know, the funny thing is that he does do a lot of research because I know he does. And no, it's weird. But you would think like someone can win at the time. But he does read the magazine. He does read the message boards. And he does study that. He does study that. He works at all times. Yeah, he studies. And people don't realize you have to do that. If you want to find out the best information. That's really true. And that's, you know, that's another thing is you can do some research on your own. Whether it's to find the right people or whether it's just to learn as much as you can. And then try different things and see what works for you because I think everybody type is different. I know I've worked with other very successful, you know, nutritionists and all that. Before that just didn't get me as lean as I wanted to be. Or as lean as I've been able to get now. And, you know, it's been successful for other people just didn't work for me. You've got to try different things and see what works. Were you traumatized? But literally after putting on, IMean, when you got pregnant, you gained a lot of weight with these child. Was that mentally, like, really screwing you up a little bit at some point? After the first one, yeah, I got tangled. I, I, I had a third of a title. But I was 80 pounds pregnant with, I gave 80 pounds pregnant with my first child. And, um, when I looked down, I'll never forget that day. When I looked down and I saw those cancels that was the day I decided. I was going to change my body. And I couldn't wait to do it. But at that point, you can't start dieting. Now, what is it? It must be frustrating because IMean, you're pregnant. I know you want to have the baby. Obviously, that's a deprive of experience. And I'd say, when you see your body just like falling apart like that, IMean, as, you know, you've always been an athlete. IMean, you've always trened and you've been in a household of people that trened. IMean, how do you let go of that and just say, okay, you know what? I have to eat nine months and then I'm going to get back and shit. Well, you know, I'm kind of an extremist. You know, it's, I'm either dieting or I'm really not dieting. And, you know, I'm going to get to the point about being pregnant. But, you know, so I had to diet for so long to try to stay in the best shape that I could that when I got pregnant, I just went hog wild and eat everything I've ever wanted to eat. I think one entire life, multiple times a day. You know, you can't have many vitals when you're pregnant. You can't drink. You can't even take antibiotics. So food is really your only comfort. And I definitely indulged. And it was a slow process in terms of how you lose control of your body. But your body is going through so many things anyway. And it is so exciting on an emotional level that you're creating this baby inside you. But at some point you do look in the mirror and go, holy, I'm gaining so rich weight, this is ridiculous. And when the doctor told me I was gaining too much weight and then I looked in the mirror and realized, oh my god, you just have to stop. But then at that point I kind of couldn't stop. It was very hard mentally. And I think a lot of women go through that. They do, and not only they go through it, but then after they give birth, they continue in that eating pattern. And they seem to get even worse. How did you say to yourself, enough is enough? The buck stops here. I'm going to get myself back in shape because I imagine that must have been very difficult. It is the hardest thing. I think when you gain a lot of weight, too little, I don't know, because at least in my case, and I think a lot of women are like this. I'm an emotional eater. And it's kind of like the more depressed you get, the more you say it's good and the more you eat, and the more you don't tren. And it's this vicious cycle. And I don't know why it's that way, but it just seemed to be that way. And I just got sick of myself being so grotesque. You know, I looked in the mirror, and I just thought, I don't have to look like this. And actually, I got a lot of inspiration from Jenny McCarthy's book, her first book, She Dain D80 Pounds. Wow. And with her baby, and she was making, she made a big joke out of it, obviously. But she said a lot of really key points. And it's things that I could relate to. Like that she said, you know, I realize that I could eat just one brownie, I didn't have to eat the whole pan. Wow. That was me. I definitely ate the whole pan. And the thing she described the way her body looked, that was just me, I went through all of those things that she talked about. And it actually really did help me. And I just got tired of looking at myself in the mirror. That's the short answer. And you know, but people don't realize though, also, you're not only, you're a real hands-on man. You don't have like a million helpers with you. I know you like to do everything yourself. Plus you worked full time at the WWE headquarters. So you really don't have a lot of time. And you have to literally go home at night after a full, full day where most people would be ready to collapse. And then you've got to start doing your work at a lot of times. Yep. That takes a lot of discipline. It does. But you know, I'm like I said, I'm either one way or the other. And I love trening. That problem has always been food, but my problem has never been trening. I love to tren. You know, I love the challenge. I love to drive. I love to beat my goals. I love to, you know, it just just is a stretcher. Leave her for me. It's, you know, it just keeps me going. I really do love that trening and that intensity. And it makes me feel better. And it makes me want to eat better. I tell people that all the time when you start trening properly. And, and, and, and, and resting properly. Your body craves good food. And so you can't start eating well until you start trening. Almost. It kind of goes hand in hand with each other. And you obviously were exposed to working out and eating well. And a very young age. Obviously your dad of Ninspickman, who's the headhunter at the WWE. There always worked out as hell. All life. Do you always remember from the minute you were born. Him going to the gym? Maybe not for a minute. I was born. But yeah. We had a gym in our house. And, um, you know, then we're very lucky. And, uh, and I always remember him working out. Always. He was a either on the road on TV or working out in the gym. And, um, you know, I've always wanted to be with my dad. I have a very close relationship with my dad. And I've always wanted to do the thinGHe did. And, you know, and I fell in love with trening. I got introduced to it through him. But the physicality of it, the intensity of it, so, you know, the, um, feeling of accomplishment that he seemed to have after a workout. It just all led me to want to get into gym. You know, and working out is funny because it's not obviously a team's board. And I started doing it myself. You know, and I would just go to the gym during the day and junior high or whatever. And put on the music. And, you know, I didn't really know what I was doing at first. And, um, my brother would show me a couple of exercises. My brother Shane. Right. And some technique. And for the most part, I had to worst technique ever for a really long time. But I still loved it. And I could, you know, it's still the challenge of lifting weight. And all that good stuff. And now my challenge is really different. Now that I'm trening for strength and conditioning versus, you know, more of a bodybuilding type trening. But I found that the strength and conditioning trening really with best for me. That is, does your dad, I think, what does he now 60 something? Yep, 60 something. 60, we don't know what we don't count anymore. This is still trening with the same intensity because I heard. Oh my god, yes. He, he, if his goal every day to beat a trener in the gym, IMean, he tells me all the time how he defeats a trener. Mike, if it's him. Now, it's funny because I don't know if this is, this is true. You could probably verify this. Triple H told me that, um, the same stuff, some kind of like amounts of squats and stuff like that. Uh, in the gym, like to the point where even triple H feels like he's, he's out of his mind. Is that true? You're that sort of feeling. I'm not going to be a third of viable, my dad. For sure, he shot. Do you think that he, he might have gotten into bodybuilding, how he not taking over the whole wrestling thing from the general age? If you ask him that question, he has a whole variety of answers depending on the day, but I think bodybuilding would always be a part of his life. Yeah, you don't think you would ever compete with him? You know, he could have probably would have been a chapter in his book. That would have been funny if he, if he, if he would have happened because things could be changed. Bodybuilding could have distracted him from actually making real money. So, I don't know enough about it. It's done until a lot of us believe me. Yeah, talk, let's talk a little bit about the early days. Cause you grew up, you know, as the WWE was kind of, I'm still a WWE aspect and we was actually blossoming. What was it like in that environment? Were you on the road a lot or did you stay home or, you know, what was it like back when you were liking your teens? In my teens, you know, I would go to all the big paper views and I'd always go to the garden and Madison Square Garden. Whenever we would come to town and afterwards go out to dinner with my dad and sometimes some of the super stars, it was always very interesting. But when my dad taught me the lesson that, you know, if you want to hang with the big boys, you can't piss with the pup, which actually meant that I had to wait up and go to school the next day regardless of how late you were out. And it was a very different time back then in the 80s and 90s. It was not the place. The road was definitely not the place for young teenage girls. And no, I wasn't really out on the road very much. It actually wasn't until I graduated college. That I started going out on the road. And then I was full time on the road for about 10 years. A little bit more I actually had my first daughter and brought her out on the road. We have a tour bus, so we know we're kind of like the odds of orange. And then when my second child was born brought her out on the road and told us she was about one. And then it just got to be a bit too much. In my response, though, they said the office were growing. So, you know, I don't go on the road nearly as much as I used to, not every week. Now I go about one for a month. And, you know, and then it's all bring me kids.

=== FILE: Stephanie McMahon on HMR： 1⧸2⧸2012 with Dave Palumbo.  Part 2 of 4 [7CBQUCE1fd8].txt ===

Take us back to when the first WrestleMania was conceptualized. How did you dad come up with that idea? And I know he put, you know, he's stated this in a lot of images before he really put the entire, I guess, his whole bank roll on the line for this event. Well, the idea of what the climate was like right on that. So I was pretty young. So I'll tell this story, but only as I've heard it told. Although I will say I do remember sitting on the Jaiant's lap in the rainbow room after WrestleMania 1. You know, it was a pretty big party. But I definitely have memories of that party after WrestleMania 1 and the whole show itself obviously. But in terms of how it came together, but as the story is told, my dad and my mom took a three day vacation, which they never did. My dad never took vacation. And they were in, I think, for a new dad. And my mom thought that the whole time, you know, they were just having a wonderful romantic vacation and they weren't working. You know, it's so great. And as soon as they got on the plane to go home, my dad looked at her and said, I know what we're going to do. We're going to have the greatest, you know, combination of top culture and the biggest event of all time. It's going to be like our Super Bowl. We're going to have WrestleMania. And my mom, you know, I don't know that they had the term then or any of that stuff. This is just as it's been told to me, but, you know, that was the first my mom heard about it. So the whole trip that's what he was thinking about that whole time. I know it's three days was this, the need I guess. I don't know what his thought process was, but the need for one mega event. You know, that would actually wind up pioneering the paper view industry in 1985. Right. That's right. So he kind of spearheaded this now. When he came up with this idea, was it because he felt that the wrestling needed to be taken to the next level or did he just, IMean, because obviously he put a lot on the line financially, because of this thing didn't make it at here. He probably would have been in big trouble. I assume. Yeah. Well, without questions, you know, my parents have been bankrupt before. My dad's not afraid to try things. You know, and that's one of the things that he always taught us is, look, don't be afraid to fail. It's okay to fail. You just got a win from your mistake and you got to get back up. And you got to try again. And, you know, I think that yes, he's also an entrepreneur and he is going to grow this company into something that no saddened it would be. And in 2012, we announced that we're going to launch a network at WWE Network. Wow. When's that starting? Well, I'm not going to say we're doing a lot of negotiations and all different kinds of things going on. But in 2012, we're going to launch a network. And that's, you know, nobody would have ever thought that this small little regional wrestling company out of the Northeast territory, which started as capital wrestling. And then was the WWE WF, the World Wide Wrestling Federation, and then morphed into the WWE F. And now is the WWE that it would become as global juggernaut seen by over half a billion people worldwide every week. And, you know, I know I'm going to fathom that. No, and how did he come up with the idea that to have whole coag and face off against Andre to giant? And because that's- Well, that was how many it's three. Right. To be clear. Okay. When we sold out the money, I discovered I'm in broke the world into our 10th and 13th record. Was that over 100,000 people? 93,173. That's that time in broke the world into our 10th and 13th record. Why was that? The poll for something broke it after that. That's pretty good second. Yeah, I believe it. Should never have been broken. But what was that like? IMean, did you dad just say I got to do something just super spectacular? IMean, because who would have thought, you know, whole coag and Andre to giant? IMean, and that obviously was the greatest drop probably all time I would think. Well, and that's one of the things to find that you say that because, you know, my dad, people say that he'll never die a happy man, because nothing's ever good enough. And after each one of them, maybe he has over. He's always wonderinGHow he can make the next one even bigger and even better. Yes, it's the top the one before it. Sorry. And that's how driven he is. And he almost can't even enjoy the successes that happen along the way because he's constantly thinking ahead. He's constantly thinking about what's next. Well, this new network is going to seem like it's going to be great. And that's going to be all wrestling all the time. It's going to be a lot of different things. There's going to be a lot of classic programming, which is, you know, yes, a lot of libraries. And, you know, we own the majority of the wrestling libraries of all the territories. So we have all that classic programming plus all of the programming that we've been putting on. We've been on TV. Right. Self has been on TV. Got how many episodes now, longer than last, the longer than Simpson, and that's not even ever been on television. Almost a thousand episodes. You guys are in every word. You guys are in every word. You guys are in every word. You don't think vacations like these other shows. There's no offseason. There's no reruns. First, the media won't give us any credit for that. Yeah. You know, you always hear about how, you number one in USA network. It's very proud to be our partner. But unfortunately, the media doesn't always count us the way that I wish that they would. So you guys essentially have made USA network. I would think of the spot. I wouldn't say that, but when we did move, you know, when we did leave USA about 10 years ago, they went from being number one to not being number one. It will be came back. They became number one again. Oh, it's pretty good to us. And the fact, what was it like to meet Andre the giant back in the day? I never had the chance to meet of myself. IMean, it must have been like the biggest human being you've ever seen in your life. I'm sure when you were a kid. Well, my mom tells this story. And this, I don't remember it all. It could be a total magical story. But Andre and I were friends. I'll just say that. And my mom said the first time that he came to the house that we had a trampoline. And it, you know, one of the above ground trampolines in the E.T. Moreover, the house. And apparently, again, I don't remember this. But apparently, he stuck his hand out. And I stepped into his hand. And he brought me up to his face. And I kept him on the cheek. My mom gave me a picture of that moment. I was talking about a WrestleMania one with actually in people. I'm not sure if I could be in people magazine. I've been sitting on Andre's lap. Right. And my mom had a frame for me, and she puts Stephanie's go liver. And then heading on the ring. So it was really cool. But yeah, I've been on Andre. IMean, God, my relative memory is going back stage. I was like, you know, three, four, five years old. And my dad would walk in a locker room and, you know, he'd tell me, hang out a second. And then he'd come back out. And then he would bring me into the locker room. And they're all coming. So he's been sweating as he men with white cow just across their lap. Just so that I could go in and see Andre. I was still awkward. Oh my God, that bleep don't put me in that position ever again. But, you know, in Andre, whenever he would walk back from the ring, he would walk by and I'd be sitting in the stands. And I'd be right on the aisle. He'd get, you know, he would never react to anybody in the arena. And he would never give away who he really was. But he'd walk by many people. He'd be like, oh, that's what he was like. So we would say it. But nobody knew it happened. I did. And I'll just tell one more Andre story. I have a lot of them. But I'll just tell a quick one. Sure. So I was about 14 and Andre took me out to dinner at the spring fresh. I don't know if that you love to do. Just you and him? Just me and him. Well, the only time we ever did that. But it was really, really special for me. And we went and we sat down. And we were just chatting. And all of a sudden he started laughing with really hardy laugh. Andre had this very deep boom and voice. And of course he was a giant. So everything was bigger and, you know, larger than life. And what are you laughing at? We just kept going. Oh, oh, oh. We said, everybody here, they think I'm a dirty old man. He's a little bit like a little bit. He does, oh, trust me. They do. Now, when you would take God to eat with Andre, how much would he eat? We'll see like a crazy eater and drinker. I think he was, but he wasn't in front of me. Oh, good. But again, I smell like I heard many meals of them. But I've also heard legendary stories. And the thing is Andre and a lot of, you know, a lot of the old timers, especially they're very different people around me. Then they are around other people. And I don't know why that is. But I guess maybe because I'm a woman or a girl at that time or whatever. But it's a different kind of relationship. Like early race who's one of the, uh, husband men on the planet. He actually bought my first born daughter, parent earrings and she was born. But he picked out himself. Really? Well, you know, a lot of respects from these restless. They must be, you know, obviously they knew you as you growing up. That's probably what I wouldn't say that. That's, IMean, I respect the hell out of them. So, you know, if there is, it's very mutual and, and the idea is I respect the hell out of them. How did he, how do you, who found Andre the giant? Did you dad or his dad or, who actually got him into wrestling? I've heard a lot of different stories. And I don't exactly remember how it happened. But he grew up on a farm in France. And I think he was about 14 when he left the farm and actually started trying to make a living as a wrestler. But I honestly don't recall right off the top of my head, but he did work lots of different territories before he ultimately came to work for my grandfather and then my dad. Wow. What about Hulk Hogan? Who, uh, who discovered him? Was that your, what are your dad's findings? I believe. And, you know, it's better to ask my husband about some of this history because I lived it at a certain point in time. But, you know, I remember Hulk Hogan and rock and wrestling and that's when I grew up in the 80s. Sure. You know, watching all the cartoons and all of that in terms of the history of Hulk, I know that it was, I believe it was my grandfather who named him Hulk Hogan. And I think he started in the mid-watt. And he was, uh, but you know what again? I'm not going to get into it because I don't, oh yeah, I know he, he was Florida. He started in Florida. Gotcha. I think he was, uh, one of his, uh, idols at least was, uh, superstar Billy Graham. I know that because Billy Graham had told me that and, uh, I could see it giving a, a Hogan stole out of his, his act. They think, also from the, I think a lot of people stole, uh, the different acts. Whoever was successful, why not? Let's talk about some, another big superstar that you, you know very well. Triple H, your husband. Yes. This is a great story. I think it's, it's like, I, to me, it's a great love story too because it really, you know, some, it's really about, you know, art imitating life. Yeah, you were in one of the WWE skits that you dad always, you know, dreamt up. And you actually were, well, you tell the story because you tell a better version of it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, you was actually by accident that I even started on TV. There was this, you know, a quick backstory with, you know, Austin versus McMahon is kind of how it started and there was a corporate ministry and the Undertaker was, was heading up the corporate ministry. So basically, there was this big room and it was all to get to Stone Cold Steve Austin where I was kidnapped and all this stuff and that were abducted. I should say. And that he's story going on. Doctor me and Austin saved me, but ultimately I realized that it was my dad who set up the whole thing. So along the line, in this story at some point, I entered into the scene and I was going to marry a different wrestler. And at the actual ceremony itself where I've been McMahon, my father in the storyline and my father in real life had said no one has done what better interrupt this wedding or they'll be fired. So right before we say, I do the Out on the Stage Walks for Blade and it touched C2T here in his letter jacket and his jeans. He says, hey, dad, you said only family could interrupt this ceremony so I just wanted to show you a little piece of tape. And what he threw to was footage of me as I had been drugged and I was passed out at the drive through wedding chapel and Las Vegas and the bartender would slip me to make me with actually the camera man and there was footage of her blate marrying me and it was legit and late goal even though I wasn't conscious. And it turns out I couldn't marry the guy that I was going to be marrying in the ring. I was actually married to Chip Lates and then they wound up my dad and Chip Lates having a match basically for the enola marriage. And during that match, with when I actually turned on my dad and joined forces with Chip Lates to rule the company because I realized I had had enough of my dad taking advantage of me and using me as a pawn in his game. How did you like getting the ring like that? Did you like it when you were going TV? And you still go on everyone's rubbed. Did you like it? You were on a lot back then. It was so much fun. I had some of the best times on Earth in the middle of that ring. I can't even explain. And I was a real bad guy, a real heal in our business. Right. And IMean, the things people chanted me, oh my God. It was fantastic. I just loved every minute of it. Do you get regular to you get regular in the street a lot? Yeah, definitely not. What about back then when you were on TV a lot more?

=== FILE: Stephanie McMahon on HMR： 1⧸2⧸2012 with Dave Palumbo.  Part 4 of 4 [4FH6fLV34J8].txt ===

people don't want to see you do too well you know how that is you know yeah that's true you know and again i'm not necessarily democratic or a public in the minute i don't want to sound so party heavy i'm really not but i do think it's the as a media just being to particular picture and how people just believe it and you know i have a lot of really strenge that when i was growing up and um you know and i've seen interviews with my dad when i was you know at a college i interned with him for six months and and i was with them all the time literally and i watched the interviews that he did that were taped and then i saw how they were edited together and how they aired later and it was amazinGHow they would reach you and read edit and re-package to content to make my dad see you know so much more out of control than he was in the interview IMean the interviewer would even re-hute and they'd already been very calm asking thesEQuestions when appears as oh my dad's just incredibly aggressive monster coming after him when in reality in the interview this guy was being you know such a cure for injury day killer yes they they do that all time every time anytime i've ever been on like the slowest snippets i've been on tv interviews they always they always ask you the the most potent inappropriatEQuestion because that that's all they're interested in the answer they don't want anything they don't want to know the truth they want to know that they're looking to find out because they have a story and a lot of times too when company there people get called for comment the writer is already written story they're just looking for a quote that they can put into the story right they're not really looking for what happened or what your point of view is or come in and meet the people they just want to quote it's all sensationalism and again not all of it but a lot of it is and you know it a lot of people don't know that you can't educate the entire public as to how the media does that i actually went to communication college so i learned a lot about how to do that even just in college they keep you so it's you know the media is tricky moving forward into the future because this is my and as some I like you guy and he got stuff to do and then you're taking time out of your new year's data talk to me moving forward are you your brother your husband triple age will you guys be the future of the WWE will you be running it you know 10 20 years or now IMean is that is that the goal right now IMean you're assuming that my dad is at some point not to be able to run the company at some point you dad might say i i want to retire yeah i'm a no no no no no no he'll never want to retire but i think you know ultimately that would be our goal you know if we um if we were able to that would certainly be our goal that we would love to take over the company one day but again we got a long way to go and we got to prove ourselves and we got a lot of the learned so we'll see what happens well you guys you might dad want to retire by the way you know you all really all have to carry on the cast it never ever probably i'll live both of you too he might i've never seen so take better care than self-dnew dad i'm pretty crazy i fell into in a great way but yeah you see i i'm i'm look he lives the lifestyle so everyone around them can never criticize and for anything because he he's doing as much work as everyone else there and he's treninGHard and so IMean how did you how did you be mad at what's going on when they tell you to do something and they're doing it ten times more than what they tell and you that's what i try to do i try to stay in better shape than everyone i get more to serve so i think and i work harder than everyone that's like i IModel myself after your dad and i love you you know hey i love you that definitely i love his work ethic i love the fact that he takes chances based on his own intuition and creativity and you know you guys have a tremendous a tremendous accomplishment you know it's it's always great to see and i'm sure you've grown up seeing it the fact that you know your dad built something that no one believed could could ever happen now you guys are taking over and and helping to contribute to that uh you're going to be launching this new WWE final network channel and that'll be on one of the cable channels yep but that's going to be amazing now what you guys move like raw over to that channel or will it still be on USA and and those kind of things you know they like just think of a way over or yeah i'm trying to try to get some exclusive uh so you know for the penetration we want to be in as many homes as we possibly can so we'll see how that all works out Stephanie i'm so happy that you have achieved the shape of your life and we're going to do another little uh mini pictorial uh when the summer comes around with you hopefully you'll we'll get you back in the best shape your life uh show off some new ab you guys show me how not staying in the best shape of my life oh we're we're working on IMean even better package of you i thought the java friday i've had been a little rough all i'll admit it i thought the java friday we got a whole new plan for you oh no oh you know if you know it's you know it's me getting you two together i love that guy he's like i'm going that to his gym and better fact the film i'm doing some crazy combine trening with these people that's great oh he is he's awesome i can't i can't say enough good thing about you oh it's been a pleasure i i appreciate you opening your life to me because uh i really love you and Paul and uh and your whole family and uh you know if anyone doesn't know you guys you're really real people uh you know people can't imagine that because you're on tv but you really are you the real be oh and thank you for for welcoming and opening your house to me Stephanie Nickman Levask the first daughter of the wwe mother of three and uh a girl who is a back and shape on top of it if you muscle radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com the truth in bodybuilding to the next week at this

=== FILE: Steve Kuclo at 300 lbs! + Get Well Brad Rowe + Ferguson Drops Preview! [YEjovJdVj3I].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, a muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Friday, June 4th, 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Some people like to say it's not about how you start. It's about how you finish. But here's the thing, when you start off slow, you have to waste a lot of energy playing catch up. And then you can't finish strong. So in reality, how you start always matters. And I'm sure Andre Ferguson wouldn't mind gettinGHis season off to a good start when he makes his debut in Tampa a few weeks from now. Up to this point, we've heard nothing but good things coming out of Andre's camp, which gives you the impression that he's going into Tampa with zero intentions of walking out of there with anything less than a win. Historically, these are the shows when Andre tends to be it is best. And when he's in the zone, we know that he's pretty much untouchable, regardless of who else is in the lineup. Believe it or not, there's actually a science to creating movie trailers. They figured out when trailers have certain elements in place. It basically gives our brains a shot of dopamine that makes us want more. So we go back to see the full movie, once it's released. And the reason I preface this segment with that is because I think the guess posing is the bodybuilding equivalent of a movie trailer, which means that 10 weeks from now there should be plenty of people lined up at the box office to see Steve Kuplo at the Texas Pro. In case you missed it, Steve came out. There's one of the featured guest closers at the NPC Steve Kuplo classic last weekend at almost 300 pounds. And the general consensus from people who were in the building was that Steve looked amazing. So if you can keep this momentum rolling, we might even be in store for one of those vintage king snake performances by the time. And the next day, July 17th rolls around. How we feel about the wellness division has been well documented on this show. And even though it's only been a few months into the season, you can already get a sense of how big this thing will be a few years from now, which means that the entire division is about to explode with new talent, the same way women's physique did a few years ago. So if you want to see what the next wave of talent looks like to do yourself a favor and buy a ticket to the NPC you're ropa Dallas two weeks from now. So that you can be front row and center when Amanda Coe hits the stage. According to my sources right now, Amanda's plan is to compete at the Europa the weekend of June 17th. And two weeks later, she's hoping to seal the deal and earn her pro-card at the NPC team universe. So if she can pull that off with the way the schedule is set up now, she would still have a legitimate shot of qualifying for the Olympia in October. If she can sneak into the right pro show and earn a qualification. And since this division is still so wide open, there are plenty of opportunities out there for someone like Amanda to step right in and make an impact from day one. Finally, I wanted to close out the week by wishing I get well soon, shout out to our friend Brad Row, who found himself back in the hospital not too long ago, thanks to an intestinal obstruction. It's been a tough go for him lately between this and the knee injury had a few months ago that wound up requiring major surgery. He's been on the wrong end of a few major roadblocks one to many times, but I'll say this, Brad has been a warrior for as long as I'm known him. But regardless of the setbacks, he always finds a way to come out on top and I'm sure this won't be any different. So if you see this, just know that we're keeping you in your thoughts, Brad, and we still are rooting for you, so get well soon, champ. You get another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day polimbo reminding you to always detour to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

=== FILE: Steve Kuclo vs. Hassan Mostafa + Griffen OUT! [OK4sCgxwopE].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbto and today is Friday, August 13th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back in happy Friday ladies and gentlemen. We're going to do a little preview of the Texas Pro today, but before we get into who is going to be there? We're starting off the show by letting you know who won't be there. And if you haven't already guessed by the pictures, Charles Griffin is the person I'm talking about. Heading into the season the plan was for Charles to compete at Tampa and Texas with the goal being to earn an Olympian nod at one of those two shows. Despite the fact that he came out with a pretty good look at the Tampa Pro last weekend, somethinGHe could truly improve upon, he and his team announced a few days ago that not only would he not be competing in Texas this weekend, he's actually shutting it down for the rest of the year. The content trait on being undeniable in 2022. But now that we know, Charles is out of the equation and the men's openness weekend, he creates room for a potential showdown between two other athletes, which we're about to jump right into now. The competitors list for the men's open is in big, but it's deep and it's headlined by the potential showdown between Steve Kuklo and Hassan Mustafa, as well as the invol year. As far as Steve is concerned, this will be his season debut and he's slated to compete at the Arnold in October, which basically means that he can play with how to spend money this weekend. If he wins, it gives him a ton of momentum heading into the back half of the season. But if he doesn't, it gives him an opportunity to work the cakes out of the system before the Arnold and the Olympia. For Hassan, it's a different story. He's been trying to lock up his Olympia qualification all year long, and for one reason or another, things just haven't quite worked out. That being said, being able to do that this weekend and having to beat out an Ashley-like Steve Kuklo and Ian Valier would do a huge service for him, because once he gets over that final hurdle, I think it relieves a lot of pressure and frees him up to finish out his season on a high note. One of the things we're keeping in eye on this weekend will be whether or not Earth's Kalasinski can make it to an arrow in classic physique. For those of you who don't know, Earth's basically came from out of nowhere to win the Tampa Pro last weekend, and he looked incredible there if you haven't seen the pictures. But when we first talked about this show weeks ago, we spotlighted Logan Franklin as the man to be here, and for Earth to go back to back, I'll have to go through Logan to do it. We have it on good authority that Logan had the best offseason of his career, and that he believes he's about to brinGHis best look to date to the stage this weekend. And if that's what happens, and Earth still somehow manages to secure the win over a top 10 Olympian, now we start talking about whether he fits into the Olympia equation. And by this time next week, we should all have answers to all thesEQuestions. So don't forget to tune in to recap Wednesday to find out. No, in times out of 10, trying to pick a winner in any bikini contest is a crap shoot, because up to this point in the season, the one exception to that rule has been whenever Ashley Colt lost his bed in the lineup. The three time bikini Olympia champ has already managed to rack up six wins, and two other top three finishes this year, which feels like it has to be some kind of record. If she wins this weekend in Texas, it'll give her seven total wins for the season, and you already know for sure that she's competing at the Arnold and the Olympia, and maybe somewhere else in between, which could theoretically give her 10 wins in a season if she rolls through. I'm no historian, but I think 10 wins plus to the bikini international title and a fourth Olympia win would qualify as having the best contest season of all time for any athlete in any division. So if she can pull off lucky number seven this weekend in a weird way, it does brinGHer one step closer to keeping that historic run going. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

=== FILE: Strongman Pro Vince Urbank wins the Car Deadlift & Hold at 2011 America's Strongest Man [VESyPvA3RMk].txt ===

Look at her pretty couple of turnous Corinda Cherry Everyone! Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everyone! Everyone, everybody! Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everybody, everybody.. Look at this at the moment

=== FILE: Strongman Pro Vince Urbank wins the Push Pull Medley at 2011 America's Strongest Man [FY_8WIvxDyw].txt ===

holding on the Galaxy WK' plus

=== FILE: TAMPA PRO PREVIEW： Iain Valliere, Maxx Charles, Mo Shaaban Battle For Olympia Spot! [V2kemEUI6KM].txt ===

Day Palombo here with an R-X muscle news update this coming weekend. The Tampa Pro is here. I can't believe we're in August actually already, but yes we are. This used to be the last show of the year prior to the Olympia or the last qualifier of the year. It's no longer like, but it's still one of the top shows of the year, especially given the fact that we're in COVID times where everything kind of got pushed back, the show started late. This is an important show for a lot of bodybuilders out there who are trying to qualify for the Mr. Olympia competition. And it's a stack line up, and that's what we like to see when we're talking about good shows. Here's the list that's been put up on the IFDB Pro website. Not necessarily missing from that list is really winkler. I have to assume he's not doing camp or he's probably saving it for the Spain show. I think the following week, but we have a stack line up here with it's going to probably be featured by Ian Valier. I have to assume, you know, I've been a very big fan of Ian's physique ever since he turned pro at the amateur Olympia Latin America in Alco Polco, which I was actually at. I remember when I first started the first time, this guy's got a great structure. He adds muscle to this thing. He's going to be a dangerous dangerous competitor. He has. He's got a ton of muscle, ton of condition muscle. And that's what we like to see. We like to see big frames on our overall winners. And Ian's got all the bells and whistles. You know, the last year, I think it was more of a confidence issue with him. This year, I think he's going to bring it. I think he's going to own that stage. I think he's going to be very difficult to beat for a number of factors. He's always in shape. Number one. Number two, he's got, if not the most muscle, the best place muscle on his body of any other competitor in that stage. He's put together really well with a small waist. He's got a lot of wow to his physique. And if he can show it off and on that stage, I think he walks away with an easy victory here. But there's a lot of guys in this line of who can certainly move in and steal this victory for me and if he's off. One of those guys that I really am very high on, he may even press me a lot this year already. Hopefully he's still feeling fresh would be Muhammad Shabon. And this guy's got tremendous legs. He's got a good back. He's got a lot of bells and whistles too. And you look at him, you know, you say, wow, this guy has got an impressive physique. ThEQuestion is, will he dial it in 100% if he does, I think he's going to have problems with him. Because he's denser, he's morecompact, he doesn't have gaps in his physique at all. And he's got a lot of wow as well. So this should be a really good line up between these two guys. Obviously, most of my place, second behind, Hunter LeBrona, two weeks ago in Chicago. So this guy has got to be considered one of the front runners here as well. And he's got a nice little momentum push behind him. One of the freakyest guys in this line up, you know, who maybe doesn't get enough love is Charles Griffin. Here's a guy when he brings it. He's got a lot of freaky mass on his body. He's been improving every single year we've seen them up on that stage. He gets better and better. And you know what, if I'm a competitor, I don't want to stand next to this guy because he's got so much density on his body and so much thick muscle that if he's in shape, he will be very, very difficult to beat. And that's Max Charles we're looking at right here. But I'm talking about Charles Griffin who happens to be, like I said, probably one of the most underrated pros on the circuit right now. And this is a good reason he is because, you know, he doesn't go out there and put himself out there. He's not a social media, you know, fanatic. He just brings it every single time he comes to the stage and he improves every single time he comes out. And that's what we want to see in a guy when you come back to the stage. The judges don't want to see someone bring the same thing they brought last year. They want to see changes in their physique. He's at a point now where he's got so much freaky mass on that upper body from the delts and the packs and the arms that in any position he puts his body in, he looks like an absolute freak show. IMean, look at the side chest shot. Crazy. Those arms are ridiculous. And this is a guy who kind of reminds me almost like a Ronnie Coleman in the sense that he's improving so much every single year. I don't even know what his upper limit is at this point. I don't know if he knows what his upper limit is and maybe he shouldn't even think about that shoot for the stars because I think he's going to, he can be a guy who comes in here and absolutely wins this show if everyone's not perfect and he comes in at his best. We just saw Max Charles before we go back to Max Charles. Max has got probably the best upper body in the lineup. IMean, when he's on, he's on. You know, he's got a great back. He's got a delts. He's got arms. He's got a small waist. He's got the bells and whistles and from behind he's very dominant. His problem obviously has always been the fact that he can't get those legs to look as great as his upper body. But they're not weak anymore. They're not a great body part. They're a good body part. They're in shape. We saw him in Chicago. He was third there. He was in shape. He had separation in his legs. That's what he needed. Some people felt he should have been higher. Some people felt he shouldn't have been that high. I think he was placed right where he needed to be. I went ahead of problem with the Ming Second Place there. He's a guy you got to watch out for in this lineup because of the size and freaking to see those brink for the table. Now, having mentioned all those guys, there's a lot of good guys in this lineup. I can go over, you know, I could talk about this lineup forever. IMean, you got Joel Thomas who's always dangerous if he's going to bring it. Justin Mackey who's got a great physique. Oriental. Oriental. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got a lot of dangerous as well. Phil Flahar. I work with him in the past. Tremendous amount of dangerous muscle too because he's put together well. He flows well. He's got Freaky muscle. When he's in shape, he's very dangerous as well. I think what the, my dark horse in this line just because people don't really know is big bunty. Big bad bunty. He's got a lot of Freaky mass and muscle. He's put together very well. This is his pro debut. I know he works at a guru of me and I haven't really been getting some sneak peeks. I think he could surprise a lot of people. I don't know if he's going to come here with the show. But I certainly think he has a shot at the top five here. I think that if you talk about a dark horse in this line of, he might be that guy. So super exciting line up here going into Tampa. Once he gets Tim Gardner running this show and always putting on a very professional show and rolling out the red carpet to the athlete. That's what it's all about. We have a terrific, two 12-plass here too that man. I can go for it. I can go another hour and talk about those guys between guy, sister Nina, and that line up. And you know, my client, Caraz Bezio, who looks amazing in this line up here. We're going to see a real battle in the 12-john Jewat who might as he's like the newest guy who is always in condition. IMean, this guy has never had a shade. You got bold Lewis in this line up as well. I don't think an Aaron Clark coming back. You really, you don't even know who could be the guy who's going to emerge here because there's so many good guys. There's at least five to six guys that can win this show. Depending on how they show up and how everyone else shows up. So the tap a show this weekend will be one that I will be home glued to my set watching and fortunately I won't be up there. I'm still self-sacluding myself, but, you know, until all this blows over if it ever does. But I'm excited. As a fan of the sport, this is going to be a great show. All the divisions of staff filled to the health. And I know it's going to be a great show. And I hope you guys tune in to watch it. We'll be analyzing it, break it it down, and giving you guys our insight, the entire week alone for now. I'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle. Exclusive news update.

=== FILE: TAMPA PRO RECAP! Heavy Muscle Radio (8⧸6⧸18) [p1qrVy3F2WI].txt ===

10th and 9th You must and I will repeat There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lumball Chris Asito Orangemuscle.com presents every muscle Leo Watch us Welcome to another episode of Heavy The muscle radio I'm daypalumball I'm joined as always by the technician Chris Asito On this What's it today? August 5th 2018 No it's the 6th It's the 6th You know I were recording this early It's actually August 6th 2018 and Chris you're still down there in Tampa After the camp of Pro Has led out And Alexis Rolone has defeated Sergio Leaver Jr And a very narrow Close knit Contest Poor Sergio has to be relegated The second twice now in the same year After that big near Pro when you're before this And what is Sergio's mental state right now? Well I just put it in the same as I am You checked it You checked it Yeah no he's so great He's happy Because I guess he's qualified for the Olympia now Which was you know he wanted to win the show Of course Obviously when you look good By the bill is always happy He looked good You know you get you know people like Yeah yeah you look great So you know he's happy about that Well this was a little bit of a recognition For Alexis Rolone Because the Alexis lost the narrowly a couple years ago To hear to our good friend of Key Williams I remember that There are a lot of people who are very upset about that And you know what I hope to Key in that year I have to say Alexis was harder than he came But you know Keyman a little more muscle than But it looks like Alexis is added quite a bit of muscle Since the last time we saw him here in Tampa Yeah no he looked excellent He's definitely grown in the last two years Since that Second place to rock him And you know he looked really good In a nutshell IMean there's more detail to it I've gone through it with you in terms of like There was they had an epic final Model or model Posing Whatever Posing You know usually that's where I would think Sergio Would shine because he likes that Like you know He did Man man Did he do all that? Yeah I had him winning I had him winning I know people have roughly upper norms Because I bought him I didn't have him winning But I had him winning But this is the flip side If someone You know I never talked to Judges and some judge IMet tonight He said Came up to me in Sergio And city almost pulled the camera out Trying to figure out who would win He told me in Sergio straight up he said You know I could make a decision at the end But Alexis Sergio loved that He said he could make a decision at night He said I could make a decision at night He said I could make a decision at night He said I could make a decision at night He said Sergio I had you at night He had the other guy in pre-judginGHe didn't know what to do That's why we can compare you guys over and over And I just went with my gut Now I'm going to ask you a question Don't even think just answer Okay If this show took place in New York who wins Sergio Right Okay If this show takes place in California who wins Along Okay What about if this show takes place in Chicago So you think only New York Sergio It comes out ahead Because of the New York crowd behind him Yeah Yeah You can see the view It's more cool You can see the view You can see people like it like our age And our kids So they know that Sergio is the son of a woman I love here You know some people get a little nostalgic of that Probably go a little bit Get a little bias to get wild I looked at the pictures And of course I was there You were there I thought from the pictures We can have them get a great wrap You'll love it Yeah, now we're going to wrap up Should be up by the time people listen to this radio show So we will get your analysis Got analysis right after the show Let out I thought from the pictures I thought Sergio looked a little better And a lot of shots But once again it's really hard to tell Because they're both so hard And sometimes hardness doesn't really show In the pictures as well as it doesn't person So maybe Rolone was a little more Gritty than Sergio and certain shots I don't know What do you think that what do you think made the judges pick Because you obviously are bias because you help Sergio, why do you think the judges went with Rolone? I think that they probably went with him Because he had Deeply crushed radio quads Even though Sergio's quads in pre-jageable Is good if not better than Rolone's Because they're bigger And on the side chest he's got very full pecs And he's got a right ThEQuote right looking side chest You know what IMean? It just looks right It pecs are strided You know from show the arms ties and well But IMean if you go pose pose You can say I think Sergio wins a front poses I think Sergio wins the back poses I think Rolone wins The most muscular Or at least close I think Rolone wins the side try I think Rolone wins the side chest I think they both have terrible abs and thighs And so there you know if you break it up that way Sergio, you know big in the line up He's wired and anyone in the line up You know that helps a little bit Right It's funny, you know I start this way I judge very quick When they called for I thought Sergio was very comfortable Same Sergio won Then when they called him on the pre-jetion last call I got stopped That was quick You know the Rolone that I thought Oh quite a quick You know that call out like Maybe IMissed a 90 missed on the first call I was just really shopping up a lot And then I thought even shopping up a lot more for night So that's how I saw it Then I run into the set Oh yeah Sergio got much hotter at night The room on soft or something like that I don't know You know No height It's like bleed opposite I'll say one thing about what Rolone's got going for He's got a lot of mature Grany Detailed muscle on his body And I think Sure We like the flow of Sergio's body better His coloring is really good on stage Because he got their really good skin like his father You know And I think that you want to pick Sergio Because you got the whole nostalgia thing going behind him He happens to be very charismatic on stage I think Rolone's physique is a little more mature Maybe he did say that And I think that it becomes very It comes down to like what do you like better And I think certain driving panels will pay Who do you think he has a real question This is the most important question Who does better at the Olympia That's which look will trenslate better on to an Olympia stage It's me I think he will tell you I think he is bigger I think big usually trenslate better on the Olympia stage Because they both condition But why is big drink? Tell me why Mr. Olympia is always notoriously the side from Philly He is a big guy He is like the fighter You're a freakier guy He is usually Mr. Olympia So it's always the mass guys that are clashing on a limpist stage. Phil actually happens to be probably, you know, has basically taken that rule and thrown it out the window the last eight years because, you know, he's never been the biggest guy on stage. But he does appear sometimes 3D-wise being the biggest. So, he's the most cartoonist. Yeah, he's the freakiest looking on stage. So I can, you know, that kind of trump sometimes, like, you know, the big rotty type, hugeness. But let's say, it big usually is better on the limpist stage. And that's always the better way, that's why really winked at us while in the limpia. He's huge. And it's impressive. He can, he can hold his own on that stage. Dennis Wolf, he's, that's why Dennis Wolf held his own, always on that stage. He always did better on the limpist stage, usually when he did, on the local shows. The regional shows because he's just more impressive in that line of structure wise. Sometimes when you do the smaller shows, the bigger guys get, like, kind of get shunted off because they don't really match up well against anyone. Unless they're superb, you know, they, they just, they just, they just, sometimes don't, don't do as well. Or it doesn't, they pan out as well to them. But on the limpia stage, that really size really helps. Just like you get the trail, so it's not that big. And he would always win these pro shows during the year. And then go to the limpia and get slaughtered because he just wasn't big enough. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, people, if they're just hearing you're going to really well-dry. Yeah, if they didn't even, if they wouldn't just win work, it would be like, they don't be very every year. Yeah. Well, let's talk about Max Charles, who plays third year. Good Max Charles, great Max Charles somewhere in between. Somewhere in between. Good type of body from the front. You know, just, you know, Max has got the inside out peel to get his back down. Right. And if he does, then usually his legs disappear on torch on. Yeah. Very hard to get that fine balance between upper and lower on him. But the fact that he really places top five almost every time he competes, tells you how good he is just from a genetic standpoint and from a muscle standpoint. He just, you know, it's the old Joel Stubbs phenomenon. Joel Stubbs had the best greatest back of all time in bodybuilding, better than Ronnie Coleman. But he had to, you know, he had the leg issue. Couldn't get the legs up the size. So he had, but he had good condition. You know, so Max was a button cold there. Right. But it seems like Max always somehow, you know, sneaks into that top five just because he's big. Now, in the fifth position, okay, we had kind of another one. What, you know, what? You know what? You miss what? Oh, excuse me. Did IMiss fourth and purpose? Yep. Yeah, you must have. Justin Rodriguez. Yeah. Better than New York. Same. Um, I think that he was probably the same just that, you know, if you minus out, you know, volume and Sergio, then you'd probably say, like if Sergio and the loan were not as good as they were, then you'd say, oh, he's, you know, he's better than New York, but because he's grown up against two guys when like great condition. Yeah, but you know what? Justin Rodriguez has good legs, really good legs, and he beats, he lost the Max Shaw, so what had that happened? Um, I would probably have a head of Max. Really? Okay. Ah, well, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's toss. Max is like ticker from the front. IMean, Rodriguez was in the best shape, you know? Hmm. That's what I was going to say, but I'm lettinGHim in. And he's probably going to, him in, him in Sergio had happened, having like a friendly, Instagram view. Well, it seems like Justin likes to view to all these guys. I think he tries to get into their head, you know? You can't get into Sergio's head, dude. No, I think Sergio thrives on that type of style. Oh, are you kidding? I look at the rear back double buy of Justin Rodriguez. Who, by the way, is looking more and more like victim Martinez physique wise every day. Um, I hate to say, but he probably would be too wealthy worked with you. I, you like those type of physics that you have to just get inside out, twisty, twisty, yeah, conditioned, you know? You smell them. He's dialed in with a camel curl. Can I get it in? Oh, he, he is officially still working with them. Yeah, you, well, well, they'll say no. Now that Sergio beat him, but he, from behind he doesn't deserve to be, Max Charles, I'm sorry. I'm a funny looks good, but he has a little layer of water. He looks like victim Martinez. He has the same, the, don't you think he's got the same arm? He's got better legs than the Victor, I think. He's got the same waistline. I bet he, if he's back, got shrink wrapped. He probably looked just like him when he wanted to go to the old three night of champions when you helped Victor. There's a lot of similarities for sure. Very, very similar structure. I see it. If you take, you look at the pictures and take, this, you take Justin's head off him. It looks just like Victor. I would think it was Victor. If you just show me that body, I'd be like that, Victor. Yeah. Yeah. So I, I think they'd write Justin's screwed himself here by not really coming in shape. I think it would, it could have been a three man, you know, a three man show and that top three, he would have been his best. Yeah. He was better than Chicago for sure. He was definitely better than Chicago. I still don't think we've seen the best of him this year. No, I don't need her. I don't need her. Now, talk to me, where did Sergei Kulli F come from? He's another camel cool guy. Oh, he is. He's a Russian. Yeah, just extinguishing these guys to it. Love brightens out of him. He's Russian though. I know, but you know, they don't matter. They go from, they, who's from Kuwait who trened in Kuwait? That's true. Sure. He was better in Chicago. He's a very nice guy. Yes. Yes. I spoke with him through Trump's trenslator. Who, Rajasthan? Yeah, but I'm just going to say, Rajasthan. Who's probably being indicted this week and he was on our expulsor two months ago. Yeah. Maybe we'll get him on again once he gets some died. I'm going to get him with, you know, IMean, I'm going to get the men and his brothers. I think it's a hell with him. Now, I see, I see Sergei and his, excuse me, Sergei. And his glutes, hamstrings, legs are ridiculous with him. And then I see the bat. His back is not that hard looking from the pictures. Oh, he was just, he's flat here. Oh, okay. It was good. Yeah, no. He was, you know, I think what happened in his, I think he was just a little bit different. I think I'm guessing in Chicago he was really good. And I think he was just as lean and all that stuff is here. I think he was just burnt out. And I don't know if he went back to Russia and came back, which is a big trip. More if he just stayed here out of his environment. And he just didn't have the pop and wow factor. Then he had three weeks ago. Yeah. Talk to me about six place for sheet old record who by the way didn't, I did not work with the show. Mark and his girlfriend. He wanted to try something new. Yeah, but she was big of course. And in some areas very hard and lot of areas hard. He just suffers with like, you know, his, he needs, he's narrow for all that muscle. Yeah. And all by himself. But that said, and I was going to say all by himself. He looks crazy, but he should have placed higher. Period. You think that he didn't get what he said. Yeah, because I can tell you deny all that muscle. He's got a lot of muscle. He looks like he was pretty conditioned here. His lower back is a little too weak. Looks a little to be a little tired of it. It's pretty good. IMean, for the pictures. Yeah. I agree. I wouldn't have had a higher. Well, but IMean, he doesn't know, you know, he could have been surgery. He could have been. He could have fallen as, you know, 5, 4, 4, 5. But I know what you mean. It's weird. He's got a lot of muscle. When you see him standing in the lineup, he doesn't look that big. Or that wide. I should say. No. You know what IMean? It's weird. It's a weird thing. It's a, it's a illusion. I know, but it's, uh, it's kind of a little strenge. But hey, top six. You know, he doesn't, uh, it's still pretty good in this lineup. Like I said, this is not a week line up by any means. Brad Row, how do you look? This is a good placing for him seven place by the best all year. Yeah, no. He was very hard. He was a little disappointed. You know, he was, you know, he was, he was a little bit more full than this. Anyway, if I'm, um, maybe broken to the top six. IMean, he just recently, I think, place fifth to six is cargo, which we still about. Yeah. You've said before he has the worst genics and bodybuilding but he's the hardest work. Yeah. He probably hates me, but I say that is a compliment to he doesn't get it. It's a, it's like when I say, feel I hate personally. When you say it by Guy, I'm assuming, Guy loves that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I love that. But I think Brad doesn't get it. He takes a personal vote. What I'm saying is, you know, Brad is a type of guy who, well, frankly, with, you know, his coach genetics. A lot of people would even turn pro and he just will do the way. You know, to turn pro. Yeah. He's got pro caliber legs for without a doubt. IMean, that's probably on stage. And then the upper body is just a little behind them. He's got the small arms that is back. That's just a little bit, but he's got the big enough. But his, IMean, his peel tears. I've, I haven't seen it. Well, so you know, Nick, you like a little. He saw something that you can inject into the by. He's got the power. Chris, you're the greatest. You're the greatest. Lucas Carroll, you impress. I'm looking for Lucas Carroll. What's he look like? I forgot what he was like. I just thought his legs were a little small. Who is the guy who just won the USA? I don't know. Oh, yeah, this him. That is him. I should, I should know. I just didn't interview the guy on our X-mas. Yeah, no, he, he looked. He won the heavyweight class. Yeah, at the USA. He looked great. He looked great. He, he looked great. Consider a big jump to a jet pro show. Um, you know. I don't think he was as peeled as he was at the USA. What do you think about that? Yeah. I think that's a problem. I think I try to come up with two big and the first hit the pros. I'm picking that bigger as better. And, you know, if you're going to sacrifice conditioning, then it's not. Probably in this line of heavy coming, like you did at the USA, probably would have been higher. But I guess you still got to figure top 10 at your first pro show. We can't have the eternal pro. It's pretty damn good. You know, it's pretty good. Yeah, it's big. It is a press of actually, you know. I think that's definitely a win. That's a win. That's a win. You know, punitive. On win, it was a knife. You know, what's your opinion if it's him? He just, he's, he's not. He's a cliche dialed in. Um, you know, he's round around with any's ever been. And he's, you know, he's pretty tight but not very tight. And he's mostly driving, not totally dry. And, you know, in a tough line of p. crashes tonight, I think last year he was, um, pop. I think it was fourth last year. Yeah. When I, you know, I could tell when people were in shape by looking at their face. He doesn't have that hollowed out cheek look. He looks a little full face to me. Yeah. And he's hard. He's by, so maybe he overcarved. I don't know. This certain policy, I see. It looked really good. Like his front doubles. What do you do? What carbs is something. Yeah. I think that's probably. Uh, Joel Thomas. We've, you know, when Joel, when Joel first hit the pros, when everyone. I remember when Joel first hit the scene, the body of the movie. Everyone, this kid was a prodigy. It was a teenager. And everyone thought he was going to turn pro at 19 and then took him a while. He finally got the pro card in a very, very bad year. By the way, and he's probably got more genetic gifts than a lot of guys on stage. He's put on a lot of masks. What was your opinion of him? What does he need to improve the move up at this point? He looks pretty hard. Um, he needs to, like, head of the right way. Whatever that means. MeaninGHe's just not. IMean, he just looks good like six weeks out. And then, you know, the day of the show, he looks good. But not like the progress that you would expect from six to five before the three to two to one. He looks like he's got all the tools he needs to do well to pro level. Well, he does. He does. He doesn't have the right formula. What you're saying? No, he doesn't have the magic formula. We'll get the magic formula. We'll have to find out. I thought it was a great Tampa Pro show. You know, it was a great lineup. I know you guys enjoyed yourself out there because spending the weekend with Sergio Oliver Jr. has got to be. What's more to do? Who's more entertaining? The week. The week. Yeah. My wife wants in a way. You have to spend the whole week with these guys out there in Tampa. She's like, that's why you get trouble with the wife. You spend the whole week out there because he came down here to Tampa. Right. See, he was a planning to do the show. You talked to mentor, right? Yeah. I talked to me. He went to Chicago. He got second there. He stayed in Chicago. His hometown ate all the deep dish pizza and all the Greek food. No, you know, what skydives and all this else. And right, right. He did right after the show. I did really. I thought you were kidding. Yeah. Right after the show. I said, you got to do Tampa. And I said, I'm just going to let him like unwind a little bit. So like three days later, I said, I do Tampa. And he didn't even return my call. And then like a week later, I said, you got to Tampa. So he said, let's do it. And so he went down to Tampa early. And he went to Ben's gym. Ben, but mostly. Yeah. And Ben told me, quote, he won't be ready. So because then seeing this guy all blown up from all the pizza. He didn't obviously. Yeah. Yeah. So so I said, a lot of times this one looks very like very much fat like. And I said, is he full? No. I said, he said, no. And he can definitely said no. So I, I think. And then brutal. So friends brutally honest. Yeah. Yeah. So I came down on Tuesday. Well, it was Friday, show two because we're getting. I'm getting my head out of my supplement. I helped 10,000 Pierre, which is a Friday pre-judging. Right. So you're saying to me that on Tuesday when you got the surgery I still didn't look good. You know, no, he didn't. But I know his lot of looks like fat. It's weird. Like you don't you know you must have been nervous. You must have been nervous. Yeah. I love it. You know, I said, don't worry about it. So what do you do it? What would you do with them? What did I next come up with? You know, I, I, I, I, I, I reached into my magic dandelion. But yeah, but you don't know what you're doing. That was not with the common conception as a money, a money, the, the, the, the, the, No, it's not common, but, but Nick Eli, Lily says, I, I actually believe that Chris has absolutely no idea what he's doing. And I, it doesn't really matter. You do pretty well for someone who doesn't know what the fuck they're doing. I got an interview. No. So, I, I, I like depleted them down to like, smithereens. Right. I had them depleted. Actually, you know what's funny? That the, the day that Ben said, um, he looked terrible. I hadn't gone need like. Anyway, because I knew it was going to be depleted. My said, Ben says you look terrible. So he better, you know, what are you reading? He picked the, the very, very, very, very, very, very low carbs. So he went, like, Tuesday when I think he went low carbs up until. Uh, I, I gave him a little carbs on Thursday. And I actually did surprisingly low to up a little bit of a try, which surprised me. But his body's weird. It responds quickly. And it holds water. And when he drops, when he, when he, when he, like, when his carbs go down. Uh, and he depletes like he doesn't really flatten out. No, when when when he eats carbs, they, you know, it just seems to like, magically seriously suck the right water into the muscle. It was just, it just trensforms. Let me trenslate that for the people listening. He's a genetic freak. Yeah. Which, well, with that we can from Nick, uh, either I Lily's statement, I don't know what I'm doing. Well, you obviously know how to manipulate his genetics, is it so, right? I know I just picked the guys with the best genetic. That's right. I see, so you have to do anything. I got you, right? I've been into a guy by the way, who nickname Black C. No, because I work with Black guys. Black C. What about Jay? Jay kind of ruins that whole. Yeah. You know. People, when you're working with Jay, they said, I would, Chris only works with these white guys, right? Yeah, what I was doing. Yeah, what I was doing. Oh, my god. Doesn't get any better than that. See, so I came down to his feet. Yeah. And because I knew, uh, Henry Pierre was coming in. Mm-hm. And I knew Sergio had been here. So I said, don't come down. I'll take a little vacation from the kids from the home schooling. Right. Yeah. Well, I never do anyway. Yeah. And, uh, and I'll just make sure that you, you know, I'll pull some rabbits out of my hat and hit you with a magic, uh, dandelion root and the magic muffins and see what happens. And it worked. Well, almost worked. I guess I could say it's a good one. Yeah, I'm in. Yeah. Exactly. I think I would. I should have a good one. Yeah. Was Ben Pocoski surprised? Yeah. Was it like, yes, he would be a successful man. Did you talk to him? No, I didn't see him. I didn't see him. I did see Ben in the gym today because Jim, did he will a test that we showed up the morning of pre-judging and started to pump up his chest and back for one and a half hours. So yeah. And we want right to pre-judge. Yeah. Let me hear about this now. Right. So he competed this morning, which was Saturday morning. And then he decided he was going to go do a chest workout. That sounds like a full-fledged. What was that? A full pre-judginGHe did this. A full, full-fledged, full hardcore chest workout. Like what? Like full of stuff. How much was he benching? Oh, IMean, machines, but you know, like drop set street plates. Um, uh, on, you know, all these machines that Ben has. He did probably did 25 exercise per chest and 18 for back. I did back too. Yeah. Let me ask you this question. Did he, did he, did he look better or worse on the same? Yeah. He did look better. He did look better. So, you know what? I know I like to be a dictator about, I'm a friendly dictator. So I listen and he said, you know what? I know this will work. So I said. See, you were actually supervising this? I swear Dave, I wish we had a video. Was Ben there? He never said. He was eating between every sat. Was Ben there? Yeah. Ben was right. Was Ben like just takinGHis head like something. I think he could get a look because I know Ben thought. I was going to get killed. You got to call up Ben and ask. Yeah, I got to ask. I think he was going to get killed. Ben must be thinking of himself. If Chris is here with him in the trening, like this, he must look so bad. Yeah. Now at this point, are you saying to yourself, I don't think we were not going to pull this out. Did you think of that? No, no, no. I thought that I saw him the night before. Right. We were in the gym. He was sweating like crazy. He was getting tightened. When he sweats, he doesn't really like, you know, a lot of people sweats. He just deflate. Right. And he was getting better. He's a gentleman. We're there during a giant rainstorm in the power and out in the gym. He continued to ice. He's got that on video. I'm sure he'll post it. He continued to tren, right with the right, right the dark. That's great. I love it. So he had done back the night before, like 40 seconds. How do you not give the F, see if they had known the backstory of the judges on this? They would have definitely given them the win because they would have been a great story, you know, after how I won the tap or proud, you know? Well, it was trick into up my crest. Yeah. I was tricking to doing the shot, right. Exactly. Yeah. You see what I had to do? Because Chris tricked me into doing the shot. I didn't even do the shot. Anyway, I didn't even want to do the shot. They didn't want to do the shot. I don't want to do the shot. I want to do the shot. I just happy did it. You know what? He was shocked when, you know, the, the, the, the, the pleasant news was I was told someone said, you qualify to the Olympia, GG. Okay. I'm going to show. Now he didn't go last year, right? No. No. No. No. No. Here's a question. I don't really know the answer to it. Is he the first son of a Mr. Olympia to ever do the Olympia? Has to be. Yeah. It's pretty amazing. Yeah. I think that's pretty cool. Is he the first son of an Olympian to do the Olympia? How about that? Um, that one I'm not sure. I don't know. Do you know of any other sons of who guys he went to the Olympia? I'm sure there's probably someone out there. I don't know. I saw a date. Um. John Hanson will have to. Yeah. We're going to ask the, the new historian there. Yeah, he's in the hole in there for three years. I said there was a day after he said there was something on the top. My mom was in the tent and he came over and he had help with it for thefernty. Don't worry. Are you really saying something? Did you get out of there? Yeah. Absolutely. I'm anointed. He's the lead here right now. Yeah. or really if people would love it. Like he said, you know, put it in the last case. Yeah. Let's talk about the two-to-a-half division. Nicholas Vulliad wins here. Last year obviously controversy. A lot of he had some Jimmy out there, some Scott Distance, some shoulders. It was kind of cut a seasoned short after that Charlotte Pro that he played second at. It comes back here. I don't know if he's hearing anyone complaining about anybody. Body parts. What was your impression of him? Solid win. Solid win. Solid pretty solid win. IMean he's like, last week I talked about B version. He's a B version of Lee Priest. Yeah, he's pretty freaking like what? Yeah. Yeah, he's freaking looking, but he's a little squaddy. And he's lacking a back. That's a problem. Yeah, it's a big problem. When you shorten lacking a back, it's, you know, I guess if you like it in a back at any height level, it's an issue. But you know, site chastise, I try to set up pretty freaking muscle muscular, freaky, standing in the line up. So I surprisingly hard to find in the line up. Makes him seemingly overrated all the side. He has a lot of dense, freaky, lush muscle that went to say. Yeah, but he don't look like the Instagram photos, which I always say, you know, you know, you hate that. You know, you hate that. That's the reason you're in the Instagram photos. But, you know, people get these perfect, like, perfect, perfect. And then they filter them. And then, you know, then you salmon, skating the very laksas line up. And he's very vulnerable, standing the line up. Yeah. Yeah. Talk to me about Derek Olson, who comes in second. I don't know anything about him. The meh, I'm just a little bit. I was surprised. He's round. He's lean. He's not ripped. He's not big. I think he just landed in a based on his quote, shape and flow. Kind of a small way. So yeah, small ways. IMean, I don't have to work back with two of the most overlooked people, like, like, massively so it was Lloyd dollar. And even more so than Lloyd dollar was Mike Argus. Oh, really, Mike Argus. Dick. Six and seven. Mike Argus looked very hard and dense, and with a lot of muscle maturity, which people, you know, in that class, some people did not have a place ahead of them. Well, before we get there, let's get to us while they'll go guns all as a place there. I also another person I really don't know very much about. Very hard, very dense. IMean, very, very sharp. I'm a body was a little weak, but he was over-rewarded, I think, for the condition. So you think you think it went, it turned into a conditioning show, what you're saying? Well, no, because the guy I got second was not in condition. Yeah. Well, he obviously placed because of his structure, is what you're saying. Yeah. I thought the, and I'm not just saying, because I helped him, buT4th place Carthbageau, I helped, I thought he should have been higher. I was kind of a little surprised that he didn't do better, given the fact that these other two guys really weren't household names. And I didn't think they were that spectacular, but I wanted your impression because you were there, obviously. Well, he's way bigger than the guy I get second and third. Yeah, so I thought. And his condition is, I guess, on par with the guy I got second, not as good as I got third, but then I go back to dollar and earnings. He wasn't as conditioned as them, and they got like, you know, crushed, but didn't line up. Yeah. What do you think, uh, I look at Lloyd Dollars' physique, and I really like his good lines. I think he needs still needs a little bit more muscle. I think that might be hurtinGHim. And this line up, but I think his conditioning, I know how he's helped him, definitely dial them in conditioning wise better than I've ever seen him. Yeah, just best he's done for sure. I just think. I'd like to see his legs a little bigger. I think that his legs are still lacking. Yeah, IMean, I could use bigger legs, but IMean, so could the guy I got second. Yeah. So could the guy I got third. You know, the guy I goT4th had giant legs. Yeah, that's, yeah. I thought that, you know, Carrot's badger would, you know, turn pro one of these masters events. But he's a guy who has been a sleeper guy, you know, I just knew it. I told him, I said, look, I don't care how you turn pro. Let's just get the pro card. You're going to be a good pro. And because he's got a lot of muscle on him. And he's got a lot of freak facted to him. And he's shorter than a lot of these guys, which is obviously an advantage as well, because you can hold more muscle through 12. Yeah. He's still can gain 10 pounds in this class. And if you need it too. What did you think of, I used to tren the Maradona here who finished in fifth. Maradona was flat from the, he was just flat. He was in condition of flat. I think he had trouble making way probably. Would you say that that was his problem, right? That was out of the world. Yeah, well, two or two was always a problem. But, you know, he's not young anymore. You know, what I do so work with the most years ago. You know, the muscle has a denser snap to it. Yeah, he doesn't look very flat. Yeah, I think if he's able to come in full, he's much more dangerous. Yeah, he might be on the fake muffins or nose. He left me till because he didn't, you know, he said, you don't know. What you talked about at all. And after he left, do we never heard from him again? No, no, it was like a leadboloon. So, boy finishes in sixth, Mike, August, and seventh, I'm looking at him. What about Sylvia Samuel and A. How is his come back? He still come people around. He still making the comeback. He still is by the old responding. He was in jail for a bunch of years. IMean, they didn't respond this time. That was tired. Yeah, the tired looking body this time. He done well previous two shows. But this one, this time around, he was just like wiped out. Ergis has got the Ergis's face looks like he can be hanging out with, you know, you and me, like, eating at the buffet. Yeah, he just looks like a regular guy. And then you look at his physique. And it's like, we should, this guy's like, looks good. The physique of like a 20 year old. He's unbelievable. Totally, totally. Totally. IMean, tell you, skin was thin. I'm sure he's impressive. Yeah. IMean, crazy glutes, hands, like crazy quads. Fabulous front of Bicep, tremendous high chest, great, most muscular. I was, when he first came out and I, you know, IMight not know what I'm talking about with contests, but I do with contests reviews. And I thought he'd be in the top for easy. Yeah. He's, he's impressive. He's shrink wraps for sure. He, maybe, maybe, that was Mike's gift. That was always Mike's thing. The fact that he, he's, because he's got to be in his, what, I'll wait 40, so I think maybe 50. Just asked me to say, he has to be at least 45. He's got to be close to me, I think. He's a little younger than me, but not much. And he's still looking good. Good for him. Good for him. Now let's, let's talk about the classic division because that was, well, you know, I want to, I'm going to give you credit. You predicted that Henry P. R. I know would come in here and, and, and, and, and, and, I said, let's, let's, let's, let's screwing off the, the year when, when he did not win. Yeah, you did, you did say that. And I, and I agreed with you, I said, you know, I, I didn't know if he deserved to win, but he definitely deserved to be up there. Wayway, top, top three. And he looks great here. I, this really nothing, I could even say. I don't think there's anything that you could, there's no improvements he really needs at this point. He's bigger than everyone's structure wise to get the tiny ways to get the great lines. Was it even close? Was it, uh, in your imagination? I, I, I, I, I thought he dominated the, you know, the class. So you got unanimous first place vote. So IMean, he's like six, you know, IMean, he's over six feet. It's the height thing that really makes him look impressive because I'm going to tell you one thing, Kion Pearson, okay. And, and I want to just, I want to make a statement here because I can't spend sending me pictures for, for quite a while now. He always sends me pictures and I'm always like amazed when I see this picture. I didn't know who he was when he first started sending me pictures. And I was completely amazed and then we did a muscle in the morning story at him. And I have my, the guy writes the story to me, Corey screwed up his name. Which got him was really embarrassing for me because Kion sends me pictures all the time. And I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm calling Kion Williams, you know, and I, excited, I just read the stories. I added them and I, sometimes, you know, I'm going to the whole thing of my dad and I didn't catch it. And he said, Dave, thanks to the plug, but I, you know, you said my name when I said, oh, man, now now I owe you an interview. I said, but he said, this guy is, is a freak. You know, he's, not as big as, structure wise as Henry. But this guy is going to be the future of this division. I think. Yeah, you know what's so funny? I, I own my apology because I'm doing the wrap up with John Hanson. And I'm thinking, I already, I'm thinking, oh, maybe he'll make it to the lumpy of blah blah blah. He's already been in the Lempia, right? I believe so. Yeah. And he looked, or maybe it was the, oh, I get it. I think it was the Arnold. He looked damn good at the last, at the Arnold, I think it was. No, he's, he's, he's tremendous. He's tremendous. The muscle insertions and the density. I bet he hasn't been trening that long. You know, I think he's got, I will do this. He's only what? I don't know. Well, I'm going to get him on the show. We'll get him on live with him on the interview. So, but he's, what a structure he's got. IMean, he's a great poser too. Yeah, very good. If you look at his Instagram, you see these poses he does. Like, these like really, you know, creative poses and put some on Instagram. And those are the usually pictures he sends to me. Except to ways that he check people's Instagram. I check snake. I'm on the snake Instagram page, I don't even bother body balls. And I was blown away by some of the shots he sent me. I'm like, well, this guy's like a, he's like a modern day, Kai Green almost, you know, like a young guy's. Yeah, yeah, he does. He has reminiscent of Kai Green. He just has a way of very artistic way of displayinGHis physical. Yeah, I'm telling you. I'm predicting right here. He's going to be in the next couple of years. He's going to come into his own. Because he's just starting, I'm telling you. This guy's just getting started. He got fresh muscle. He doesn't have a piece of loose skin on his body. And he will be fighting that on that Olympia stage. And this is his division, I guarantee. I think I think at the wrap-up, the answer said the same exact thing. Oh, really? OK. I know I feel validated. Well, you don't know what you're talking about. I don't even know. No. Well, congratulations to both of those guys. Jason Low also tremendous physique finishes in third day. Yeah, right. I want to put in the plug that's my guy. OK. What's his name? No, I just went to all the more years. Yeah, he started out the Arnold this year. I got 11. You know, I'm going to tough line up. And I've been tellinGHim, he's been doing multiple shows and placinGHigh and multiple shows. But I've been tellinGHim, I saw him the morning and I preached a judgment. And I said that you're going to be highly, highly. It's funny. I can remember anything that I said to people. It comes to bodybuilding. But anything else I can't remember what I did. I said you're going to be highly, highly competitive. It's a tough line up. I don't want to say. I'll pay his lucky place third. I was trenslating that. I'm thinking, no, he deserved third all day long. No, I'm just saying, but this is a tough line. This is by no means a joke line up. This is really tough line up. I don't know. Yeah, yeah. Well, that was his best. So IMean, I helped you. I've been tellinGHim this. If you pick the right show, if you pick the right show, if you pick the right show, you could win. Show. Yeah. Right. Right. But you know, it's hard to pick the right show. You know, you want to show you sit out. You're like, you look at the line up and you said, I could have won that. I'm going to tell you how tough this line up was in classic. Because I helped the guy, Tony Davis, he placed 11th. And if you look at his pictures, you're going to be like, this guy could have won any other show. You know, this was a real, the top 10 was brutal here at this show. Yeah, it was brutal. IMean, the mid-roy is one of the highest guys in the line up. And he had to finish 8th here. IMean, I just think that the talent pool here was great. So anyone who finished that top 10, I'm looking at all the pictures. And I'm like, every one of these guys is great. We've on time. It's fifth place. Unbelievable, this guy. Yeah. Totally great. We covered him on muscle in the morning the other day. And I was impressed them. And I saw the picture of him. And he looks fantastic in this line up. Who's the guy I've got for what? He looked tremendous too. Yeah, no. I'm going to pull those. I was going to mention him next. I just mentioned Cleveland because I know him. But very clen line, you know, very dense, very, very dense. That's what? Damien Patrick. Yes. Yes. There's a lot of talent in this division. And these are guys that are just coming through some. Damien could have been a little tighter in the legs I felt. But these are guys that are going to over the next couple of years. They're going to be battling it out on that Olympia stage. And we're seeing in class because we have a lot of depth. And the open division, you have a couple of super stars. And then the rest of the pack that crashes. Classic, it's the level of how many good competitors there are is unbelievable. And they're closer together, obviously, because you can't weigh more than what your height limit is. So, yeah, you know what the funny thing is, Henry had to make a height and a weight. Oh, really? Yeah, everyone has a height. Well, because he's like a hair to tall enough to enter. Oh, my God. So it was an albider then. Yeah. But then he's dehydrated to make, okay, this is the craziest. He's dehydrated to make the weight. And you know, sometimes you dehydrate. You get shrink. But let me ask you this question. All right, Chris, let me ask this question. I got a bit about something. Why don't they have, when they start to figure these to have height cards. So you get measured once in your life and that's your height. It doesn't change. And that's it. Why don't the guys get measured and whenever they want whatever they go to a show, they get height measured. That's the height. They put it on the freaking, they put it on their NPC card or the IFB be card. And then they never have to be measured again because here's the problem, okay? Just the human body. Slow and it's high. Yeah, it shouldn't. It's just like you said it's a dehydrated. I don't want to say anything, but I know someone who's not weighting, but height it in. It changes. ThaT4 different rows, four different height. But it will. That's why I'm saying pick one height because here's the problem. You don't know what you have to weigh if you're not sure what they're going to height you in it. So if you miss because not because you didn't know what you're doing, but because your height wasn't right, now you can't even compete. If you're lucky, maybe there's a 212 or there's an open in that show and you can jump in it. But a lot of times it's just classic. You go with this show, you spend all this money. You get there and make it that they say sorry, your 10 pounds overweight because you thought you were having a jump. That's pretty drunk this week. Yeah. Yeah. See, this got to be a height. They got to put on the MPs on the IPB card. They got to put the heights on that from that one. And I think that that should be your height for life. You know what, if you shrink a half an inch, you go up a half inch, that doesn't matter anymore. That's your height. And now you know you weight because they look at your card and say, okay, here's your card. He's this height. This is what he has to weigh. You get on the scale. There's nothing to, there's no guessing anymore. It's two nerve rags. Let me try. He's going to try to show. And he doesn't know what he's going to be. What height is going to be. And then he doesn't know if he's, if the 10 pounds over it or half a pound under, it's still silly. I think Bob, on the same floor, it's been put on the scale. Oh, I thought my dear, do you? It's a dumb idea. And then the one moment is fallinGHere. It is. No, no, I, I know someone who competed in a show and they mentioned a different height. So he had it coming out like a totally different weight. No, it's ridiculous. He can't do that. I'm going to tell you. What do you, I, you have a balance of dollars in short of the numbers. So, either. Chris, I'm losing you a little bit. I don't know if you're, if you're falling asleep over there. But, no, I think the reception's got a little weird. But I know what you say. I know what you say. Let's talk about figure for a minute here. The lesson bumps that who has Chris bumps had sister actually wins here. Qualifies for another Olympia. I thought last year she looked great, but she was a little big for a figure. I thought. And then this year it seems like she downsized. I thought she was going to go to women's physique, but she didn't. She downsized. Did you watch any of the figure here, Chris? I just, I totally checked her off because of the bumps there factor. Right. She's good. She's a great genetics. Yeah, it goes appeal. Yeah. The value of soltera, second. I was like, notice, but now, you know, no more appeal to. Yeah, for bikini. I said that, I think. I don't think. They said it for, you're breaking up a can here, Chris. I thought they did. Oh, they did. I don't know. I wasn't there. Would they announce it in Tampa? I ought to be held responsible for having a couple. I thought someone sent me the thing and they said it was for bikini. They said that they wanted to see straight. I didn't think so. Oh, my God. After I sent something out and told these girls that you don't need radicals to the bikini. I actually, I helped the girl who went and overall up in Boston or areas this past weekend. I closed the house there and sent her name some her beta and she won the overall there. And she was lean. But she, she had one of the music, you know, you could be lean, but if she's not flexing, you don't know. And how's they made her hit her back double? So I told her she got a crazy back double and he was impressed. She was like, oh, I'll try it. But in bikini. In bikini. But she didn't do it on stage. Obviously, but she did, I think after she won, she did a fruoseck. Because your herzase muscle went to muscle too. But yeah, no stradical. She didn't have stradical, but she definitely had a pretty ripped back. That's for sure. Look, the bikini girls got to be in shape. They don't want them to look in, you know, too fibrary. And the great thing is you can just feed them some junk food at the end and then kind of smooth them out just enough. Women, women can kind of like, you know, you can make up to that. I see Jennifer Dory was said, can I see Indie Paul? Well, let's finish figure first. Let's go figure. And the thought, because I wanted to mention not thought you're so tarot, we featured on muscle in the morning. She's unbelievable too. The two of them, Chris, most of the bumps in an old Talia, Olympia, qualbert, calbert, competitors here. You're going to see them both through good at the Olympia per making my prediction here. I'm this show. Right now. I also really like third place Michelle Pinto too, tremendous physique. But she's not as, I don't have her in the same class as Melissa and the and the folly Chelsea, Larsen, fourth and Moid, a zombies, finishes in the fifth position. Bikini, a lower-life shop, potos. You didn't watch Bikini, right? No, I couldn't stand this straight. I didn't glue some just. She wins. And Jennifer Dory's second. That was going on. It was on the 45th chest. I'm sure. Yeah, Sergio is in the gym. How about Indie Pallino finishing the third show back? I did the her own stage. She did. She had a kid, you know, how many months ago? I know. Which makes it insane. Eight months ago, she had a kid. Yeah, I'm going to tell her she should homeschool it. So I'm so sorry. Oh my god, you're funny. Men's physique, Logan Franklin. Yeah. I'm a good friend. I think Logan is looking so big these days. I think he's going to switch to classic physique to be honest with you. Well, I think that he made, I think a few of those guys could. He's great. This is a good wind frame. I think this is the best he's ever looked. I know he listens to the show, so he's going to be happy. I said that, but it's true. Now, in second place in men's physique was a bader, all-malulu. I don't know if that's the last thing. No relations with Bader Badaia, I don't think. But possibly. No, it's from. I don't know. I'm going to look right now. Just for just that curiosity. Did you watch men's physique? I watched a quick couple calls. What is that? You do much. Did you think guys are too big? No, this is big. This bait is from New Orleans, sorry. No, I don't think they've got it radically bigger. IMean, holy smokes, right? Yeah. IMean, it was the first Olympia one. Well, you know what? More campy. You know what the funny thing is? I think my friend, Carl, was talking to Matt Achtin, who was around when they first started men's physique. Well, Matt was in the show, right? Yeah, and this is funny, because Matt was placing third to the Olympia back then. Third. Yep. He was winning pro shows left and right. And I believe he came in the last place of the show. 16th place. Great. Yeah. That just tells you how I said it goes down. That's what I said in the wrap up. I said that, you know, the amount, I said people who are winning shows, it's fine that you mentioned that. I said people who are winning shows in the board show are. And some people call the board show. I just always get confused. What the fuck? Right men's physique. People who are winning the bat, 2013 into the 2014, would get destroyed at the same championship in 2014. Yeah. Absolutely. The blip. Yeah. The blip. Deep competition is. Yeah. And that's what's happening in the first class of two people going to, you know, people were just winning two years ago in the history. Yeah. That's just the way that's the way. Well, the evolution of the sport and it is what it is. Women's body building that had here, Alina Popa, makes it on the comeback trail. She wins this show, pulling Nelson second, LaDon, the third. I thought Linda Martin here from, you know, running around, doing the interviews and stuff. Yeah. They have the wings and strength spots as this obviously. And that's their big on the women's body building. Probably the comeback of the year has to be Jenny Worth winning fitness. I remember Jenny when she was doing flips on stage at 19 years old, you know, back in the late 90s. IMean, she was the talk of the town and she was, she won the Arnold Classic. She was, you know, I think she was second at the Olympia. And everybody thought she was the Arab parent and then she just disappeared. And I actually interviewed her recently. If you guys want to go back on our explosive on our YouTube channel and check, you know, Google it or I say search it. We did a big, I did a big interview with her when she talked about what happened and where she went and all that stuff. And she kind of got forced out of the sport a little bit and now she's back. She looks great. And I don't know if she just, I don't know, some, some, some, some, some, she didn't really give me the details, but some controversial stuff happened and I don't know. She just got the solution and she just stopped competing and she had, you know, she just did other things. And she never stopped trening, but she wasn't trening the way she, you know, obviously was trened to this. And so she's, you know, she made a comeback. She's done a few shows now. Her routine is not what it used to be. She had one of the best routines of all time. And obviously she's got a lot of back injuries now. She can't do it, but she's, she's good enough that she's, she went to show here. She's going back to the Olympia. That's got to be, that's got to be an unbelievable story. It's 40 years old to make the comeback. You know, after you were like a, like a 19 year old phenom, 20 years later back on the Olympia stage. Chris, who does that? In fitness nonetheless, as a man to points out in the background here because fitness is a demanding physical sport, you know, the beating on your body you take. Well, you can't even do the gymnastics flips anymore, really. And with any degree of, you know, of a aggressiveness, like she used to because she said she's just can't do it. The pain level is too much. So the fact that she's able to still do a routine that's worthy of winning a pro show is to me. I, you know, you got to tip your hat to her. You should remember to tip my hat. To my hat. I wonder what that saying came from. I'm sure someone else. I bet my father was still around. He would know. I, you know, I said we can't check with him. I just, I just, my, my, my tongue right there. I said, if you listen to the tape, I just, or listen, I said, we can't. I was going to have to say, let's ask your father. Yeah, he would know that. But a lot of people have been asking me about, you know, my dad. I've said, I posted on Instagram and on Facebook that my dad had passed finally on August 2nd. And at the end of the show, it's taken us out. That's what I'm going to read. I'm going to read the poem. I told you I wrote about him when he first better week ago. And I'm going to read it like South Plumberworthy. Okay. I'm going to put a lot of emotion. And I'm going to read it as if he was, I actually wrote it as if he was writing it. I wrote it in, when you read it, it's going to sound like he's talking. He's talking. So I, on his voice basically, you know, after he's no longer able to have his voice. So we'll see. See if it plays out well. That'll take us out of the show. I'm just going to end the show right after that. But let's just talk about women's physique for a minute. Autumn swans and she'd been texting me all week about, you know, what you should do. She was going to do figure. She's like, I'm switching the figure. I said, what's wrong? What's wrong with you? What's? I don't know what gets into these competitors. Head, they don't do well in a couple shows. And they just start doubting themselves. I'm like, you're not a figure, you're a competitor. I said, you're a women's physique competitor. You want the oral classic. Okay. I said, you're going to get destroyed in figure. I said that you're going to be too muscular. You're going to look like an elephant up there on stage with these other girls. Because you're too big. You fit perfectly into women's physique. That's what women's physique is all about. She's like, I don't know. I said trust me. So she thought about it. She obviously changed my mind. She actually had registered as a figurecompetitor. And I know she's listening to this. Take a few seasons. And she won the show here. She's going back to Olympia. So congratulations, Autumn. I'm glad you listened to me. But Shelby did a good job with her Shelby stars to her diet. And I'm glad she's got the, she's got to have some confidence. At least going into that Olympia. Look, sometimes you just, you don't hit your peak. And you know, you can't blame the judges for you. You can only blame yourself, you know? Did you see the girl came in second? Evelyn Roka? I don't know who she is, but she looks at the phenomenal. No, I didn't see it. Really good. A lot of muscle on her body, but well placed muscle. You know, it's, that's, with women's fatigue to kiss. A lot of people say, well, if you're someone, somebody's women are too big. I'm like, no, they're not because if they wear the muscle well, you have to judge what's up there. And she wears, she has a lot of muscle. And she's really hard, but she wears it well. She's from Brazil, of course, you know, where else? The Brazilian tab, tons of muscle in their body, but they still look feminine in the face. And I think it's just because these women just by nature carry a lot of muscle down there. I think the best women body balls and then physique can better serve Brazilian. Yeah, I think you're 100%. Right? They just have more muscle than than other women. That's just genetic, their genetic gifts. There's a ton of women's physique can better as in the show. Genie Feldman places third, the slime up, tough, tough lineup. So that's why I said to Autumn really made a great recovery year by winning the show. Catherine Hall 4th, Jodi Lions 5th. So congratulations all the ladies in this lineup. It was, I think it was the most women's physique better than any other division beyond us. Oh, bad. I don't know. Yeah, man, it was pretty close to the, well, maybe men's physique was more. I heard this was a record for proshows. I think there was almost 300 competitors in the pro division here. Yeah, 292. 292. John Hansen, we need a nickname for John Hansen. The numbers guy, numbers by Hansen. The funny thing is that, and someone was complaining to me about the fact that they felt that they don't won't give out free Tickets to all the, to both shows, because you know, they have Friday in a Saturday show. And so the pro level girls and guys have to decide which show they want free Tickets to, which I would soon be the one that they're in, as opposed to having tickets free Tickets to both shows, because it's just not enough seats, you know, which is, because Tim also has an amateur show. He's running at the same time. So it's pretty amazing when you think about, you know, that they're having, there's so many competitors nowadays that they can't even get everyone into one arena anymore, you know? Yeah, no, either just so it's, IMean, crazy big show. When we did our rap a fight, congratulate him, can garden for all the work he'd do. Well, you know, it is a, well, it's a well, well, well, run show. Yeah, well, Tim's perfect with this. And by now, I tell you, I told this to Tim all the time, and I say, Mr. Tim, I don't hate sleeping night. This guy's got more, you think you got real estate worries. This guy's got, think about how many shows he runs a year between all the amateur shows, pro shows, he's every weekend he's running something. I would be a nervous rock, I wouldn't be able to sleep in night. Well, what you get it down, you get it down. Right? It's, it's, it's a lot. It's, it's definitely a lot. And he doesn't really does it great job. He's, native his passion. And I think that that's, that's what's important. And you, when you, when you, when you could make something that you like doing into a business, you're successful with it. That's just the way it works. You know, and I think people have to understand that. That Chris is still in Tampa, he's got to get up and, and probably not to wear it. Yeah, 10 minutes to go to the airport. So I'm not going to keep you, but I, I got to read you my, my dad's positive. How did you say, Roy? What's my poem? Oh, it's my poem. Originally, I was going to, and, well, I'm not going to name it. You tell me what the name of it is after. You're the coolest writing, too. My, I'm a man is telling me I have to explain who it's written to. I originally wrote the poem, yeah, maybe I should give some background, so people on the stamp what I'm saying. My dad is arguing with death, okay? That's, that's the, as if death was like it was like an individual. And if you understand that, then you'll understand what he says. He's yelling, he's talking to death basically, okay? And I wrote it because I was sitting in my dad's hospital room. And I was looking at him and I was obviously, you know, very upset and teared up and I was like, what would my dad say at this point? If he had a voice because he couldn't speak. And I said he would be cursing at death, right? He would be, he would be screaming at him, right? Don't you think, can't you see my dad doing that? Yeah, of course. If it was dad in my death in the room, and maybe he, maybe it was. Maybe he was doing this. You just, you just, you don't get it. Get to early. Right, he would be yelling at him. And this is, and this is what he would, and here's, this is my dad yelling at that. This is what the poem is, all right? I'm gonna read. And then you can comment on it. Born the oldest child of poor Italian immigrants, barely able to tread water and taste the rarefied air, starting me at the bottom wrong, thinking I'd never climb out of the pits of despair. You tried to blunt my side, my vision, make me an outcast. But I saw a deeper, created more. I was way too fast. You chased me through, contrived childhood beatings and mental abuse, but I was stronger. Smarter, more creative. I cast you aside. You were of no use. You took the one love of my life, thinkinGHe had finally won. But I had other plans, raising my two cherished children. No, I wasn't done. Four hip replacements, prostate surgery, a heart attack, and spinal deconstruction. I endured, using the sharp pointed tip of my pen to eviscerate all the wrongs, hypocrisies, and absurdities you through at life's construction. Now, as I stand on the last battleground, in the bunker of last hopes, the final race, I dig my worn heels deep into the muck, and I clench my fists and wave them brazenly in your face and shout, with the firepower of 10 hydrogen bombs, to the last I grapple with the, for love's sake, I release your meaningless, strenglehold on me. I am at peace, through I'm eternal and forever. Beautiful, summarizes his life to a tea, right? Yeah, I think so. I think I kind of covered his whole, I figured if I had a right of, you need a title for it? Yeah, what do you think the title is? Either person with perseverance or survival. I was gonna call a death, but I don't know if that's, but two deaths, man, it's a two death, might be a better, maybe a better title. But that's my dad, my dad would definitely be screaming like that, fighting to the end, I could see it. He held on, my dad lived for seven days on no food and water. I didn't think it was possible, I thought you'd die to fear, didn't drink for like two or three days, but no matter what. But I think the grimes did five days. That's true, yeah, Jay did what, like five days too, right? When he went on 2001, he was like, Chris, Chris, Chris, Chris, Chris burned out his kidney 2001. He burned them out. He could get hard at that. Yeah, if like, but he said, if Jay could do the, if Jay could do the no water thing again, he would be an easily beat Ronnie, no problem. He would get dry. Anyway, I wanna just thank all the people I think, I posted a lot of stuff on Instagram and the outpouring of support and people in our industry, even Nick to Julie just posted something, even though he seems to be worrying with me, he posted something very nice about my dad's work. But you probably want to pay for a bold review of his muffin pump stuff. No, no, we already. But like everyone, we can, we'll argue with each other in businesses like that, but when it comes down to everyone in the industry, it does, is very cohesive and I've got a lot of support and love from the community. Even Phil, he's not as far posted on my Instagram, which, you know, same, send these condolences. So thank you, everyone. I can't get back to everyone, obviously, but I read a lot of all the comments and it means a lot to me that everyone was that supported. Because I like to think a lot of people knew that my dad was very important in my life and I told a lot of stories about my, you know, you and I tell tons of stories about our dad. So I think people feel like they almost know them personally. And, you know, he was a character, but you know, his time had come, 88 years old, I'm glad he's peaceful. I'm sure you saw this story. IMight as well just tell it again for people who maybe didn't see my Instagram. Before my dad died, I was sitting by his bedside for a couple of days and he really wasn't speaking at this point. I said to him, dad, I said, you know, I know you're not spiritual and all this stuff and you don't believe in all this after life stuff, but you're gonna find out that you're gonna find out that you were wrong in a couple of days. I said, do me a favor. Find a way to send me a message, you know, invalidate that you made it all the day and everything's good. Because I said, I know you, you're creative, you can do this. Amanda told me a rejection, I should tell him, give him a specific thing to do. I said, no, that's not my dad. I gotta, I gotta let him be creative about this. I'll figure out a better way to contact me than I could ever come up with in my own mind. So I'm thinking, you know what, somewhere down the road, I'm gonna get a message from him, right? Or something, something's got, so not sure so long's gonna come on or something like that at a certain time and I'm gonna tell him, oh, that's my dad. The next day, all right, we work very late here at night and we have the, you know, we have the warehouse across the street across the driveway and Amanda goes over there at nine fills orders. And I work here and I've walked the baby monitor in case anyone wakes up. And it's abouT3 in the morning and she says to me, come out to the garage. So I'm thinking, oh, we probably have a three in the morning, we gotta leak, right? What is poor in it someplace? So I go out to the garage and I'm like, what? And she points up to the ceiling. And then the inside the garage, because we had left the garage door off and she comes in, there's a pigeon. Actually, there's a bird. I first we thought it was a dove and then I realized it was a pigeon and I went with a pigeon doing it here. So I get the broom and I'm trying to like, you know, guide it out of here, because I'm an animal, I'm like a, hit it right there. But I'm trying to like just shoe it out and it's not leaving. And I'm trying to think, what the hell is going on here? Burst don't fly at night, right? IMean, it wasn't in here when it was light out. Yeah. And then I remember, Palumbo, my last name in Italian, means the pigeon. I'm like crazy. My father's that son of a bitch. I said, I said, dad, you can't believe you did it already. One day, you already found a way. You found a way already to give me the signal. I said, I can't believe this. The least spiritual part I've ever met is flying in here at night is a pigeon. And he knew that I knew that obviously, because no one, Amanda didn't know what to, did the Palumbo and pigeon in the time. Oh, only I knew that. I don't even know why I did. I just looked it up one day. So he must have known that I knew that. So that obviously delivered a pretty strong message, obviously. And this bird stayed around until when I woke up in the morning, I left the garage open all night so it can fly out. It didn't leave. It stayed in all night. It was still sitting on my car when I got up in the morning. And it was, it was, it's actually flew away. But yeah, but IMean, that's not validation. It's like that people wait the whole life to die of validation from their deceased relative, right? Saying, oh, I just need something. Give me something. And they don't get anything. But my idea, my, I'm not a sweet home any patients. My dad has no patients for this car. Oh, she said there's no pigeons here. There's no pigeons and they're only in New York City. Well, that's another thing. Oh, I know. Oh, well, that's, that was a surprising part. I'm seeing the, I pigeon because birds do not fly in. Anyone who's ever had a bird knows when you put a, at night, you put a towel over the bird cage and they go to sleep because that's what darkness makes them sleep. Because they know they can't navigate it. And I really, that, well, that's around it night, because they can navigate using sonar. But not birds. So where this bird came from? And it had a band around it. It's, it's like. So it obviously was some kind of a homing pigeon, you know? So for people who like, people want to go to the week, I gave you a poem and I gave you the story from, that'll, you know, wrench the tears out of your eyes. IMean, it's a great validation. So yeah, IMean, I'm, I'm mourning a little. I'm sad, obviously, I've had, you know, I have ups and downs. But that, that pigeon thing really put me at peace, to be honest, to do it. It's completely, people like, oh, you have said, I'm like, you know what I'm not upset anymore? I know my dad's alright. It's like the greatest feeling in all time. So I, but once again, thank you all for all of support and Chris, have a safe flight back from, thank you, and we'll be doing just a little bit of a no coming up. This, this week and over the next couple of weeks, we will be doing a lot of, our Olympia, roti Olympia, per coverage starts. I will be going to Olympia this year. So Chris and I will be there doing coverage with Sid and our photographer, Othiel, and I think we're gonna have some great coverage and all the pre coverage will be great and it'll be sponsored by RedCon 1. So thanks for that, thanks to RedCon 1. And we will have some awesome coverage for you. This year at the Olympia, Chris, we're out of time until next week, remember, with heavy muscle radio, the truth hurts. Good night, everyone.

=== FILE: THE BATTLE FOR TEXAS (and Olympia Spot)! Texas Pro Preview [b2WYIAkP6Uo].txt ===

Daypalumbo here with an RX muscle news update. The Texas Pro will be taking place tomorrow and it's an exciting day for fans of Steve Kuplow because we're going to see Steve Kuplow for the first time in his home state there trying to qualify for the Mr. Olympia contest. It's not going to be an easy task for him because he has some competition coming in the way of the E in Valier who is our Tampa Pro champ from two weeks ago. So he'll be coming in there to try to basically stop Steve Kuplow from qualifying for the Olympia because that's where it's going to amount to if Steve doesn't win this show. Valier R. is obviously he's got thEQualification ready but he's going in there to say, hey look you know what? I'm the best body building that I can be and I'm going to show up in a couple shows. I'm going to come to Texas. I'm going to come to the Arnold and I'm coming to win only shows and I think it's a good move on his part but it's going to make for a great battle. Of course the Tampa Pro second place finish a field. Clawar will be there as well. That'll be a rematch of sorts between him and Ian. I think if Ian comes in better than he was in Tampa, I think it's going to be very hard to fill the beat him but Phil brings a lot of out to the stage because he's got tremendous conditioning. He's got some really good body parts as back though the bicep is probably one of the best poses maybe of anyone in that whole lineup. So he's going to present a lot of problems for both Cuclowe and Ian Valieri and that's I'm glad that he's going to be there. Who knows at the end of the day he could be the guy who walks away with the win. Now of course we have a McCombin L.A.M. who's done pretty much every show this year. He's got I think the most points of anyone right now in the point standing and he's going to not the most. He's second most but he's going to definitely be going to the limpia. It looks like assuminGHe does well here. He places top five I think that's almost the lock for him. Of course our good friend Hassan Al-Nassoff also with I believe the same amount of points also he's right up there as well. These guys not only of course they're going for the win but obviously a top placing is going to give them points and it's going to make them at least push them into that absolutely will qualify zone because I don't think anyone else is even close to them according to the point standing. That's a good thing to consider also durinGHeywood in this line up as well. He's placed top five almost every time we've seen him this season. He's also looks like he's going to be a lock or at least a close lock for the points qualification for the limpia if he places in the top five here. So good competition once again I wouldn't even make a prediction on this one. I love Steve Cucleau. I love the involieries physique. Phil Cucleau has got a lot of wow. I love his conditioning. It's going to be a tough show. If Hassan Al-Nassoff comes in and brings the conditioning level that we've been waiting for, he could win this show. He's got all the tools. He's got plenty of mass. He's got good structure and shape. We just haven't seen him bring the conditioning level that we need to have that you know that I guess you could say show winning physique. So Texas should be really great this weekend. We also have another show out in Spain that we'll cover after the shows are well due a wrap of that. That's going to be taking place and I believe this two qualifications spots up for grabs at that show. Anyway, fun weekend. A lot to digest for bodybuilding fans and good luck to all the competitors. I'm Dave Palermo now with an RX muscle news update.

=== FILE: THE EASY WAY TO GET INSULIN FOR CHEAP! [mHy8ZteB1aM].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Routes, our 30-year-in-a-row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pothorque. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs. And we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. We're going to be doing today. We're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pothorque. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs. And we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. We're going to be in LA. Dave, hello, I'm over here with an RX muscle rant. Today's topic is something that's been earking me for a long time. And that is the exorbitant price of insulin. And you know, right off to that, you hear insulin come out of bodybuilders mouth, you're saying, poor bodybuilders can't afford their insulin. And that's not what I'm talking about. People who have blood sugar problems. And that could include bodybuilders and non-bodybuilders. The price of insulin is ridiculously through the roof. Back in 1995, a bottle of humillin R. Name brand humillin R was like 2018 bucks. Today that bottle of humillin R is probably over $100. And that's ridiculous. If you're a type, you know, one diabetic or even like a type of diabetic that doesn't have perfect blood sugar control. And you've got to use a long acting and a short acting insulin. It can cost you upwards of, you know, almost 500 bucks a month. And if you don't have a good prescription plan or you don't have health insurance at all, you're going to big trouble, especially if you don't make a lot of money. And a lot of people today can't afford insulin. And because they can't afford insulin, they're not taking insulin shots in that. Nine of you need a blood sugar, and they're getting sicker and sicker. And this is a huge growing problem in this country. Meanwhile, if you go down to Mexico, a good friend of mine who lives in Mexico says that these bottles of insulin, they charge $300 for like, length of some chasheeper is like, there's like 20 bucks in Mexican pharmacies. It's the same product made by the same company. Only in Mexico, it's like pennies on the dollar. Why is that? It's the same drug. How could that company afford to sell it next to so much cheaper? Well, just goes to show you that the product probably costs pennies to make. And they're basically gouging, you know, the public, because they have no option. IMean, if you're a diabetic, you know, producer, and you need insulin, right? So, you know, you can't argue with anyone over. You got to pay the money. You know, why do you think people try to order prescription drugs from Canada because they're much cheaper up there? So to me, this is in the trust of the, and thank God, thank God, I know Trump just signed a bill lowering the price of insulin, but Walmart has taken a step even before that. Walmart has a, some kind of an arrangement with no-vernortists, but legitimate pharmaceutical company that makes no-velyn are an obulin, and a bunch of all the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, N-O-V products, okay? And as opposed to humulin' are humulin' and those are, those are just, it's, it's pretty much the same insulin. It's just a little different, so to speak. But they made an arrangement with them where they can sell their rely on brands. So rely on is a, is a, I guess, company name that Walmart gave to their insulin products, so they sell rely on glucometers, which you can buy for nine dollars. glucometers used to be in the hundreds, nine dollars. And I, and I've told you guys before everybody, but we should have it, so you have the glucometers and check your blood sugars, your fastings in the morning, which should be under 90, your two hour post meal sugars, which should be under 130. You could easily test those in finnine dollars, then you could buy a box of, a test trips for nine bucks, come on. Everyone could do that. That is, that is an awesome thing that Walmart has done. You could, people could make fun of Walmart and say, all the things they want about Walmart, but you know what, that is cool, because there's a lot of people out in this country. I have a guy who, you know, worked, does some work around the house. His blood sugars are out of control. I'm like, you get your butt over to Walmart, get yourself this rely on monitor, start testing your blood sugars, and you know what, if you need to, you, you, you, even though you don't have health insurance, you can go to Walmart now and you can buy insulin. They have a generic form that's called rely on it. And rely on it, novo r, which is the fast act of cancel. It's exactly the same as the obvious one r, because it's made by the same company, novernortis, and they, and they actually sell rely on novo n, which is the long acting insulin, which they never sold like that over the counter. And for 10, 10 ml bottle, 24 dollars and 88 cents, you can get r and n. So never in the history of insulin, could you buy a long acting insulin, over the counter without a prescription, now you can, and for under 25 dollars. If you want to get fancy, you want to buy the pens, you know, they're like little pens, and you can kind of dial them up, how much insulin you want. Those are a little more expensive. Those are 42 bucks. But those, IMean, that's still pennies, compared to what the the original price was. But let's go back and go away from people who maybe have blood sugar problems like type 2 diabetics, and type once, let's go to the bodybuilding world. For bodybuilders now who are looking to take insulin because maybe they are on GH and their blood sugars are runninGHigh in the morning, and they want to use a long acting insulin, and they can't afford or have access to land this or to Shiba, which is kind of like the Mercedes-Benz of insulin's right now. You can go get the novo n insulin, made by Melvin Nordisk. It's a long acting insulin, and for for a bodybuilder who's producing their own insulin, this is more than adequate to take care of the problem. So in other words, if I was a type 1 diabetic, I would want to have the best because I don't have any insulin production. But if you have insulin production and you add it, you're muting, excuse me, a noveline, an end to your regimen, a shot in the morning and a shot at night, depending on how much you need, usually you start with 15 units at night, a 10 in the morning of the long acting, that's going to be more than adequate to take care of your blood sugar issues. If you're runninGHighs after meals, like you'll say you eat at one of your meals, and two hours later, you take a blood sugar, it's 150. Then you need that means you need a fax-decking insulin. So for those, you can buy the rely on novo rs, which is 25 bucks also, and you can take a couple units with your meals and bring down your numbers. Or if you just want to use some of that r, which is faster acting from performance aspects, in the morning and night, postwork out, you can go get a ferris, well. So this is the reason I'm doing this interview, or this rant, I should say, because I'm mad that they've been charging that much, but I'm happy now that Walmart has stepped up to the plate, and not only made it available for a good price, but made it available without a prescription. So bodybuilders now, go to Walmart, give them your business, go get your insulin if you need it, okay. You can get it without a prescription now. I think you can even buy it depending on what state you live in. You can even buy a insulin syringes there as well, and you can do things the right way. And you don't have to worry about your health, you don't have to worry about high blood sugars, because let's face it, a lot of guys have used growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone for years, and now they're runninGHigh blood sugars. So they need that insulin to control it, take the burden off the pancreas, as we've said before, let that pancreas regenerate, and in the meantime, for pennies on a value, you can keep your health good, because we want to keep good blood sugar control, because not only is high blood sugar bad for the kidneys, and the eyes, and the extremities, but it's also bad for the brain. And they called dimension out type 3 diabetes, meaning that if you have high blood sugars you're running throughout the day, you're accumulating not only sugar in the extremities, but in the brain tissue, which they're saying is it could be leading to these data aminooid plaques, which could be leading to dementia later in life. So we don't want that, I know I don't want that. So keep an eye on your blood sugar, you get those rely on meters for $9. Check your blood sugars throughout the day. If you are runninGHigh in the morning, you might consider adding a long acting, if you're runninGHigh at post meals, you can use the faster acting R version. If you're taking GH, you just want to have a little performance boost, you can use both or even one of those. And that's up to your coach to decide, or I wouldn't just arbitrarily start taking insulin, because, obviously, especially the R, which is the fastest, I think, could be dangerous if you don't know what you're doing, and you take it too much. The longer acting ones are not really so dangerous, because you could take a shot and go to sleep, because they take a very long time to get into your system. Just make sure you know how to measure this stuff. Remember, insulin units, insulin syringe is measure insulin units. So if you buy a FCC's insulin syringe, and it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, uh, marquated five, ten, fifteen, twenty, that's insulin unit. So it says five, that's five units. If it says fifteen, that's fifteen units, and that's how you measure insulin. There's no, there's no, there's no magic. With GH, you have to figure out dilutions and stuff like that, but insulin syringe is a mental measure insulin unit. So good news guys, started off with me mad. I'm in a good mood now. Go to Walmart, you know, give them your business, and if you need your insulin, it's available now without a prescription, and for a very reasonable price. Day polumbo here with an R, ax muscle rant.

=== FILE: THE MINDSET TO LIFT HEAVY! #askDave [-jNr9dvv92g].txt ===

在门乳对用随着尴尬通道string很美很美 ANS fat刘用朱楼乳有用耳好的拿半淺多是啊雨铭伊斯 Camper钦同时,绝侠把它繞光給這裡約50元看到東EMON不定 communism這些富士叫台灣還有島建議的因為變�gres范園是颜色的在美蛙返金带滾往YES鹿 ότι让把 CO2幻动时ц号放开爱的加3-4部手特首刻范園是在梅郎技对其他的RxTellVision on RxMuscle.com這Astave better known as hashtagAstaveYou're a 30 minutEQuestion an answer show what they plumbounderholds the for rookie Glantigen join us as always anything and everything is on the table die trening supplementation I have the pros competitions of course the competition seems to be in full swing as we speak and all that now it was in bringing they plumbo Dave by the time this video goes help people have on our channel your preview more or less a reaction video to the New York pro line of being released yesterday and you and I just talking all fair a couple of minutes ago we both agree this is arguably maybe easily one of the deepest if not the deepest line of the New York pro has had in years IMean you look at the the the competitor sheet he invalidate John Delittor also jump off the sheet immediately max Charles who had a sensational following at the all and then you have the wildcard you had doing Walker Dave we just started the tempo pro Hassan most often Justin Rodriguez has been great at the New York pro previous years give the audience a primer of your reaction to this line it's it's deep which means that we don't know who's going to win which means that it's exciting for the fans and that press to watch these shows because there's not a foregone conclusion IMean John I did in my reaction video to this line if you'll see IMean John Delittor rose is the most accomplished you know guy in the lineup he probably has the most pro wins he's you know he's got to be considered the better when he really has no weaknesses aside from the fact that he doesn't really sometimes nails conditioning when he's 100% he's really tough to beat you know because he doesn't have any gaps and holds in his physique and he's not going against really winkler here and and bone act you know he's going against the guys that he's you know his contemporaries who we can handle in this line up obviously if he and value puts it all together I don't think he could be beat just because he's that he's bigger and he's a he's a bigger structure on stage I think he'll look more impressive in the lineup but we haven't seen him do that you know he's got some you know anxiety issues about the whole thing but you know what the fact that he kind of bond out at Tampa even though he's still play second I think that's going to make him come back even better at this show so I think we're going to see a really good of the year he'll be tough to beat obviously Patrick Moore in this line up too he didn't mention in the internet and Quentin Arena who's super impressive he's been impressing me ever since the last year and a half that the progress he's made is mind-boggling I think he's game like 20 something pounds or maybe more here's a guy with you know freaky like Melvin Anthony structure and I think that he's going to you know surprise a lot of people and of course if Hassan Mastoff would put it all together bring the conditioninGHe's another guy who's just got utils and utils of you know Egyptian muscle on him you know he's coming from that same school of a thought of bigger and he's got just billowy you know muscle no gaps in this physique but we haven't seen him put the final touches on it yet and bring this to pen this conditioning it's anyone show Justin Rodriguez is in this lineup and he's danger so it's exciting because we don't know who I can't even I couldn't even pull top five out and you know and say for sure this is going to be it because invariably there's going to be some guys that are you know big names that are not at their best and then there's going to be guys that aren't such big names who are going to be at their best and they may sneak into that top five group because we unexpectedly because maybe some of the the name guys are a little off so it's a great lineup I think Steve Weinberg got to be happy with this this you know I hope you know that the thing that stinks is we got a great lineup but we can't even have a crowd in in the audience they're watching it so it is what it is but it'll be great for the fans hopefully will be a nice live stream I don't know what the deals that I haven't really looked at up yet I'm sure there will be one and we'll probably be you know analyzing this show for the next you know two weeks after because it's going to be so exciting because of all the different you know types of physics we have and you remember all these physics arecompletely different John Del Arroz that Ian Valier IMean those guys are about as diametrically different as you can possibly ask for but yet they're both top tier body goals so it's going to be a good good near pro we selfishly for me I was so looking forward to coming to show obviously no longer in New York now in Tampa they have four good questions I don't know if you address this in the video or I don't know if anything was announced pertaining to the Olympia slots similar to what we were told about the the show in Alicante Spain about two to three the top two or three depending on the division or I'm going to get Olympia births is there anything like that that's going to apply to this year problem I haven't heard any changes announced that doesn't mean that it can happen post-humility but I think that's the right work but but I think that they're doing that in Europe said because there's only one show right whereas this multiple shows in the US so we might not see the you know three top three going to the Olympia in the US it's in Europe probably because there are other shows still happeninGHere you know and I you know the Tampa IMean Chicago was moved but it's going to be in Atlanta so we have more shows before the Olympia where that shows in Spain maybe the only one and so I think that's why they did that fair point let's go to thEQuestions of first two questions of course in the day polamo experience app first question day of taking T3 T4 increases cellular metabolic rate what is stand to a reason that taking it would also increase protein synthesis and thus serve to enhance muscular development taking extra thyroid hormone okay specific T3 since that's active thyroid home could potentially increase protein synthesis if you're a little low if you're already at the max you know words if you're at if your if your levels are good or ready it you know high levels you probably won't see an increase in protein synthesis from a from taking extra T3 matter if I can take too much you could actually look you could actually eat up muscle because it's it's increases metabolic rate too fast however however you know you got to remember that when you take T3 it's because you're trying to lose body fat so it's by increasing that amount great you're obviously increasing you know fat mobilization carbohydrate utilization if you're taking something that's protein sparing like animal steroids with it or GH with it you're going to spare the muscle tissue so it's not really going to build more muscle but it's going to certainly burn more fat second question again from the day polamo experience app day of really puzzled i'm lean with a low carb diet and no matter what I do still have a lower abdominal bulge hardly knows some cute that would this be because of visceral fat how could I get rid of it it's really annoying you know having a a descended lower stomach you know usually the look a lot of guys have upper stomachs the the lower stomach distension usually at least to me that usually spells or smells no pun intended of not emptying your bowel properly meaning that you probably need a fiber supplement so adding a fiber supplement like fiber lies you know twice a day will help get rid of that that fecal matter that's kind of hanging out there and and distending your stomach now can it also be visceral fat yeah but usually visceral fat will will be you know the entire you know the entire abdomen will be because you gotta remember we are visceral fat is accumulated is not necessarily it does go in between the organs everything but there's a there's a layer called the momentum the greater momentum the covers the entire abdominal cavity and that's what gets fatty so it it wouldn't just be in one little pocket like that so to me that smells of you know let's get it not not not to be too to gross smells of the fact that you're not getting rid of all your waste and so that could be a fiber issue so I would try to do that now these two questions came from the day before I'm going to experience that this is an app that I offer you can get it from your iTunes store or Android store all the writings I've ever done all the videos I've ever done in one place let's say do an exclusivEQ&A video every week just for the app members and I answer everyone's questions and I answer them in a public forum in the app so that everyone sees everyone's questions and answers so it's kind of like learning experience we put up a workout every single week there you can follow it's a great it's a great resource to have at your fingertips or in your pocket you can read it when you know totally you can do it pretty much is right there you always have the ability to ask mEQuestions and I will answer them like I said in a public forum on the app the best questions get answered in a video format which goes up once a week so for 29 bucks a month you're getting a lot of value and a lot of people are really enjoying it you might want to just check it out we give the first 10 days for free so you can try it no obligations if you like it you continue just keep going with it if you don't you can cancel and it's no obligations there let's go to our Instagram questions again if you're not following this it's under official underscore rx muscle if you're watching us for the first time on youtube hit the subscribe button below if you like what you're watchinGHit the like button give us a comment obviously it helps us in as always we appreciate your support um first question is about someone who we thought we were going to see the new euro pro i'm not sure if you address this in your video Evan sent a pony not on the competitor list so presumably not competing so thEQuestion is from john walter is Evan sent a pony making a mistake not competing this year you know i don't even know why he's not competing beyond so i probably should reach that because then we would talking about him is a potential guy that can do really some damage in this lineup on heavy muscle radio early this week before the competitor list was released i had texted see why burger and i said who's competing and he said gave me some of the guys and then he said you know uh Evan sent a pony might compete and i don't so i don't know why he decided not to obviously if he if there was a might there that means that he he had been dieting preparing for the show and maybe he just felt he wasn't ready so maybe we're gonna see him in chicago which would really be in it land there obviously because that's what that show is gonna take place maybe he just needed more time remember he did come back from a quiet you know uh tear a couple years ago and this would be his first show back so you know maybe it was a good idea to skip it for Evan because it is a tough lineup here um there's a it is stacked to the health maybe going for the next one might be a better option if he's looking to qualify for the Olympia let's go to jibby power 66 is there a huge difference in terms of muscle activation between the lying t bar rho and a normal t bar rho uh or a t bar rho using the v handle as a grip like all of them but don't know if one is better than the other you know what the right answer to that question is there's no right answer and then the the fact is that you have to use the handle and position that you feel the most activation of your back you know when i would do pull downs you know i see a lot of guys go really wide grip pulling that and you know what i kind of didn't feel that much of my last you know and i couldn't go heavy enough really to get a good pull and i saw a video door in the eights did where he said you know the best you know hand position on pull downs is a closer grip because you're stronger when your arms are closer to your body and you know what that's probably the case for guys with long arms like dory and like me and i so i i tried it and i noticed much better results but i see guys that have shorter arms to go really wide and for them it's fine because they don't have a long their arm is reaching out to the the very ends of the bar so you got to you got to use positions and handles that you feel in the muscle that you're trying to work the best you can't take my advice because i have a different you know framework and the biomechanics and say a different guy which shorter arms it might be a little shorter and height you got to do what works for you so the right answer is try out all the different positions find what works best for you and then stick with that and obviously it's a good idea to throw different positions in every once in a while but you'll know what what the meat potatoes of what your you need to do is i always found that you know i was able to do reverse grip bent over rows as well as overhand see okay i do overhand now because i'm not looking to tear a bicep but you know but it didn't bother me some guys they they don't have the flexibility to to supinate their hands all the way to do that position so they're stuck like this and so never really fell good for them to do that so they shouldn't do reverse grip they should just do overhand grips and so you got to find what works for your body let's go to jj fitness day europeanian on the belief that type my fascia is a limiting factor in overall muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone you know that was a that was a a theory put forth or probably by many people but but john parilla was a big you know my alfashile stretching guy you know he felt that yeah to do like this brutal stretching techniques to really stretch that fascia to allow the muscle to expand and grow and you know and that that was the for a long time that was the theory of how muscles grew like they would like in other words the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone was limited by how much the fascia would expand and i just don't you know it made sense at the time you know but it's just not the case you know the muscle will find the way to expand if it wants to grow if not you'll just feel very tight fascia sheets around them IMean this people to get what's called the a theory compartment syndrome their lower leg because their calf muscles get so big and then that that fascia can't stretch but the calf doesn't stop growing it just gets bigger and then that fascia gets so tight they have to actually go in there and surgically open up a little bit slice it open so i don't think that that's the case having said that however i think stretching is good for flexibility purposes to get full range of motion when you're doing it because i see a lot of guys they they do partial range of motion and i'm asking the gym while you're doing that they're like i can't go down any further i can't they literally are stuck because they're not stretching enough so there there is a definite benefit to stretching you know once the muscles warmed up of course never stretch cold and getting that muscle so it's but i remember to the end of my career you know i really would have to stretch do a little warm up in stretch before i did legs if i want to really get a full range of motion and and move fluently where i was all stiff you know and i think that was a lot to do it because i was sitting a lot in a computer desk and i was getting all cramped up in it and it's funny the last couple days i was i was been walking around like i'm 90 years old because it's everything stiff and i went in the pool view of the day did a couple laps and was swimming and the next day i felt like i thought i was going to be sore from that i was actually i felt better than next day because i was loose all i loosened up all those muscles sometimes sitting for too long is not necessarily a good thing let's go to m nixiu ski we've gotten thesEQuestions before but new audiences like to get them back into the mix your opinion on artificial sweeteners such as plenta during prep some people say it makes your stomach bloated on state i haven't really noticed any um abdominal issues from from that however having said that i i will prep a sit by saying that some people have our more sensitive to artificial sweeteners than others in some situations some people's gut you know they're back to bacteria the gut ferment these things and they produce gas from it so if you're a person that that doesn't do well with artificial sweeteners and you get gas in and bloated from it they don't use them you know cut a amount a couple days before the show there's nothing wrong with that you know and go to water you know it's fine but if you can get away with drinking diet so it is in diadrinks and it doesn't bother you stomach and then stick with that i you know there's nothing wrong with it you know you have to kind of experiment you know because once again everyone is different you got to remember the the the the gut bacteria ferment you know uh prebiotic you know fibers meaning that like you know imulin fiber which is in stevia balance um even just just regular fiber supplements in general that they eat this stuff that's what they do and they weigh the eat is they ferment it and sometimes some people when the a lot of fermentation going on there is gas production but usually usually it reduces that because what it's doing is it's helping to move the you know fiber supplements will also move all the fecal waste out of the body quicker so everyone's different you know and everyone responds to things differently and you have to do some trial and error that's why you never experiment with something new like the week of a show it's ridiculous if you haven't been doing it all long don't edit it in the last week okay and and then you know crush your fingers that it's going to work that's not the way to do it you experiment ahead of time you take notes and observations to see how you body responds to different things diadrinks and i drink it yeah okay great if i can't drink it it does blow up my stomach and i got to cut it out of week before the show and that's all the written you know that's how you go about it perhaps a philosophical question here i i'm i'm not going to try to pronounce the name they onEQuestion why is it hard to grow without the use of gear once you touch it it seems like you've been waiting your time with our dieting and working out why is such a massive difference recovery strength the adding size simple diet of work i think means nothing without the gear and without the work or the diet the gear is nothinGHe goes in conclusion body building is the hardest sport out there it is the hardest sport out there because it's it's a accumulation of all these variables together but if you don't have diet and trening and and and sleeping down properly then then you could take a little bit gear you want it's not going to do anything we all know that so the gear just makes things work better you know it's kind of like an enhancer so the problem is that no one gets the other variables down pat and then they take gear and they get moderate so so results from it you know you take gear everyone's going to grow from that okay to a certain degree but how much you grow and the benefits you get okay from it are really dependent on the other variables you know when i took my first cycle my diet was perfect my trening was perfect i i i responded so well you know i was gaining 25 pounds you know 20 to 25 pounds a year of muscle for the for five years in a row there was a reason because i had all the variables perfect before i ever took gear okay had i taken gear and i didn't have these variables perfect that i probably went to meet those kind of gates and that's it that's an important thing to understand now having said that IMade it very good games the first couple years i the firsT4 or five years that i was trening okay without gear just by learning to eat right and tren right so if i would have taken gear then i would have been wasting my time because i would have been using the gear to grow and then when i actually needed the gear it wouldn't be there and that's why you got guys like Ronnie Coleman who were natural for many years they started taking gear and their body is exploded because they they had maximized his ability to tren he trened heavy he you know he ate right he lived the body but we lifestyle it didn't matter that he was an undrugs so when he added those in it just made everything work better another person that comes to mind kighine responded incredibly as well same thing same look at Sean Clarita look at the the the gains he's made the besT3 four years he was a natural body but it's so so you got to understand that the the gear is not that important until you hit a point where you've maximized everything you could have done prior to that and then you added in and you get that added benefit of a really getting explosive growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone let's go to nick wall in 66 what changes do you think flex Lewis will need to make it to be his absolute best going from two twelve to the open this coming Olympia i don't think he has to make any changes i think now he just doesn't have to drop as much weight IMean think about the guy was probably in shape you know six weeks out from the Olympia and any had to try to figure a way to make weight which is basically lose muscle over dehydrate yourself nothing nothing dumber to do for bodybuilding you know shoved into the loose muscle in fact over to plate yourself but if that's the way you can make weight then that's the only way you can make weight so i think it becomes in now at his natural weight you know which is whatever it's been up i don't know what he's up to now you know we're gonna see how much better flex those we're gonna see how much more round freaky grainy you know flex Lewis he might not be that much bigger you know people think always gonna be twenty pounds he he might not be he but if he was two twelve at the two twelve Olympia the last time he competed years ago he might be two twenty two which is ten pounds but you know why he probably sucked down eight or eight to ten pounds he might be what he was had he not had to suck down only in better shape and so that would be a devastating look with his frame his height and his muscle bellies so i'm excited i think a big mistake that he could make is that he tries to come into big and doesn't bring that same brain but i know flex and i know Neil Hill did not gonna make that that's an amateur mistake to make he's gonna come in just as good as he was conditioning wise at all as Olympia's definitely is gonna be bigger and that's gonna be deadly that's a deadly combination of them i'm gonna be exciting for everyone what we've been debating this topic since the belief twenty fourteen twenty fifteen that you know when the role was started they could be considering it uh finally now is gonna come to a reality in a matter of three and a half months let's go to Benny and that's Ivan do you burn a lot of fat in between back to back shows when you're not doing cardio but you're depleting depletinGHard and carbing up and cheating post show you know i i think you do i think you get a rebound i i you know have had people do shows and then i feed them more i do give them less cardio and they continue to lose fat somehow because i think they're it's like their metabolism's are an overdrive and it's good to take advantage of that the problem is that a lot of people will be afraid to eat more as they think well i got another show coming up in two weeks i got a tren even harder you know now you only do that if you need to get leaner but if you're in shape for the first show you have to actually eat more do less cardio cut back to fapper is a little bit otherwise you risk coming into depleted to flat and you won't be able to recover from that and that's you know i'm working with you know with the field plahars in that situation now IMean i'm giving them if you sort of food i'm giving them this best week or so he's eating a lot you know he's eating like burgers and fries every night because i got to keep this guy full you know he cares metabolism is just cranking away and that you know you gotta do you gotta do you know to take nor that and if i were to keep just treninGHarder and harder and pushing a more more more he would have just come in small and depleted and that's not the look you're looking for so you have to understand that after doing your first show look for that metabolic you know increase it it happens every time well scotton kneel zelewski who has a perhaps a new nickname for you call you Dave the dentist killer now is that something that we can potentially go down a shirt i don't know yes so why am i the dentist killer you don't remember the story from two weeks ago i'm losing my mind again i don't sleep if you don't sleep you don't you don't solidify memories because i said i'm supposed to go this Monday and pick up the the mouth guard that that he made me the third one and i actually i think i sub consciously overslapped on purpose i completely forgot about the appointment and i knew i knew the night before i said i got to go that dentist the morning and i just i just didn't get up and i didn't even think about it i said i said i love the message and i purposely didn't call them back because i'm kind of giving them like i'm like i you know what let them let them hold on to the night guard a little bit even though i paid for it already you know because at this point what's a difference i already waited all this time i'm that you know i'd rather get a couple extra hours sleep than to be exhausted for the day because the i already know what's going to happen i'm going to go back there it's not going to fit me again and they're going to have to make it again and i'm going to go nuts and do a crazy wrath even worse than the last one so i figured IMight be well rested but i'm going to do my rant so his question is does EQ lower estrogen or is it bro science the only study i found is show that the metabolites of EQ can act like an AI but that's one study what have you seen in your experience i don't think EQ acts like in a enrumptace inhibitor at all no i i haven't seen that i haven't noticed it empirically at all we know masteron can act like an estrogen receptor antagonist we know it can actually do that so but that's pretty well-documented you can tell you get a little dryer on on on masteron haven't noticed that on EQ i think if that was the case a lot of people would probably take it right up to a show and you probably could you probably could do testing EQ up to a show if you had i knew people in the past did it like that not that those such as guys take today but you could but it's it seems to be more of an offseason you know stat or at least in the maybe like the first eight weeks of contest prep guys will use testing EQ to get started but then then that seems to be a drug most people pull the last six days week so i would say no let's go we'll take three morEQuestions go to classic busy nash i already eat plenty of chicken beef eggs and rice and still struggle but on mass my question is what are some cheap quality foods to bump up my total daily protein fat and calorie intake IMake them across the homework science that i guess generally when you have a situation like that somebody who's struggling to proximate what would your guidelines be and and i was seen by a it's a financial issue he wants to go cheap that's what IMean that's what i'm getting it you want that yeah look when i was when i had no money and i was in school and i would i would i would go get the cheapest whenever they have sales on tuna i would go buy cases of the stuff and i used so much tuner in white minute rice i can't tell you how much about that i ate now in age what i would do is i would i would back then i was eating peanuts with it but you know peanuts is not really a great source of that i would buy like a couple like a case of my macadamia nuttoil which is very recently price and i would just be pouring maccoil into my rice in tuna and just be eating that all day along that IMean that that's like my father would call that poverty food but he said yeah i don't understand why you like poverty food you know because that that's i always like you know dry it out you know stuff and you know i always ate the the cuts of meat that my father would consider to stuff the eight when he was during the depression you know i never i didn't like fatty cuts of meat i just wasn't into like the whole you know your prime rib and that kind of stuff and sirloin stays to had fat hanging off him i was more of like a top round you'll wonder broil which is a really lean cut a lot of people don't like it because it's a little tougher but that's just me you know i i i find that i you know i did well with that but you know now i know knowing what i know about fats now i would like i said i would be pouring macadamia nuttoil maybe buying some avocado's you know mix in there and rice tuna and fats IMean come on and do it IMean that's the easiest even have canned chicken now if you go to like a sams club which is like a price club they have like you know i buy i know a man likes it we buy like they're they're in cans i was like tuna only it's chicken so you might want to switch around if you want to do chicken you can one day you can do tuna another day it's relatively cheap two comes in big cans and you can eat that all day long IMean there's no it there's no excuse why you can't get enough protein if you go and use to go the canned chicken or canned tuna route and just buy some cheap minute rice big you could buy big bags of it cooks in like couple minutes in the microwave it's so simple and then you have some oil you have a bag of nuts or almonds or walnuts or you know and or just used like a bag because they get a nice bottle of oil or macadamia nuts even you know are pretty good but i like the oils because they kind of mix into the food really easy i used to have like these big tub where containers where i put tuna rice and usually pour some at that time it was no macawai we were all of oil over and that's what i would eat all day long and it was delicious i didn't get a lot of time for a couple of morEQuestions let's go to shad water fit i've always heard that taking gh and insulin at the same time can be counterproductive what is the science behind this is this related blood sugar levels in different ways with each hormone when is the best time to take apart from each other if this is the case they don't compete with each other essentially but usually in in the natural state when you ever insulin levels are high gh levels allow and when gh levels are high insulin levels allow so they work in tagging is typically to each other naturally in the body however if you put them into the body at the same time they will synergize each other believe it or not so there's nothing wrong with taking them to get i used to take my insulin shot with my gh in the morning because the insulin will override the the gh's effect of being a creating an insulin resistance in the body so that's that's a good thing you know so it'll enable you to absorb your food but yet still get the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone effect from the from the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone so there's nothing wrong with taking them at the same time because you're taking two geogenous hormones you're not trying to release them from the body you're actually taking the hormone and putting it in there and that's a big difference now if you were trying to say oh i'm going to take this amino acid to try to make my body release gh and i'm going to try to take this other you know food to try to cause insulin surge now you're having to worry about well can i do both at the same time maybe not but when you're actually injecting the actual hormone doesn't matter last question it is from n-royer 31 and this is only you spoken about before in terms of that dark place that you have to go when you're treninGHeavy super super heavy they visit normal to be so intense when trening that you get really nervous before every time you go to the gym and when at the gym going into a quote really dark place to be able to get under the really heavy weights yeah i i i would be thinking when i would do legs i would think about that workout all day long it was it was terrible it was like a leg day oh oh i'm going to have to do legs and it wasn't i loved legs because i love the feeling of it i liked the the progress IMade but i knew it was going to be a very very uncomfortable workout i knew that i was going to be putting weight on my back that i wasn't comfortable with doing myself i was going to need a spotter that I trusted there with me i knew that it was going to be an uncomfortable day but it was okay because that's that's what i was putting all my effort into and so i would go rehearse the workout in my mind a little bit throughout the day thinking about what i need to do how i was going to eat to prepare for the workout you know what i was going to put it to my stomach pre-workout today wouldn't throw up you know getting nauseous usually it was a shake that usually sat well in my stomach and when i got into the gym you know it was it was all work you know and of course the first couple set you know the only real bad set is the last one the sets you know you can do the weight because you've done it before it's not a big deal when you get to that last set where you get to have to wrap your knees get that belt on perfect you have to talk to your trening partner hey you got to have to watch me here watch me in the way down you know whatever you know this might be a weight that you've never really executed you know no or either that or maybe you're going for more reps and you've ever done and you want to make sure that if you get stuck this this trening partner is going to get you up okay and you know that your nervous system is going to get traumatized from all that weight you're going to have on your back but but this is what you're doing and you're laying on the line because you want to make your legs better than they were the last time you want to improve on stage so you have to get into that mindset of look I got to challenge myself every time then in the gym whether it's one more wrap or a little more weight or more intensity whatever it was I was always trying to push and so that made the workouts you know a little more stressful in the sense that I felt that I had if I left the gym and I didn't get 100% out of what I was looking for when I got in there I felt like I failed which wasn't always a failure because sometimes you know you get a little twins you hurt yourself and you would get a little depressed from that not having the best workout but then there were times you got in there and you did everything right and you hit those weights you wanted and man you felt so good when you left that gym because you knew you put you you left nothing on the table and that's that's what bodybuilding is all about at the most competitive level you know at the level on that now where I just want to look good and feel good I'm not trying to set any records I have no stress I go into my weight room upstairs in my house and I knock out my workout it's not a big deal because I'm not trying to set records I'm lifting weights I know I could easily handle I'm just stimulating the muscle to feel good so there's a big difference between taking it you know and pushing your body to the ultimate limit to be the best that you can be versus just going into the gym and having fun and beinGHealthy so you know it depends on what your goals are and that does it for this episode of ass-diver mind right now on our xmuscle.com the rxmuscle youtube channel Dave's reaction video to the New York pro lineup released last night Dave lays out the entire lineup in his opinion by opinion many opinion it is the deepest lineup the New York pro has had in many years for a day of global and our producer Tyler short I'm so thankful for rookie we'll see you next time

=== FILE: THE NEXT RONNIE COLEMAN？ Jephte Cherenfant w⧸Ameen Alai [0dyb-nHyax8].txt ===

【 tripod hours】位員连连耶01250太子1今天的影片就可以 deutsch還有這麼低地點 altro一看果炀我極為 impacts搖能嘗譜是澄防美國會遜失呢未大家射鳴千萬 去新茄日本 Lima Temenچ是輸客應遜追射你介意小花我已經拼час了виHaram他就是朋友��啊對 這塊符子最大的這是真的擔心真正的超正的他們不太 cricket歡迎起來他怎麼偷看都不 rotate因為他都在返向這個面其他 penser大風的但是它完全不知道是你能夠大它完全不能太下add然後它是基礎時間或者すUNGK清 funded他人甩油里負責75%戰去尾业 dismemory一個人要雇獲習近平已經再來調習很多去發展過嗯就如此偷有信�你知道你煩惱這個蜜 主要是開編排加油你們明有什麼 despair嘳嘎嘆放上水ilage致他這是什麼並不是 Siri但我覺得我覺得有一個什麼所以我要講得很好是在嘴巴記素中共有代事他需要 canonical建立多eth这些人都逛逃那是不是它處理法可能什麼代事是不是海國那如果怎樣如果符合什麼ived我本來這樣你索瓜Hailey這個只有5多個 Vielleicht只能收視其實去自覺,對排的你們中共有 огром事大家在能看到 對對於泳 crisis我沒話聽 fearful欸你站在那裏現在說解譚拉画了總有多少 estud已經傳ưởng instantly一行洗水買了一個港幣跟作組和 還在這壽時轉gged到成條線都未是一般的如果蔬豪有點你知道你要秘密採討當然是 involve表情因為你還轉動稍後一眾躥很困難剛才如何 começo來速大 這個過程我一定要説所以那時就是為什麼我是知道我終於遇起我其实illight 过了航 defense Communidge PolicemanAnd you are born into Miami thatís imI see that with a lot of Spanish people Tu even arrival in become a because very soon Ashbe お今英國用節的行轴I actually had to go to耶la?" 那是會面對嘛那是把田征 你的樣估計他做資料當然肯定理物只是不知道沒有影響老geord人那個 penetrate因為準備了各位要做這些我也實在繼續關飾 Materials在國内因為生耍作作可是很有關其實最後她就是因為有關係會我穿複製的還有什麼玉風其實有關係我經常講話是我會不會是他們應該怪我不然他們當然的話我只想知道他們不想叫他們我都沒有需要但我懂得來我的切臘其實我你可以翻台灣What is that a rough part of Miami de Europe as a kid? Originally, when my parents came here, coming from another country you migrate to where, you know, most people from your country Or else it was a little rough, they were only fortunate in moving on the area So we got in to a little bit of a better area It wasn't great but there definitely wasn't the worst of the worst Now growing coming up to a school, obviously play football Um, you know, what is that something that just came to naturally needed pioneer來貨單積的我還哭啦延避興,超過 моей ETF這個是什麼叫型我認識了這組的事可以請來這裏設定我也是一個小銀行我還認識你們資訊中會有一個開心所以下去對吧 Fabel我曾經無放了你也會知道為何會發生這裏設定無另外一個共和十分你 biblical我來講问题我準備給你凱點解好See Couldn't你進行做給三師是我我今天得當乎了平日沒有我好我冒就是凱點解你是沒有聽得出所以我突然到這裡我最少跟黃歸公平為什麼是英文我不是蘇蘭誰 在哥哥可是如果我還在面前親哥抱歉我也很好我了解我是沒有冒箱以前我在โ�金 小總統說陷阱其實這是真的今晚是的時候。我是想的人都說起來 一個年齡但是讓他自己习近了也不想有人留外國過年,例如在 UCLA不想人家說然後我們說剛才過年剛才過年不知道原來我就聽過民眾們都找到其實...只是返回不是算了可是還encia什麼初者但是去了也只是講作成文明日我不管是來不上它的電子真的我是在 2014有一個部頂屬的鵇雷那我覺得大概代表少儘管費還在度步以再侮辱你最親切提及鋪好我就是將鋪抽給你和孕肇班反懡但到底在第三Make你的一個嚴重不用 dashboard我好你喜歡整個你不介紹什麼你好可是今我在壞畫者对我的人真的評隔但是我回現在最初是我我雙心來啊这也是与了那把你们特术演起现在注意马上盐手就是找我们要呢看让大家我对我呉那我我也也已被開放了應該要加上被戰彥牠每關都擊破了現在還有一 troph還為甚麼最後賣如果用專捨卻老婆搶中間完全沒有 trener上漫拗關於上Barket還有每關都變 mois因為外偷隊的隊員對接下來人們趁 Τhe死下的你等一下有寒館嗎我再確定留言真的覺得他們不會思考你們慢些小華 Buffalo,其實我很想周請跟講他們會重點對16做更多的 ��養 對你們更多開始做更多 你能在這 это我説最後都能發生所有電影但不是仍然是我說吧 fuer懷用的你在這個時候你所說 所有的是我想真的做掉了我有禀慣我有訓練我相信有種類型才是有irring小小的把用到你對自己的不對話所以你出身以後來要為你提升 accept你認為人民的節目妳說得對付錢重視你還知道怎樣你們懂得講不得 妳都是揮肌我覺得你是全身送生活我早知道我的自己的用力我也會在家中開打工作你這樣沒有問題對民防 vortex是第一人啦我認為我們的 applying因為我們へ指中國可能的情況下你看沒問題在以前生活得到特略不過沒有沒問題如果說不明但是在當時連在我當時沒有要才握制when他們退了麻煩,他們就可以這讓你剪掉四地方有通的時間是地點相對他們不太喜歡未能讓我們面前所以它們的時間或者州在台灣在共產黨、車一間中建的以前跟日本的槍nych裝在!最快ocalapost还有一個以my,雜士顧間甚至是間位試上民主級的地方甚麼時候你我身體 barley沒還可以沒雖然需要賑贈我是老德雖然是能的我是爸爸至少亡你們的 Inspiration我只有大運她好像說穩定誰在充中是洗髮他們種最好她真的不坐膓我待會看看我左脸上這不穩定她在安全部霧身營五月你記得嗎?你 Ethan 即刻越隨便找到我做好朋友曝乾我就是一堆Jev...簽我的這我是公司我要提前誤你們拘捕的各类辣菜стран fat菜所以到現在想到現在他綱米麥米麥有敷訣發現性果 org還是結果蔭嘩因為我沒有看過但是我會因於脫胎 successes未出喜歡當我拉偵酷我撐鑑有什麼昨天一直以出Hyouritas Japan分 goofy他要描运我而砂製thia你全部 files我们在许识我知你您不是说我要向你跳出来 myös特 quelquechez不是他拿另一张我还是 Fuck off微笑A you guys 早智您对头件你不懂谁其实我才财ย Into you你前面我都说你不懂话我也不懂我在之後 連你有看的是所以怎樣交給什麼不是不我感受就是像 Affrisia因為的這樣沒有我故意回到Friendly robbery我對我隨著他พ Crow除不是不同的東西是我真的怎麼樣把他損損我把他損獎的代表係到1 президím relationshiptyeda去了aboutyeah可能ON看 man過6short就會令你精心的食感記得拿出什麼司責檜讓我不得對嗎就是你的軟度います想起去的時候我覺得你現在一直在向我但是 在業界呢美國人以本來 due過了г,在美國笑中美國人發生了美女老皇主道您中國家嗡無聲論 他們想取不住代主隊長周�即去全裝 一遍大家都覺得桥子也知道所以製造尖的事我重要了所以会把事分战想起到这个 bullshit或有这些刺激会订阅可是很好感觉从那里你的战上也可能是说随着人就使尖向说 pancake- mixer原先品牌avan跟我做了弃唱演公主糟的oru你刚才到弄得到當如新年你首先我史� lingu超過得不到我 tan多年我只起我就認真以 Matsu雖然在打 intensity我都要回去了但是我想說也被他有些 deceived批評來提高他們要問他們他們說 因為這就是他老 Aristotel這只是個主想因為你可以讓他蔚愛他們又要止這北母肉又說可能還跟你拘据沒有但他現在已經是份量的олог 不惡因為證明 complement搞犯 unavoid你看你自望所以他們確診於也不論我爲此次結束是行事地著人家Schdon我我跟你講從這一點你比較多如果你看So I will see why IMeet at this pointIMean Right?IMean How do you deal with thatThat's a tough pill this whileIMean Because of my upbringing and my faith basedI don't quote you why I. Only why I expect it. Today it gets overI that Sweep Problem Oh, I'm trying to talk of my problem I don't look at those situationsáo準備沒辦法我我無法ẵcje同樣答案,不是我是不知反應教政大致,你說不斷就是做哪裡,做過關的當我生意故意,不用管頭生意好loud我就跟大家在意补的�וך哀畔不知道個月跟黎元不會,但是這些我都不明白我說馬剛到尋寂的時候你要不要說什麼冒把你是覺得我不會讓他說過我如果這種很危險我的孩子就是蠻讓人這一時候但如果我不讓是正題如果我的體貸是當然自己知道死的不過根據,意外最後一點她會執行出出錢就是足以死身還有個後面是出貸跟這麼不錯的甚至趴幾本��不ерш一點我想你會說明 contra時因為你要覺得換你想淵詞跟毛泥曲自然想知道怎麼辦所以我們不願意 Experational我告訴你每個人來到大小孩教��서她在一邊我说了你D Once or twice what point of is prep for the North Americans do you step in?我看過了很多的手嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯5X4的手嗯Rod calls me up嗯and sends me some pictures and askand you ask my opinionif you don't track as what does he look likeand thenand then I started to find out about how strong this this man wasand I blew my mind with when I saw this Instagram handle by the way he goes by呃 no breaks big bad bonding啊哈哈哈哈 right triple b his guy and he's a threat and I'm telling you I we haven't seen well and I really hope this goes viral for Jeff because we haven't seen this kind of trening since Ron he's plotting eight plates asked to the calves for reps six weeks before the show you got you got that on the Instagram see if you can pull that up Tyler pull it up right now you're going to see in saying stuff he's he dead with the nine plates on each side why why didn't really that oh my god five plates on each side for reps like it was candy oh so that's why you and ride have this kinship in the gym on because they're the same they we all pack man who are what's that I said they're about you know we're not they're not everybody we're playing the disco 1990s 1980 style heavy and high what's big bad bonding me where did you get that name from so bungee is basically from my Haitian heritage so bungee is probably like literally trenslate like the tough guy the big guy like he got that he's he is basically like kinku bad in the mario that's guy you have to think when he went he know one of the hardest from my current and in big bad bungee is just if you would have told me IMean if he would have told me that he's brothers with a key a key Williams I would swear the two of them look exactly the same and they they basically both just to strong as each other hey you know I think a key is uh is he Haitian also I know I think he's Jamaican maybe he's Jamaican I think Max Should is Max Should is Max Should is a man but a key man him looks him they look like they could be brothers they have they even look alike like a little bit I think if you if you had if you had no hair you know like he does you look like let's let's talk about his hair smile just a grownage hair for 13 years it goes down he's he's about five a hundred and a half is that right five a lot of six foot six foot into him he goes down to his body building you want to round down Jeff and and and and another sports you round up yeah yeah but but it goes down it as as tall as he is it goes all the way down to to the top of his rear to the very low part of his back we haven't seen hair like that since Ty Green and his is much more impressive while his Ty Green is not real you know Ty Green is fake yeah so Jeff he got real hat that's the real deal this guy's the real deal the way he lifts a real it's impressive and I'd be IMean the honest with you because IMean I lost him and that that was really hard for me but IMean he just lost his brother and and when it got down to crunch time down to do the key he was in my any three weeks before the show bearinGHis brother and then he falls he finds right back to go zero cards hundred reps the whole my whole hell week that that's been coined hell week he went through the whole thing under rods supervision the two of us work together rod and I worked together and you know rod is brutal in the gym there's no trener no trener that's going to push you like rod because when rod says two more you're going to do it just because his voice is so deep you don't do those two reps he might punch you or something that's even worse Jeff earlier for odd helping right Jeff how much muscle did what did you gain from what do you weigh at 2018 or the Americans 2018 well 66 to 66 that all right on wings but you really I'm sure you weren't this lean no no see that was the difference so it's it's a different kind of weight yeah put it that way okay IMean how big things can this guy get IMean he's got a huge frame what do you think would be the ideal way for this guy to really be as a dominant pro at competitive weight yeah I think he could compete easily in the two 80s I agree yeah easily and right now you're two ninety what Jeff about two magnifog the kind of five right now we just competed he was 271.8 at the way ends you know 263 on stage that's that's the magic that happens the last few weeks when I suck them in and pull the wall you want to see him to 80 on stage just suck dry right right eventually that's coming right this rebound in itself and the fact that Rod's really targetinGHis back and Rod does exactly what to do is IMean he's a he's a fact animal he has exactly what to do to bring up Jeff's back they're trying to we got special workouts we're going to be posing three times a week he's going to be doing the stairs three times a week as up now so you're going to see shredded glutes like like pro calibre shredded glutes I have enough time Rod has enough time Jeff is motivated it couldn't be better and we're going to IMean literally posing every every day but on really posing sessions three times a week and we're ten weeks out now yeah and we sell now well the good thing is that you know with the work ethic like that and and when you lift and that Rod you could test this I can I could talk directly just Roddy Coleman is a perfect example when you lift heavy weights and you got great genetics and you eat right you got the right people advising you you grow and you grow dense big round muscle that's what you do and you can't help but grow IMean look at the guys who lift the heaviest you know the a king Williams and the Ronnie Coleman's and the Dorian Yates they got muscle to show because of it there's not many people that is lifting the weights that you are lifting Jeff and the gym IMean is that are you a naturally strong guy or do you notice that as you've gotten bigger you're you're weight you're just your strength is increased exponentially I think it's a combination of two but you know trening with Rod ever since I got with Rod like my my strength games have jumped exponentially like because he's a big performance of trening treninGHard and heavy right so well I got with the 10 reps with a moderate rate and we're I push as you put heavy weight on that for 10 to 50 when we're running that big without ride pushing you into that uncomfortable zone and that's important but you think about it Dave you have to be if you're trying to bring about any type of change and a physique there's other ways you can do it but those people don't last long do that now so what we're saying is so I think it comes down to a skin constantly pushing that ramp a little bit now granted you can't go hard every day in a day out you have to cycle and go back a couple of weeks let's go back in you know it's something that you have to be looking at in the videos okay fine we we're pushing now you're about to lose a little racket right now but that's the good thing about a tren like we we tren we tren with a group of guys and like when he came back from Florida when his situation what it was what do we do do we wrap on the wrong give a coup by our moment and say hey bro you got to show you know like that what's the guy see he friends they're sorry yeah you'll say yeah you know that I bought but you know it I was about it because a pack mentality one's up and next we'll shoot them down let's keep it going pushing I'm a huge proponent that you got to find someone who's strong in the new and then it's going to push you out of your comfort zone otherwise you're going to stay in that zone and you're not going to make improvements I had a group of guys that I worked out with when I was coming up too that was strong in the me and maybe they didn't have better physics than me at some point but they were stronger in the me and they maybe do stuff that I didn't want to do because who the hell wants to get under you know a squat ball with 700 pounds it's AI'll do six plates for for for six reps no no you're going to get on the 700 you're going to do for two reps why don't really want to get on to there and you know what that forces new growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in your body that's that's what you got to do all this time we have a situation where a guy says maybe okay coaches that's a place on the squat right I know that I'm going to put my point is is it how do you know yeah a time is right you got spotter you got the right trening yeah let's go to the go right you're next thing you already do it they look at you like oh my god I did right that's my job I'm a thing for you now yeah but you you become a do let me think for it it's very important I always say that you got to have a good even if you don't have a group of guys you got to have a good trening partner who's willing to push you and be there to be able to spot you because yeah I've I've gotten on the bars where I really didn't trust the spotter too much because I was in a foreign gym and I just didn't go as heavy as I wanted to because I was afraid I was going to get crushed with the weight and then would be knowing that it pulled off me so it's great that he's got you and all the other guys there on a regular basis pushinGHim you know yeah that's the great part because I remember the group that we tren with there's a guy who benches more than me there's a guy who does leg curls my hand then we have a group of ladies who go at it really hard so even when I need some inspiration right I have to look over and see the group of ladies workinGHard and I'm ready to go it doesn't take much to motivate me but I could always find it but David will be the situation like man which will tren the girls of the oh yeah you know you don't spare feelings and it's going to try to be ladies baby because we do want something different over here right you have a choice Jeff who's your if you look into bodybuilding world now what what physics do you like like what like what guys do you admire and say that's that's a guy who want to look like or that or even maybe in the history of bodybuilding what's your word of where your favorite body will just coming up well if we will say right now yeah I'm a big proponent like I love shink and round this so I would like I would say Sean Rodin but my favorite bodybuilder of all time right that's what you like to do okay I feel like his body proportions and his muscle belt is I think he just had a beautiful physique right you know Ronnie was amazinGHe had the wild fact you could never go on without mentioninGHim but flex will it was always my favorite bodybuilder now if you had a compare your physique to someone like who like who are you trying to emulate when you watch videos like who do you try to imitate and steal stuff from and incorporate it here with you who would you say you think your body looks like the most oh I don't know post the public say that I take I take parks from everyone that I see like even the way that I pose when I do my last but I I learn that from watching Brandy Kirby right all people like you know he's a newer guy you know grand scheme of things and you know my side chest I've just taken things from everyone that I see so I wouldn't just narrow it down to one person right I don't think my my physique is dissimilar to anyone type of person so guys I'm just trying to make the what I have work for me the best that I can right right well I wanted to you know thank you for coming on Rod thanks for joining us to me thank you Jim over there good luck with the and you're doing some great work out there in in Colorado with the I've again treatments I appreciate all you guys coming on the show all the time and good luck at the nationals because you know what it's a crazy year but sometimes crazy years result in in great results so I you've had a lot of hardships you've overcome I like your your never quit mentality and I think in the end of the day you're going to come out on top so good luck to you they're good to be shake that's what is Instagram and the description so people could see it's basically they saw it we we had it up here we would put flash in pictures and Instagram stuff I'll show you guys if you want to check him out go go hit a go like his page and if you want to also contact the mean what's the best way IMean the room in a line dot com there you go you got a whole website like I guess dedicated to helping people who have substance abuse problems so check it out no that's that's my personal website they have real real reset so I yeah that's the shirt that the gym's got on there the rest of the gym's got on that's the eye-begining that's what we're doing it's not just drug addiction is depression people get off any depressants it's the second one is gambling addiction that's another one too so yeah I don't have a side of a game here gambling addiction that's what I want to know like a logical yeah it's all psychological recessive research you have no longer had the compulsion that you usually have it it gets rid of compulsion this is the fault it's two people that want that are in that have an addiction pornography yeah it's a little bit craving to one of the compulsions one of locks for anography great great I know a couple guys I'm gonna send over to you you really love what he had it you know what IMean so people who are ready for it like I don't know if Tony huge is ready for it hey he needs a reset he probably would do it just for the experience right he tells me he wants to do it and we're planning on flying to Thailand whenever or maybe he doesn't want to do it maybe that maybe he doesn't want you to reset them then he might have been bored but his life has been reset him I'm wondering the same thing it's like you always said what's this guy's life it's really interesting so we'll see what happens whether it's going to change him in a good way or in a bad way or in a good in bad way all right well guys that's going to be it for today I'm day polo with the for IMean a lie Jim Tamagini big ride and of course Jeff Charan font we'll see you next time

=== FILE: THE PHYSICS OF HARDCORE TRAINING w⧸DOUG BRIGNOLE! [I6GBGyQ0nVE].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live With Brought to You By Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today is a really cool interview. I'm here with a guy who's been competing for over 40 years in the industry. He's trened pretty much all of the California. He's written books that we're going to get into because this is some cutting edge stuff. He's one of the most knowledgeable guys that I know in the bodybuilding industry. I'm really happy to finally join him and then talk shop. Doug Brugnoli, welcome to the show. Thank you Dave. Very much. It's nice to be here. It's nice to talk to you because a lot of people are always telling me and IMean, don't come up to me. I've been trying to hook us up for years and he's always saying, you and Doug, you both talk the same language. Finally, I just, you kind of connected. I said, you know what? I'm going to get you on the show. We got you here today. I wanted to just before we talk shop and science, that's stuff. In the 59 years old, you competed, and you won the AAU, what was the the AAU universe for masters in overall? Yeah, in the 60 now, this was last November. Holy Mackerel. Yeah, I don't know if you know the AAU took a high 80s. They weren't doing any bodybuilding. Oh, they were, I did a thing for another two. If you were in 1990, I think it was in 2017. And then Martin Drake, who's been in the power to think world for decades, brought back AAU bodybuilding. So it's still kind of on the rise. It's not kind of where it was. Right, I understand. But you're 60 years old over 60 years old, and you competed, and you won the thing. IMean, that's impressive. And I'll tell you why it's impressive because I know how my body feels right now. And I feel good. But I'm not in the gym pushing maximum weights and trying to get to that point where I want to compete. So how does your body, or how has your body held up so well after all these years of killing it, you know, in the gym? Frankly, I don't mean to get cut to the chase. But this is what my book is about. It's that I discovered through the years that conventional weight trening, traditional exercises are very inefficient for the body. They're very bi-efficient. We mean load versus amount of weight used. So for example, a muscle doesn't know that it's getting, let's say 90% of the weight you're using versus 30% of the weight you're using. But physics determines that, right? So if your muscle has the strength capacity of 90 pounds of resistance, let's say, you don't choose the weight randomly. You choose on a base which you can handle. So that's the capacity of that muscle. You're choosing a weight that loads to capacity. It could be 300 pounds and 30%. 90 pounds. It could be 100 pounds and 90%. 90 pounds. So 300 pounds damages the joints, damages the skeleton, damages the spine. And feels like shit, frankly, and feel, especially, and it didn't make me feel so bad when you were 30 years old. But when you're 50 years old, it feels a lot heavier than it used to feel. So basically, I just figured out what the most efficient exercise is worth. Was able to get, because people say do you tren heavy? Yeah, go, well, if you define heavy, by a weight that limits you to four to six reps, then yes, I tren heavy. But you do you tren heavy by a number of pounds? Yeah. Well, I'm going to ask you with those exercises I started in a minute, but I'll tell you what I realized. When I was at toward the end of my career, I competitive career, I should say, I had really bad shoulders. I knew I needed shoulder replacements. I put them off from when the doctor first told me that I probably weighed 20 years before I actually got him, which is what the doctor recommended. So he's like, don't get him to be absolutely here. So I started modifying my trening when I realized that I had issues there to do only exercises that didn't put my body into a position where I had to stabilize too much. I already had all the mass I needed. And I found movements that didn't hurt that I isolated, but that I overload. I used to heavy weights and I can handle. And for some reason, I held on to a lot of my muscle over the years. I don't know if I kind of did what you did in a not knowing what I was doing. But so having said that, I'd like to hear what you think are the most efficient exercises that will elicit the best response in the body, but yet not damage it. Well, look, IMean, what all of us bodybuilders should do is we should say, you know, what does each muscle do? It's such a logical question. Yeah. For example, the lack, what does the side deltoid do? Right. So the problem is, if you have a muscle muscle, right, when they contract, they pull the insertion toward the origin. Right. So thEQuestion is, how can you do that? How can you cause that contraction to happen with the least joint distortion? Right. Well, overhead press will screw up your shoulders. And does not simplify the fact that the side deltoid insertion has to move toward the origin, which would be a lateral movement. So an overhead press is only a shoulder exercise in that it simulates a side lateral. That is what that side deltoid is designed to do. So why complicated? Why shortened the lever, which requires more load? Right. Because you have less migration. Why shortened the lever? Why externally rotate the shoulder joint so far that it's actually almost in an armlocked position. Right. Right. Why do that? If it doesn't actually improve the mechanics of the insertion moving toward the origin. Right. So the next question would be, is, okay, so if you're saying that a side lateral is every bit as good as an overhead press, why doesn't it feel that way? Right. What does it feel that way? Because you've got the resistance curve wrong when you're doing a standing side dumbbell raise. It's too easy at the bottom and too heavy at the top. Right. Right. Because your lever is vertical and neutral the beginning and horizontal and heavy at the top, well, that's the opposite of the strength curve of all muscles. Right. So you have your at the beginning and lighter at the end. So if you get on the side, on the floor or horizontally, and you do that same movement, all of a sudden now you have that same feeling of pushing that you do with an overhead press, not of swinging. So you talk about leg on your side? What do you talk about? Yeah, that's one way of doing it or a very slight incline angle your head is a little bit higher than your hips. Okay. You do a side raise using a strength curve. Excuse me, resistance curve. The match is the strength curve of the muscle. Have you ever win the muscle as stronger? Lighter win the muscle as weaker. And you're still doing what that muscle does, which is bringing the assertion toward the origin. You can do it with cables by setting the cable, the pulley up, you know, at hip height. What I did was what I somehow figured out was that if I sat on the side lateral machine and I rested the pad on my elbow, okay. And I just lifted one arm at a time, unilaterally. For some reason, the stability was there that I didn't feel pain in my shoulder. Every other movement showed the press over. I couldn't do it. Grinding, popping. I got on that side lateral machine one arm at a time and I can do the whole stack with excellent, perfect form and you know what I did, lose an ounce of muscle for 10 years on my shoulder. And that's logical. That's logical because you can load your deltoid every bit as much as you can with an overhead press by doing the side lateral raise machine. Here's, you said an interesting thing, you said unilaterally. Yes. Why is that better? There's a reason why it's better. I want to know. And it's something that I talk about in my book. Well, there's actually two reasons. One is something called bilateral deficit, which is that as the name implies, bilateral deficit less than, right? And you do two arms at the same time. Each arm is a little less strong than it would be by itself. They've done studies on this and they've shown this actually true. If you're doing, is that because of the nervous system activation? Right. And there could also be like an attention thing. But if you're doing a two dumbbell curl with a pair of 30 pound dumbbells, it'll be much harder than if you do 30 pounds, 30 pounds, 30 pounds, 30 pounds, right? And part of it has to do with the posture, right? So if you're doing one arm, you actually lean toward that arm. And so your geometry changes a little bit when you same thing with, and even more so when you're doing ladders, shoulders, side deltoid and lats. And that's because we have this thing that I call unilateral focus. And what that means is that if you do curls, both arms are pulling in the same direction. Right. You do any triceps, both. But if you're doing sideways, it's going to the left and this going to the right, those are opposite directions. Interesting. And you like you're trying to do a push down with one hand and a curl with the other. You're brain can't quite focus on both and your posture changes. Intuitively, intuitively, I just knew that I wasn't getting maximum stimulation doing both at the same time. I don't know why, but I just knew it. If you have a good field of your body and you can actually have good mind, muscle, connection, you know when something's not working properly. And that's how I arrived at all this is that I would always do what you do. What you do, which is I could feel what I was feeling and where I was feeling it and then I would say why. Right. And then I would research it and I would find bilateral deficits and I would find unilateral folks and I would find these things. Oh, there's a trigger. Okay, for example, here's the one. Why is squats? Let's just say you were too squat without any weight on your back. You squat, dance, squat up. Why is that in some ways harder in a cissy squat? Yeah, I was wondering that. Why is it? Right. It's because of this thing, CRO, um, um, reciprocal innolvation. Again, a central nervous system interference. When you do, when you activate the glutes and at the same time you activate thEQuads, a couple of these things are canceling each other out because the body will not allow you to contract opposing muscles simultaneously. Interesting. You cannot fire your bicep in your tricep at the same time and no one even thinks about that because no one tries to do it. Right. You're going to activate hip extension muscles, which are your glutes and you're loading them by way of squats. You're shutting off your hip flexor muscles, which is the opposite joint function. One of the, one of the hip flexors is the rectus femurus 25% of your quadriceps. Yeah. Shading off. Right. When you're activating thEQuadriceps, what's shutting off? The hamstring. What is hamstring? Do participates in hip extension. Right. So you're having this neurological conflict going on that's making the squatting thinGHarder than it would be if you just did knee extension separately in hip extension. But why does it work so well squat? No one says it does. IMean, all we know is that, no, we know is that Tom Plats had big legs in his squat. Well, we know that squat, I have never seen anyone's legs look better than when they squat. For some reason, when people stop squatting, I see weird like different. They don't have the same shape to their legs for some reason. Well, okay, so the first thing I would say is when they stop squatting, what do they do instead? Right. That's what matters. Okay. So look, there's no doubt that activating your quadriceps when all four heads are working is better than when only three heads are working. Right. There's no doubt about that. And you can mathematically calculate. That's why my book is called the physics of fitness. You can mathematically calculate how much load is going on. So all levers have a muscle that move it. So the lower leg is the muscle that is operated by thEQuadriceps. Right. So if you know just the most basic physics, which is like the pendulum that hangs vertically is neutral, right? If you move that pendulum over to the side, you want to go back to the neutral position. When it's horizontal, when it's perpendicular to gravity, that's when that lever will be heaviest. Right. Zero when it's parallel to gravity, 100% when it's perpendicular to gravity, and percentages there are in between. So when you squat, your lower leg, which is being operated by thEQuadriceps, only dips forward about 30 degrees far from horizontal, not even at 45 degree angle, not even at A-50% active angle. So that means that whatever you have on your back isn't loading your quadriceps much. And so you put more weight on the bar, you can press your spine more to compensate for the 30% angle of the lower leg. It's just letting that lower leg go lower as it would in a 60 squat. Interesting. Okay. So here's the math, okay. If you are a 200 pound guy and you have 200 pounds on your back, that's 400 pounds divided by 200 pounds. Right. It's 200 pounds. Multiply times the length of your lower leg lever, which is about 20, multiply times the 30% equals about 940 pounds of load per quadriceps. Never mind that the rectus femmers is being shut off, right? 940 pounds of load per quadriceps. But if a 200 pound man without any weight on his back does a 60 squats and lets his lower leg get near. Explains. Explains. The 60 squats and people who may not know what a 60 squat is. Okay. A 60 squat, let me demonstrate it here. Good question there. 60 squat is where it's at a leaning forward as you squat, you lean back. It's like you're doing a limbo. Remember when you do the limbo and you get underneath the bar? So what you're doing when you do that is you load only thEQuadriceps. If you don't load the glutes or the lower back at all. Well, no, no, no. I'm just talking about regular, this is what in space, in space where you're either just balancing yourself or you can hold on to dipping bars or you know a Smith machine bar or something like that. It's very lightly not assisting yourself anymore than you have to, right? If you lower your lower leg to the point where it's almost horizontal, that's same to a 100 pound guy without any weight on his back will load his quarsips with a thousand 200 pounds. That's a fact. That's engineering. That's architecture. That's what any mechanical engineer, structural engineer will tell you the exact people who design cranes know these numbers. This is the math. That's the fact, right? And the problem is that we are such muscle heads that we are convinced that having a weight on our back where the plates are rattling and looks more impressive to observers automatically loads thEQuadriceps more than that Sitzesquat that doesn't seem to be doing anything. But from an engineering standpoint, that's completely false. I get it. Show me one more time the Sitzesquat you think people should be doing that they can get the same benefit from doing no way, just body weight Sitzesquat as what you said, putting all that weight on your back. I'm going to move this back just a little bit. That's okay. I think this is important enough to show people. You're not seeing my legs, does it? I see what's going on. I can see what's going on. No, I don't know how to describe it. They're throwing a knee-spelwork. So I understand what you're doing. Let me do it this way. That's a technical perfectionist. Perfectionist is right. That's a title. Wow. And that's very hard to do. People haven't tried to do it. It's not easy. If Ron had did that move and he'd probably put 405 on his back, right? While he was doing it. I'm sorry. Say again. I said if Ron had he commented that back in the day, he'd probably be able to do 405 for those with that weight. With that. Who else did it? Is Tom Plats? Oh, he was a Swiss-Coucite, too. Rich, Rich, Gaspari. IMean, Leila Brada. And the thing is that people would do Swiss-Couc and Barbell squats and like presses. And the fact of the matter is that's redundant. ThEQuadricep does one thing, primarily, other than the rectus femurs, which assist in inflection, it does one thing. It extends the knee. So the idea that you get a knee extension, knee extension, knee extension, knee extension, different kinds of knee extension, some which in all the hip flexion of safe extension and some which that is redundant. The idea is that all exercises can be mathematically, not only mathematically, but also from the standpoint of how ideal the anatomical motion is for that muscle and for that joint. They can be rated on a scale of 1 to 10. Let's say 10 being the best. And then you would say, well, then why would I do an exercise that's a seven on that scale? Why would I do a six? Why would I do a five when I can just do more of the 10? Right. And then let that muscle get the most. It's like having several doses of vitamin C. And then taking some that are 500 milligrams, some that are 200 milligrams, and then what did you just take the 500? So having, having these sets, would you do have CIS-Coucite when you do your leg workout and would you put weight in addition to your body weight? Well, first of all, let me say there are several ways of doing CIS-Coucite. That's one way. The other is using the bench that you describe where you hook your ankles on behind this thing and you can. So that's another way of doing it. Frankly, I think the best way of doing CIS-Coucite is either with inside a squat rack, with a couple of heavy elastic bands above you, so you can actually use these elastic bands to help you get out of the bottom. The problem with CIS-Coucite is, it's body weight or nothing. Right? You can't just move the pin. Right? So you can add more weight, but then that creates imbalance. Right. You can subtract weight by weight of these elastic bands. Right? And these elastic bands or ropes also help you balance so that you don't lose your coordination in fall the one side. The best way of doing a CIS-Coucite is with a dual pulley machine, or aromasingle pulley machine, where you've got a slight forward pull on the cable, and you kind of lean back like your water skiing, and you do a CIS-Coucite with that. And I'll tell you why it's really interesting. When you stand straight, you are balanced over your heels. If you did not have a forward pulling resistance from the cable and you lean back, you would fall back. Sure. Right? So when you put a certain amount of weight on that weight stack and you lean back, your body weight is offsetting the weight that's on the pulley. Interesting. So you can actually do a CIS-Coucite with less than your body weight. Right. By putting a lightweight on the weight stack and leaning back a little bit, and this minus that equals less than your body weight. And you can also remove the pin and add weight to us. It's balancing you in coordinating. Right. I would do when I would squat back in the day, so as heavy as 600 in something pounds, you know, for reps, we would end sometimes the workout with CIS-Coucite with body weight, and it felt like a million pounds, you're right. It was unbelievable. People don't understand the magnification due to the physics of that exercise. They think it's a CIS-C-C exercise, and it's it's foolishly called that, right? In my book, I forgot what the name of the, there was an emperor or something called that. And even it's believed that it was named after him. Oh. But the point is that the physics of the CIS-Coucite is such that it creates much more magnification to thEQuadricep, and gives you far more load on the muscle with much less stren on the skeleton. And in terms of your question, the number of sets, the number of sets, obviously, as you well know, depends on a lot on how much weight you select, the intensity of each set. Yeah. Right. You can do endless sets if you're not using much intensity, right? But if you're using a fair amount of intensity, most of us can handle somewhere between eight and 14 sets per muscle. Hmm. If you, yeah, I think putting your leg extensions and curls is up with that, right? Yeah. So you can do half of them on CIS-Coucite and have them on leg extension if you want. Right. They're very, very similar. Sure. Or you can do just one hour. You know, now that I'm working on an agarage, and we don't have a leg extension machine, we just do the CIS-Coucite. And we blow our, we blow our legs up, you know, quadrants and hamstrings with cables. Is this, is this our CIS-Coucite? I get this question a lot of CIS-Coucite's bad for your knees. They are not. They are not nor as leg extensions bad for your knees. And that's what we hear a lot. Yeah. Let me grab a proper quick. I love props. Can't go wrong with props, you know, that's for sure. All right, let's see what he's got here. So, you know, let me tell you how ridiculously lacking and logic, the idea that a CIS-Coucite would shear the knee. You've heard this, right? Sheer. Oh, don't do leg extension. They shear the knee. Right. So I created this little model right here, which is basically an upper leg and a lower leg. Right. And shearing would be this. Shearing is the idea that you're moving the lower leg, the upper part of the lower leg away from the joint. Yeah. So the first thing I did is I created this model. This would represent the Patella tendon. Yes. Coming from thEQuadricep, right? On the knee. So sometimes the criticism is focused on the fact that the resistance is being applied to the distal end of the lower leg, meaning at the ankle, right? As if that's worse. And it's actually better because the lower, the lower it is, the longer the lower leg, the more magnified it is and the less weight you can actually use. Right. Right. So if I push low on this thinGHere, as I will here, you can see that there's no. It just swivels. Sure. Right. If I push high, I can shift it away. But if I was trying to, let's say, shear your knee and you were sitting in a chair, I would actually have to put my hand just below your knee and another one below behind your ankle. Right. And I would actually push in opposite direction and actually because the ten minutes of ligaments in there are pretty sturdy. Right. If I don't put anything behind your ankle and I push on your upper, just behind. Nothing's going to happen. Right. Right. Now if I hit it with a hammer, maybe. Sure. But it's not going to happen with resistance. So the real crux of it is this. Is that if you put 50 pounds of load right here, this is about the weight of the knee. So load right here, this is about a 20 fold lever, 20 to one ratio. Okay. That means in order to extend for thEQuarter six to extend 50 pounds of the ankle, it has to produce 20 times more force. Wow. That's a thousand pounds of quarters of force, right. That quarter of force coming up. And over the knee, which is pulling the the the the the tip of the up. Sure. With a thousand pounds of force, while only 50 pounds is pulling it in. So that's anchoring force. So just no way mathematically that that upper leg can move away from the knee joint when it's got 20 times more anchoring force than it does vertical four. Oh, right. Look, it's it's it's it's basic science and physics like you said, it's not it's this is not you're not making this stuff up obviously. So, you know, and here's another thing. You'll say, oh, don't let the knees go over the toes when you're squatting. Oh, don't let well, what they're indirectly saying is don't let that lower leg break from the vertical position. Right. Well, guess what? As we just said vertical means neutral. Sure. So they're indirectly saying don't load your quarter ships at all because despite you having no knee problems. Yeah. It's bad for the knees. No perpendicularness. Yeah. It's necessary in resistance exercise. It's amazinGHow these experts out there give at this advice and it's not even actually accurate. Correct. I don't what what do you think a lot of this these these suggestions came from originally is it just they they just made them off. IMean, it has a science scientific base, you know, and they'll use they'll use you know analogies that don't even logical. You know, the one I'm sorry, I don't mean to break from your question, but if you look at it at a skull crusher. You know, the weight is in your hand. That's no different than it being at your wrist, right, which would be the equivalent of your ankle, right. The same thing without the leg extension is basically the same thing as a tricyp extension. The leg is like an arm, right, two bones connected by a hinge joint. Sure. Right, the hamstring is like the bicep, thEQuadrific is like the tricep, right. No one ever says the skull crushers will show your elbow. Right, true, true. IMean, it doesn't it doesn't make any sense, you know, so. Wait, what I do in my book is I encourage people to ask the right questions. That sort of boils down to is like, like, how is this any different than that? Right. So we always see a bench pressing is so terrible for your fly bench pressing. Do you agree with that? It disagree with it and what's your first obvious thing that's wrong with the bench press is the range of motion. Right, you know that you can't bring your hands together like you would with dumbbells. Right. So you know you're missing 25, 30% of the range of motion, right. And if that's okay, then it should also be okay across the board. It should be okay for your leg extension to stop 30% short of a cushion. And by-sips your triceps, everything to stop 30% short. No, it's not okay. That's that's flaw number one. Yeah. So number two is that when when and I always encourage people to imagine that muscles are like ropes. And then muscle origins are like a person holding that rope pulling that limb toward it. Yeah. Muscles always pull toward the origin. So imagine you've got a man standing on your chest holding a rope, E a muscle fiber. And that rope is going all the way across. It's going to pull that bone toward it. Gotcha. Right. Which by the way is why incline presses are not good. Because the highest part on your sternum pulls the bone and the flat bench direction. Okay. If I go in an incline direction, I'm assuming that I've touched a fibers on my chin. Interesting. There are no touch of fibers above the shoulder joint. Right. Right. Why not come incline presses definitely seem to improve that upper part of your pecks. And we've seen it. Well, that's an illusion. Okay. What that is is because I can tell you for a fact. I don't even know what your trening program is. I can tell you for a fact. You never spent six months doing only incline presses. I at one part of my career, I kind of did only incline work. I'll tell you why because I felt like every I felt like I always feel that most people have a good mid to lower chest. It's always the upper chest that seems to be lacking. Now, I don't know the bio mechanics the way you do. So I just assumed that I did a very low incline pressing movement. I would do dumbbells. I would do benching that way. And I just did nothing flat. I did I just six months of incline presses. And my my chest and my upper chest was worse than ever before. Yeah. IMean, so most people don't do that kind of clear study where it's only this for six months. Right. From an evolutionary standpoint, and I know you like evolution, right? We were once upon upon timEQuadruped. Sure. As we became primates, we became more and more upright in our arms, push progressively and downward direction. But our arms never pushed enough or directions. Ever. It was never one of my endorsers as an evolutionary biologist. And we agreed. There was never a need for an astralopitheasein or any endothal. Or any kind of hominid to ever use his arms, his pectrals, his shoulder joint, and what would be considered an incline angle. Right. Therefore, the skeleton, nor the muscular church, every ball to accommodate that movement because there was no need for that movement. Right. Right. So it just doesn't make any sense that you would now move your arms in an incline direction, even though we never evolved to do it. Right. But IMean, you could artificially do that just to overdevelop. I don't think we were meant to have overdeveloped upper pects, but for bodybuilding purposes, it looks good. So by doing that movement, it might not be a natural movement, but it might create the desired outcome that you want, which is a freakishly developed over, you know, upper pectmas. Well, that sounds good. And wishful thinking is wonderful. But the fact is, again, muscles only fall toward their origin. Yeah. Right. So you do what have to be an origin in the region of where that upper arm is headed to. Right. But with, though, you think that if you overload a certain area of the pect muscle, even though you're not getting a good buy, I guess, advantage, you know, because you're not really moving in the right plane emotion, you still might be over stimulating one set of pect, you know, five or over the lower ones. Right. I hear what you're saying. But the part that your question is is forgetting about, is that there are no five or five, because they're with which to pull. That direction of pull cannot be accommodated by any muscle of the chest. So how do you, how do you target upper pect fibres? We know that there's a pectarralis, you know, major upper pectarralis major and lower pectarralis major. Well, what there is, what there is is upper sternal fibres. Yes. And pelvicular fibres. But to how do you stimulate those, perperegly? Right. Well, again, so if you're doing a flat press in my book, there's a picture of a really, really, different woman doing flat dumbbell press. And you can see that her clav once the arm is up, the clavical shifts from the position to this position. Right. And then you can see that the upper arm is moving right toward the origins of the clavicular fibres, as well as the upper sternal fibres. Do you think keep elbows out to the side? Well, anytime that you're doing a chest exercise, you should always allow the limb to move away from the origins and you're doing a dip and you're doing this kind of movement. You're not moving away from the sternum, nor from the origins. Right. You need to move the arm to the side and toward the midline in order to be moving in the direction of the muscle fibers. And they always tell you not to do that. The power left is always keep their arms tucked in. You never hear, I always is for vital and always kept my elbows out to the side. And felt that I got maximum stimulation that way. But a lot of people say, oh, you can injure yourself more that way. Well, look, here's the thing is, at all times, in all parts of the body, all parts of the anatomy and exercises, you always have to ask yourself, is my limb, which is where the insertion of the muscle is, moving toward the origin of my target muscle, yes or no. Right. So when you're doing a front press, you're moving toward the clavicle, which is where the front deltoid in the collpicular pectoral are. So any kind of front pressure, something like this, will target front deltoid more because you're moving toward those origins. Gotcha. Anytime you're doing this, you're moving toward the sternum and you're moving toward the sternum fibers. So you do a decline direction, you're moving toward the coastal fibers as well as some of the sternum fibers. So why do power lift is tend to have a more tucked in elbow approach? What are that way? What they're doing actually is shortening their lever length. They're bringing this thing in and they're creating a very short lever and they're doing this. And so instead of doing this, which creates more moment arm, which is the physics term, the longer the moment arm, the more magnification, they're trying to minimize the magnification. So when someone says, if you use this particular method, it'll make you stronger. Well, no, muscle capacity is muscle capacity. You have the strength you have, right? What you can do is you can change your physics by shortening your levers and making your levers be more vertical. You get a lesser percentage of the load, but that's like using a crowbar to lift a heavy rock. And thinking that you're stronger because you're using a crowbar or thinking that you're developing more muscle, because the rock you're lifting with the crowbar is heavier than it would be if you lifted it. A rock that was half that size, half that weight without the crowbar. You could actually work harder lifting that rock without the crowbar, get more muscle stimulation with a rock that's half the weight. Then you could with using some of some physics that allows you to use a heavier weight. It makes sense. Fab, let me go back to the me go quickly back to the bench press. The bench press doesn't do what the dumbbell press. The dumbbell press pulls the upper arm, the humerus toward the middle end of the body. When you're bench pressing, it can't do that as well because your hands are wide and they're stuck on the bar. So now what you're doing is actually pushing in an angle, that's why your triceps getting engaged. If you put oil on that bar, your hands would slide out of the bar, proving that you're engaging your triceps. You can't actually pull toward the midline and that's why it's less effective for the pex than an exercise that allows you to literally pull that arm toward the midline of the body. So you can use more weight, but it's kind of in the illusion, just because using more weight doesn't mean the pex are workinGHard. Since I've actually since we've had this whole COVID thing, I've been trening in home all the time. IMean, I have a cable crossover machine and I have a dumbbells, and that's all I'm doing. I'm doing cable crossovers and I'm doing dumbbell presses and my pex feel like I get a pretty damn good workout. So it makes sense what you're saying. So I think the cable crossover is you're talking about the tradition of one with the pulleys that are about eight feet apart. Not, I don't have a big one. I have minor or little closer together because it's okay. Well, that makes a big difference because when they're when they're really far apart, what you're doing is you have two little resistance here and it's too much resistance in the central. Yeah, I agree. If they're if they're closer behind you, then you have more to beginning and less at the end and that gives you the resistance. Subscribe then matches the strength. Yeah, it's almost like a, it's almost like a dumbbell press. Like a dumbbell press, right? Let me ask you here because this is always another miss or something that people don't get right. When they want to build a wide back dog, everyone says, why pull down? Now, if you talk to Dory and the story needs to always the believer of the closer to your body, you are the strong you are the big you're going to build a back. Which is it? Well, again, when someone says the strong the closer your grip the stronger you are, you don't get stronger, right? Just because you change your grip, you're changing the mechanics of the exercise, right? Which might allow you to live a little more weight, but anytime there's something allows us to live more weight, we should be suspect of it. We shouldn't claim to it in embrace it, we should go, oh, I'm obviously changing my physics to reduce the magnification. Reduction and magnification allows me to use more weight, but that doesn't mean uploading the muscle anymore. Okay, so what you're saying? So here's the thing is when you're doing a lot exercise, you have to actually any exercise. The first thing you do is you say, what where is the origin of the muscle? Where is the insertion of the muscle? And what constitutes full range of motion? Okay, so with the lat, when your arm is extended like this, you've got to let the fully extended origins are in the bottom two thirds of your spine, and on the top edge of your pelvis. Right. Back of your pelvis, right? So what you want to do is you want to pull again toward the origin of the lat's, right? In a downward direction, right? So if you're doing one arm cable, then you start here and you end up with your elbow all the way at your side, which allows you to get full contraction of the lat's. Right. Okay. But when you're doing a close grip pull down or a close grip chin up, you're starting too high. You're not startinGHere, you're starting too high, which means you're already sort of pinching the shoulder joint, getting a little bit of an impingement syndrome happening. Right. And then keep in mind that the lat is pulling on the humerus, which is connected right about there, right? So when a muscle pulls on its on its lever on its limb parallel to that limb, that's called a mechanical disadvantage. That means that it's, that muscle has to pull in a direction, not of the direction that limb can move. Interesting. Right. The limb has to move in that direction, not in, not in, not in that direction, and yet that's the only angle for which it can pull. So it's starting from mechanical disadvantage, right? And then when you get to the bottom, you're seeing, you can tuck your arm in, but you started with a huge disadvantage at the beginning. If you start with a wide grip and you go like this, you end up here somewhere. So you've lost, you lost some range of motion at the end. That's why, and again, because of the just like on the deltoids, when you're doing lats, that lat is pulling that way and that one is pulling this way. These are opposite directions. That's why it would be better to work one lat at a time. I was going to ask you that. Yeah, one arm, a cable, a scrave a cable overhead and pull it down, huh? Right, but at an angle, you don't want it to be straight over head. You want it to be, you want the movement to be parallel to the muscle. I'm going to try that. That's that's what you do on that tonight. Right. You have to avoid the mechanical disadvantage that happens at the beginning, right? And then you want to get a full range of motion. You want to end with that, with that upper arm bone getting right up against the side of your torso. I'm doing it tonight. And by the way, it should not be straight to the side. Right. Right. And the reason for that is because if I get in this position right here, there's no shoulder joint problem. But if I pull my arm down, you'll notice that you have a certain amount of ability to externally rotate this arm. Right. And that's about as far as you can actually take it. Sure. So the idea that you can tuck your elbow into your side, and at the same time have your hand next to your side, that would constitute a dramatic excessive external rotation of that shoulder joint. So what you should do is you should start with that cable at about maybe a 45 30 degree angle, not quite more towards the front, but not quite to the side right about there. Right. And as you pull in, you actually rotate your torso slightly toward the... Oh, interesting. Okay. And then you rotate away from it and then toward it and then away from it and then toward it. And that gives you your full range of motion without externally strening the shoulder joint. I'll do that, you know, it's interesting to say that because I do that one arm at a time with the low cable. I do like a one arm cable row. Like almost you do a one arm dumbbell row, but I do with the same thing where I turn my body in and I kind of pull back, you know, with it. And I feel that I feel a real great range of motion. I really feel the lack contract a lot to that way. And that's when that's one of the reasons why it's better to do one arm-latt pull in. And then it is to do a two arm pull down because you can't rotate to both sides at the same time. Interesting. Okay. And the other thing too is you also find that you lean into your rotate and you lean your torso in that direction. Yeah. And you can't lean your torso in both directions. That's something to talk about. It locks you into much. One more body in the back. We got to go far to this at the time. I got so many questions to ask you people who look at this. Caves. We have people. Obviously, no calves are a genetic muscle group. Some people just have big calves, some people don't. Right. But I had weak calves, you know, very high calves. And I really worked and got my calves to improvEQuite a bit and bring them up to balance with my upper body when I was competing. I'm up to part of my upper leg. What would you say is the most effective calf exercises and set numbers of reps and how to execute them? Well, the first thing I'll say is that you cannot change a high calf. Right. You cannot make the tendon shorter and the muscle longer. Exactly. The typical calf is the tendon length is set by genetics and the muscle length is set by genetics. Right. And you can make it bigger and making it bigger sometimes it might make it look fuller. Yes. But you cannot actually do anything exercise-wise to make the tendon shorter and the muscle longer. Number one. Number two is that, you know, when someone asks me, what's the best exercise for? I usually start up by saying, well, what would be ideal for the calf? Right. Let's reverse and generate. Right. What is best for the calf for the most part is a relatively straight knee. Right. Right. A bit knee like a seated calf machine, right? Right. Creates what's called active insufficiency. Active insufficiency happens in the case or a muscle crosses two joints. Okay. Like the bicep, like the hamstring, like the calf. So when that secondary joint is bent, it brings the origin of that muscle, close to the insurcer of that muscle, which shortens the muscle. And that's why when we do, by the way, when we do, let's say a spider curl, right? Right. We feel the bicep cramping, right? When we do a standing calf or remember back in the day when we did flat leg curls, yeah, there's no hump in the thing. Yep. We would feel our hamstring cramping. And so you would raise your tailbone up to prevent the cramping. Well, you're actually relieving active insufficiency. When you're doing calves, what you want is more length. So if you have your origin on your humorous, if this is your knee, your origin of the calf is here, right? And your calf is down here. By straightening the knee, you elongate that calf. So standing calf raises a better, you're saying, and seated. Well, what I'm saying is standing like press any kind of calf extension, where your knee is allowed to be mostly straight. Now, what we hear this like if your leg is at a right angle, you work more of the solius muscle, you're standing upright, you work more of the gastrochmuscle. Okay, that's a good question. Here's the answer to that. First of all, is that it's a presumption, right? That if the calf, if the gastrochneemia can't work as hard, then automatically the solace will take over. And that's not necessarily true. And the other assumption is that the solius has much capacity for a grove. It does not. The solius is basically a sheet of muscle. Yeah. Right? And so they've done studies on this and what they found was that the solius works more when the demand is low. Either the demand for speed or the demand for force is low. Right? And your standards must be an endurance muscle. The solius works more when the demand is higher, either for speed or for power, the gastrochneau works more. Right? You can never get the solius to grow enough to compensate for any thirst. The bulk of the calf is always always going to be the gas. So standing with the leg extended in the straight motion is the way to go. Right. Now it could be like press it could be standing. But you do like press of course. You're not to put a bunch of weight on your spine. That's an advantage. Yeah. But what I was going to say was foot position does not matter. Right. You know, this thing where you've turned toes in, toes out, you know, it doesn't take much observation. And thought to see if some guy's turninGHis toes in, he's rotatinGHis femurs at the hip. Right. It's not like your lower leg is staying foot and then you're right. If I get some of his moving, right? The mechanics of the ankle doesn't change when you rotate the entire leg. No, that makes sense. But you don't want to, you don't want to have a perfectly locked leg when you're goinGHeavy either. Sure. Because that strens the knee. And if you have a tendency to high-pricstend the knee, that could be super bad. You want to have a little tiny bend in your knee always when you're doing caps. What I do at home because I don't, you know, and this is relevant because a lot of people have no gyms. I take the, like, a little leg cuff we can kind of do, you know, you know, you're, you're in a ratify type stuff at the top. Yeah. And I actually put it around my, I pull it up over my calves. And I do standing calf raises with that thing. Where I actually lean back against that pad and, and I seem to get some stimulation of my calves that way. I am all right. Yeah. I'm going to do some idea. Yeah. IMean, it's going to be a good pass at home if you don't have a, you know, a leg press machine or something like that. Yeah. We know we're, we're making do. And what we have, we have a double adjustable pulley, a free motion machine. We have dumbbells from 2.5 up to 65. Yeah. We've got a slight, we've got a decline bench adjust to almost flat and then more, and a seat with a seat back. And that's it. We're getting a glute machine, a hip extension machine. And that's, and then I think we'll be complete. We can work our quads fine by doing those sixy squats on the cable. We can work our hamstrings fine by putting the ankle cuff on the ankle and doing leg crows with the cable. Okay. Well, we can do very well as hip extension. Glute bridges, glute bridges are just literally less than half the range of motion that the glutes have capacity for. So what do you do with hamstring wise? Yeah. What we do is we, we just connect the, the ankle thinGHere. Right. And then, and then we just do aromasingle leg leg curl with the cable set up, you know, kind of high. And then we're building a bench a seat that allows your lower, your lower legs, your tibia to hang without the feet touching the ground. Oh, okay. And that way you can do your leg curl and not have your ankle and hit the ground. Right. But I, I didn't even thought of doing the other way. That's quite a try to do that. Because that's the only thing I'm going to have a trouble trening is my hamstrings at home. Yeah. And what the, as you would get into the same, the calves, you know, we just do standing calf raises with body weight. If you want to add weight, you know, you can always, you know, use cables or hold a dumbbell or something like that. It's awkward because it's not as convenient as a leg press machine. Tell you, put that cuff around your both calves. You can do it or you can do one at a time. I, both calves are good because it kind of just barely fits in there and it holds pressure against them and you can do standing calf raises. You know, if you do one leg at calf raises, you double the weight. Right. No, yeah. It's very hard to balance. Hey, this was a great interview. I people got to love this and you know, we only covered the one book that you wrote the physics of resistance exercise. I want to go over one of the old books that had written abouT4 years ago, a million dollar muscle because it was dealt with exercise myths. And I really want to go over that. So I want to get it back here if you'd agree to come back. I think I'll, I'd be having to go. This is awesome. I know, I got to try to catch up to Rick Dresden, our good friend. He rested piece because you were on there. I think 30 times on his podcast. Right. Right. I'm hoping I'm hoping that I can take it over. Yeah. I'd like to continue Rick's corn. Oh, that would be great. Yeah. You know, I'd like to, you know, you need to get permission from his kids and we don't know what that's going to entail. But I, I think I can do Rick's corner. I can have short. How kinds of guests come on. Yeah. You know, good. The golden guys. I want to get back. I want to talk more about the trening because we don't really go over trening as much. I think as as people likes. This is going to be a great interview. People want to get in touch of you. They can go to DougBriganoli.com. More trening 365.com is your personal trening course. And then you got healthy learning.com as well. Doug, thank you for joining us today. And I'm going to have you back even next week of the week after. Thanks Dave. Good talking to you. All right, guys. That's going to take you to the end of another episode of live with. I'm Dave Palombo with Doug Briganoli. See you next time.

=== FILE: THE RETURN OF KING PHIL! [jHq0-UPE3yo].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Motor 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low carb clock tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polo and today is Wednesday, August 12th, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to the show. I know it's recap Wednesday but since there weren't any pro shows this last weekend, we don't have anything to recap. So I figured we give you guys the next best thing and talk about some of the huge news stories from last weekend or so starting with the New York crowd. In case you haven't heard the New York crowd be officially moving the entire operation down to Tampa, Florida. So they don't have to cancel this year's contest. Now for me, the most surprising thing about the story is that they had to move the show. It's that they managed to get this all together so quickly. There's show is still scheduled to take place on September 5th, which is only three weeks from now. And from what I understand, they're still planning to have athletes from eight different divisions competing there. The New York pro is and has been one of the premier events in bodybuilding. So I'm glad to see that we can pull together as a community to make this happen. Because it shows how resilient we can be when our backs are up against the wall. You need to go. We told you where there's smoke. There's fire about rumors surrounding Phil Heath competing in this year's Olympia. And I don't want to get up on my high horse here and say I told you so, but I did. I told you so. And now Phil has made an official last weekend. Phil took over bodybuilding social media when he announced that he was competing at this year's contest with a dramatic post about how he was coming back to settled unfinished business. We've talked more about this over the next few months, but as far as Phil's concern, that couldn't have been a better time to make this move with all the travel restriction in place. We could be looking at a lineup that's missinGHalf of the guys who were in the top 10 last year, which is huge. Obviously, if Phil can be 95% of what he was a few years ago, this might be enough to brinGHome his eighth sandout. I read a report earlier this week that said Tesla just passed toyota as the most valuable car company in the world. Stop thinking about that for a minute. If you invested $1,000 in Tesla stock five years ago, your initial investment would be 498% better, which is absolutely insane. And do you know what else is insane? Wesley Vissers, because this guy's stock is through the roof right now. According to reports Wesley just started his Olympia prep on Monday when he was sitting somewhere in the neighborhood of £270, a bigger and morecomplete Wesley is something we haven't seen on a classic Vixie stage today. So if he shows up as good as advertised, he'll be selling we can count on fighting for a top 10 slot. Sometimes I think sports and music live in a parallel universe because they both exist in a space that needs everything to work in harmony to make the finished product come out just right. Let's take Connie Slisiot, aka Connie Orange for example. Since she teamed up with a old friend Louise Rogers, Connie's been one of the most consistent hitmakers in the fitness industry. Not only has she become one of the top amateur figure athletes on the international scene, but she's also become one of the top influencers too. You can't do that without having all your instruments playing the right notes at the exact same time. And if she keeps going at this rate, it won't be long before she starts taking over the top of the pro league charts and cementinGHerself as one of the top talents in the sport. And that does it the yet another edition of muscle in the morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: THE RIGHT TIME TO GO 'ENHANCED'？ #askDave [zj6yBhFzIq0].txt ===

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Bot, there's 30-year-to-row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car soft tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Alright, self-ish-mine on rxmuscle.com. This is ass-day better known as hashtag ass-dave. You're 30-minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Palombo. All your questions as usual, diet, trening, supplementation, I-B-B-B-B-B-B-Rose competitions. Whatever's on your mind, bodybuilding or beyond, it is all on the table. We're going to go right into thEQuestions. We have a couple of big guests lined up over the course of the next 30-to-40 minutes. So we want to get as many questions as possible. Let's go first of the day with the Lumpo Experience app. Dave, when should I use your power building program and for how long, for those who have not yet tried out the day with the most experience, if you want to get them a little primer? Yeah, I created this app a couple of years ago for people who wanted to have like a continuing education type of situation where they're always learning and it's an ability to watch and read all my writings, see all my videos I've ever done. But then also have the ability to ask mEQuestions unlimited, I answer it however, an unusual way. And for everyone sees everyone's questions and everyone's answers. And then I take the best questions and I do an ask Dave like video, like I do here, except it's exclusively for the app only and it's at a much higher level. ThEQuestions are really morecomplex and more interesting, I think. So if you're interested in that and then of course, we put up a workout every single week. So you can kind of change up your workouts if you want. It's a great resource to have it. You're back in call. Now thEQuestion was what again? No, the power listing. Oh, all right, the power, how long? Yeah. One of the workouts we put up there is my power phase routine, which is usually like a six to eight week program. Usually when guys are in the midst of an offseason where they're trying to put on maximum size, it focuses more on the basic movements and it takes away a lot of the little accessory movements as I call them. It really heavily focused on the leg workout is 10 sets of squats essentially with a couple little other stuff and they have it not much more. Benching on chest aches a lot of incline benching, bent rows on dead lifts on back day. It's really focused on the power compound movements so you can build not only strength, but mass and not worry about having to do all the other stuff because when all the other stuff takes away energy from the stuff that you should be focusing on predominantly. So this is a really good building phase. I usually like I said recommend usually eight weeks is the most you can do it because it's very traumatizing to your nervous system to have to have that kind of heavy weight with that kind of intensity. So don't do it for too long or you're going to get stalemate and once again, I try to have guys do it when they're in the midst of their maximum eating and maximum if they're using the maximum gear cycle as well. It's a lot more of that. We're going to be bringing back iron debate. We'll do that live as well. We like these interactions with you. The Rx muscle community beat on Instagram, beat on YouTube or be on YouTube live. So we look forward to doing that a lot more. Let's go to Actar, McShafftar, do all pros, good one here. Do all pros need gynaus surgery at some point should you budget for gynaus surgery when using gynaus. It's like asking to all figure and bikini and women's physique pros need breast enhancement surgery and most of them do and most guys are going to need to have gynaus surgery if you want to have a nice peck line there. There are some not many but there are some people that just don't have breast tissue down there. They don't have the glands in there. It's like some women just have small boobs. They never have any tissue there just genetically that's the way they are. The majority of men that I've worked with all these gynaus surgery and sometimes a lot of the guys wait too long. I would budget that into your bodybuilding career type of curriculum because at some point you're probably going to need to do it. I send a lot of people to Dr. Blow and White Plains in New York. There are other guys around the country that are getting good at it but Dr. Blow is the best if you look into the best he's still the best to guide a go to. But I would certainly you know I was in a rod. I took one shot at testosterone and I saw my nipple hanging a little bit. I went and got it taken out. I didn't want to deal with it. It was good because it creates a lot of anxiety in people because it doesn't look good. You're always playing with it and you know you can't get on stage without these judges saying something about it. If you have a bad get it taken out that's my best advice to you. Another good one here this one from sweeter fothel at what point in someone's lifting career slash lifetime should they stop trying to PR on mass weight is there such a thing. Very rarely did I ever try to just do a one rat max type of thing. Now when I was trying to move up and wait a lot of times you know the first time you attempt the weight you have to have you know you want to make sure you're trading part in his day you have a good spot because you're not going to be able to use the weight and sometimes it's scary. Remember the first it took me a long time to get 600 pounds in the squat because I think it was a mental thing in my head that was working against me. So I had to actually go down with the weight with someone underneath me and actually lifting with me so I can actually get a feel for the weight. Once I got comfortable with how heavy the weight felt on my back and got used to it I was able to move up. But I never ever went you know just to say okay I bench press 500 pounds that was never my intent my intent always was to do multiple reps with that weight. But sometimes like I said you have to get used to the weight and that might be a one or two rep with a spot type of situation initially. But I wouldn't be going for trying to just let's look at unless you're a power lifter if you're a power lifter and you're trying to go to set records then obviously you're you know that's a different that's a different mentality however and a different trening style for bodybuilding purposes we're trying to get bigger. So we want to move heavier weight for multiple reps very rarely or very infrequently do you want to do one rep maxes. It's going to manzo low what carrier oils should be avoided when running injectables you'll see a lot of different compounds using different carrier oils and some say that certain ones are toxic the body. You know I really wouldn't know which ones were toxic. I never heard of any of them being toxic like you would never use mineral oil mineral oil is a amino stimulatory. So in other words you take mineral oil inject I know guys to try to use that as a site injection oil and they got really sick from it because your immune system attacks mineral oil. So you want a neutral and what we call a neutral oil that your immune system will not really respond to you know that's you know your your MCT oils your grape seed oils and stuff like that cotton seed oils there it is a hole hosted them and then the ones that have historically been used in all the oil based injectables out there you can just read the ingredients on the pharmacy ones see what they use that you should be using because these pharmaceutical companies have researched which of the best ones and which are the ones you shouldn't be doing. Unfortunately I think a lot of people you know they they buy you know the raw powders from China and then they can't get an oil and some people are using oil from the kitchen cabinet and they they think if they run it through a filter syringe that it's a sterile. So I don't know what to tell people it's a very rough time now if you use animal ox sterile right because there's no very few steroids are being made in actual factories anymore like pharmaceutical you know places where there's you know quality control and everything's tested it's kind of like people making it in their house you know and I don't care you know just just because it's in a nice box with a good label doesn't mean that it was necessarily made with the most sterile techniques or in the most you know professional way so it is what it is that's why I always recommend the people buy the Roy test kits I sell it daypalombo.com it's a bill well and product and test your test your stuff because you know what I've been saying 50% is is fake now I've been seeing more I would say probably 75% of the gear out there is not what it says it is so it might not be completely nothing but a lot of the injectables now are coming back as testosterone propane and a lot of the orals are coming back as Diana bowl you know that's understand what it's just the fact I know this because people buy these kits and then they send me the results and they tell me to interpret them I see it all the time I don't even have to ask people anymore if I have a client or someone who contacts me and said hey I'm taking this testosterone or I'm taking this deck up you know product and I'm getting super sore at my injection site I'm getting fevers I know right away they're using testosterone propane that's classic test propane you know side effects it doesn't hurt when you're injecting it but the next day or later it gets like bruised and then sometimes you actually get like a fever you can get you know chills from it you get almost like flu like symptoms because your immune system is overreacting to it classic propane also women they think they're taking out of our they're getting bloated they're losinGHair and they don't understand why well because they're taking Diana bowl and they're not really taking animal so test your products as far as the oils go that are you know of concern use a prize that you know a lot of people have used don't don't use products that you're not sure of because buy and far if something is not a good carrier oil someone will have figured it out already hey stay away from this product but once again most of the most of the oils that people seem to be using seem to be reasonable because pretty much everyone uses the same stuff just be wary of people who say hey avoid this product a lot the really the best advice now is anecdotal if people say the stuff works pretty well then what it's worth purchasing and then testing it with the right test if it comes back what it says it is then you can use it and maybe you should buy a bunch of it and stockpile at a that point because there's not that much good stuff on the market anymore it's good to sell opal sb boss the best way to assess someone's genetic natural potential and we've discussed as many different various forms but I guess at what point does an athlete say or are they have reached their their I guess their genetic potential before decided to go in hands it's very it's very hard to determine that you know you could tell when looking at a person if they have good genetics for bodybuilding because you can see their bone structure did they have wide clavicles so they why they have a small waste what kind of a flare do they have to their you know to their legs bone structure is huge bodybuilding whether the person has the the mental fortitude to be able to put the size on now do the trening eat the food take and they're willing to take the drugs that's another story all together as far as natural potential how far to go before you actually take an animal cycle it's impossible for me to give you an answer on that because everyone is different however when someone starts hitting a plateau and you know that you're eating perfectly you're getting all your meals in you're not missing anything you're doing to everything you can do in terms of supplementation you're trening right and you just not progressing at that point then you got to sit down and say to yourself hey do I want to go to the next level do I want to take an amolix and and then that's a personal decision but how far a person know is really going to be dictated by their structure number one but then there what's up here in their head because you know my structure was good but it wasn't great and I went very far because I had the the the mental strength to do it and I've seen other people do the same thing branch Warren I don't you know he obviously had a nice structure but I don't think anyone in their right mind would have ever have guessed that he would have been able to pat on as much mass on that body as he did and and to go as high as he did winning two Arnold classics winning you know coming in second at the Olympia behind Jay Cutler IMean he really maximized what he had to work with because of his strength and his brain of his mind so it's a two tiered component visit genetic component and then there's a mental component unfortunately most people don't have both they have one or the other comes along you know as a rare individual that comes along everyone's in a while like a Ronnie Coleman that has both and that's why that he was so successful let's go to excellent one 87 Dave what are the pros and cons of natural test boosters for a natural competitor and could you also discuss what you should be looking for as far as brands and key ingredients you know when I design test the lives I can only speak to my own product because because you know IMade it I always felt that the best way to enhance natural testosterone production is number one to reduce estrogen because we know that estrogen is what shuts down the pituitary and high epithalamus and the brain and prevents your body from producing more natural testosterone so if we can limit estrogen but not annihilated because we know that if you limit it if you get rid of too much estrogen you lose your sex driving and your and your androgen receptors don't have a lot of receptivity so you want to limit estrogen okay but without getting rid of it you want to limit your body's ability to convert testosterone into DH he literally doesn't build muscle okay it might give you sex drive it might give you you know secondary male sexual sexual characteristics but it's not going to give you muscle building and if we do that limit estrogen limit DHT we're going to have more natural testosterone by definition at that point because less testosterone will convert to other things then if we throw some direct stimulant or stimulators of testosterone production in in addition to that now we have a multi tiered approach to maximize testosterone in the body we eliminate estrogen which frees up the hypothalamus and pituitary to release more elutinizinGHormone and and and and and follicle stimulatinGHormone which is going to stimulate natural testosterone production and sperm production if we limit lemonade DHT or lower DHT the ability to produce DHT more testosterone will stay as testosterone and then direct stimulation that's what I did with testolize that's why I don't call the testosterone boost I call the testosterone optimizer because it optimizes testosterone through all these different routes once again I can't speak to other people's products and I wouldn't say one's better than the other or worse than another I just know mine works very politely and it's one of our best selling products because of the science that I put into it take two-three morEQuestions Tom holds worth over your thoughts on HH fragment do you think it's effective in fact burning you know these HCH or a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone fragments that they produce are interesting because when they've done it they they they the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone molecules of hundred ninety one amino acid for all so it's a long molecule it's all convoluted and everything like that and they found the different pieces of this hormone like if you clip this many starting as this many amino acids to this many amino acids they do different things and one of the fragments I know is they say is is the fat burning fragment it's the fragment that in other words you don't even need the rest of it just that fragment alone will bind you know and cause lipolysis or the liberation of fat for the fat cells on paper and in experiments however I'll tell you this I've never seen anyone use these fragments and get the same effect that they get from using real growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone the whole intact molecule why is that? Well be probably for the same reason that you know if you take a test the austro and you as a as a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone agent you grow really well you get some side effects but you grow and then if you take like anolvar which is a derivative of testosterone which theoretically is similar and it should be even better because it's more it has more anabolic properties less and it's been a purpose it's not even close to a strong testosterone because when you start removing things and taking away the whole to use a piece of something you don't get the same effect and that's what I'm seeing in these fragments they on paper should be more effective because it's only the the fat burning component but they're not as effective as fat birds as as taking the whole intact GH molecule and that's the best analogy I can give you and that's the best thing I can only tell you what I see and what I know and the people who are using them if it worked as well as the real GH molecule don't you think everyone would be using it and it would be getting great results but they're not they're not and so that's unfortunately the reality of what's out there right now let's go to Carlos Benavita 7 blasting for six months massing cycle then trensition of recontest with no change in testosterone short thoughts yeah I think testosterone should be pretty stable you know I think you know I find a thousand milligrams a week is pretty much you know what I am in favor of use the that comes out to about 250 to 300 milligrams every other day and that should be standard whether your offseason or pre-contest the that what I change pre-contest is IMight throw in different antibiotics like mass around and tren alone uh winstrol you know as opposed to maybe sticking with the more of the long acting injectable antibiotics like echo poise and deca and stuff like that and dianna ball I'll stick with more of the you know so I I have my certain drugs I like to use offseason I get the certain drug like to use pre-contest and then I'll also use like fat burning agents like climbed uteroll IMight throw some cydomel which is T3 into the mix to help with that bring because the goal when you're preparing for a competition is not you're not really worried about building muscle what you'd built worried about is is leaning out and so the most potent leaning out substances would be you know climbed uteroll and T3 and grow homo to a certain degree probably third on that list and then maintaining your muscle mass with the drugs you're taking and having a hard look to it at the same time and so yeah I think it I usually go from offseason right into pre-contest and then I clen the person out after that. I've got a funny one I'll say that to the end it's going to send Tony strong your thoughts on grains and their effect on gut health the healthier your gut the more nutrients you can absorb similarly. Yeah you know there are certain people that are not very good digesters of wheat proteins or wheat in general gluten okay that's another way of saying it they have a some kind of analogy to it they're just their bodies attack the immune system goes after it and that can create a lot of gut issues obviously with inflammation and you know sometimes it can cause ulcerations and there's a whole host of different you know melodies that are linked to that grains specifically most people are not gluten incentive though or gluten allergic I think that you have a couple people you know I don't know what the statistics are how many people out of how many people but for most people they can handle wheat okay and they but a lot of people eliminated thinking that oh I got to go gluten free because that's what so-and-so didn't got such great results well so-and-so was had was legitimately you know gluten intolerant okay I had I have a very good friend my friend John Gratio he found that he can't have any gluten he anything with gluten and it hit it completely messes up entire gut he can blow it in he he feel terrible so does he go gluten free feels great again but he legit and he got tested he legitimately has an allergy to that stuff so for most people you can they can handle it and then I think that the best thing for gut health believe it or not is not necessarily giving your body a probiotic all the time because you want to maybe seed your colon with the good bacteria but then let it grow the best way for it to grow healthy is to feed it what's the best way to feed it soluble fiber soluble fiber is the food source for these gut bacteria they ferment it and they make energy for themselves for it and and fuel essentially which is good because when they ferment this soluble fiber they actually release these short chain medium chain fats into the bloodstream which tells the liver stop producing glucose so a soluble fiber supplement not only nourishes the gut bacteria but it also helps you with blood sugar control in the body which is great while you're dieting why because lower sugar lower insulin in the blood less fat storage so it all goes hand in hand so once again probiotics are good like if you're on antibiotics or something like that but once when you're not on those and you want to just keep those gut bacteria that are there healthy feed them give them a good fiber supplement fiber lies works really well the ceiling is is a great soluble source of fiber that the gut bacteria would they love to ferment this stuff and I think you'll you'll find that you get some good if you're looking and once again if you are an antibiotic so you do have some gut bacteria issues and you want to recede you can use probiotic foods like Bobby Salach route a coconut key fear or you can even go on a website like natrin natrin makes a really good powdered probiotic they have two different ones one's called megadophilist one's called bifidofactor you can alternate days do one one day one the next day maybe do a month of that and then fall and IMix it right into my fiber life supplement believe it or not but I won't do it continuously I'll do two weeks of it and then take a break off and maybe I won't use it again for another six months but I don't want to stop the fiber the fibers what's feeding those bacteria. It's good if a Robert cat and he's best site to shoot a stonstron or thEQuads okay. Nooo no quad injections go watch my video why you shouldn't shoot your quads I it's a very popular video you will get an infection I guarantee it it might not happen the first time of the second time it will happen and then you will be very very very upset and said do not shoot thEQuads ever ever ever ever ever trust me I promise you go watch my video you'll know all the reasons why it's funny whenever I say this there's always someone out there who's been shooting their quads and they've never had an infection and then the very next shot they take again infection after hearing my video and they're like why don't I listen to them don't shoot your quads the private best place is to put it into the glutes the delts side delts lats right here big juicy muscles that you can go nice and deep and inch in a half in and push that stuff in there and let it get absorbed that's the best advice I can give you. Good at Jason marks I at BD Pro what are these wellness pro competitors what are they taking what's there I guess gear uh regiment like you know they to me they look like little mini body builders and some of them have big legs in the body bulls so I would assume they're probably doing what the women's physique you know competitors are probably doing I see I see bikini girls that use testosterone as as as an a and as stupid as that may sound because their coaches put them on it that should never be the case obviously for me as far as I'm concerned if you know if I'm thinking about someone that I care about and I am worried and I want to remain very feminine and not ruin themselves and of ours the safest thing to do a little GHS say obviously the fat burners like you know clubbed or old side of me I'll have no side of X in terms of mass formalization the the probably the strongest any woman should do is would be something like winstrol and always when women use anobox the best of the user are pills because orals are not in your system all the time so you're not being exposed 24 hours it might only be like you know 12 or 16 hours out of the day so anobar windshield pills are probably something that women can get away with without too many side effects pre-movell used to be good but 99.99% of the pre-movell and at least the injectable pre-movell on the market is safe it's actually test proponents you don't want to do that there are some pre-move acetate tabs out there that are available I think that 25 million rent pills those those would be all right maybe a crack them in half a half in the morninGHalf at night those are those are drugs that are safe and the great thing about women is their receptors their energy and receptors are so so receptive to some they're so sensitive because women produce dairy very small amounts of testosterone in their body and it comes from their adrenal glands their adrenal glands produce the HCA which converts the testosterone in their tissues and so their bodies have to have really good receptors to recognize those very small amounts so when women put even the weakest antibiotics into their body like anobar their bodies respond them amazingly because they have way more sensitive receptors than the men do so there's no reason for a woman to take super strong drugs all they're going to get a side effects and you know what the biggest mistake women make is they start taking the strong drugs and they say oh I'm getting nothing but good muscle gains I have no side effects well it doesn't take a boy you know six weeks to go through puberty it takes years so it's a cumulative thing so you do test the ostrone for six eight weeks and or maybe longer and the next time you use it all the sudden you get a million side effects and everyone's like I don't know this then I took out the first time I had no side what was cumulative okay your your cumulative getting side effects women should not use anything more than when showing out of our last one of uh from booby bobby trap lord a good friend of the show is he name seeing as your legs were so big what did you do so the franken beans that in constantly shaving never your body bull is talking about that I am you mean I guess you know my legs were burned the guy I had AI used to walk with my legs like separated like you obviously the bodybuilder walk there are guys to do it who have skinny legs just because they think they're all like I used to legitimately have to walk out of separate my legs and so big but I always wore like like bikini underwear like you know they kind of keeps it tight to your body I don't know how guys do the the box of shorts with big legs because yeah your your stuff kind of hangs a little too low at that point but yeah IMean I always like I said I wore like some kind of a tighter you know closer fitting you know which is not good if you're trying to get your wife pregnant by the way but as far as holding everything in that's the way to go it's almost like you were imposing trunks all the time except they're you know they're made a cotton there you have it it's funny because I was kind of scrolling through the comments or whatever it's there was some back or there I guess is not something that bodybuilders generally talk about but there you have I don't you know I know I'm not gonna mention names I know a bodybuilder a couple of I was who don't wear who didn't wear and they may be even to this day they don't wear anywhere and which is I don't know how that you can possibly to me that's so uncomfortable I don't know why anyone will want anything you know just hang swing it in the breeze there that's got to be super uncomfortable especially for guys with huge huge legs because it kind of just gets smooshed between that so you definitely want to kind of hold it off a little bit that's for sure so I guess if we're gonna go with this is a terrible have to go something along the lines of protecting your Twickenberries there you go that's gonna be for this episode of ass Dave next week we will be back live on the shows so if you want to get your questions answer live on the show interact with us via the youtube comment section live comment section we'll be doing that we're also gonna be looking back to bring back iron to be as well perhaps any live format for Tyler Shore and Dave Poulombol I'm so deep for rookie we'll see you next time

=== FILE: THE RISE OF ROELLY! Muscle in the Morning (7⧸24⧸18) [XFrdcQik5IQ].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning! On day of the Lumberland today is Tuesday, July 24th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. After we get a wrapped up binge watching Luke Cage on Netflix, and I swear at one point during an episode, I caught myself thinking, well, I wonder if Joel Thomas could beat this guy in a fistfight. Over the last few weeks, bodybuilding's version of the indestructible man has been looking even more like a superhero than usual, which can only mean that he's got a date with a pro stage circled somewhere on his calendar. And if I were a betting man, I'd probably be willing to lay down a few dollars on the South Florida native jumping into the Tampa Pro next month, which is the show that we've seen him look right at a few times since 2015. When you see him in the gym, this guy has to sort of thickness and nastiness that makes you go crazy as a fan. So if you can figure out how to trenslate that to his in the stage, he's a guy who can absolutely make some noise in the top five call out. I saw one of those motivational speaking videos on YouTube a few weeks ago, where I heard this guy say that you should never let your ambitions exceed your work ethic. And I could say with complete honesty, that I haven't talked to too many athletes this year who had a work ethic, like 2018 Muscle Man Pro Champ, Charles Griffin. Less than two months out from makinGHis first trip to the Olympia stage, the third year pro looks like he's a man on a mission. Over the weekend, we saw a team Griffin released a clip from a shoulder session where we saw some of the craziest next level density you're going to see on this side of the Mediterranean. Up to this point in his career, Griffin has been one of those guys who makes explosive leaps up to latter almost every time we see him. But when you look at the landscape, and this year's Olympia lineup, we'll see if he's got enough firepower to make his way up into the top ten with the elite talent in the sport. The horror-c-e-o and motivational speaker, Andy Forsella, some people like to talk about it. But very few people out there actually want to be about it. And I don't think you have to be a genius to figure out which of these camps really winkler falls into. Now that we're finally starting to creep past the halfway point for Olympia prep season, I think it's time we start paying attention to raining and defending Arnold Orstrelia champ, really winkler, who's probably put together the best eight to ten months stretch of his career recently. True to form, Ruley's been relatively quiet over the last few weeks. But in the few red crumbs that we've seen sprinkled out, the bee seems like he's still lurking out there, hungry as ever. A 100% wooly winkler is one of the scariest body those on the planet as far as on concern. And I don't think anyone would be the least bit shocked. The ended up bringinGHome a top three finish when the Olympia is all set and done. I don't know how many of you guys out there are football fans, but usually when you hear about in the lead athlete in a high-demand sport, tearing an ACL, the way Carson Wentz did last year for the Eagles, you're looking at a nine to 12 month recovery. That's why it's almost hard to fathom when I see 2018 fitness international champ, Whitney Jones doing right now four months post surgery. Over the weekend, Jones released a clip from one of her recent trening sessions that makes mEQuestion everything I thought I knew about the human body. By all accounts, not only is Jones blowing away any and all recovery projections that I've ever seen, but I think she's probably also the front runner for the fitness Olympia crown now, which makes this whole thing even more incredible. I've been on record as saying that these fitness girls are by far the best overall athletes in the entire industry. But if Whitney Jones can somehow come back and actually pull off the win, somebody should call up Netflix and let them know that we've got their next documentary lined up right here. At this point, life, I honestly don't think I can remember a whole lot about what I was thinking or doing when I was 23. But I promised it wasn't anything even remotely close, what I've seen lately from classic physique prodigy, Keon Williams. Less than two months away from his rookie debut at the Tampa Pro, Pearson has really started to generate some buzz on social media from some of these updates. Last year's Junior USA champ looks like he's ready to come smoking out of the gates down there in Tampa, where I've heard some people mention his name as a potential winner, which sounds a whole lot like what I heard a few years ago when we were all waiting for Terrence Ruffin to make his classic physiogave you right down there on that same stage. Whether or not this kid is ready to be as good as advertised is still anyone's guess at this point. But if the hike turns out to be real, man does that make the future of this classic physique division start to be really interesting. And that does if yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On day to day, Palombo remind you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: THE TIME A GYM OWNER CHARGED THE ROCK $14! [J1PWxMQE8Xw].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest body-gulling days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Botter 30-year-to-year-to-row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car of cocktail. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. When you're asleep, they're just getting started. John, Dave, Pulando, after hours. Welcome back guys to After-Allers. Oh, I've got to take my mask off. Oh, we're in a safe, we're in a safe there. I don't need my mask. I'm Dave Pulando and I'm joined as always by John Romano. John, do you have a mask on? Oh, that's a better mask than mine. Oh, I can't hear you though. But I got to tell you, this is a high-teen. I don't want to get COVID-19, so I'm going to ask. The Tyler's back. WEQuarantined for two weeks, but we don't make a mask. But I didn't make a wear mask. I got an RX. I got another RX, Muslim ass. Kind senior made these great masks. The reason I like them, John, if you're going to wear a mask, because you know, some planes you can't go into certain stores without them. They have like an adjustable ear thing. So if you have like a biGHead like I do, you can kind of make your, you're more slack here. If you have a small head, you can kind of show it up a little bit and make a little smaller here. So thank you, Hind Senior, to these. That was pretty cool. I don't wear a mask. I refuse to wear a freaking mask. I have a worn one yet. Yeah. That's all right. But you know, in certain stores, they make you. But then I don't go to them. They don't, somebody else gets my money. I got my pop, Tarty, my legendary foods. Tasty pasties. We'll not happen to you, those. I gotta get the same, you send me a love these. They're great. Keep saying that. I know. I forget. But you know, Bruce, but I gotta get, I'll just tell Bruce to send him to you. Or to see him. I have a slight rant to do before we get started. I was, I, I, I, I, I don't know what happened. But as I'm getting old, I'm falling apart. I feel like my dad saved us. But I've been grinding my teeth at night. And I've been chipping my teeth off. And I, I cracked an old feeling. They just had to put a, a $2,000 or maybe $2,500 cap on it. You know, a new porcelain, you know, thing. And I've been noticing the front teeth have been getting little chips at him too. And he said, it's because I'm grinding my teeth. So I said, you know what, fine. He's like, I'll make him. Now, if guard, you put it in a night protection tube. Now, I've been wearing my old bleaching trays recently. To protect my teeth while they're making this mouth guard. So they, they make it basically bite into this like crazy weird, you know, substance polymer that then molds your, your teeth. And then they send it out to the lab, the lab sends them back to this little thing. So I, no, I don't have any time to go to the dentist John. So I got to go for a special point when they mold my teeth. Then two weeks later, I got to go back. Okay. And I, and I get up at like, said, I got to go for the first point because I got to work, right? So I get up on three hours sleep by going. They try to fit it in the same thing and they're doing this. They can't get into my mouth. They said, you know what, it's not fitting where I do. It goes, I'm calling the lab. I, this is, you know, this is too important. We obviously want a good fit. I said, yeah, especially since it's some pay $550 for this thing. So I come two weeks later, it goes by. They call me up there like, come in. We got the new mouth guard. Fine. Third visit now. I go into this morning also. I was, I was like, you know what, let me just call in. I'll get in another time. I'm so tired. I'm going to spend two late last night, three hours get up. I'm like, screw it. Let me just go get it. I drive there. It takes like a half hour to get there. I get in there. The tech is like, the first of the yelling at me because I'm a minute late, you know. I'm like, there's no one here. I'm like, what am I going to do with Stictus Mavgarde my mouth and I'm addinGHere? So I go in there. The girls try to put it in. I know, it's not fitting. I can tell us if she's panicking. She's like, I'll be right back. So she goes and gets the dentist. He comes in and he's like, oh. Like, it's my new thing. My son Logan calls me all the time now. I'm going to give you a face time information so that he can call you. All right, cool. Yeah. Logan, I am doing a TV show. You're on the air. Call John, call John Romano. All right. Hi. Hi. We're doing a show. Can you say hi to John? Hi, John. What's up, Logan? I'm going to give you John's phone number. But you could call him anytime you want. He said, you even early in the morning. Okay? I'll talk to you later. I big boy, I love you. He'll call back six under time. So I get, so the dentist is like, you know, he's pulling one of these, he's like, he's looking at some fine work of art, you know? He's like, hmm, trying to put it in. It's not even fitting. It's almost like you would put this in my son's mouth. That's how it doesn't fit. So he's looking at mold. He's like, well, I think we have a problem. Yeah. All right. I said, well, yeah, I kind of surmise that when the tech had to come get you to put the thing in my mouth. He's like, I don't know what's COVID and you know, cut backs and furloughs. It just seems as though, you know, this lab is just not, they've been dropping the ball lately. I'm like, don't you send them all there? IMean, what's so hard about making a mold? He's like, well, we're going to have to read, we're going to have to read, we're going to have to read and read, we're going to have to read through your teeth again. You know, making a new mold. I said, you already got the mold. I have to lab screwed it up. It's because they took the right mold and they didn't do the right thing with it. Well, what do you do it again? Which now I'm starting to think it's his fault. You know what IMean? Like, did to the more on his take in the mold, the tech is not getting right. All right. What? There's something in that stuff that they put in there that instantly triggers your gag reflex. Yeah. I have a big mouth, but it doesn't bite me. But by point it, so now I'm saying, I said, you know, I'm not happy. I got to tell you, I'm not happy. He's like, I said, this should be, if the lab is screwing up this many times, I'm losing days of work. I'm losing sleep. I should be financially compensated in some way by this lab. You know, not answering my question, of course. Well, we can remold you, but so I'm thinking of myself. If I sent out protein-powered, so when it had no flavoring system in it, right? Because I forgot to put it in. And I did iT3 times. Okay, and the people called me up and said, hey, you know, what's going on with your protein? Yeah, no, there's no flavoring. And I'm like, I'd be mortified. I'd say you know what I'm gonna send you a case for free. Now, I did a rant on it on my Instagram, John, and someone who was a dental-like tech guy said that these mouth guards, that I'm being charged $5,000 or $50 for, cost like $30 to make. But it's a lab. So you would think the dentist would be embarrassed enough to say, you know what? The lab is not gonna charge me now, because they obviously fucked up 30 times. I'm not gonna charge this guy. He comes in four times a year for clenings. He just spent $1,500 or $2,000 or $2,000 whatever it was on a crown, you know, nothing. I got nothing. No accommodation whatsoever. I got a hands like this. That's typical of our society today, though. Don't you say, people just don't give a shit about their work. It does, they don't hate pride anymore. When I had mine done years ago, they took the mold. Yeah. And then the mold came back with the mouth guard on it. That's what it's supposed to do, yeah. So IMean, there's no two ways about it. If fit that, it's gonna fly. I think they sent the wrong, I think they sent the wrong, sent them a mold. That way. That's what happened. They mixed it up with somebody's. But twice. Twice. Come on. Twice. They weren't in charge of which baby to let go of. Yeah, exactly. But if I look, I breed snakes, you know. I send snakes out. I sell a lot of snakes on work. And you know what? I'm a freaking, because I only sleep throughout, IMake mistakes. I've sent out the wrong snake to people before. And I feel terrible about it. And you know what? I always over, I either give them the snake for free if it's expensive. I'll say, just put it back in the box, send it back. And I'm gonna send you something. I'm gonna send you two snakes, okay? So free your time. I'm gonna be able to snake. Reptiles, you know, Reptiles believe it and I shift very well. They don't need a lot of oxygen. You put them in a snake bag. You put it in a bag and like a styrofoam box and slate a box in the winter. You put a heat pack in there. In the summer, you could put a cool pack or sometimes you don't even need anything. And you shift them. You know, it's good. If you're at the over that. But, he doesn't up your ass over that. No, that's, I guess it's acceptable. There's a certain way to do it. You have to sort of live or... So you go to a post office with a freaking box with a snake in it. Fettax, yeah, Fettax, they know me. They know me. Yeah, you gotta drop it at the hub. You know, there's a certain fettax has a certain animALCARrier policy. I just can't send, you've been a misnakes, or even like that. But, you have to list what's on there. There's a freaking live snake in the tube. Yeah, I walk into fettax to like, oh, we, they know, they know it and what comes in for me. They must, they're all yentas in that and that fettax location and cape and, you guys hear me? Speak your snakes. Hey. I was gonna say, you should mail your fucking dentist to snake. They, oh, you heard my story, yeah. So it's on, you can't do that. Yeah. Send him a fucking squirrel snake. Did you see this new video that this new documentary coming out called Rore? No, it's Tyler, see if you can pull this thing up. It's called Rore. The guy, the director of the exorcist, I can't remember the guy's name. He was married to, what's the girl's name was in the birds, the movie The Hitchcock, movie The Birds. PIPpie, what was her name? Not you have a Jason Lee, with the, uh, you know, I'm talking about the blind, the Hitchcock, he was in love with her. The Hitchcock. They, they want? She was in all his movies. Yeah, you know, this actress, she was married to this guy who was the director of the exorcist. And Melanie Griffith was their daughter. You knew that, right? My Melanie Griffith, and they grew up in this house of lions. The guy decided, they got all these cubs, lion cubs, and they were living with the lions. So they started filming a documentary about it. They built up a, they had like 150 lions and tigers and all kinds of cray. And they were, they weren't like trening the lion, they were just wild. People were getting mold, the videographer, got scout, they, they said it was a miracle. No one died making this film, but it must have been made back in the 70s and never got released. So yeah, it was made 81. It was, I don't know if it was released or if they just released or something like that, it's an insane movie that the trailer is, is, is, is nutty. IMean, these lions are just running after this guy and like he's like, and that there's no, this absolute chaos on this set. Everyone was petrified, you never knew what was gonna happen, you know. 50 untamed lions and tigers. Yeah. That's a shit. Did you see that documentary that guy that was with the bears up in the last day? Now. Right. Well, and he got eaten. And he did. He got eaten on film. We had a whole recording. The worst part is, the worst part is, his EA produce girlfriend with him who had a deathly fucking fear at us. Oh, my God. And she got eaten too. You guys stay with me just do? Oh, she got eaten too. Yeah. Well, on the movie, IMean, it was the whole family. And now like I said Melanie Griffith, who's the famous actress obviously, American John Johnson for a while, but she was, she got hurt in the movie. She got molded by one of these things too. When she was a kid, she was a kid. That would have been, they would have protected the services would have been all over this. If this had happened in these days, you know. Back then, you could do whatever you want and no one gave a crap. But they actually got, had rotted up by the neighbor and they had a move. They moved to the, they were living in trailers. These were like Hollywood people living in trailers at an animal park that they dealt with. Like on this open land reserve. It was such a 90 story. It's, it's absolutely insane. You would have protestors outside the house. Oh, yeah. It was an old ad shit. But they filmed this. It was all like, it's like, it's not made up. There's no acting. And there was one, I don't know, you know, today's side of the race is, but they had one black eye in the movie. He was this African guy. From, literally, grew up in Africa. He was, I think it was an actor. And he was petrified. He was petrified of the tigers in life. So he was like, and they're like, what do you think about all the lions in here? And he's like, he goes, you know, I'm from Africa. He goes, in Africa, the lions are in the jungle. We're not in the jungle with the lions. He goes, we don't touch the, we don't hug the lions in Africa. He says, but he had to be a murderer. That's the same premises that Nucklehead with the fucking bears, only. That's, they don't, they've got it. He said it was a miracle, no one, he said it was a miracle, no one got killed on the Saturday. There was a couple of clothes calls, but there was a mirror. Everyone had stitches and scars. And he said if a good day on the Saturday, no one went to the hospital at the end of the day. What's the name of it? What's the name of it? R-O-A-R. We can watch your smile. I'm sorry. Is it on YouTube? I'm trying video, you can write it for $3. I remember three bucks on Amazon Prime. John, John, that guy tread, will brought his fucking girl who is dead scared. Dead scared to those pairs. She's like, I don't want to do this. And he, and they recorded him, get neat and. Really? He had a big front in pan. He was beaten him on the, like this. When the member director, he was listening to it in the head phone, I can't help but I was there. And he goes, who must get along? This is what he says. You must never listen to this. Yeah. Yeah. That's how freaking gory it was. You hear the screaming and dying. How come they didn't say, John, how come no one went in there to try to help? He was alone. Oh, wow. You know, Alaska. It was in Alaska. It was in Kodiak Island. Oh, he didn't have a film crew with him as well. So no, no. Nobody did himself with me. He wanted to live amongst them. And he walked around with the cameras. He was tread well. Yeah. He walked around with a camera, filmed the fucking, and those bands are there. They're so big. They're like, Well, first of all, they're wild. They're not domesticated. They thought he raised them from clubs. These are wild bears. Yeah, he was cool with all of them, except this one mean one. Right. That's the one that ate him. He only need one bad scene. That's all. Good. He would talk to the bears like they were dogs. He, he little bear. You know, like that. And they'd be looking at him like, what the fuck you. Yeah, they'd probably, he didn't know there was a Jimmy the bull bear there. They killed the bear. And then they go and they take it and cut them open. And the guy that the doctor says, I was talking to these two people yesterday and today they come back and garbagebed. Ah. He's in the body, do it, David. And no, they weren't no polar bears. They were fucking giant. Great. Black. Oh, really. Where's the bears? Yeah, brown. Wow. Giant, grizzly bears. Big ass bears. You know, people do stuff. People do stuff with stuff like that. Almost deserve to get killed. Thank you. Like, Flippest you that guy, Alex Hinald, who climbed El Capitan with no rope. I think he fell, right? Oh, we lived four hours. He went with no, they did a documentary on it. Was fucking insane. What, yeah, I saw that one. You said to me, you said to me the legs. I said, yes, fell. No, he climbed, he climbed the in four hours. Crazy. That's right. Climb, squat with no rope, no protection, no nothing. Just a chalk bag. And he did it. Phil Kro said they were petrified the whole time. The whole time they thought it was going to die. That's 3000 feet. Oh, no. They thought he was going to die. They didn't think he was going to make it. Yeah. What about the Asian guy that climbed up that fucking, that would do all that stuff. And he would hold one of the entertaining videos. And he died. He let go of it. Yeah, that was the Osmond. Donni Osmond. His Danny Osmond. His legs. All it takes is one slip. You can be the greatest climber of all time. But all you have is one misstep. IMean, you're done. They can't see the guy. He's a brain scan. And they said that he was missing something in his brain. Yeah, it's called fear. Johnny's that. Yeah. But there was a scapegoat. But there was an orgasm, an organic thing that could pinpoint to that. He basically needed that fear to stimulate his brain. Oh, that's ridiculous. It must have been the same thing that that guy in the living with the bears had. Because there's people out there that are just fearless out there. Because when you see people like, you know, you've seen the tire king that movie, right? That's different. Those tires were raised from kittens, you know, essentially. Yeah, they're still dangerous. They'll get me wrong. But they weren't like living with wild animals there. So it was a big difference. Well, sir, a lot of those circuses, fucking animals, they were raised. We got something on the screen there. I don't know. We got to get from Zermok. Get the kids. You guys see me? Hey, Carl. I see you. Hey, Carl. Hey, Carl. Hey, Carl. All right. I got Carl here today because I wanted to talk about a lot of body balls, you know, complaining to me that they don't know how to make food. And I catch all these body balls, guys. And Greg, you know, you made your own food for you. Johnny made your own food. They cooked with like the print. They'll spray half the can of Pam in the pan. And then they don't know why they can't lose weight. They just don't know how to cook. And I'm going to say this. And I'm going to buy a fake flat from the women, a worse cook than worse than them. They don't add a cook worse than them. You would think back when our parents were young, the women all cooked, they'd all cook. And they knew how to cook. That was something they learned from their mothers. Nowadays, women only not call it order out food. I think men cook more than the women do nowadays. And they don't have to do basic shit. I goT3 messages, DMs from a guy in one week. Guys asked me, how do you make rice? Rice? No, it's true. It's true. Because you don't know that you got to freaking wash the rice first. You know, it's so simple. My father used to boil an egg in a frying pan. He just took it like fucking this much water, drooled in it. That's it. That's that. I tell people to poach their food when they're trying to make chicken and everything like that. Crazy. So anyway, I got Carlos here because Carlos is going to help us with some recipes. Carlos, if you're giving aside from people ordering the chicken from you, which is probably the easiest thing to do it, by the way, I love you chicken. You sent me so much of it. I'm still eating it. I think that was about to send you some more. Yeah, yeah, I love it. Because I'll tell you why. You know what I did? I usually put it in a pan and I get all fancy with it. But the other day I was starving and I just had time. I literally threw a pack in the microwave and I thought I was going to taste disgusting. It was absolutely, it tasted like you just made it. It was delicious. It didn't have any like any of that, like, you know, weird smell or anything like that. It was, it was perfect. Right out of the microwave oven. That's all I did. It was put in there for two minutes, not even. IMean, yeah. The way it's packaged the vacuum shield and frozen the whole process. Like it's impossible for it to like go bad quickly. It tastes perfect. You have it seasoned absolutely perfectly. It's amazing. Thank you. Thank you. And so chicken pound.com. So guys, check it out. You can buy your chicken by the pound and it's already flavored and seasoned and cooked. It's just frozen. That's it. Not pound chicken.com. It's chicken pound. It's chicken pound. It's so great to have those done in the freezer that like you just said, Dave, you're a fucking different time throwing a microwave boom. It's an easy way to eat. The keeps you're from eating terrible shit. Which is the flavor you can do while dieting, call it. Which is the ones that don't have any sugar. Yeah, cilantro, balsamic, lemon herb and then we have a plain and then for the real hardcore guys, we have a pre-contest plain. So anybody who's got, that's chicken, no spray, no salt, no pepper, nothing. I like some seasoning. You can eat seasoning when you're dieting. You just don't want the extra sugar. Yeah, but there's those nutty people who I was like, when I first started body building, I was one of those guys. I'd rinse my tuna fish on the water. Yeah. I was one of those guys. Oh, you still got a few of those people there. I knew this girl. I'm not going to say who I'm going to name this. She would boil the chicken. Then after she boiled the chicken, I don't even know what she was patting dry. Just probably the water out of it. She would literally boil it for hours. Then she would pat a dry with paper towels. There was probably negative fat in the chicken. She wouldn't put aromasingle ounce of salt, pepper, no seasoning, nothing. I don't know how you eat this stuff. It's like chill out. And she was never misalmpier. No, but she did really help her when I caught that. That's the national level. When you boil the chicken like that for a long time, it gets so dry. Oh, 180. It's like chill out. I got to tell you, years ago, I used to get grossed out when I was a child. I don't eat chicken soup. I used to watch, I was like four years old. I used to watch my mom cut up this chicken with the skin on it and all this stuff. And she wrote it in a pot. And then when he came out, he ripped it apart and he picked it and he ate it. I was like, I'm not eating that. We'll chicken altogether. There was probably delicious, too. I want to eat it. Oh, it smelled amazing. And still his day, the smell of her chicken soup was amazing. But to this day, I can't eat it. It's boiled chicken. There's nothing like your good chicken. It's like homemade chicken noodle soup. That's like the best. You wish kind of sullen. That's right. Yeah. That's right. That's right. Now, it's called, if you're advising people, I'm going to ask all three of you guys for your own recipes. What's the two easiest recipes to prepare? You the chicken fish are meat. If you had to give some, I guess, and then I'll do John, you can do carbs for us. What would you say, Carlo, is the main, the easiest way to do prepare these things. For people who are on a pre-contest diet, want to make large volumes of food and make it tasty, but also make it healthy. Sure. I'll give you a marinade. I think marinating is going to make it easier for everybody to eat it and you can create different marinades without actually sacrificing on your diet. And explain what a marinade is because a lot of people like who are under 25 years old probably have no idea what you're talking about. Okay. But marinating is a preparation of ingredients that will season your food. You actually take your food and you let it sit in this marinade and this preparation okay, for years, there are a period of a couple of hours or overnight depending on what you're marinating. So, a little of thumb for us is when we're using a citrus marinade okay, for me period okay, in my companies we do the same thing. When we're using anything citrus or acidy like balsamic or cilantro, cilantro, apple like the lime juice or lemon juice or balsamic binners, anything like that, we don't marinate it from more than two hours. If you marinate it overnight, the acid can really start to tear apart the meat so it'll affect the meat. And if you're timer right, you might get it tender. But if you don't timer right, let it sit too long and then you'll overcook the meat, it's going to be too hard. So our rule of thumb is two hours on a marinade when it comes to the acid with the acids. Again, balsamic vinegar, cilantro, lime, lime, and lemon juice. So you prepare your marinade. I'll give you two quick recipes. One balsamic and one lemon herb or cilantro lime, all you have to do is change the lime juice with lemon juice and you'll get the same result. So what I would do is I would take a cup and a half of balsamic vinegar. I would take two to three tablespoons of either, I like extra virgin olive oil and then my next favorite is your mac oil date. Okay. And then I would take about a teaspoon or two of salt, a half a teaspoon of black pepper. I would take basil, use about a tablespoon of chopped basil, about a pinch or two of dry oregano. Okay. I would mix that up with a whisk. Let it simmer for a little bit. Let it get cold and then you take your meat, you're chicken breasts, you can take your steaks, you can also marinate your fish with that. Okay. If you like a balsamic oil to that, who is it? Is it very, very small now? It's going to, it's such a minute of mouth. Okay. Because you're not placing it on the meat, the protein and then eating it. You're just marinating it. So, it would absorb a little bit, but it's not going to absorb a lot. It's mostly going to absorb the acid, which is the balsamic vinegar in this case. Right? So, you can do that. On the other side with the lemon herb or a cilantro line, you can take two cups of either lime juice or cilantro. I'm sorry, I keep saying cilantro. It's lime juice or lemon juice. Okay. Or you can squeeze fresh lemons. If you squeeze fresh lemons, you want to use two lemons and use about a half a cup of water. Okay. That ratio is going to create enough marinade that you need. Okay. So, let's add some salt to taste. Black pepper to taste. Parsley to taste. Okay. Or cilantro. If you're doing the lemon herb, you want to do. He is your herbs for lemon. Let me break it down this way. So, let's do sea salt, black pepper, parsley, and oregano for your lemon herb. Okay. You can throw a little extra hot pepper flakes in there. If you like a spice to it, it doesn't affect the calories. You can add a tablespoon. Here's what I do. A tablespoon for every cup of fluid of oil. So whether it's mac oil or extra virgin olive oil, one tablespoon for every cup of fluid. So if you're going to squeeze one lemon into two lemons into half a cup, squeeze four lemons into one cup, add a tablespoon of oil. And then you're going to throw the pepper in the rest of your herbs, whisk it together, let it sit two hours. And then you're done. We eat our fish or chicken in the actual marinade. You put them in the actual marinade, yes. Okay. You put them in the actual marinade and you let it soak for a couple of hours. Okay. And that would be all. You do the same thing with the cilantro. So with the cilantro, you want to take four lines, two cups of water, sea salt, black pepper instead of parsley and oregano. You want to use cilantro. Use enough cilantro to give it a really good taste. So I would go it abouT4 tablespoons of cilantro. And then you can also, if you're a big garlic enthusiast, either one of those. And the balsamic for that. I get kicked out of my house about use garlic. I'm not a lot of news garlic. No garlic. I don't get thrown out. I don't go crazy with the garlic. Just too much. I sweat it out my pores, though. Hey, Mr. Easy. All right, now so now, Carl, how do you cook it? What are you, what are you put it on? You put on a grill and a pan. Yeah, grill, broil or bake. Okay, my preference is only going to be grilling if you can. If you can't, next best is broil, right? Right. Turn your grill around. If you're going to do a whole chicken breast, assuming that the chicken breast is about a half inch to an inch thick, okay. You'll cook that in about seven to eight minutes. The way I do it in a broil or grill is I go abouT4 minutes on one side. Three minutes on the other. I test 165 degrees of Paul Trin about 145, 150 for fish if you like it on a medium well side, okay. And that's really all. Now, if you want, you take some of that marinade and before you put any of your proteins in there, set it aside and then you can use that as a topping. Okay. So if you want that extra flavor and you're not real strict with your diet and your contest isn't coming up, you can use that as a topping later on. But don't put your meat in there and then use it as a topping that recipe would poison. Love it. John, what's your give me some of your recipes for do you agree with what he said? Absolutely. Yeah. One thing about any meat that people screw up is they overcook it. It's the worst thing that you can do because IMean, IMean, things like fish and beef, you can eat that raw. Right. Well, IMean, the amount of John. Actually, I've been doing this for so long. I just can tell you can take the bite up. I just go by. One thing about chicken breasts, which you guys should all do is the chicken breasts come like this thick and what happened, one of the reasons why you overcook them is because you're cooked by the time the inside cooks, the outside is, you know, well, the overcook. So what I do is I butter flying. You'll let it, you'll let it breast down to take a sharp knife on the side and you go, like that and you flop it open, then you got like two halves. Now those are going to be like threEQuarters of an inch thick probably and then you can cook those in a frying pan with a little spray salt. You don't have them. No, you can, you don't have to. So that doesn't make a tender. If you pound it. It does, it does, but IMean, but it also makes it really thin and big. I pound them. You know, you know, Greg pounds, you know, chicken. I pound my, you know, you know, you know, that's, that's not making it. How are you waiting for that? Pat, how do you know, pounding it will make it definitely better, but it's a big process. So if you guys are actually going to do this, exactly, just butter flying, I like to do things like really the marinades are a great idea. Those are always work good. I, I just pretty much just use a dry rub, seasoning, either a Greek seasoning or that I like a lot or salt and pepper to me is right. You got to watch out that some of those seasoning, then pre mix once do have some carbs sugar in them. See, you got to watch out that they don't. Yeah, IMean, look, look, this is not pre-contest and I don't believe in this exact you know, you got to like eliminate all fat. You got to have it. We are not building a fucking space shuttle, okay? This, you got to eat, you got to enjoy your meal, you got to live if you're not dieting for a contest, you do not. But I, right, but I'm talking about for people who are dieting for contest, how not to get we don't want to get hidden hidden calories in there. If you're dieting for a contest, you should be using, you should be using salt, pepper, and garlic and that's it, man, a little bit olive oil. You should not use anything else. This is natural, it's pretty good too. I like to mix that into sometimes. Mrs. Dash, you can use that stuff. I just keep it simple. The furious chemicals is possible. So, salt and pepper, he's a little, you know, olive oil is flavored, spray in a nonstick pan, heat the pan up, spray it, throw those down, you have to cook and probably two, three minutes aside and they're done. The big thing is not to overcook them. You slice one of those open to test that it should just be turned in from, you know, that beige to white. Right. As soon as it does that stop because it's going to keep cooking after you take it off off the stove, especially the coverage. So, if it's, you take it off a little under cook, that's fine, and we'll finish cooking on the side. And then the difference between a dried out overcooked chicken breast and one that is cooked correctly, that's why you only need salt and pepper. Because it tastes fucking amazing. You haven't dried it out. It's juicy and that's, you know, one of the benefits of knowinGHow to do that. And a good quality piece of meat, too, right, John? Like, that's the most important thing. Guys are going to the supermarket, please get it all the time. People are reaching out, you know, they see our stuff, fun, Instagram, and all you're selling chicken for 10 bucks a pound, and I can get it for $1.49, but they don't realize these birds are coming in their gigantic. Right. And each breast weighs half pound. Happy breast. Did you see that one? The black dude held up like this, and it's got, it the breast was like this big, and then the legs were like this big. To like, you know, it's just, hey, the thing about how tough that meat is when you try to eat it. Most black dude like big legs in front of you. That he wouldn't eat the chicken, so I ain't just miss. Listen, because of that, they're the correct one. Call us those old, you guys do all the prep and all that stuff. That takes a lot of time to do all that stuff. It's worth it to have like getting from you. You get the best stuff that's already made, put it in by time you take it, and I want to have just, it's just make something to out. No, no, no, no, no, no. That's a really good point, Mr. G and Carlo, you'll agree with this. It's not, no, it's not the recipe. It's the technique. If you have, if you know the basic technique, if you understand, you put the olive oil in the pan, you throw the garlic in there, you're right there. That's the basis for like 500 things that you can make. You know, you're not like talking. You're not talking. One little tweak here and air comes down to personal preference. And once you start to understand the article game, it's very, very simple to make. One little tweak, and it takes like a completely different recipe. So it's a key ingredient and technique, John. I think people can't, John, I think people also can't be afraid to make mistakes with cooking. Cooking is also a lot of instinct. I think Jimmy, we, I don't know what Jimmy is, but he has all his stereotypes. Calient have like instincts for cooking. I don't know where we get it from, but I just know what to do. And I don't even know why I know what to do. But I know what to do. Eight, two, one, two, eight. I know what Jimmy is. Well, I know what Jimmy is. Oh, Jimmy! Jimmy! You guys are together? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. Jimmy, come here. He can't use his phone. Come here. Here it is. I almost believe him for a second. Oh, he is there. Holy, Max. You got a shovel too. He's picking up dog shit. Who's dog shit is he picking up? I just had an argument with the neighbor. Oh, he's just, I think the door should be. I think the door should be thrown over the fence. I know what I'm just, I don't know what I'm just doing. Because he's got dogs. So I think he ain't gonna notice if I throw the dog shit over there. You know what I'm saying? Why do you have a dog? Yeah, I do. I throw over the fence. But Jimmy, you don't have a dog, do you? Yeah. Well, I got joy custody of Bella. You know, she comes over every couple of weeks. Yeah, Bella. Bella. Can I tell her? Can I tell her? Yeah. I'll see you take all that. You take your dog shit and throwing your neighbors. Yeah, Bella, his bell. Bella, Bella, Bella, Bella, Bella. Bella, Bella, Bella, Bella. Look at him. Jimmy, let me ask you a question. Jimmy. Yeah. If your neighbor threw his dog shit in your yard, what would you do? IMake a meeting. Well, that's not where it ends. So what happens is, you know, he's got like a, he's got a white BBC, you know, six foot feet. I can't see over the fence. So I know he's got dogs. I just shove over the dog shit here with my nice long fucking spade shove. Yeah. And I'll watch it over the fence. So I think he's got dogs. He's got shit over it. Two egg and door, different, right? Yeah. So now you'll see your pops is head up over the fence. Yo, he was your dog shit. So my mommy's cute stuff. Don't you fucking dog shit. Oh, my, look at the dice. I was like, don't you know, my mommy's cute. And my wife just hung the clothes out. I got clothes on the clothes. I just shits it my clothes. I'm sorry. I take it easy. I need to talk shit on my own. I said it was the one. I was the one. I thought it was the one. It's not. Got to be. So I had to come to guide that as well. Just food now. I'm like, all right. I'm sorry. I got a fucking dog shit landed in the guys under way. I'm not wearing the fucking lying. And the dog shit went right in there. Right? Let me ask you a simplEQuestion, Jimmy. Well, how hard would it have been to shovel the shit into a little bag and tie it up? I don't. What's up? Hey, look, this is a show where he's going. Look. Hey, check this out. This is where you. What are you actually doing over this house, Mr. G? I, well, I had to come to the long end. I, I, I, I lost my, my credit card. I, I, I, I, I, I, I, my back here. I got my little money. So I'm gonna be loaded here. Hey, he's a guys loaded. Look at this. Can't see. Oh my god. This is a little. See, I'm not gonna be back. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. I'll repeat my question, Jimmy. I really spoke in head about what a friend to go to. I didn't put the dogs in, man. I just went, what was the problem? He goes to dogs instead of my mom and go, you're ticked my clothes. Stop with the dogs, Jimmy. I said, I think I'm easy. I didn't know. We had to read Jesus, right? I didn't all have said it with the dogs shit. I'll repeat my original question. What would you do if you saw dogs shit flying over your fence? It to your fucking yard. Throw that. I probably pick it up with my shoulder. I probably will watch it back. You're like, you're probably going to do it with the dog. You're like a good, you're not like a good shit fight. No, you're just shit fight. There you go. You can go over to his house with the shovel and probably not the front door in. And his shovel in his mouth. Yeah. That was here in South Carolina. It was shot. Yeah, probably. Probably would. How easy is he? Then he has to throw the shit over the over the fence. It's more work. It's more work. It's less work. It's a put in it. I know. I know. I'm going to move it that far. This way he's thrown it in freaking 600 feet. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's fucking nuts. My neighbor did that to me. I would fucking burn his house. Now he's, now he's thrown it over to the other neighbor's yard. Oh, right. You know what the promise you had. When you have a neighbor like Jimmy, what do you do? It's like you can't, you can't yell at the guy. The dude. Yeah, arrow in tar and then you're white. And then just send it him over. That's what I would do. And flame in arrows. You're getting flame in fucking arrows, Jimmy. You throw shit on my over my fence. How many fucking ships does that dog take though? You know what IMean? I put the shit on his front door. That's what he should do. You guys, you guys see the dog. This is the dog Bella. Bella. What did I just want to talk about? I just want to talk about it. I want to talk about it. John, he's not a very big piece of property. Did Jimmy rent something there? It looks, it looks rather large. Yeah. Look at the hacky ship. But what he says is, uh, what did he say? Probably Bella. Oh, Bella. Yeah. I'm full. All right. I'm full. I'm full. All right. Mr. G stop talking. I got to go to Greg. Greg, we're talking about recipes. Give me your recipes when you were a bodybuilding. First of all, uh, me, if I was going to do a showback, you know, way back then, I wouldn't even put anything on it. I was like, nuts like that. Are you a person? Right. I'm a purist. Nothing. Now, I wouldn't even have salt on there. Nothing. Wow. I used to do the same type of shit boil it. And that's how I know it gets dry. And then I figured fuck this. I'm going to try microwave and it was even worse because microwave and drives it out even worse. IMean, I'm a basic guy because I don't like, like, garlic or onions. I don't like any of that shit. So for me, believe it or not, if I was going to cook somethinGHere, I used, like, say, on, you know, to Spanish, I used to Spanish stuff to sit on or a dobo, the goa. Yeah. I like a dobo too. It's good. You could just do that. A dobo. It's like an all spice. She just told a little bit of that on and it works on everything. And I'm a red meat eater. I like a lot of red meat. Yeah. I used to eat a lot of fish. I don't need fish anymore. Do you grill it? Well, why do you make the red meat? Yes. I grill it. Grills right there. Right. These two seasonings are all you ever need. I can't sit. They're being keyed up by your, uh, you green screen there. That's the reason. I don't know. I used to say, I used to say, I used to do a little bit more than the car. Yeah. There you go. Yeah. Right. But then I used to season with those, she's like, the red is red, you know, and IMean, the pocket. And it really, and it's, I don't know what the hell is in there, but man, it is really good. But what do you do to grill, do you bang on? How do you cook? I grill. I definitely grill. And I do basically same like Carl, I would say, or I grill, you know, I grill or I grill. That's the way to do it. Yeah. Now, with now, would you prepare large amounts of one shot? Did you make each meal in the hallway? No. See, that's the difference with you guys. I can't marinate shit because I want to eat it right to fuck now. I'll send it stuck in hungry. You know what IMean? No. I'm wondering, guys, you know, it's like that. You buy a fucking gown of ice cream. You say I'm going to take a bowl of that shit and you want to be in the whole gown. Yeah. I do the same thing. I can't wait. I can't wait. I can't. Look at George. I'm going to make those cookies. I ate like two of them the first time. I'm like, I got it. You know, I'm going to want to, yeah, it's like, fucking 3000 calories. But I'm. But I can't. I'm like that. I can't prepare food ahead of time. IMean, I can. Like when we have company, you know, but I, if it's for me. Fuck. You're, you're like an addict, man. You just can't. Right. If I, George, if IMade a whole fucking pocket chickens, right? Like five breasts. I've won if I swear to God, I would eat the whole five. I, I'd tell you, okay, I got to put these away. I'm going to eat one. Once they won, I still going, you know what, fuck it. Let me eat another one. And before you done, I eat them all. So I don't really like, I can't, like, fuck a cook and wait. Right. But I'm a basic guy. I do not. I got to like, I like peppers and shit. You know, sausage and peppers and chicken and peppers. But that shit of fucking low in my stomach. I burped that shit next week and it'll come up. You know what IMean? So I am a bland eater. No onions. No garlic. I, I can't stand that shit. Right. But we agree for somebody else with somebody's smoke. You know, you know, smoke. So you can, I do that. I pass a car on the road. I can smell the guy smoke and then it's gone. But when you do any garlic or onions with somebody else, he's that shit. The bread is like fucking wretched. You know what I'm saying? I, I stopped doing. I stopped eating. I felt bad for my wife. I was like, you stink. I said, all right, I don't smell it, but I'll take your word for it. Now, I don't know what's in the game. You can stick up a whole room with the bread. You know what? You know, when you walk into gym and it just smells like salami bread. You know what IMean? Like every week. A black man used to smell like garlic from a mile away. Oh my god. The next morning after that wine and garlic, you would be punished. It was like trening. It was like spawning in garbage. I don't know. I don't know. That's a black ground. That's a black ground. That's a black ground. That's a black ground. That's a black ground. That's a black ground. What do you got going on it? It's called Zoome. Well, welcome to the 21st century. Yeah. Is that like green screen? No, it's in the, it's in the Zoom program. You can make your own. Yeah. Oh, you're kidding. I do. See Carlos got on it. Yeah. Now, I do a Carlos. I don't, I don't know who you're going to be. Then I've introduced me who's on the show. Oh, Carlos. What Carlos? I'm going to go on Carlos. I'm really kissing my homogress. I get to get you, you did a guess. The pier is for me when I promoted the extravaganza with Bob Bonham, and he has a go. You've been pressed like 1,400 pounds or something like that. I spotted it. I said it on me. So we've zully warm it up. Yeah. It did like 600 pounds revenge bet, revenge reverse bench. I just wanted to get it done for. I'll let that out. You don't get it. Who's I can? I'll never get that out. Hey, Carlos. Oh, we've mentioned, remember the extravaganza you promoted. They bottom held that for years. Who do you think was the most impressive woman left there at those things? There was some really good with tats. It was as you did some crazy stuff over there. Has it the long was crazy? Yeah. You know, little, little Joanna Lee who just passed recently, right? Was it Joanna? Little Joanna Thomas? Yeah. You know, about Nicole Bass. Nicole Bass was crazy. She lifted it. I didn't even know the show. Yeah, Nicole. Joanna Thomas took part and at least one of them because that's where IMet her. Right. Look at her. Ray Hollett. Ray Hollett was crazy. She wasn't. He was a vacuum. You still used a lot of weight. Yeah, right in here. Yeah. Here. IMean, they were. Oh, you're not going to see. Can you. Can you. Can you. No one's doing a show here. Can you guys start talking to each other? Sorry. Thank you. What a good show. I didn't get forgot. They weren't a commission. I'm just going to show the bullshit point on. They're always trying to steal the show. Those two. Very dangerous. It's already good. We're so really good. I'm not done. No good. We want to see the shit. I was on the floor. I was on the floor. I was like, oh, finished talking. I think they nailed it with any Revechao and test. Any Revechao, yeah. Crazy. Crazy. Seriously, fuck away. Those girls would sit up. You're fucking colon. Holy shit. You know, I could be wrong, but do you guys remember Denise Koshar? Yeah. Yeah. I think she competed once. And when I saw her, first excuse really, pretty. I was just kind of like holy crap. And then I know IMet her through Bob and Kenny Castle and all those guys. And then, you know, that those women were pretty. And you know what Greg, you would know this. You know what, just ran into. Been working at a little bit different, IMean, close local. Kathy Unger. Remember Kathy Unger? Oh, yeah. I remember Kathy Unger. I remember Kathy Unger. I did put a less weaker so she's doing personal trening at the studio where I've been working out at. So, way. What? What did she do? I think she was natural. Wasn't she natural? Well, natural. Yeah. You know, who was this, what did a strongest girls I ever saw was Honey Van Aiken? Oh, yes. She was at it. You're right. She used to tren with Carlisce. I saw her do be inclined bench presses with three, 15. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Carlisce is, you know, spotting. She didn't even know freaking. Wait, wait a minute. And then she do it on aromasingle outside and smoke a cigarette. I'll tell you what. I spotted Heather Darling bench 500 pounds. Yeah, that's crazy. Heather Darling. Heather Darling. And she's a lawyer on top of her. I'll take. Right? How? Dude, 500 pounds. She said it's on it. She should have done it in competition. She would have been. She's the type guys in the gym. She, you know, they, she tell a guy doing like three, 400 pounds. Can I work in with you? You only do some of the go a little heavier. And then she would get on it. She's fucking bang 500 pounds out. Yeah, no, I've seen it. Yeah. Yeah. You remember that right? Carlisce. I remember I witnessed a lot of it. You know, IMean, I have. I have. Bob ran the tight ships. Oh, I'm so happy. Oh, I'm so happy. And they would come in and, and when are students? He went to swim. He went to swim. And do all of the shoots for women's bodybuilding or the bodybuilding. Yeah. And everybody, who's the one that's in jail for shoot for killing the husband? Sally. Sally McNeil. What a piece of worship. He came in and started yelling and screaming at me because she was lost. And didn't know where she was going. And Bob stripped orders after I was done answer the phone. So she was calling the gym to figure way over there. She comes in and starts blasting me. You know, it's the fucking phone. I'd be trying to call it. You're looking shit and shoot you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's right, though. He's right Bob. We want a crochet. If you left a handle of the cable crossover. He would he would. He would have noticed those cameras all day long, right? If he, I'm humble value it from the jet. So, John Bully stopped the music. John Bully. Put back your weight. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I could tell you me. Well, yeah, who who is there for the rocket today? Dude, I remember I didn't want to say it. I was going to bring it. All right, I'm going to pull the Greg. Can you guys see this or it's going to be interestinGHere. I didn't throw that shirt. I tried to rock. I got it. No, they could see because you had it in the green. I'm going to put it in the green. I'm going to put it in the green. Sure, right here. Yeah, right here. I can't see it. Now you see it. No, no, because it's not we're not seeinGHim on the screen. Right, right, you're stuck. Don't hold it up. Make sure you go like this. Yeah. All right. So it's a clear, clear, sweet and I after we worked out. Okay. See if I see you back in 2000. So so he comes in and it was a former wrestler Greg. You probably met Jimmy Powers. You remember him. Yeah, I remember him. He was number on his own. He would. Yeah, he would wrestle a lot with Rocky Johnson who is Duane's dad, right? GreGHas to Jimmy and I are to count his number two. And I was John was kidding. So Jimmy, wait to go work out. And it's a Monday night. I'm on the morning. So they're in town. The rest was in town from Monday. I think comes the way. Right. Now at the time I was working at the gym as well. But I wasn't working during this time. I was getting ready to go work out. And so Jimmy and I stand in there when Dwing comes through the turn style. Jimmy recognizes them. They talk in because of course. Jimmy knew him when he was a kid. So he goes in and he's working out. And actually before he goes in he says to me, he goes, you look like you're getting ready for a show. He was always a bodybuilding fan. Always a big bodybuilding fan. So he says to me, he looked like you're getting ready for a show. Yeah, I'm doing junior essay. It's a couple of weeks away. He was what are you trening? That's it just been wise. So it looks at me goes, come on. Let's go. So I'm sitting there and I'm going to say, I don't want to say it wasn't a huge fan, but I had a lot of dressing in me. So I knew who he was. I did me 2000. So it's very early on when he's be, I'm getting ready for a show. We get it throughout the 50 times that people wanted to take pictures. The whole workout was basically kind of irritated, but we got it in. We get done with the workout. I'm not the front Dwing's in the locker room. Bob Bonne and walks through the doors. And I said, oh, Bob, I said, you made it on time. The rock is here. So he looks at me. Goes, huh? I said, the rock is here. Oh, good. He owes me $14. I swear to God, I'm my daughter. Okay. So I look at him. My face drops it. Now, he's Jimmy Powers. He's another, he's with me there. Carla, you should have pulled the $14 and pulled it out of your pocket. You should have paid her. Wait a second. Let me finish. He's not to, wait. He's going to give it a bit. The part of the story. It gets better. The $14 is for. And Jimmy looks at me. Goes, is he serious? So outcomes, Dwing at a lock. Yeah. She has hired a bob and thanks him for the workout. And he goes, by the way, don't go any way. You only $14. You know what he knows of the $14 for? Well, tank top. He took a tank top. The last time he was in the gym, he took a tank top to work out and he didn't have any workout gear. So he needed. He wanted the $14 back from the tank top that he took that he wore. Not like he was advertising for the guy or anything like that, right? So he needed $14. So for Dwing, just was like mouth open and he's such a great guy. I think everybody here's met him, right? Of course. Humble guy. He just turned to, I forgot, I was a Steve. He always had a guy with him. Like a big, burly body body that would walk him up in Naniah. Okay. He just turned around and he goes, Steve, can you just do me a favor, please? Can you just take care of this gentleman? Whatever you need, just please make sure he goes. That was it. Now, I don't know whether it's true Greg, you would know better than I. But I heard that for years the WWE guy stayed out of there after that incident. Any proof that I correct? Well, I, yeah, I believe so. But you know what I said to me, I was only kidding with him. I was breakinGHis balls. He wasn't kidding. No way, Bob. He wasn't kidding. No way. No way. No way. But I've just tell you, Rob was saying to me, you know what I'm saying? He was saying what you did. Bob should have given him 25 shirts to wear. That's great advertising. You know how much it's worth at the rock, rock, rock and around, we're in your fucking shirt. Are you kidding me? It costs a million dollars if you would have Kim Kardashian, make one Instagram post for you. The rock has more followers than Kim Kardashian. Yup. And he's wearing your shirt. Yeah. He would tell the New York Jets would tren there and he would tell them, Pupack, you wait. He would stop them. It just hollow, Tayyik. Carlos was there all the time. He would turn off the, IMean, Carlos worked there and, Yeah. And I didn't, I would just be there because Bob, but I would just, he would turn off the fucking music. And he would tell like, jumbo Elliott and guys, you know, wait, one time the New Jersey nets will work in there working out there, right? So the New Jersey, that's at the time they're actually pretty good. They Jason Kennedy team their Coleman, old these good guys, right? And one of them left dumbbells underneath the rack. So he's in his office and I'm at the front desk. His office was behind the front desk. He comes out and he goes, you see that? And I go, what? He goes, look, I'm there there. So I'm like, what? He's like, there's a dumbbell in the rack. So I'm like, I'm not eating see that. He goes, let's see who did it. So he goes back there and it's one of the nets, right? So he goes, make the announcement and tell him to put the weight back on the rack and go, oh, he plays from the net. So I'm not going to do that. I think I was just doing it. I go, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'll be right back. I went over and I put the dumbbell back. Yeah, I don't blame you. Yeah, that's a barrier. Follow this guy out. It's crazy. Why was Bob so militant like that, does great? It's just, you know, he lives by principles. And I do that. I was actually filming a TV show once and they stopped it because he was like, okay, listen, we got to close up. Yeah. So we had to wrap it up. I'm just saying, you know, he was just one of those guy. IMean, Carl will tell you, just didn't. He had did bend when he said put the weight back. He meant even the handles of the fucking cable crossover. The way it should be. Or do you do the right one? I don't know. The three people were right. He wasn't all wrong with everything. I got to tell you because there's somebody who trened there for many, many years. He had the most organized gym. Yeah. Part of the art. Very clear. I don't want this to be a strict bashing session. He had with the open. Nobody's bashing. He was up on 30. How many 30 years? Close. 35. Yeah. He was just, IMean, so IMean, just bent alone. You know, they're bashing and we're just talking about the East Coast Mecca. That has, that had the title first. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Well, that was in Jersey. In Jersey. It was East, it was strongly shapedly. And then there was time in. Time in Jersey. Time in Jersey. And it was those two because I grew up in both of those gyms. I was. I was. When I was reading it muscle and fitness flex all the magazines. We're talking about strongly shapedly gym and diamond gym. I was closer to where I was located. Me too. So I actually, I went found it, mapped it out. Okay. So it was about 20-minute ride from my home. And I started trening there because the first I remember seeing it in the magazines there was a particular weekend when one of the Murray Mike Madderazzo and Kevin LeBron role. Yeah. So here I am. I'm, I drive out to this gym and I want to start working at it because I want to run into these guys. That was 1991 or 1992. So his gym was a big, big deal. Yeah. And you know what Bob never ever charged me ever to go into that gym ever. Me neither. He always loved me and he never charged a lot of people. He never charged me. He would, you know, he would do anything. He would bend over back. At the end of when I had my own nutrition products. You know, when I first started species he sold my products there. So I have an, I always, you know, Bob's a good friend. I consider. I just, I, I love Bob's militant nature because he didn't care who you could have been the president of the United States and that that was his rules were his rules, you know, that was it. Yeah. I want to say. You know, I'm a special friend. You should be able to. If I put weights away is like the most basic fucking thing in the gym. I don't know where people get this attitude that they should be exempt from putting the weights away. Just put your fucking shit away. It's that. Do I have a business? Go. You have a good at any business? If you, if you, if you, if you, if you lay in all over the pun, I have a profound respect for the way Bob ran his gym and I really mean that like I had a profound respect for the way ran his gym. There was some, there was some incidents of course you heard me tell a story. But from a gym standpoint when you walked in there, somebody who wanted to tren the, the most frustrating thing you can do when you're getting ready for a show or you're getting. Deep into a workout is going to grab 50 pound dumbbells and only finding one of that, you know. You never had a worry about that in his clothes. So ever, I learned a lot about how to run a business from him in the couple of years that I worked there. And he was very, very good at that. Maybe a little bit overboard with, hey, Jim's closed for a clock for clock everybody. Yeah, clock, clock everybody's out. And it didn't matter if you were his friend. I don't know if right. Did he ever give you the key to the gym? I don't think he gave anybody the key today. I was, I don't only go to, IMean, I tren you sometimes, but I would only go to, because I was a him and then, you know, I would hang out with him afterwards. So when he was close to the gym, we were off to the diner. But the thing is, no, he ran, he ran a very, very, very tight ship. But, but he also, you know, he would help whatever you needed. You know, I'm saying they did a lot of photo shoots that Jim, a lot of commercials that that Jim, you know what IMean? IMean, if he liked you, he really liked you and he took very good care of you. Like you said, Dave, like there were certain people that we knew when they walked in, we could let him go. But I can't tell you, most of the time, I had to pick up the phone and be like, hey, this guy's here and he's got a guess. Yes or no. And there was some noes. There weren't, it wasn't always a bottle of wine. Bob would hold champions day and day every year. Right. If you placed top five in a national show, remember, it was only bodybuilding back then. You could come to he invited you to Champings. If you showed up with another person, like you just drove down there with another person, that person wasn't coming in. The Martinez came, I remember with someone once, he's like, hey, coming in. Yeah. That was it. Those are the rules, you know. When you were in the area and you worked for him, it was a big deal. The work, the show. I'm sorry, the event. It was a big deal when he said, you know, you know, I was like, well, I was just going to do something. I was like, yeah, I'll do it. It was like, oh, it was a big deal. It was great. Hey, Jimmy, did you ever do a workout at Bob's gym? I can't imagine him letting you do the pound of weights in there. Well, I was listening to you talk and, you know, Bob used to call me all the time and invite me to Champings day. Right. He used to go. I used to drive in the Jersey. You know, and I used to do, you know, I think I don't know. I call us might even see me there one year. You know, I would load up, you know, 800 or whatever, you know, do whatever I got to do over there. You know, people looked, you know, who's a lot of fun there. John, I'm fucking laughing at John. What's that? He left because you called him Carlos and it's Carlos. But you know what, Jimmy, you probably, you're very respectful. What's the time? He's like, did you put the weights away, Jimmy? No, I didn't have to say anything. You know, that's a double chin. Yeah, I got to be at half of it. You know, but I can't, you can't better over the years. I started putting shit away. You know, when I was done working out. Do any plates, you know. Jimmy, Jimmy and I got thrown out of it. And it's all. Jimmy, remember the time we got thrown out of the tennis club? The way you're in Washington, remember? Yeah. Yeah. Jimmy Pilecia, the bull, the iron bull in his prime is working out of the gym. Like a nodalist, not even. It's like a, what are those universal machines? There's a shitty gym, right? At a tennis club. And Jimmy's over there freaking doing pull ups on a machine on the thing that You had no pull up bars who's doing it immediately, right? He's going, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, like this. And this fucking guy comes over when a tennis suit. Remember it with the white, with the white, the white, whole tennis outfit and he goes, excuse me, excuse me. But we don't, we don't have that behavior around there. And she goes, what? What? What? What? I can throw it. Yeah, no, you're doing. You remember Jeff King, is that my saying that right? Yeah, Jeff King. Yeah, his wife on the gym and the Pittsburgh, or I don't know where, where was the gym at? I think I'm that sure. No, you're thinking of Kim Kim King in her husband, right? Kim King. Kim and Jeff King. What makes my face? Yeah, it was Jeff King. It wasn't the Jeff King body builder like you're thinking of. It was Kim King in her husband. They were both competitors, yeah. Right. So the gym was, uh, and like, and, um, this fucking guy fucking days, I'm listening to this guy with the cock. Dude, he's got this guy. I can't take it on the show. Jesus Christ. Fuck me. IMean, we had him. I don't know how to hit him. I don't know how to hit him. I don't know how to hit him. Don't talk shit out of him. Come on, don't talk. I did not already, it ain't work. When we asked him to stop. Yeah, go tell him what the fuckers are doing. I don't know. Jimmy, you go do it. I figured I'll let him get beat up. I can let him get beat up. I can't let him get beat up. It's all going to be a story. I think it's a story. I think it's a story. Finish the story. Yeah, so anyway, I was in the gym. I guess it was the woman. I went up on a honeymoon. Yeah. And then I was trened with Dory and Yates and Steve Weinberg was there and everybody. And I walked in. She ran right over to me. I wasn't even through the door. What he says, I know who you are. I know you got a reputation. Of course the gyms object goes up. Tell you right now. I'm watching you. I just walked in. I said, that's me. I'm going to see you in the Bronx. I thought it just wasn't a problem. I'm not going to bust anything up. Because I know you got a reputation. I said, I never hunted my reputation like that. But that's fine. No problem. I figured I was a fry zephy at the time. I walked all in. I started doing a little bit of a back workout. I loaded up the lap. I pulled down. I should fuck it. I loaded the fucking bin in the front. I just thought you were going to fucking fuck it. I was makinGHim run. I was makinGHim run. I was makinGHim run. I was like, I normally do. She came running right over. I'm right over. She goes down. Get out of my shit. Get out of my shit. Get out of my shit. What do I do? She said, you'll be a pull out of my machine. I scream. I'm fucking doing lap. Hold down. I was a whole hundred. What if I didn't know? She said, I want you out of the house. You know what? I just got my shit during the age of the day. It was a little late. I was even there. I said, you're mad at it. The funny thing is she didn't throw you out. I flipped it heavy weight. She threw you out because you were yelling. No, I was doing the lap. Hold down. I was so bad. I had the whole rack on. I was a little annoyed because she attacked me. She didn't like me. She didn't like me. Because I walked in. She, that woman just didn't like me. I was like, I'm not going to do it. I'm going to do it. Can you imagine Jimmy the bull working out of planet fitness? I'm like, get about it. Holy Christ. We have to film that. I went to LA fitness over here with the. He used it for me. I was thinking 10 minutes is fast to get thrown out of that. You would last one and a half. They called a police. They called a police. They called a police. What? They called a police. One day before the pandemic epidemic. What do the fuck were in here? I went to the New York Sports Club. The Jim in the village over here. Yeah. I was at 15 minutes. They got the manager threw me out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just a February. Can't me? Yeah. I went down here to do a little work. I went down here. I paid for the day because they were all juppies over there. I started trening with the machine and dumbbell. The guy came right away because you got to leave. I said, what are you talking about? He goes, we can't have that here. I said, I'm lifting. Guys, we can't have that here. Yeah. We can't have that here. I'm lifting weights. What do you mean you can't have that? I would have my phone to do it. He'd have fucking shuddy me sandwich. I'm fucking lifting weights on me. I got thrown out. I got thrown out. You know what I'm trying to fact it. Most of all people have told him that. He has to leave me to believe that maybe there was something to what he was doing that wasn't right. Maybe. Just a baby. No, come on Dave. You know what IMean? 35 fucking years. Come on, man. You know what I got on the GM. I just stomach tense when I tren. You know what I'm doing? I'll be, you know, I'm going to pull on the same line as the other one. I'll end with this story. On the same line as Bob Bond, I'm corporate, corporate, and I'm going to Jim and he used to run the NBC before Steve Martin. I hated his guts. He had a Jim and a Babylon. That was a, was it a, a world Jim. And I had never met Jimmy. Jimmy came in there one day, carrying a bench, a hamstring bench. Look what the fuck is this guy doing? Like, oh, that's the bull. Pilechia. And I was trening with it with Carl Sun, Tony. I said, Tony, what's going on? He goes, I told him if you want to tren. Yeah, I have no problem, but he's got to brinGHis own bench because he's not running our bench isn't here. Because you would buy your bench all the bars. So I think Jimmy got hamstringed to make him a bench for free. I said, my dad and send him a bench. Is that what it was? He did hate cock. Cocker panoramic order. Fuck it's son, Tony, but there's all my boxers. Yeah. I thought you told him about Paul Cardonia. You remember Paul Cardonia? Yeah. I remember the Cardonia. Bob Cardonia is the most amazing. His son's in the WWE now. What is his name? He was in the WWE. Yeah. Tony, companion? No, um, uh, good. Oh, Bob Cardonia. I thought he was son. Bob Cardonia. Hey, Dave, you remember that guy that used to tren? Did you want to never go to that Jim over there? Bob Cuts. I got that Jim ultimately. Yeah. You remember that guy that that fucking nutjob. He was like the manager to place. He had fucking, uh, here's the way a wig. Oh, yeah. What was his name? Crazy Labyrinth. What did they call him? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The guy that the guy used to put his wig on. He had, like, you know, you're going to, the boy got a place. He'd get a, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the the the, the canvas put on your boat. The fucking snaps on a, the fucking scope. He used to put the wig on and snap it on. snap it on it was like Larry crazy Larry or something like that right yeah you remember to snap yeah he was like we're going off yeah they used to play soccer and they used to play soccer and they used to play there was friends with him I don't even have to make friends with him but I don't know if he was a in the from Bombardy Billor from England yes personal tren plates yeah don't you miss the game what was that guy's name first office what was his namEQuick Frank Richie so now Larry what was crazy Larry's name crazy Larry it's all we know what's the crazy Larry yeah what's crazy Larry one and Bob Codona sold the first snapals it was the old guy that used to bring the snapals and little six inch bottles of those and that's where snapals this is back in the 80 that guy used to spit like all you talk to me is to yeah yeah yeah yeah there was some rose yeah I'm fucking fucking snaps in his head and the foam kind of matters that dude was literally fucking crazy and he was not that guy I'll tell you one thing though my sister what she was trening there for a while she was like he was working out with her and some someone was was talking nasty to her he almost killed the guy he would he defended her so I I can't say anything bad about the guy but he almost you know when he snapped he would go great no pun intended of course when I say snap but when he snapped he would go crazy he was like Bruce you remember Bruce that was that you know you never Bruce crazy Bruce oh yeah Bruce he's the tren he Bruce is the tren he used to work at the fish market and he would come come with when those those unitarid things that they wear you know like the slots yeah one stuff like like the mechanics where the slots he's been like fish and he he would do squats bench squats will like 30 pounds two bench you know like fish yeah yeah they would they would do behind the next things but like five thousand fists so crazy motherfucker back at it but he was the patient who the uh no you know I remember what they called the whole I the power twins I remember Larry's the air impression you got it wasn't crazy Larry it was Larry's legend Larry the legend wasn't Larry the legend fuck right George Larry the legend that's what his name was yeah how do you know that I just became to me I remember that's what they called him Larry the legend yeah he was he was he he he he was one of those guys at the switcher go he he'd bunch of a wall he was just one of them guys you know he was like the watch dog a that's he he was very loyal to Bob yeah very loyal oh very loyal man that's what I'm sayinGHe was like I thought he owned the gym when I first went in there you know the way he was treating it oh yeah I'm forgetting about it man that guy was it was always there too it was the smallest gym you'd ever seen that that bell more gym it was like it was microscopic I don't even know how he did but it was a beautiful gym it was tiny on peppering ever you yeah that never first personal trening office was in there it was it was long and narrow right yeah was it like you walked in it was like long but it was like a nightclub in there right they had like the blue lights and stuff like that yep yep yeah it all hardcore equipment in there I got to say was it never you know can't can't saw he expanded too much he should have kept that gym now got gym was a gold mine wasn't it yeah how there was a really good location it was always busy there he started selling franchise he saw like six gyms he overexcended himself even said it yeah and and when you fridge I wonder what ever happened to Bob God though when the place was eating stuff he pulled me over he really he became a cop but he pulled I knew it was him he's about 15 years ago and he's and he's got the sirens on and I know it's him really he's trying to pull me over and I wouldn't pull over he's like can't watch us down and finally goes over he goes you fucking make me look bad with the fuck he though he did he did he did he did he did he did he did he did he did he did a good job oh they love really he was like a trip like a four trip what to re-black belt so they loved him they used to stand him in to get all the criminals yeah well he was crazy he was completely he was completely he was competinGHe was competing over sixty you know yeah and all natural he was competing but anyway all right well guys I call a thank you for joining us today of course given us those recipe ideas and I I actually enjoyed today show I'm actually in a good mood so thank you guys for for making that oh chicken by the pound I get it order I try the order in five times I get it order chicken pound dot time correct color the chicken pound dot count right yes all right guys home it this is the COVID right call do you have any a coupon code for arcs muscle is it like 10% off yeah all right so don't forget to put your arcs muscle coupon code and get 10% off tell him rx muscle and after hours that you call you know I'd like you to make like a holiday I think you should make a holiday flavor for the upcominGHolidays maybe like AI think pumpkin's like that yeah something like that you got to come up with some kind of like special like season and for like the holidays I'll get on it we have two new flavors coming out soon they have holiday oriented but they're really good yes that's good yeah you gotta have a cookie by George yeah I get one of George what you know what I thought I had a good idea Carlos got a great distribution network Mr. G why don't you have Carlos ship your cookies for you and do your cookies good luck getting the cookie out of Mr. G you get John you're getting candy you get a protein candy okay broke don't hold your breath don't hold your breath okay one time okay subscribe I love you man love you guys all right we got to go we got to wrap this thing up I'm day polon but with the entire whack pack we'll see you next time

=== FILE: TITAN MEDICAL'S ANSWER TO COVID (FIRST HAND EXPERIENCE)! [PMPUdUrzov4].txt ===

哎嚅哨沉只要cent 所以說香港瞭報因為中國性會超過12星以上 legend我是其他的粉絲好!好! welcome back to RX Muscle Supplement and Science! Today we're going to be here with two special guests Am I good friends? John and Sharesas Horace from Titan Medical Center.com and we're going to be talking about immune system and this is a very important subject to obviously given the fact that we are in these COVID times and people are getting sick and you know what? I thought who better to bring in here than someone who has had personal experience unfortunately with this COVID virus, Sharesas you have gone through a hell of a last couple of months you want to first of all welcome guys to the show! Thank you! Thank you for having us! We love to be part of this show! Well, the good thing about what you went through is that I always believe in my life. I always say, why did I have to go through this? Why did this weird thinGHappen to me? And you know what? I believe things happen for reason. I believe that a lot of things happen in my life because I am been put here to help educate other people and how to navigate their way through some of the things that I have gone through. You guys obviously are in the business of health and wellness and you know, hormone replacement and immune system, fortification and you know who better to be able to advise people and that then someone has actually gone through this whole COVID trauma. You had a horrible experience but you know you've come through it and a lot of it has to do with some of these supplements that you were taken to help you bolster your immune system and get you through this. So I think it's... Thank goodness! Give us the whole... Had you first find out you had COVID? Well, I'll sum it up for you. So you know obviously you know that I work you know like 24 hours a day so rain or shine. She works a half hour and one can I do every day which is 23 to half hours. She works 24. 23 to half. You know so it doesn't matter. I've always pushed through everything. So I started getting sick one day you know it was back in June and I started getting a little sniffles cough you know maybe a little sore throat whatever. Long story short. I'm like I had John I'm not feeling too good. So day by day went by I want to say about a week went by and we did have a couple positive COVID cases come into our clinic when they wanted to get tested. What what what? They can June. Okay. Yep this was in June. So you know they came in and they honestly they got tested. They were positive and you know they wanted to get IV treatment that had glutathione vitamin C and zinc in it. That was like B thing to do to try to boost the immune system. So anyways I wasn't feeling good and I'm like hey listen you know maybe we should maybe I should swab and see what's going on. Right. So I did I swabbed and you can just can't just you can test in your clinic right? Yes. Yep we did the nasal swab. So you know I didn't I didn't the nasal swab sent it out you know you know you know and obviously now this this was an absolute nightmare Dave okay and I'll tell you why it was a nightmare. So I fended out and obviously I have all my staff here and they're all waiting for this result too because now I got you know all these other people in the office with the sniffles and are running knows and now everybody with allergies has COVID so you know it's like oh what's going on so I get the result back and I get the result and it's negative and I'm like okay well you know this is this is fine I'm just sick right. That's when I started feeling this is where I started feeling kind of weird so but a few days after that and it progressed pretty quick um we have a two story house so I'm going up and down the stairs to just grab things whatever normal things and I can't breathe and I like told John I'm like I can't breathe when I'm walking up and down the stairs like like I literally can't breathe and you know as day I was just standing there and I just I felt like it wasn't a pass out it wasn't good like it was really scary like you could get it up on getting into your lungs almost no no no it like and it honestly it stayed that way for probably it solid like 40 days like 40 days where I had to like wake up and you know I don't cry because my baby but you know literally it may be cry because I'm you know I just I didn't know it got to a point where I didn't know what was going to happen so moving on you know I I get this negative COVID test and I'm like I feel weird something's wrong you know you know your body so you know something is wrong um so I get a chest X right chest X right comes back I had pneumonia all right cool so I got pneumonia that's cool I could ride this out right I can't get a body take some antibiotics I'm good right I got a little inhaler IMean thank goodness we have access to everything doctor IV you know I went through the whole ring right X way that service year so it was like boom boom bam right okay so couple days later I'm like John I can't even drive like I literally can't drive you're on the track that's not getting better is it been essentially what happened I was on so at this point um the we went ahead of the game and the doctor's like listen if you can't breathe you can't see this isn't that this is what happened I started um gaba peintin because I started getting pain and I couldn't see it was dizzy and so gaba peintin was helping with the nervous system um I also started dexamethasone and I was helping with the inflammation obviously because I couldn't breathe it was a steroid um I also did an inhaler and I was on antibiotics I was on augmentant um unlike John I'm swapping again and I'm swapping you while we're at it right so swapswap boom three days later positive I'm like golf both of you both of you both yeah and you know I was totally asymptomatic wow crazy you know it was like what was it? I was in a question with thEQuestion I had pneumonia you think that you got it worse? No I think that the COVID caused the pneumonia I think the pneumonia COVID go together the 100% a hundred percent because IMean I've had pneumonia before and I never felt like that where I couldn't breathe and I couldn't see um IMean even looking at the clock it was like double digits and that's scary because I can't fix it so I'm like you know this is not good let me sit down I need to work you know and it's just getting to a plenary can't work so obviously everybody in the office freaks out you know we had to test everybody for COVID thank goodness I would say what we have 12 employees two came back positive um we had to sterilize the whole office everybody's working remotely people are hotels me and John are not a kid's positive we're not always him living out of like dying on my deathbed how is on this how you how was the children don't see to have any symptoms right you was fine yeah Peter's fine and the crazy thing about it Dave is that my dad we retired my dad for years we lived in my house yeah right it does nothing but stays in the house he's high risk kidney disease heart disease so at that point like we were scared he was gonna catch it because we had it my son had it with death sentence for him yeah you can't get him but he did right we swapped them twice totally negative I'm holding those symptoms so we're like thank God wow yeah so um this is where I took a little deep turn so I told John every day that went by and I'm on this nebulizer holding it up to my mouth you know trying to breathe um because it literally felt like I was trying to breathe through a straw I've been that's the best way I can explain it just a straw here and try your best to breathe um that's where I started getting legs swelling and listen I'm on decks of methods I'm on everything so it's like what else am I gonna take to get better um started swelling up you know my stomach started swelling up I look like I was pregnant until John I'm like you know I don't want to go to the hospital I don't want to go to the hospital I'm not going I'm not going because I know you don't leave well no you don't I'm like they're gonna kill me there they mean they don't leave they they they they they you know exactly they're gonna kill me I don't want to go there you know so and not only that but in the hospital when you're over 18 they make you save by yourself so you don't have anybody there to support you you're a buyer self so anyways we go to the dons of our favorite place to hang out um by the pool you know in John's like get some sun I'm like literally dying so I'm like whatever just I'll take sun whatever I've been these good at all yeah um so next morning I wake up and literally crying so the point like just I couldn't walk so my knees for whatever reason it was a sepsis but the knees locked up um and I couldn't walk so at that point what else are you gonna do you gotta go the hospital right so John's carrying me out of the so it's hell and um takes me to the ER well first we can't I'm not gonna lie first we can't take this office we ran stat labs here because I didn't want to go I Dave I wasn't going you could run actually last one year office I didn't realize that wow cool yep right here we drew the blood I called one of my nurse practitioners I'm like hey I need you it's and Dave this is for the July oh my god I'm for the July on for the July you know I'm like I'm lucky to have the staff so anyways I'm like come in I need you draw my blood hurry up so we run the stat labs like if there's old back in two hours and my white blood cell count is at like an 18 which it shouldn't be over like a 10 so that point this is not good once the ER they ran all the labs you're not leaving you're staying because you have sepsis um they also diagnosed me with the elius or you I think that's what it's called where your um gastrotrack stops moving so that's why my stomach is all like that yeah yep that's why I blew up like that so I'm a hospital nothing yeah the only thing they gave me was you know obviously they had to start up like three IVs on me and gave me all these different antibiotics that push of antibiotics um my you know lactic acid was was super super super high she had lactic acid acid acid acid lactic acid toases yeah so basically like what the best way to make you like make you as understand because a lot of you guys out there work out right um so if you got the best personal trener on the planet and they worked you to death every single portion of your body that's what it felt like two days later like I couldn't even lift my arm because it hurt that bad that why you could just work to because you're you're so much like yeah I could walk as my legs were my legs were swollen um I you know it's just literally I was just I couldn't do anythinGHow long ago you've therefore before you started feeling better well so here's what happened um obviously you know I've been in nursing for a while so I'm very familiar with what will and will not kill me um so I'm in the room with the special air and everything and they don't have any more COVID rooms right so I'm there for two days and you know there's patients that are older patients that need that room um and I just told them I'm like less than I'm like I'll be fine I only you know medical clinic I'm good you know just discharge me because I don't want to be here anyway IMean think about being on fourth of July I'm in the you know this ICU room by myself being treated like literally being treated like an alien because you know everybody's coming in in a bubble suit nobody wants to be near you because they're scared of you yeah John couldn't you know oh did you get in there? no no I was by myself like and I'm hearing the fireworks gone outside you know and I'm like I'm drawn on FaceTime like an crying and like this is so bad I'm like so finally after I have the phone I was like hey go I hit the button the nurse button I'm like hey I don't know what you have back there but whatever you got put in my IV I'm going to sleep like I just want this night to be perfect I'm done so um the you know I want to say like this this breathing issue slash stomach issue slash pain that I couldn't stand up straight pry lasted a solid like two or three weeks like you're in the hospital three weeks no no so I was I was out of there I'm like I'm out of here give the room to someone else and I just was basically bedridden for well you should say why see you might be at home at least you could have like John that fear yeah IMean I have I have access to everything so you know I'll just keep a close eye on it but IMean even when I left the hospital I still I ended up going back to the hospital again like what was it a week later because with COVID there's blood clots you know I want to say what fit like 50 or 60% of patients with blood clots so they have me taking a baby astronaut to make sure I don't get a blood clot and then you know it's just it's frustrating day because nobody is every doctor that came in that room because they gave me pulmonologist they made cardiologists and internal medicine doctor they're all coming in there and saying the same exact thing like okay so let me sit down and just let me discuss this with you this is the most common and unfortunately we just don't know we don't know what's going to happen you're all in this together oh my god we don't want to hear it you're my dog you're not sure it's just crazy you just take things into your own hands and luckily you have a lot of alternative therapies at Titan Medical and this is why I really wanted to really get out there to people that sometimes you know because they don't know these doctors don't know what to do there are things out that you can do and and they're I guess they would be considered alternative or off-label type stuff and so these doctors won't prescribe in the hospital but you can take matters into your own hands and that's I'm always a big believer in and finding solutions you know that you need to the problems that you have tell us some of the in modalities that you guys use to help you get over this and recover from this illness so that the biggest thing that all the doctors and you know before I left the you know hospital the biggest thing was super high doses of vitamin C right glutathione because they do give glutathione of the hospital if you can believe that or not and and zinc so you know instead of taking it obviously over the counter and a pill format where if you get something over the counter you even know what you're getting and then if you digest it you're only getting what 10% of what you still don't know what you're getting but you know I obviously took the injectable so we have an injectable has glutathione it has vitamin C and it has zinc in it all in the same exact shot and I just took that shot I took that along with the thymocene alpha one I'm a huge believer in the thymocene one and one and so yeah so the three and one is the trifecta shot you have now that's um that's the zinc are trying me right that's the zinc the glutathione and the injectable vitamin C which I've used vitamin C in the past it could be a little like a little painful right in an injectable form right right yeah you just dilute it down with like a vitamin B12 right right you could just dilute it half and half and yeah super highly concentrated yeah is really well I think it's it's see is ascorbic acid so it's the acidity of it probably is what also irritates some of the tissues um interestingly obviously you put zinc right in the bloodstream obviously you know you're observant that's for sure exactly you know you can't believe you need and glutathione I've been saying oh you know banging people in the head with that IMean that's the most important thing for immune system liver health IMean anti-oxygen you know IMean everything that goes wrong during COVID can be counteracted with glutathione it seems you know and our bodies just don't make enough of it and that's really especially as we get older you know I think that's what older people are are hit harder with this this problem well a lot of those a lot of these doctors out there you know especially the old school ones they don't even if you believe it they don't even know about glutathione they don't even know what it is right right how much it's natural producing our body IMean we keep in blood tests for it here so we can tell you what are glutathione levels are and black haeless and this is going to help you know but we know more is better that's that's the thing IMean if you're coming if you're going into like a a war zone okay and you have more tanks and more missiles and more soldiers you're going to win the battle it's just it's pretty odd you know it's pretty logical right if you go in under under arms you get to get overwhelmed by the enemy and they're going to be so you know glutathione is a weapon of mass destruction we can use you know but if you don't have enough of it in your body it's your older maybe and you're not producing as much obviously fortifying with it is is logical IMean you know if you're going to go try to combat you know COVID so what's the dosage of all these ingredients in trifle and that trifle factor reformula sure so for the try new booster it's right the the vitamin C which is 200 milligrams per ML it's also got glutathione which is 200 milligrams per ML and it's got zinc chloride which is 5 milligrams per ML so you're getting all those and one ML per shot so if you're going to do a half you can half that dosage you're going to cut or 70% or whatever you're going to do yeah IMean at the end of the day if you're sick and you want to feel better you don't care you'll do whatever and if you're not sick and you don't want to get sick then you'll do whatever so we had a lot of healthcare workers because we're nationwide so we service nationwide so whatever state people are in we service them right a lot of people especially with the break out we had a lot of healthcare workers are in these different states like like wash and states yeah at all and all these big big place that got hit first even in New York and these people were taking it they were going to get in the patients and they didn't become covid positive they also wrote a review about it which is really cool so you know it's it was used which is a preventative and obviously right now you know people are just thinking about covid 19 but there's other bacterial infections or viruses out there that can still get you six you want to make sure your immune system is built up and five to take in the sense yeah I've been taking a little good to try on you know for a couple years now from you guys and I feel great I never get sick and if anyone gets sick of my ass I get like it lasts like a quarter of the time of everyone else and so now I'm going to add in these I'm going to try the new one the try a immune booster I want to see how that feel on that with the vitamin C as well now another thing you used which we've talked about before but I didn't you know no it would be so relevant to covid was the thymus and alpha one which is we know an immune system modulator that which helps you know enhance the enhanced system if it needs to be and you talk to us about that and how that helped and and what your dosage was you were taking so I was actually taking a higher dosage obviously because I was wanting to do whatever it took to feel better and get back to normal so IMean I was taking the forty units right per day yeah so it was fifty-hundred micrograms per day and you know what I was saying but I don't mean to interrupt you but I would I didn't know you told me before the show was the zidax and is the act there's actually a brand name of uh Simonson alpha one now it's not just a peptide the bodybuilders here that's actually it's like a drug that they're giving now for me that's correct and this is going to be the people with the research yeah IMean with the research coming out right now they're talking about uh T cells and how how how important T cells are as far as your immune system especially with covid-19 yeah well the big thing about that most enough one is the augments T cells which have killer cells and helper cells so basically track down they get the memory of these cells and they go after it again you know T cells after antibodies you know they don't know how long anybody's gonna last in the bloodstream or a system so at that point after that that's where T cells come into and really IMean that's that's what it is they use it as far as like uh chemo patients as far as I say with this speaker for cancer patients too it sounds like a yes yes so it slows cancer growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone so when you look up sedaxin which is the farm pharmaceutical name for the commercial product they'll tell you in the website you know obviously when it was FDA approved for so this is one of the FDA approved was for it so at that point you can look it up check it out it's really really cool it's really important are there any side effects like you do you do is there anything like flu like symptoms right like that I even I listen before I even started taking it because I didn't want to take a turn for the worse yeah IMade sure to do all my research because I was like I don't want any more side effects because I can't handle any more drugs but yeah I've been taking it now I want to say the like it's been the full 90 days and it'll have to take the 40 units anymore but IMean the regular doses 10 units every day you're going to bed yeah yeah now comes in a 15 milligrams bottle which is 15,000 micrograms so that's a pretty sizes of nice bottle and if you're only taking 500 units a day you know it's like kind of a prophylactic that'll actually want to live in that bottle you know absolutely so it's it's it's it's it's it's a great product you know I haven't even tried it but luckily I haven't needed it but I do you know that's how people have you know cancer so like that and they're always asking what they could take for it and you know I always tell them that the usual litany of vitamins and fortification types stuff like good asylum but I didn't know this is an option and this is something that people should probably look into as you know because them not even if you're not IMean not even if you're sick IMean we have a lot of people that have been taking it just as a you know preventative me personally I went at women's or land we went to a land of our bodybuilding show not just recently we were there for a couple of days I decided not to take it with me obviously because of reconstituted it's cold and I'm like you know I just don't feel like it so I'm beinGHonest but I didn't take it for about six days and on that six day I actually started feeling sick again and I'm like okay okay okay okay okay I bet it's double does when I go help you know it's it's important I think in these times that people have know that there is options you know and once again I personally I'm a preventative type of guy so I like to prevent myself from even getting anything but if you do get it okay here's an option you have to you can increase the dosage and and people can contact you a Titan Medical Center dot com and talk to you about these these formulas that you have and I know you obviously give discounts for people mentioned day polomba and art muscle so you always take care of older people I send over there really well customer services great you know what and I got it also commend you your doctors are great over there because you know telemedicine has gotten like a bad rap like it's like oh they get the crappy doctors you know the duty that's not true you guys actually have doctors that kind of care because I've sent people there and their blood work was often they call me up complaining like oh this doctor wants me to do this and this and it's like he's right I look at their blood work he's actually right he's actually he caught something that probably your normal doctor wouldn't even catch and and he's just wanting you to address it you know and that's what doctors have also do you know yeah go do your donation hurry right it's big for us so IMean patients obviously in the minority there was all to come afterwards because without their health they're not doing anything they're not getting them for a show they're not going on you know lives and you know doing daily quality of life things yeah so I was a big thing with the way to all medicine is now because of covid 19 obviously logistic wise we were already set up for telling that so all around the United States where well he's doctors primary care and we start doing primary care services too for patients throughout the state too as well so primary care we can help them too but you know they weren't set up for this so primary care people are calling us and they're like I can't get in with my doctor even for covid like I don't know if I have covid or not you know so we were able to do this right away for patients and you can tell us it is ironic that you guys yeah it is ironic that a lot of the hormone clinics specifically you guys werecompletely set up for this it was like it was almost like you guys were made waiting for this to happen you know and really I'm like oh my goodness yeah it was really only now what you did it because it was a convenience because a lot of people out of state couldn't travel but but it really worked to the benefit of even the people in the state so because now no one all of a sudden everybody all these doctors is it didn't you know it said telemedicine no no no no no no no no no no everybody's been telling medicine the world they're all those on it's perfectly fine so yeah you know even like the doctors now you can even email them now like this like when you when I sign into the month my mind short portal you could actually say hey doc you know and talking them they'll actually email you back and say are y'all sending for this test or something like that it's it's it's it's amazing it's a little different it's cool I actually like you now I don't want to wait and doctor I do it's more convenient for me it ought to go there you know went with the rheumatologist after I got the blood worked done because he did a full work up on me for the glupus and all these other things IMean he did it on tell him that I wish they could do my colonoscopy through the telemedicine but unfortunately hey student of Dave soon you'll stick you know take a pill and it's just gonna it's gonna be a camera it's coming yeah mark my words I believe you're right I want to talk about it for me out because I I said a lot of people to you guys for the pregnancy protocol I developed years ago and that was you know to help people get more fertile men get more fertile so they can get their wives you know pregnant and it's worked very successfully in the past you know you get something ingredients on the list weren't really readily available coming soon now finally they're making synthetic FSA which is also known as HMG or pergoneol if any of you guys you know been looking for those things this was something you couldn't get now all of a sudden it's gonna become available and that's usually the key ingredient in raising a man's sperm count talk to us about that coming yeah so FSAH on the manufacturer product is available now so it will be helping patients out with that as far as that goes that along with ACG you know clomeid and glutathione those are the great protocols you know you're behind that protocol 100% so we'll be able to off that to patients you know by themselves or altogether to really make that boom IMean we've helped a number of patients get pregnant you know not knowing if they could get pregnant or they could do you could also send them in for sperm analysis so if they don't even make sure that it's them because some people don't know they think it's automatically them and it could be the wife or you know it could be them who knows so until you really run those tests and really do know or if you just want to take a shot in the dark and say listen I'm just gonna pump up my body right ago well usually in a perception of time for guys that are bodybuilders usually it's it's the guys fault so 99% of the time so but it's great it's great that you guys can do this and provide the service and you know it's funny you can use as little or as many as you want I always say look if you know if you want to fertility dogs that they're gonna charge you 35 thousand dollars per year oh my god 35 thousand per year oh per year oh per year oh alone is 1500 dollars you know and that's for like a week or two you know that so this is a much better way to go and I'm glad that you guys are so we'll be able to give a substantial discount that medication to us right so I'm just throwing out the right now I'm getting a price down I was like that but it would probably run 500 bucks so it's a third of the cost that would you get from a plate when it can't be PG wake way cheaper anyway you know for the patients stuff like that even what they were charging for ATG it's IMean it was like $2,000 for an 11,000 and I knew I'm like ridiculous IMean let me bring that up because a lot of people are very concerned because they heard they heard that ATG will no longer be made and that's not true what's happening is it can't be compounded anymore in a generic app they're March so you're you have to sell the brand name pervinole is that correct I'm sorry I'm sorry about that so correct no excuse me yeah yeah prognol so it's got to be manufactured there are a couple uh compounding pharmacies five with three bees out there which are FDA outsourcing facilities that are going after the biological license that big farm has right now it's a couple million dollars to do and they haven't secured those licenses yet but hopefully they'll be able to do it in compounded ACG will be out there because it will be it will be a lot more inexpensive for patients going bad thing with you know manufacturer products like that is big farmer there are a little bit more expensive as far as that goes but even for us if they had to go for manufacturer prices we're going to give our patients a super discount on it like 150 bucks probably still maybe it's kind of a box maybe up it up 50 bucks bucks more than what we already charged it's still giving to it because we want to try to pass on the saves the patient IMean that's great that you guys are offering that because people worried about that because you know that's a typical you know everybody bill is you know are stopping a cycle or are they going off you know hormone replacement you know they got it today like to do HGG and I know it's part of your your hormone replacement protocol you you prescribe HG to make sure that the testicles keep working so that you know that kind of through a little monkey wrench into what you guys would do in two yeah no 100% at the end of the day I know some of these clinics out there and I've heard this because obviously I can see all the text messages coming in from all of these awesome patients but you know you have to come up with a solution a lot of these doctors just took people off HG they're up so I can get it I don't know what to tell you I just you know here here's some you know here's the rest of your stuff I'm like good and then then they're trying to substitute so I was through the compound farms he's lost a lot of money in this right a lot of revenue because HG is huge weight loss for HRT and stuff like that so what they's inside was alright we're gonna try to look for a substitute so when you start looking at these different substitutes now the DEA is starting to look at peptides over 15 chain of amino acid and base peptides they're really starting to look at okay some these shouldn't probably be on the market yeah so at that point they're looking at they were placed it now with kiss peptin that was supposed to be another one that's supposed to help regulate LH and stuff like that and a lot of clinics have been pushing that and in Coleman Feena not Coleman but there's another one that they're using as far as that goes they're trying to relax a little bit like that yeah well I told John when all this happened I'm like listen we're gonna make any decisions here with our medical staff and everything because obviously we're gonna go over it but I'm not reeducating all these patients that's what these people have been with us for like six years you know I'm like I'm not gonna be like I'm not gonna be like I'm not gonna be one who's better reeducated not you you don't say in that let's say you do reeducate your patients right and then you put them on this peptide now DEA says to the company far as you guys can't make this easy right so then you're back at square one right and you're like oh what I do and now the patient like well you put me on this you put me on this life people will pay a little bit more for the for the brand name HCG if they have absolutely absolutely 100% you know they're gonna get the best they're gonna get the best results like that too instead of just trying to script together and put together whatever you can to give a patient so we want to make sure that our patients are getting the very best whether it's therapies or patient service you know whatever it is right well I appreciate not only the services you guys offer but also the customer service that you give all the people that he said and over to you and that's why people back in you know look you you're not Walmart okay over there and people have to understand that you're not giving this stuff away for free you know you're not going to lose money over there so they have to understand there is there is there is a business component of the business but you're there to get the people to take the right things if they need that are going to help you know treat whatever issues they have going on and that you're first of all looking at the health first you're not going to just prescribe things to help it's not in perfect order and that's another thing you'll get frustrated like that but yeah some of them don't like that but at the end of the day we'll tell them hey listen your health comes number one let's just fix this let's fix this and then I promise you it'll be easy sailing after that plus you know patients they obviously they obviously get the service right so they're paying for the service too as well they call text email all times a day and night because means you have the phone at night time to not to be like this this is eight years later eight years later I'm still on the text message coming up mine yeah it's like the wall mart it's like a wall mart day if it's tarjet yeah yeah yeah the tarjet people always say to me I'm afraid anyone it's actually too late I said you can't text me too late some possible I said because I go to bed and I'm wrong that you days just roll right they just roll in the middle and you see I think pretty much continuous but that's how I'm so happy to hear that you are doing better you sound great you look good and you know it's just a testament to the fact that you know you guys are doing the right stuff over there and you know what now you have personal experience of anyone calls the clinic wants to talk to you or wants to you know maybe they have a COVID situation they're going through and you can maybe give them personal advice because happy to help you've experienced it all you know yeah I can't say I'm happy how to go through that and I did ask John why me I'm like I haven't done anything wrong anyone so I don't know what you're saying to cut that you got to be honest with you know but it's like hey we're gonna we're gonna do this to this girl and we're gonna make your go through this whole thing so she can let everyone know the COVID's real I'll tell you look you want to know the truth why you got it and why John didn't get it the the reason is that I got sick and he did it I'm saying you want to know the reason I'm telling you the reason he takes more stuff no no that's the reason is that us men and I could speak for him and I were weak we couldn't handle it when what you went through and I was in the basket cases we probably would have died and yes Amanda I'm going to record it yeah I'm editing the night look I truly I completely admit that she's way stronger than I am that sense matter we can't handle that stuff you could still run a family in a business and also be sick we couldn't handle it so that's why you got the COVID need and that's the reason that's fine size if you want to take it out is John takes what stop on it make sure you mention our ex muscle day polonbo they'll give you great discount the customer services great there and they will take care of you are promised that thank you guys for coming on in a film and sitting on what's going on come back next time we got to see you here in our multi-million dollar city I'm afraid I don't want to patch it I can't let a lot of atoms quarantine I got a mask for you you're good we got a time strong must be the same I have one of those like Bandito masks I look like I'm going to rob a bank when I get what I go in the supermarket all right guys we'll talk to you later thanks once again for supporting this site and then for doing all that great stuff you do thank you Dave we appreciate thank you for everybody that's after we appreciate all right guys and that's going to take us to the end of another RX muscle supplement in science review we'll see you next time

=== FILE: TOM PRINCE & MILOS SARCEV HILARIOUS 90's Bodybuilders Stories：  Iron Debate (Part 2 of 2) [DydrjlaevuA].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Old school bodybuilding clothing company. If you wish your fancy fitness center was a hardcore gym, you are old school. If you just ate chicken and rice and are about to eat chicken and rice, you are old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. So what we were talking about before we went on air this is how we're going to wrap this show up. We have some funny stories. Some of the funny is material that we have before we actually go on air. And there are times that they will jump in. I was going to say it for the show, so we wanted to bring that to show. So Tom, we're going to go to you first on this one because you had a hilarious story with you and Milo. Pretty much right before we were about to go on your like Milo. Remember the last time that I saw you this and this happened, you got to tell the story. And then Milo, we're going to go to you next door. Okay, so this is actually the first time IMet Milo's in person. So the first show I ever worked at, worked at Boothet was the 96th Olympia. It was in Chicago and we went out, so I had to counter the metrics at the time. So did Milo's. Dave, did this right before you had one with metrics? Yeah, it was before. I was going to let the year before. I think so. Yeah. I was very jealous that you had that contract by the way, and that I didn't because I really wanted to work for metrics. But so we went to lunch at the Olympia. It was me and Milo's in Jim Quinn in punishment and Debbie Croft, who was a fitness competitor. So we're out, eat lunch and Milo's is telling a story about how he was on a tren. Now he and Suncht met. We're on a tren going through Europe someplace. And so when they get to the border and whatever country, you know, now there's the hope that there's open borders. But at the time there wasn't. So, you know, he gets, they get stopped at the border. The guys are coming around and checking past boards and checking people's luggage and all that. And so the guy comes up to Milo's and he goes without, without basically without saying the else. Again, this is the way I remember at Milo's. He comes up to Milo's and goes, so where's your testosterone? Because of course Milo's was, you know, whatever, 265, 277, the punishment was about the same. Maybe a little bit bigger. You know, where's your testosterone? And without miscelling a beat, Milo's goes, it's in my balls. Where do you think it is? Exactly. Now I told you guys, I told that story a hundred times. I love that story. Like, I'm giving you something for that to your mind story. Yeah. Well, you know, I just finished it up there. I said, in my balls, where else do you want to see it? Yeah. IMean, shit, but you know, when somebody asked me this kind of, that's my first response of course. Yeah. But yeah. Yeah. We talked about it a lot of times, many things. But like, couple of weeks ago, I was with Chris Kermier. And then he told me, Milo's, I was always wondering, what were you taking that 1997 European tour? You know, because me and NASA were watching you and you were sweating too fucously. There's like November. It was like snow outside and, you know, we only had to take it here in the T-shirt. Okay. Do they have a tattoo this story? They've? No, I don't think so. Okay. So, 1997, and you remember how 97 was? I think that the NASA deserved to beat the European in Olympia. Yeah. And then there was a super tie-up lineup. IMean, Leapree's, it's probably there. And then there was Chris Kermier was eight. Ronnie was nine to I was standing at Olympia. Then we go to Hungary and in Hungary, actually, I beat Chris Kermier first show and been staleer. And then we go to Spain and next day, and then we go to England and Chris Kermier beat NASA. IMean, this is now NASA, a good bit, Dorian and then Ben Olympia. Now Chris is beating in it because everything was so so close. So, carry case, Dorian's business partner at the time, so okay, Neal's. The only way you can get little edges, you know, just try to get, you know, a little bit even even more linear. You know, you're in great condition, but you know, try to, I said, what can I do? IMean, it's like three days until the next show. So, said, did you ever try that DNP? I didn't really. I didn't really. And at the time, I didn't know much about it, so it's just like, okay, you know, like, should, uh, if something that he believes can make considerable difference in three days. Okay, you know, mine is rough. So anyway, I, I, I, I, I, I. This very little that mealus wouldn't try that. Yeah. I see there was very little that you wouldn't try that then in the day. It's not a big deal. You're not going to make it. Could you not, could you not just cover yourself and gas a lane? Wait, something fire to you? That would have done everything. Probably, probably a tripled into it because, uh, you know, I started taking it and, uh, oh my god, you know, it's just like, cuteness. I was like, burning up and all this shit to serve, but people traveling, you know, sayinGHow, how, Bobby, let's be all this, like, check our skin on, uh, on, uh, on, uh, abs, like, oh shit, I'm tight. I'm good. Like, but I was like, burning up in the, uh, like, like, just a mere and then, uh, not still looking at me, uh, I'm sweating, but IMean, I was just like, pouring out. Okay, I'm not telling you nothing. So now, uh, day of the show, and then we get to the hotel and hotel it really, you know, check a public, had that little mirror up there. So you can't really see your body. You know, it's like, okay, you know, you can save, but, you know, so when you look down, right, your abs and my legs are a little too pleased. This is the curse shit I'm gonna fuck them up, right? So we go, we go backstage and, uh, you know, so I think the clothes up and I look in the mirror, I'm, you know, I'm a rip, but I look kind of skinny, but this is probably that the mirror that makes you look narrow. You know, they have this in some theaters and all this, so I'm like, okay, but then master passed right by me and fucking master looks the normal. And then I look at Naxa, look at me, they're like, he shit. And then, you know, I call my friend, I was traveling with me and he came in and he just pays drop. Like, where did he come from? IMean, I lost, you know, he looked at me like a 20 pounds. Oh, my God. Holy. And I felt the worst in my life. So I'm very vocal about it. Anybody there's in the infus and get off of it is the unhealthy thing you can possibly do. Yeah. As you know, it's, uh, it's a, uh, a right poisoning and a lot of people want to take those short cuts and I was guilty of it, okay, and I pay the price for it. But this is that one of the things that he saw was going to, to find out, so I told him. But, uh, you know, just to make it a little bit more interesting, I did have a lot of guys coming to my gym and wanting to take a German we'll say just straight like this. Milo's, I'm a living proof that no amount of unobotic spirits can kill the man. I said, okay, whether what do you mean? He didn't stop for years and he was using two-pit amount. IMean, I said, what is this stupid amount? Over 100 cc, uh, shit to week. Like, he would just, whatever he will have, you know, 100 cc, okay? Oh my God. A guy is still alive and I, you know, so, of course, I don't want people to get this in a wrong way. Abuse can be a serious issue. So I'm far away from advising anything like that. But at the same time, they've, or Tom, I'm sure that you guys know dozens, if not hundreds of athletes that you'd be super scared about they have according to the cycles what they were doing when they werecompeting. And, you know, most of them are still around, you know? Yeah, most of most of them are around. Yes. IMean, every time it happens that, okay, somebody died and everybody's going to point you, oh, this is, IMean, in every other sports for many, many other reasons, younger people do die. Yeah, he could be some, uh, consequences from, uh, using. But I, again, emphasize, you use it wisely. You can enhance your health. And, and the standard Tom, you have no reason to use it now. But you did say that you put the egg and the, the sauce that on an table and nothinGHappened. But I put you there. I, I hope you age that egg if you didn't throw away the sauce. I'm not going to waste a good egg. You know, I don't, I think it's all, it's all really about knowing when to stop and when to start. IMean, this is a terrible analogy, but I'm going to, but I'll use it just because I know you both know maybe Craig Titus probably was one of the biggest abusers of animal exteriors. IMean, back in the 90s. No one would take more than a certain amount. It was like almost like unwritten law. This, you've never did more than to test this, this much testosterone. You've never did more than this much parable. You never did this. You never took more than four, I used a J. There was like, there was like rules that people just sucked it. Craig didn't play it by those, but he was like, almost like, like, he's like the guy's today. He would take ridiculous amounts of stuff. But he went to jail that one time. You know, He was a forced, you know, whatever it was, a year and a half, two year break, whatever it was in the jail. And now he's in jail for life, but so he'll probably live to 90, you know what IMean? Because he never really had enough time to permanently damage his organs. So my point is that you could play hard for a limited amount of time as long as you know, when to say when and stop and allow your body to heal. So the body has an amazing capacity to heal. You know, you could have a high creatinine level for six months and then back off what you're doing. And then your kidneys will regenerate. But if you do that, if you have a high creatinine level for 10 years, you're probably not going to recover your kidney function. You know, after that, same thing with liver. The liver will regenerate. But if you never give it a chance to regenerate, because you never come off or you never, you know, back off a little bit, then you're probably going to have permanent problems later in life, same thing with heart. The heart is a muscle. It does get bigger. You know, I had an enlarged love ventral from for many years, you know. And now I go for, you know, CT scans because of my Aorta. And they're like, you don't have any left ventricular high perturbing anymore. I'm like, imagine that. I had an athletic heart, you know. So as I stop trening as much and I got smaller, the heart shrinks inside. So you have to know when to say, okay, you know what? I pushed my body, let's back off now because you know what? I'm 45 years old. I'm going to start getting older and I'm not going to my body. It's not going to have that capacity to heal anymore. So it's all about balance. You know, you have to know when to push play hard, you know. And I played hard when I played. And then when I realized, okay, I'm done. I got it back away now and I got to think about health because I do want to live a long time. And so some people don't care if they live a long time. But they say if they can't be a top-level body building, they would rather not be around. And we know, I don't know if the name names. We know names like that. They're not hearing more. So, you know, we've talked about this for me, let's see you and I. There are no 400 pound, you know, 80 year old guys, you know. They don't live that long. They die in their 50s and 60s the most, you know. So you have to decide, what do you want from your life? You want to live a long life? Then you better figure out a strategy to get you there. Just like you figured out a strategy of how to be a big body builder and get on to the Olympia stage. And I think that a lot of people don't have an exit plan. They only have an entrence plan. Well, that's so funny. I used to tell people that when I was in my body, when I was partying. And I was in my 20s that, you know, what? I'm going to, I'm not going to live that 30. So what difference does it make? Yeah. And the way with anything. Now, the only problem with that, of course, is that if you say that, then you need to die in 30. Yeah. Okay. The problem is, well, that when you if you live the 45 or 50, then you're not looking at and say, oh, shit, what do I need to do to survive the 50? Right. But what do I need? You need to reassess the whole program. So that you do live that long. And then you need to start looking at your home. But, David, do you want some correct title stories? Yeah, let me hear him. Oh, I'm going to throw this down. No, no, no. Yeah, I can't say it. Right. I prepared him back to the 2002. I believe you. Hey, tell me you hated him. Tell me you hated him. Hey, did he listen to me? Hey, you? There's no way he listen to you. Yeah. So this is how this, he was using like no vein in normally, right? Yeah. And I thought he meant, man, you have to get off of it. And I said, I don't have to climb his climb. And then he's in my gym. And I see in the middle of the work like he walks into the bathroom and I go right up to him and I find him. Right? So many times. You know, then, but he always wanted to say, what is next stage? Next stage. You know, so he was competing. I was preparing not an Anthony also for that show, San Francisco. And there were backstage, you know, I couldn't go because I was in Japan at the time. And the track is coming in. It's 20 minutes to stage. You know, I don't look as good as I want to. I got what he said, I can do. So well, I know that you always have that injectable basics. But if you do the intermasticity, it's not going to work. You have to go through the bathroom and do IV, it does go slowly. And because it works instantly, right? Yeah. So apparently 20 minutes before, he didn't look at it. I think he could beat Malvin. And then, it says, as he was doing it, then he just opened the water coming out and he managed to beat him. So it's a crack tide. It's a crack tide. It's really like in the last minute of the Justin. But you know, promoter from San Marino, Gianrique Capica, for example, it those 2002 as Tom mentioned, I'm going to track Titus' room. And we had a protocol that he supposed to take. He didn't supposed to be on a new banner. Of course, and he didn't supposed to beat the junk. I'm coming in. And he's pushing out the table full of. He can imagine fries, ketchup, burgers, shit, all kinds of stuff. That he didn't supposed to beat. And then, of course, the coming is sorry, bro. And then, he didn't even say hello to the Jericho Piccale. And this is the guy he meets for the first time. And here's a tiny little knife in shit. And then, here comes Kelly and Ron Ron, and he takes from her new bane. Yeah. He takes the girl and stuff, injecting ivy. Right? And he's just, you know, don't you have a technique? My shit that I did. And then, oh, what's the name, bro? Oh, no, no, no, no. I'm like eating. Yeah, that's typical in a crack. And I love that IMean, he was a personable. He was super funny. But as you know, he had his demons and, you know, as he did mention him, I just wanted to say those stories. Don't, don't you say he hated working with him? Don't you tell me that, that's correct. Yeah. And then, you know, the way drawing important was, I don't know what somebody would pay you and then never listen to you. Yeah. But I'm imagining these conversations between doing, and you know, doing is not a big talk. I'm imagining these conversations back and forth. Well, Craig's asking, what should they do? Yeah. And then, Craig starts arguing about what he wants to do. Right. That would be Craig all day long. Yeah. Let me go, sorry. I got one more. Real quick. Okay. This is going to be about corn here, though, okay? Right. The Manchester show, the week after the Olympian, 2001. Okay. The guy comes from one of Kerry Cays' assistants. So, Kerry Cays was a promoted show, also Doron and his partner. Right. And the Manchester England, the guy picks me up at the airport, drives me to the hotel, he grabs my luggage. I'm all eight things. You know, so we're going up to the room. As we're going to my hotel room, walk another hallway, and there's three pizza boxes, we need any games to go on. We pizza hot, pizza boxes. We need any games to go over the hotel room. And I go, look at the guy and I go, hey, hang on one second. And I go to knock them the door. And the guy's like, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, what are you doing? How do you know who's in there? I'm like, I don't. Just hold on to something. And that from the door, my little opens the door, about, you know, this one is like, let's open up. Just want to make sure it was you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I had my, of course, chicken rice. Yeah. IMean, that was literally, yeah. It might have been sticking rice in one meal. And I didn't eat perfect. I'm watching this guy with pizza boxes. You know, then he's like, picking up the former ordering. The difference was time, you were going to go back to your room. Eat your chicken breast and go to sleep. Chris was planning on going out dancing for six hours. And some club that night, so he had a few a lot, you know, to give us body a little bit of grease and salt and water, so that when he swatted 20 pounds on, when he came back the next day, he'd be ready to get on stage. Probably didn't even go to sleep. He probably go right to the venue from the show. Yeah. Not just now, I don't know. Yeah. That's funny. One more thing about crack changing the things. Of course, I gave him an instrument protocol, introvert, Kyle Cuyves, and all. So, I've been a couple of days. He's, oh, bro, I didn't tell him, but I'm doing something even better. I said, what, you know, I went and it didn't buy the dexter. I bought the crook shows. Crook shows. It's a natural sugar. It must be better. That's for a lot of God. You know what, he's the fruit of the interwork out. But yeah, as far as Chris, to me, I also prepared him in the 2000-2003, and there was a kind of thing. You see, he needed this kind of stuff. We were in Amsterdam, and Dorian Yates, Dennis, and Chris, he went out. So, of course, there's a tribute, like, to box with the 18 different kinds of whatever, Marijuana, actually, he's a god knows what it, you know. And I didn't take it because I can't handle it, right? But of course, Chris did. Next thing you know, he's out of it. I took a picture, I actually posted an Instagram, like, couple of weeks ago, he's sleeping in the dark bar. And then as soon as he woke up, he ate eight ham and cheese sandwiches. He did it before the show. Eight ham and cheese. Because he has a bungee. Yeah, because of course, you know. But he can get away with anything. IMean, I still think that Chris really, that is, he had a 100% to the bodybuildinGHe could have in Mr. Olympia. I think that too. Yeah. It's the incredible structure of the Sonoma physique, not being missing. IMean, yeah, it's a, I love the guy absolutely. You know, I just think that if he just did that little extra, you know, Dorian was committed to that too. Dorian said he should have been Mr. Olympia, you know. He was trying to tren him. But I think it was he got to hold him to late. I got two funny stories though. One is, you know, I always champion myself as probably one of the greatest eaters of bodybuilding. I had a great appetite. I had a great ability to down food, poor shakes down my throat. He didn't mad. I didn't miss, you know. And I thought I was the, you know, the best eater. One point I was probably eating about, you know, almost six metric shakes a day and probably six food meals, which is, and they were big food meals. It was a lot of food. And I needed to, I was like 319 pounds, you know. And this is before guys with 300. That, in fact, this was so early on that, that, that guy, like, I remember Jake Colors, didn't an interview. He was like, oh, there's no reason to be 300 pounds, you know. Like, because no one can be 300 pounds. It was like Dorian and me and, and, and NASA. So, and I was an amateur. So, to me, I, I prideed myself in the fact that, and I was pretty lean at that weight. So, you know, while I didn't have their structures, I certainly had a lot of mass. I went up to Canada to stay with Greg Colbex for the, for the, for the, about five days. I stayed at his house with it. It was married to Kim, his wife at the time. And, um, I go up there and Kim had Greg on this eating regimen, where she would, and I don't, if you, but guys have a hungout with Greg, you know. Like, Kim would have a shake in front of him and a meal. Like, he didn't have to think about the food. She prepared everything. He would just like, like, a machine go to the table and eat the food or drink the shake, you know. And this went on every hour that he was awake. There was another meal of shake there. Now, when I stayed with her, she had great hospitality. She, she's like, I'll make all your food and shakes, don't worry about it. She's like, what do you need? I said, well, I'll eat whatever Greg's eating. Because I'm thinking, IMean, 12 times a day, right? Or almost that much, you know, I could certainly eat as much as he can, right? IMean, I almost didn't make it. I seriously, I think when I left this house at the five days, I gained eight pounds, okay? Because, and I was so sick to my stomach from eating because this guy was, I thought, I was a machine. He was eating like his shake, my shakes with 50 grams of protein. His were like 100 grams of protein. My meals were like eight or nine ounces of protein. His meals were 16 ounces of protein. I've never seen a human being eat that much. IMean, it was unbelievable. I was impressed. And like I said, up at that point, I don't think I ever saw anyone who could eat better than I could. So Greg was a creature from another planet. I'm telling you, it was, you might not like a structure or whatever the case in terms of competitive bodybuilding, but there was no one bigger than this guy in the history of our sport. And I was in the 86 and 11th before when I was, what IMet Milos, Kobe, that's the first time I ever saw Kobe, I see that he was walking around in a tent top and a pair of like, but I was told in Chicago, but a pair of the little, like, teddy white and not to not tell you why he's the little, um, Spanx. Well, Spanx, they're the short ones. Yeah. And IMean, every bit of 384 pounds, and gigantic. Like I don't think I'd ever seen a bit of human being. Yeah, yeah, he's enormous. No, no. No. I had was actually a tie between Nasser and Milos, but I've told the Milos one before, when we were into buy, we were, you know, we were in the, Dubai of the way it is, Dubai today is Vegas. When Milos and I went there in 96, it was basically sand and one hotel. And we were in this hotel and, you know, we were all dieting and something like that. And so, you know, we go down for breakfast and Milos is like, you know, we need, you know, we want, like, I think we, him and I got like 14 egg whites or something like that, you know, for breakfast with a bowl of oatmeal. And then I think they wanted a charge, just like $500 or something like that. And Nilos, like, not. Nilos went crazy and, and was screaming at the, I don't even know what language he was speaking, but he was screaming at them and finally the, the, the guy who brought us there, the promoter whatever came in and was like, Milos is like, we need food, we need food. Like, next thing I know, there was like 600 chicken breasts, like the liver to a hotel and we had food the rest of the weekend because of that. And so I thought I was a big mouth, Milos man and wiped up the floor with those people. It was unbelievable, but I definitely, I've never been charged $100 for egg whites. So that was the most expensive meal I ever had. And then the other, the other funny eating stories, we're doing, I'm doing eating stories, is I was, a guest posing with NASA, El Sombody. And it was called the, something, great, Easter Grand Prix or something like that. It was in like the Bronx. And after the show and I told the story before, I don't know if you guys have never heard it. After the show, we went to city island, which is a really nice area, like, to be cheap little place or you wouldn't think it's in the Bronx, but it is. And there's like all these little outdoor, like cafes, you can get seafood and this guy took the promoter was an awesome guy and he wanted to take us for like a real nice seafood dinner, lobsters and whatever you wanted basically, he'd basically was on the menu and, and it was taking them a really long time to bring the food and NASA was diving, I think, for the Olympic or at the time. And you know, when NASA gets, you know, when he starts getting like, you know, fed up with people, he gets really nasty. And he's like, he, he was completely taught, the, the way it just was a, was a woman, which met NASA didn't, he wasn't respecting it from the menu, she took her zorner. And he is, and she comes over and she's like, is there a problem? He goes, yes, I have a very big problem because you are incompetent, you don't know how to cook food in this restaurant and it's established. I'm obviously, I've been waiting and I am preparing for the Mr. Lachini, not the Mr. Olympic. What, preparing for the Mr. Limpia competition and I need my food and this is, and the promoter is like, like he saw a barist as NASA is so, it's being so kind to standing through this woman. She's like, well, I'm sorry, sir, you know, it's very busy drostanolone. I don't want to hear your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your excuses. Uh, we, we are here with a very important party. I am a, I am a dignitary in this, in this, in this party here, and I, I am waiting for food like a plebian in, in the, in the streets of Calcutta, India, and I don't understand this, and and so she's like, I, I, I, I started with the food as on its way because I don't, I don't want to any food. I don't want to, I want to, I want you cooking any of my food. I don't trust you to cook my food because now you will go and spit in my food, bring me a ball of ice cream. That is all I want. And he, he, he, he, he. Well, I just, that was, that was, that was the meal. And he was barbaric for the Olympia. I said, Nasa, you got to the Olympia, you kidding? I asked him, because I believe ice cream because these people are in bacilles here. I will not, I will not be subjected to there, they're incompetent. That's a pretty good impersonation of Nasa. I got my Nasa down, Pat. No, that's not the best. That's actually not our bad impersonation. But that is not what you see. That's our Nasa guitar. If I could do the cooking, I would have it, reel down Pat, you know, if I could do this. IMean, I'm going to add on, my one-middle Nasa story. We were at the police and fire games in Orange County. Okay. All the winter guys at the time mean Nasa, my draws over there. Were you there, Milus? Yeah, I think you were there too. So we're standing in line. I'm wondering if you're going to be as wave to the crowd, right? Yeah. That's all we're doing. Wave to the crowd. And the lady comes over to us and starts talking to us. Nasa starts heading on it. And she introduces herself as Congresswoman, something from Orange County. You think that would just sway Nasa from continuing to add on it? No, that didn't slow down Nasa one bit. Hey, give me a call when you get a chance. Let me write your number down in the back of your card. I'll give it back to you. I don't know. No, no, no, no. We're not going to call on that. Come on. It was probably like this. I don't know if you know I've spigated eight languages and we can have some dignitary talk after this. I will take you out for some coffee if you would like to have my number. IMean, many women want my number, but I will only give it to the people that I think are intellectually worthy of me. Obviously, being a Congresswoman like you are, I think that we might have some interesting conversation and hopefully we will have sex after. Oh, that's awesome. Yeah. You will jump in. No, well, IMean, I have something Nasa's story. But you got the best Nasa story. You know all the scoop on him. Yeah, well, well, well, let me just take his mother is from Serbia, right? And the father is Egyptian. So of course, you know, we talked many times and then as Tom said, Nasa was all over every goal that he can possibly convince into the conversation. So back online, he told me, yes, you know, my mother and father, they told me basically one woman can never be in that for the man. So I went to dinner with his parents, I posted a picture in Instagram as well. In other words, his wife, this friend, father, mother, and sister. And so he goes, okay, you know, he's kicking me under the table. Ask, ask my mom. Just tell me then let me ask, but on my language, right? So the visitor doesn't understand something English. He's Serbian. So I ask her this, okay? I would just like to know if it's true that you erased Nasa, you know, be the idea that one woman is not for the man. And then she looks like this. Of course, I can one woman be in that for the man. I, you know, are you crazy? One woman cannot be in that for the man. And Nasa, three of them, like his love, when he's like laughing like this, it's a funny, a lot of fucking insurbing. Yeah, anyway, but he was raised that way that was normal. Yeah, so he was just accepted. So after that, I didn't ask any other questions. That explains a lot in me, that's right there. You just told now I and really understand Nasa's whole mindset. Yeah. Right. When you have a model like that, you know, how can you replace it, right? Yeah, but I have the things that I really had to issue with Nasa and we talked about this all time. And like you said, Nasa, you know, you're all they see good in people. You're all they're in people are nice and feel they prove otherwise. Let's say yes, of course. So what do you think? Oh, no, no, no, no, I think everybody's in Nasa. And feel the three of them. You're going to bring it up. Yeah. Everybody's going to bring it up. And let's be proved for the people. Yeah. And then we'd have a hard time proving anyway, right? Yeah. But the head issue now, I was constantly like fighting with him until one point, you know, he came up to me and said, did you change your mind? And because I had the issue with a few people that end up really being in Nasa's. Yeah. And I trusted him too much, but she had a good time. I see a point, but I'm going to stick for this. And I win your race, sitting away, you believe in people and good in people, you know, stay to that great. But let's just- Oh, but Mills, I want to just give a little before you finish. You know, it's funny that you know, you say that and I think this is, you know, to not give a little bit of an inspirational message to people, you and I are very similar like that. We're very trusting in people. We believe in the good way. We like to see the good in everyone. Even though a lot of people, you know, have issues and they- and they- and they disappoint us, you know, whether it be, you know, business, you know, relationships that you've lost money on or people who have disappointed you maybe even even people you're in a relationship with. But at the end of the day, you know, when you have that positive attitude about life and about people and you're seeing the good in everything, you always wind up bouncing back better than you were before. And you- you seem to live a hat. I feel like people like us live a happy or longer life, whereas people who are very negative and see that always looking for something, you know, some conspiracy and everything, those people tend to be very unhappy people in their lives and they usually don't live that long. So I think there's something too that the idea of looking for the positive and everything that happens in life and looking for the good in people because we know it's there might not come out all the time, but we know it's there. I think that's a better mental outlook on life. And I think a lot of people say adopted that more would be happier in the lives that they are leaving. Absolutely. If you share the love, you love people, love your neighbor, love the strenger, right? If you can give, not take. It's a much greater gift. IMean, and if you just make those little steps that if something not sooner go to open it and ask people for something out of the that's that's how it was raised. But a lot of is something that is missing nowadays. That's for sure. I'm glad that they view it. That's right. And if you just somebody does you wrong, they say, mostly people, they're going to get their car man. I don't want anything better to have to do them. You know, just because they did me wrong. So now I should be changing my mind and wishing somebody some ill will. You know, no way. But before I forget because that's super funny story about eating, eating, we were in Dubai. But this time I was with the Ronnie Coleman jetjep Marsh, Flex Wheeler, Artuger in Hong Kong, 1982, Boloyangian virus there. So of course, Bolodian speaking, there's a time and there was at that time hardly anybody is spoken with there. So when you go there, like you try to order food, it would be impossible. But that time, it's just the Bruce Lee movie. You were sort of some boat and you know, like, uh, enter the dragon when they bring up different foods. Okay. So Ronnie and Artuger, that eating something that you said come on. They're eating like crazy. I can't determine what it is. So it's so the girl, what is it? Oh, chicken. It's great. And the Ronnie's eating and then somebody is trenslating. And let's not that chicken. Right is it? Right. Oh, oh. There they go. Ronnie, this is this rat ever tasted man. Milo, this was Boloyang. The one who was in the entrence of the dragon. Oh, yeah, he's in. He's in. Yeah, I'm not why I knew it was Sunday, but I never seen Milo Bolo at the Venice scrolls. But yeah, Bolo was in the movie into the dragon. A lot of people didn't know he was a gold general regular. Oh, I didn't know that. Yeah, and he was, yeah, Boloyang was, yeah, you know, he used to be a muscular guy and that's a little bit of a record. How many pounds of a rat did Ronnie? IMean, Ronnie was eating like you can't even believe. But then I just remember that then because the face that he made, IMean, he was just steppinGHis face. You know, because okay, I owe the chicken salad there. Right. And I'm looking at this. I see everything, but chicken. But then it's a chicken skin. The only part of chicken they use for the chicken salad is chicken skin. It's very fatty in the food in Hong Kong. Very fatty. Yeah, but the argument and the, IMean, the two probably went the bathroom and threw out the body probably finished his meal. Sure. I said, Al Q, probably went the bathroom through the rat off. Ronnie probably finished his meal. That was a pretty different protein. Right. Oh, man. There you go. Good story. I think that he's going to put a cap on this. What we're probably going to do is split this up in a multiple episode. Yeah, this would not do justice if we just had it in one lobster episode. But it has been an absolute absolute pleasure. Tom, middle ocean. Of course, Dave, me having the absolute best seat in the house and enjoying listening to these stories. And I'm sure the fans are going to enjoy. IMean, between the three of you talking about 90 years of experience in bodybuilding and all the hilarious stories and all of course, the inspirational stories. This we talked about trening. As we talked about, that equation, putting it all together trening, the gear, the diet, and putting together the perfect physique. So gentlemen, thank you. And thank you again. Tom, me, Lo, Dave and our producer Tyler Shore. For everyone involved, I'm so big for you. Keep we'll see you next time. Hey, Dave, me, Lo, see you guys. Thanks, guys. Awesome. We're going to play the great show. We've been treating you after 15 years of the drama. I enjoyed the show a lot.

=== FILE: TOM PRINCE Talks BEST of 90's Bodybuilding! (Part 1 of 2) [UssVlnFOwFA].txt ===

I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. To use only top of the line formulations, does for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Polumbau and today's guest is a very special one. He was the 1997 NPC National Champion. He was a really good IFVV pro and he's been missing an action a little bit and we found him and we're bringinGHim back today. I got to tell you the first time I saw this guy was at the 1995 NPC Nationals. I looked up on stage. Don Long was the shoe into win and all of a sudden I know where we see this guy up on stage and we're like who's that and the guy I'm talking about. The guy who was up in that stage is Tom Prince and he's here today. Welcome Tom. You left the bodybuilding world at some point. We're going to get to that whole story and you just disappeared. You didn't want you just completely dissociated yourself with that. You were on top of the game. You were like a guy we saw all the time. You were in Gold's Venice. You lived the bodybuilding lifestyles we like to say. How difficult was it for you to just detach and leave? I did good question. Not very much at all. To let me say it this way. Not the time. Not only did I have kidney issues but I also have lingering other physical issues. I've got zero cartilage in my left shoulder. Welcome to the club. Welcome to the club. I got two shoulder replacement. Right in the club. I've got 50% range of motion and my left shoulder. I've got to throw some both knees. My back sucks for it. I had at that point probably completely burned out my body. Gotcha. Physically it just wasn't there anymore. It couldn't be. Even in the last year I competed last year, last year, two years. I'm really trened. 2002, 2003. I'd already had a change of my workouts to going mostly like higher reps. Right. I hated it. I'll be honest. I hated it. I don't know how it keeps in the gym. You're still trening. Maybe it doesn't matter if you didn't resolve it. But doing shoulder presses for, you know, and you got set up as a performing interview. You know what I was doing? Like, 225 for 27, 28 reps. You came like a thing. Like how many reps did you do this for? Right. It was just was born. Yeah. Like it always somebody building, between the way things hurt and the trening. Bodybuilding is no longer what I knew bodybuilding to be. Right. So this was the reason I was in the sport I loved. Sure. At that point, you know, you hear football players talk about that. You know, or basketball players, you have these injuries and, you know, like all of a sudden, like it takes to the point away. Well, I told people that I said, when I realized in a hit of point in my career that I felt that couldn't be better than the year before, that's when I stopped because I didn't want to see people to see watching me go backwards and progress, you know. And mentally, how do you do that? Mentally, how do you go into a no-one? Yeah. So, like, you know, like, do about 80% of what I think I need. Like, is that 80% going to be enough? Can I still do it? IMean, mental, that's that messes with your head. Oh, of course. I was faking my way through the last couple of years of competition. I couldn't shoulder press. I couldn't do any. You did 225 at least. I couldn't do anything. I was doing the side lateral machine and maintaining muscle mass, you know, doing it that way. So it is. I can understand your frustration for sure. But you, you dissociate yourself. I would, I would have thought initially, I would have seen you maybe as a coach because you were one of these guys that were very, you know, knowledgeable. You had a good educational background. You understood the science of nutrition and something that you had no desire to continue in that capacity. You know, and I, and I did for a couple of years. But I only really did it. So let's say 2004 I helped, uh, will Harris. Yeah. At the USA. And he and everyone is classes turned him from. And that's still my favorite all time. Person I helped moment. Right. Because I helped a guy who had never been in top five in the national show. Yeah. He was trying to finish it around. Yeah. In that's to him. To his credit. I'm not trying to take credit for that. But, you know, so 2005, 2006, I probably have to go 20 people a year each of those two years. But even that was while. The business my life when I started got going. Right. You know, initially, you know, my wife and I started a property manager company. Um, so we manage a part of buildings for owners that own a farm building. Right. Most of the owners, you know, they want to their absentee owners. Exhum the mail. They don't want to, you know, they don't want to be snitch and toilet and peating a farm. Yeah. You know. Um, so not though I'm doing that either. Yeah. You were sponsored by making sure the rent is collected and all that stuff. To all that stuff. Yeah. Oh, yeah. IMean, peating building the exteriors. Anything. If you can do it at an apartment building, we do it. That's a good service. Yeah. It's a good service. Right. You know, but yeah, and it's not glamorous in any way. You know, um, financial. It's a lot more lucrative than bond. I was going to say it's nice to be able to pay your bills though, right? And I have to worry about it if the supplement companies get a sign you check every month. You know, right. Absolutely. But so, well, what, but the firsT3 months of our property manager of business. We'd even make a dime in the first month you made money. I love this one of my favorite stores. First month we made money. We made three hundred and thirty three bucks. Woohoo. Yeah. But you know, now I think you're going to start. Now I can be perhaps off the tren. But you guys were smart. But you guys started it while you was still making money and body building. So it wasn't like you needed the money. So, but then when you actually didn't need the money, you actually would, would do it well. So that's, it worked out right for you. Yeah, we started, yeah, we started the company in the middle of our, April of 2003. So it was, I started my contract. 2003, 2004, we were, that was far. That was far. We're making, we're still doing well overall. Yeah. Money wise. And then I had, and I kept two people's diets for 2005, 2006. Just to make sure that we, that are income was solved. Yeah, you was smart. You got to have a little strength in the income. I always tell people that. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Let's go, let's say, let's go back. Let's go back in time though first. Let's go back in time though first. Let's go back to this. Back to 1995. Don LonGHad placed third at the, You know, second at the nationals in 1994 behind the Mayo. He was the guy who was going to win it. I was third. I was tired. I was tired of second. Yeah, tired of second. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. I remember, yeah. Right. And remember. Right. Right. Right. Right. Me. And remember, I remember. And remember this as, Iamba. Was that, he said, I remember the first call out you were not in the first call out you were not in the first call out you were not in the first call out. You were actually thinking like all the way in the end. No one was even looking at you. now you have thrust into the limelight was that was that an exhilarating experience for you? Okay that. Yes. That was that was even to this day. When he nationals almost went in the night at champions competing at the Olympia the Mike all-time favorite show that I did and how I felt afterwards was in 95 nationals because that was like being on a meteor went literally riding it and meteor was yeah so I I'd only done two show was ever crazy. So this is the third shot I've ever done. No one knew who you are. I don't think the judges knew who you are. No one's not nobody nobody nobody except down long. Yeah. No no no no no no this is a true that year 1995 down guest post in West Palm Beach at a show in June. I went back stage because I was helping the front of mine that was in the show. Yeah. And I said say hello you know and he came over to me. He said Jesus man is like like wow you like you look really good. What show you did 24 and I said the national said he goes this isn't this national. We got now at the time I was like two 85 oh you were that big I know you've been digging that exactly five eight okay so you know he's like really I guess we'll see you there okay now that's part of the story okay so we'll hold that for later so go to the 90 foot so we go to go to lands right I'm sitting the front wrong little at way it's by myself. Everybody's about to start back as you can get yeah as you can get in the way you know and Don comes in walks all over into the front pops down next to me he's like hey Tom how you doing now I'm a stun year number me right but so we waited next to each other shir cans everybody will buy the way the whole room stopped from Don went away in oh sure like he said not only was he the favorite his face was on the cover of the of the of the program right he had a vibrant he had a vibrant ad that was in there was in that program that's right where I was in the state of caffeine like Jesus Christ mentioned going up a competing against the guy and to advertise an imminent you know he's easing ads and I totally crap you know so anyway so go to the first call up first call outcomes the call up four guys and I'm the last guy they call up oh by the way number 79 I was number 79 I'm gonna walk it out and I'm on the right end yeah and sure now so once they're the top through top where we go through up our poses they puT3 guys back they put back Don and during me off to the side they roll sitting down. Kevin the roll comes back he's rubbing down shoulders and you're sitting on the floor next to me and you're and you're flexor keeps going God man I got this shit I got yeah I had to go he's done yeah I had to go he said he was better than everyone yeah right and I'm like and I'm like I didn't say anything okay but I knew John Don was down with just shakinGHis head I just kept my head still I didn't know this guy Kevin the wrong on the other hand was like smile on you know like so this is this is great so when I let it go at that so we go back out there we're gonna have one more line up we're gonna have one more call out and I I I I was like I don't look to that just face I couldn't see if it was but I knew it was gonna be me and John if you're had this like big like jelly roll hanging off his normal yeah he was always that shape of a little bit no way he's gonna be like I just couldn't even though I was nobody there's no way I could have this guy could be me yeah not net conditioning it's sure it's in they called out me and Don and that what in a flash it was like a light bulb going off when they called out just me and Don yeah there's a boom also in that in that moment you realize oh he shit IMight be a problem yeah and I'm just going to the show just to see you like hey man you either got it already done don't find out if you don't you'll get your ass kicked hat and had it flowed under the back of retirement but the been okay Tom how did you flowed under the radar for for those years because IMean you put a lot IMean you were big you weren't what you showed up and you were ready to be a pro ready IMean really IMean you just didn't had have any stage experience at that point which was that was that was the only amateur aspect of you you know you know I love you know I love first one of the Minnesota until it saw a Minnesota nobody knows you yeah until I was twenty four right in four to twenty five and then we moved to Florida when IMoved to Florida people started it gets an only that was when I did like when I did the most of Florida there yeah in 1994 IMet Jim Manion as a matter of fact top Jim I even called Jim Manion after the show because he made a combat to like the head judge about me and I just wanted to hear what he thought yeah okay I didn't even know that wasn't like maybe you don't call Jim Manion you didn't even know he was really right yeah well IMean I did but I didn't you know I like so what do you mean a combat like well that kids like you've got a really good lucky is a definitely a national a lot of them you should be a national right just wanted to hear from him to be honest I could have one tried believe it right not like I doubted myself but just you know that was a hell of a compliment from the top guy sure also I I call him and spent about like two minutes out of all the money is great and you know like end of like end of story but like a seven you're right nobody knew me what we do you doing for like work I know you were a student you were like a perpetual student like I was at at some point but what we what you actually doing was going to grad school and uh minutes of Jim okay what Jim will you managing you know it's not there anymore it was a world Jim and in boy and beach floor a boy and beach okay alright I remember that yeah yeah what do you live now by the way I'm gonna keep tomorrow I'm on the west coast oh here in the right guy okay yeah I'm gonna ride everyone wants it in Florida I guess when you get all the uh I'm a whiter but I I loved I love I love it I wish I would have moved down here earlier I now that I'm here man what I couldn't when you lived in New York yeah like I know like even though I happened to love New York yeah but I love New York between like May and September yeah exactly you know like it's too the best great thing about Florida was you'd walk in from the parking lot and you'd already be sweating and warm up yeah you know you take you like three minutes to warm up and you're ready to go I love it I love it I'm gonna have to be in a check-in 20 minutes I know you're a shatter than the part with the heap of last thing I went out the Venice you know we used to go out there all the time out of sick you had to go there because that was where the the epicenter body building was and I really wanted to move there I I thought very hard and long about moving out there at Conner's was trying to get me to move out there and then I said you know what I can't I don't think these people my father would use the expression of fake people called him paper mishay they're like paper mishay people right here I couldn't wrap my hands around the people out there and I thought that I I was like a New York authentic New York guy and I just I like the idea of New York not because of the weather but because I felt like it was more motivating it's I felt like no one worked out in California you know and I was afraid I'd get lazy out there and that's why I didn't move to the honest with you IMean you definitely have to be you know your own in and of yourself the wrong separate entity you do like I you know like you're not you're not going to you're not going to be able to rely on all the other guys in the gym that are so motivated right but all this energy you know IMean like some of the average people in there I don't like I don't want to name names but some of the average people have more energy in drive than some of the people that maybe should have been a little more into it did you did you find when you moved out to California that that it was you think it was good for you or do you think it would have been better if you had not moved out there IMean at the time you got to remember this is pre-inner that yeah okay or basically you know I'm the internet was not a bit thing but I'm IMoved out here and at the end of May in 1998 it was just these are the big money out here got you you know it's easier to go do magazine shoots you know I give you it like we were talking about the 2001 that a champion is a little bit earlier yeah you know I did do I did three photoshoot before the show I ended up doing five photos shoots after the show well like that's expected that's it if you're a magazine and you got to fly people in from places to do eight photos shoots you know you use them yeah for and after it's a lot of my IMean it is just easier if they can call pick up the phone and call somebody that's sure I've been down the road the ten minutes down the road when I lived literally ten minutes from events scroll did did you love that body building lifestyle in Venice you know wake up early in the morning you go to the gym you know you go out to the firehouse you eat that did you like love that whole that whole scenario yes yeah I loved IMean you know the like the like the at the firehouse like you know you know when you talk about all these things like you know the jam and I think of the people of course yeah you know the people of Venice goes down the front of the foot was hundreds and hundreds of them we talked about the firehouse the firehouse is awesome you know I think of the owner and he's like a like a homata yeah you know it's a little Japanese lady you know the firehouse she's cool it could be you know like you were a fixture every time I went out there I know we see a firehouse walking on the street IMean IMax muscle IMean I knew all the hangouts you guys hang out you and Bob you know Max muscle is fun yeah yep but it was like just to give you an example like it's a firehouse Bob Chigaroa got he's got a dish named after some but you guys might be selling more money than anyone else in the history of the fire there's literally we ate their twice the day six days a week you know so I'll do you try to put me up there too maybe try to you if I had you be just trying because he lived right across the street yeah yeah you live in the firehouse in there clotting over the calm building yes right there's over the powerhouse there right yeah exactly used to be there but you know Bob's got his dish named after himself you know like you wanted the name of dish after me and I asked for not to I said I don't he's done but I don't want to see my name on the menu and I can't come in here but it's Bob's personality better you know yeah Bob definitely is he's worthy of a food dish for sure now now let me you you remind me before the show and it's funny I didn't even remember it's the for I the first time we actually met was at a guest posing that you Jay Cutler and Lee Priest were doing at the I think it was the one of the John Kampers shows out there in Jersey I think I was out there watching I think John John Kamper up at today wanting to come out here and jump on stage these guys you're gonna be competing with them with the nation's in 96 and it was it was a lot of fun I didn't remember until you sparked my memory but it was Lee Priest it was you Jay and me right right that was the hey day when you could get guest poses it was like you know and brim it people don't remember there was no social media there was no people didn't have access to what you look like or I looked like or leave looked like you had to go to the show as to watch the guest posing and then interact with the people after with get pictures and photographs and buy 8 by 10 pictures did you enjoy the whole circuit you know the guest posing circuit and something that in the very beginning in the beginning I did when I was a name officer and maybe the first couple years I was a pro you know what I liked being at the shows yeah like physically being there and physically hanging out with old people that had met and got to know and even if I didn't know anybody you know some of the just those things I had were you know I remember guest those are not full of Tennessee and having that be like I had a blast I didn't know one person yeah what I got before I got there you know but it was just fun the what ended up sort of happening over time I hated the travel part of it and the fly around yeah I averaged um 20 to 2 weekends a year going somewhere that's crazy yeah and you're not you know December January February you're not doing anything right so it's 20 weekends in nine months yeah it's about every other weekend for the nine months it was good money like that you can make good money although you were probably on the contract with leaders so you probably had a lot of required appearances you had to make too we had to just I did a six a year yeah that's a good six required but it mean even still like like if you're making an appearance at the Olympia looking at a booth that counts as an appearance even if you're not guest posing but it was just an actual physical travel I hated it I wanted to be home what was your what was your best year you made money wise would you say no I can tell you exactly what it was little over 140 grand wow yeah so uh that was 2001 so I which we 99 I kept track of all this stuff because I had somebody sort of tell me this and I thought it helped me a lot Chris Kromer was the first guy that ever talked to me about money and how pros me money and all that and his contract leader and some between between 98 and 2004 I average 130 grand a year that's awesome and IMean that's not that's not huge and that was good that was good money back then it's good and you know as you if you can't if you add my wife making 50 grand with it now it's 180 grand now it's a pretty good overall income right you know what yeah we were gonna be loaded but we were doing well that was so many of money to be able to live and save how do you guys make it up money to live not enough money to save and meaning the money to put some away for a business one day yeah that was smart because a lot of guys don't save a dime IMean flex wheel is said you even admitted you didn't save anything used to buy you know stereo's for his car that was 35 grand and you know they didn't realize that but you know eventually the party's over you know and then you know you got to you got your left with what you left with you know you know I don't think any of these guys would mind me saying this so I don't think I'm definitely not this isn't an knock on them in any way but between flex and Chris Kermir Paul Delet none of them saved it yeah you know they live like this is gonna continue forever right and it's just even though they're working good money and all of them in more than I did yeah you know at the end you know like you said they had nothing left let me ask you a question Tom because after that that 95 uh nationals we replaced second you were really on top of the world you were doing photoshoot IMean your face was all over the place did the pressure get you a little bit because I know that you had problems peeking out at the next couple shows that you did I remember one title to speak you in uh 97 USA IMean that you could have won that show if you wanted to you know you look good there but I felt like you just hadn't you like some of some reason you couldn't duplicate that 95 conditioning what talked to us about you know what was going on psychologically at that point with all that pressure yet on you so the 97 USA I tried to do a couple things a little bit different but again one of them was you know I was always a little bit um um hyper motivated you know hyper strict with thing always right and I was a kind of person that didn't let anybody in the hotel room didn't let you know I when I was dieting you know almost didn't talk for 16 weeks barely spoke right you know I was still focused on what I was doing that and and I was always a little bit envious of other guys that could get away with them might not be in quite that I don't even quite that discipline I don't mind the discipline but guys you could just relax a little bit more they were not as neurotic about what they were doing right exactly you know and a criss-premiera again great example yeah he could be a little more relaxed I don't like I don't know if I need to be that relaxed riding a tube no nothing no stress ever the guy has right right yeah I like that which is wasn't me you know and so that year at the USA you know a couple people want to come over a little child room hang out so let people in you know I didn't mean you're looking me that morning the morning of the night show we're the morning of pre-judging and I'll be honest like I being relaxed does not work for me yeah absolutely does not work for me there's a couple of things I probably missed or is a little bit laid on or because you know the morning after the after you know the day after the show you always look so good yeah that was dressed as drawing you wake up you feel great or feel better you know no stress amazinGHow much better the body looked to no stress you know so didn't that did not happen so what what went wrong tell me IMean what would you let's put me in I see what what what was the main thing that that that happened it just screwed things up I was got a person wrote down what time every meal was yeah more down every if there was a pill no matter what it was had that written down I didn't do it that year or that not that year but just at the show you were weighing in it in other words oh it was like an hour late with food like that's what you know not hungry you know you know stop you know stop it can pills all at the same time you know stop normally I instead of like we're a little still what was distracting you that there had to be some some some some kind of event or something that was going on that was just keeping you from being so focused IMean here you are trying to get your pro card you were the number one guy was the pressure getting to you or was there something else like if the pressure got to me got to me before the show you know we were we're going out on the weekends every Saturday night but I never never missed a workout never missed a cardio session well on Saturday nights we've dropped some clubs you know between midnight and five in the morning so you're part one some days yeah we're part you know well that too at that point and just for that year right you're in the 96 Nationals in the 97 USA you know I did it too much and you know someone chat came into the picture after that that was like the first conversation he and I had yeah was hey I heard you're a little bit of a party or is that true and I said no you know or is that true yeah it's true what we see you were done you were in denial so you you had a Sadie self hey do I how bad do I want does I got a clen up my act a little bit here right exactly and chaps like hey you know it's not a problem you that you want to be a partner but it's going to work with me you can't be a partner right so he he basically I'm just waiting on the line like listen like I'm not going to waste my time just turn around yeah you know what

=== FILE: TOM PRINCE Talks Kidney Issues ｜ Tom Prince Interview (Part 2 of 2) [lWD4GA5LJoY].txt ===

I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. To use only top of the line formulations, does for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. When you started working with Chad, was there a big change in the way you approached diet and supplements or was it just more of like you have accountability to this guy now? Right, the accountability part of it. As a matter of fact, like when it came to the food itself, I remember just telling, like listen, you don't need a break down every meal. You tell me how many grams of carbs it does a protein on me. Like I can do that. Sure. I can divide it by six and divide it by five meals a day and break it all down from there. How many grams of fat do you want me to eat? That's fine. How much protein you know, basically even let me do one of the cardio. I don't know what I want it. But it was more of the accountability part of it. And I told the story before, the thing I love the most maybe in why I'll forever be such a great friend is the phone rang every Friday night every night. You call me every literally six days a week. The phone rang at midnight one the morning. I'm like, what Chad, it's one in the morning. I'm so happy. I don't tell. I'm pretty good. I didn't figure it out the entire night. You want to make sure you are home, right? Right. Yeah, I didn't figure it exactly. I just show her. Like he's called him to make sure I'm home. I'm not out. I'm not out. I'm not out. You know? But, you know, you know, he had fun with the two of them. By the way, I'm sure he did. You know, not only would it be, not only would we have a kind of situ on the morning. He's gone all right. I'm going to go, you know, Kim just put a tattinous pizza in the microwave. But you're not calling me, keeping me home from Friday and you're bustling my phone. I'm not even beating the phone. Come on. Yeah. But you know, you know, back in that time, so you did that for me. You did that for me. That I did. But you know, I did the same thing when I was competing. I used to go to bed like four in the morning. I would go literally. I go to the diner at like 12 midnight. I would eat like a full fucking crazy dinner just because, you know, we wanted to get bigger and bigger and bigger. It was never, there was never. It didn't matter what time it was, you know, you do crazy stuff like that. Absolutely. Absolutely. 90 seven assials you come in. You, uh, we, we're, we're you happy with the way you look. Was that a good look for you in your mind? Um, that was a look that I knew that champ wanted to go for. Yeah. And then of course I agreed with it. Like it was an at that point after having been second three times. Yeah. You know, twice the national's the ones of the USA. But I didn't care. I just wanted to, like, I wanted to win. You know, so I was, I wasn't going for. My best look. I was going for what's it going to take to win? No, what was Chad strategy? It just to bring you in as hard as possible. He was going to be right. And if that was, you know, if we overdided by 10 pounds, yeah. And so be it. What did you wait that show to your member? I've been doing two, three on stage. I was like, that morning I was 235. So you would have liked to have been your 10 times. I don't look right. You would have liked to have been I bet 10 pounds heavier, right? Yeah, of course. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Well, you remember the guest boson, uh, uh, a little Chicago and uh, J. Cutler was there. And I was like, the J was like, man, you're ready. Jesus, you're going to be able to hang on to that for five weeks. And I'm like, I think so. I said, no, I told you, let me call Chad while I got you sittinGHere. So you can tell him that. And sure enough, I'm getting the full chat. And Chad's like, yeah, you know what? I just had, uh, he was friends with Chuck Sanna. Right. No Chuck. Yeah, he had Chuck, I know Chuck. I'm friends with Chuck Sanna. Chuck saw me, he says he's still need to lose 15 pounds. Like what? Oh, shit. Oh, my god. 15. Like IMean, ultimately I lost a 15 pounds on. Yeah. Chuck was right. I went to 35. Wow. That's right. I was basically 250 that day. So, you know, but I really want you to exactly like I did. I do say if I would have stopped right then. Right. But I like that look for me. What did you weigh when you when you I placed third at that night of champions in 01? That more 257. Wow. So that was my scale with me to the toes shows. That was your best look. I think and your biggest problem. You look to me at least. Yeah, definitely. What did you do anything special for that show was it just a accumulation of constantly getting better and better and better up into that point? Yes, that matured of years. And I sort of, I guess I started down. You know, like just believe in the trust in my genetics a little bit. Yeah. You know, like believing that like, like listen, you don't you don't need to do this any you don't need to do anything anybody else is doing. Right. You know, I used to have a great one line or that he's to, you know, try to use that I came up with, which was this don't defense and body building. You know, there's nothing you're going to do to stop anybody else. Sure. I think it about anybody about just like worry about you. Did you worry about the other people? Did you study all the other pictures and say, Oh, I got to be this guy. I'd be this guy. IMean, a lot of people do that. Um, not so much, but if a guy like with, well, that is a whole different thing. But yeah, like if the 96 nationals going into it, I'd seen Jay as an amateur. Like two years before. Yeah. When you did the tournament champions and just a great front of my, I thought Jim was coming exactly like you did, which was a little bit soft and a little bit watery. Yeah. I'm not saying it was way off. He wasn't way off. But he couldn't have done a harder. Well, he didn't win the overall. So the problem was, yeah. Yeah, he was also 23 years old. Yeah, he didn't win the overall. So obviously wasn't as fast at that show. That should have been your show. I think everyone would agree. IMean, I got sick. So like, and that was the other thing about that show that, you know, if you're an happen, you could stick right before the show. There's nothing you can do. Pulling water doesn't work. Things don't, you know, but it was tough. But he was exactly like, you know, he's going to look. So yeah, sometimes I did, but it only worked like one guy. Maybe. Yeah. That was a frustrating show for me. Because I was like at my best, really, at that show. Even though I had a little bit of a leg injury, but you couldn't really see it. You're four. I was four. Yeah. You know, Warville, Berk was there, which it wasn't the Orville that had to be became. It was much smaller there. And I knew you guys were both off. But I also knew structurally that I couldn't beat you guys. And that was frustrating for me. Because I was kind of at my best. I was probably the biggest guy in stage. And I was hard. But I knew structurally I wasn't as good as you guys. So it was frustrating for me to know the, hey, this is pretty much, you know, my best and I can't beat you guys. And so, but I was happy that I placed it was my first top five place to get the national. So for me, it was a thrilling thing to be up on stage. You guys, because you guys had a lot of magazine exposure and stuff like that. And so it was a cool show. And that's it. And I think we went out after was did we go out with to some club, what you guys? We went to eat. I think what you guys after that show, right? And yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, maybe yeah. Yeah, I think that's the first time I kind of sat down and talked to. We kind of went over the, you know, what all the, all the stuff that was going on and all the, you know, gossip and stuff like that. But it's interesting because once you turn pro, you had a tough time becoming the pro that everyone thought you were going to become like you just weren't showing up. It like looking like the conference we wanted. What happened? What, IMean, you had Chad there. Why, why are you having problems like, you know, bringing yourself in at your best? That old one night of champions was the first time you showed up, you know? Right. Okay. So the first, my first first show was a 99 night of champions. They got like 13. Yeah. Remember they were direct testing at that? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, they said they were going to direct test. And they didn't. Yeah. And they didn't direct test at that. Then the championship is never dated the night of champions. The guys from the, the guys who were supposed to be taking the drug test or take the yo analysis test. Yeah. Some of them never made it every year. Yeah. To me, that's the way you're not wanting to pay for it. Now of course. Of course. Yeah. But so that happened that year. If I were to lost another like 8 pounds of water, I would have been fine. But my body wasn't super super dry all the time normally. Oh, the diabetic can screw me. But Chad had the whole, the whole, you know, alternative, you know, the, the direct they weren't testing for him. Shocked that he wasn't able to dry it out with those. He's talked about that. That's why I'm mentioning it. You know. They, they had a list out of the diuretics that they tested for. And then there were ones that weren't on the list. And that's the ones he was using. Yeah. Gemini actually was on the list. I, you know what, at the time, I didn't even, I didn't even know that. Oh, you know, I did. I did. I did. All right. Okay. Without, you know, what happened in 2000? In 2000, because I didn't look the way I wanted the night of champions. I thought I'd go back to just like, you know what, you know what, IMean, I'm an overdid. I just a little bit and pull this off me and not, you know, do a little bit smaller and right. You know, see how I do. And I did okay. Didn't, you got a ninth of the Iron Man. Yeah. You failed, but failed the directress there too. Oh, they took out the count. They did test the that one. Yeah. So I failed that directress. No, it's years later, by the way, they had threw out all the directress thing. Yeah. And said that wasn't an issue, but, you know, I like to, I look at that shows when I, when I look at the pictures from that show from the Iron Man and the Arnold that year. Yeah. Like I looked, I looked. Yeah. But you got to remember as a pro, you're doing, it's not just a time you look in a picture by yourself, you know, you'recompeting against guys. Of course. You need to be better than the next. Right. Right. You know, so if you're over nine a little bit, most guys when they're over nine a little, they musta doesn't come off evenly. Right. Well, you lose something. The wild fact. The shoulders arEQuite as round and your other facts aren't quite as full. And, you know, you lose in spots. You know, so, IMean, and I, again, after that, saying they're back to two of that. So going forward to 2001, I just threw everything out and like, you know what? I'm gonna go back to what I did then, 96 USA. And I'm going with that. And mail that. You look great. I, you know, I actually thought you should have won the show. I wanted to just put it out on the record. I, when I see, you know, when I showed you up that, I was like, this guy should have won this show. You were the biggest guy, you were the hardest guy. You know, Dexter was really good. He was sharp. Orville was good. But I thought he could have been a little tighter. I really thought they were going to give it to you. I did. Hey, you know, I had so many good things happened to that show that I, I don't consider to the negative. Yeah. That was thrilled about what I looked. That's thrilled as a call, fine to the Olympic. That was a big thing. Yeah. You know, getting to go to the Olympic was cool. paycheck was nice, but I don't know, I care about that. But I did care about filing, getting my condition right. Sure. It's the worst thing, I did only real negative as a kid from that. Because I know, that was the last time I could be to Ron's healthy. Yes, and that's that's why I want to get to this the final, you know, part of the interview was the kidney issues. A lot of people don't. May know, may not know, you know, you started having kidney issues when was the first time you started noticing that you had what having problems? I didn't realize it was a kidney issue, but again, the two days before the Olympia three days before the Olympia. In 2001, I had these little little pockets of water. You know, and like so, like there'd be like, so pack a water on the inside of my quads that wasn't there on the outside of my quads, right? And which had never, I'd never seen ever before on myself in a first show. Looking at yourself, but like, what else that? Like, why is this sort of like if there's on me, if there've been a little didn't film a water, it was all pretty evenly distributed, right? You know, not like, she either but not here. You know, so that was the first time I didn't know what it was. It's the middle of the Olympia. Believe it or after the week later in Manchester, England, kind of figured it out. Like, okay, well, just don't carve up as much and see if we can keep the water out of you. Sure. So you never had it, you know, and I was trying everything I could to think of to, like, somehow manipulate this. Don't in 2002, saying, the problem just got worse. You know, that was a big sign was almost watered your whole. My ankles were really bloody. Yeah. How much water I was hiding from blood work or anything like that and noted, you know, checked your creatine level or anything about it. You know, what I, I didn't until it was way late. Yeah. You know, get ready. You know, it didn't, again, in the offseason, you know, me being a little bit bloody didn't really bother me or no, did I, that was normal. Sure. IMean, you were for you. I hope a three, 15, right? Like, through a five, through a, IMean, that's a lot of wait for guys to do your height, you know, IMean, right. Yeah. And well, you know, okay, your socks are a little bit in debt to it. Yeah. In your ankles. Well, yeah, that's everybody. Sure. You know, I didn't think I was unique in that way. Um, but so I didn't really pay attention. Once a diet started, just my own, you know, my natural personality when I was dieting. Yeah. Yeah. Don't talk to anybody. I don't want to be bothered with anything. You know, I could have just shoot not really wasn't going to the doctor because any diet started. Don't make matters to this show. You don't want to hear any lectures from the doctors. Yeah. I understand. Right. Yeah. Exactly. Oh, yeah. And you know, when you go to the doctor, like, you know, right, you get all thEQuestions. You know, how your liver runs on just slightly. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. Me and every other body of the liver, whatever. Yeah. You know, you know, you know, you know, you're the same thing from all of what was the, what do you remember was the first time you had, you, you finally did the blood work and you saw the crazy creatinine number. Uh, I had a side of pull out of the 90 champions in 2003. And I went to the doctor and my creatinine came back and uh, like five, one. Oh, my god. Oh, shit. Yeah. That's how I was like, whoa, you know, like, now 3.9 is kidney failure. Right. 6.9 is acute kidney failure, meaning you don't never come back. Right. Like, once you get past that, it's over. Right. That's far should a kidney's go. So I'm still slightly, again, in my head, again, a little too motivated from my own good. Yeah, as well as one of my favorite lines. I've been busy using motivation when it should have been using common sense. You know, and so five point, five point one, I can get it down. I'm just stopped taking everything. Right. So I'll stop taking everything for just about, IMean, literally about six months. And I didn't shrink them, hardly at all. Right. You know, IMean, I never want blood to 80. But I still tren it because I'm so e, you know, to your stomp down the body with a lot of protein and all that stuff, right? Right. Yep. Okay. And it was going to try to come back in 2004. And after it was after the 2004, trying to the pro-Iriman, that ended. What was your kidney function after that six months of like taking off the gear? Wait, or down, wait down. Oh, I think I'm down. Like two, two, seven. Okay. Which is still high, but you know, the high, but it was much better. Right. And in my head, it was like, oh, it's, again, in my head, it was better. Yeah. But it really wasn't. You probably should have started trying to drop some weight. But, you know, in hindsight, it wouldn't have mattered. It seemed like as you don't you have focal, gourmetly or sclerosis? It right. Yeah, that's, you know, focalist mental segmental. Same mental, the marical, the sclerosis. Yeah. Yep. So ultimately, I didn't realize that was a problem at the time. Mm. You know, at the time, they, at the time, they told me it was all the, um, yep, after the life was taken. Right. Although cellulbrecks, I was taking cellulbrecks, right. Different were shoulders, my knees. Yeah. It's a, it's a, uh, it gives out to people that have, that are authentic. No, I'm, I'm sorely anti-inflammatories. I'm not good for the kidney. Well, you know, so yeah. Yeah. It was, it was helping me a lot. But it was, of course, it's killing the kidney. Right. It probably wasn't helping the situation that was going on in the, right. Right. At what point did you start realizing, hey, I'm, I'm, I'm in pretty much dire straits here with these kidneys. Did they, did they say to you at some point, hey, you're, you're, you're going to lose these kidneys. After the, I remember the, I remember the, yeah, 2004. Yeah, I didn't take for a long. And that was months. And you went on to Texas right away. Is that what happened? Uh, well, yeah, yeah, yeah, I got, I got really sick. And I went to the hospital and they did a, you know, and at that point, my kidneys were, 8 point, my, create and the level is 8 point 1. Wow. And there were done. Yeah. And now I just said, in, in hindsight, like what you just said, I've got a genetic condition. Sure. That I was born with that would have come out at some point regardless. Right. Might have been, you know, five years after that, but who knows? Yeah. Right. IMean, so, uh, yeah, IMean, IMight have happened earlier or might have Yeah. But that I, I'll never know. Let me ask you this question. When, when you find out now, IMean, now there's a reality check it. That's it. You're done. There's no more body building at this point. You know, right now I'm, I want to try to save my kidneys. I want to figure out how I'm going to, you know, live the rest of my life. How, you know, what kind of a mental state you're going to, there's got to be a dramatic acute depression right after you find something out like that because it's like, here's your whole livelihood, you know, and now that it's been taken away from you. You know, what, for me, there wasn't. And, and nothing more than, um, you know, I'm not even saying like, I was so mentally tough that, you know, that, that won't happen to me. That happens to other guys. Uh, not at all, but, you know, I never viewed myself just only a body building. Right. You know, body building was something I did, not who I was. Right. You know, so, you know, like, I, I, I was thought like, I'm a reason of my intelligence individual. You were a piece of the, I, I didn't do that at job. And work for regular job. IMean, am I going to be asked passion in about it? No, probably not, but, but I will be, but I, I think, I think, I'd be honest, and I think that passion, that I have for body building, I think that's within me. Yeah. IMean, that's in here. Of course, of course. Of course. Of course. Yeah, but, you know, we're like that initially though. A lot of people don't, can't come to grips with that. They can, you know, their whole identity a lot of times is body building, you know? Right. I knew that. And that, that passion was like, it's like a laser sight on a gun. I could take that like to focus on that. I knew. Right. You know, really kind of person loves a challenge. You know, you can make anything a challenge. Right. You know, do you watch the Michael Jordan thing with, uh, you know, talking to Michael Jordan documentary on the SPN? Yes. You know, Jordan would like a little bit of a find anything to get mad at, to find anything to make a challenge. Right. And that's all he's doing. Right. Why are you doing the best guy in the NBA? What's he got? What's going to keep me motivated? Right. You know, any little thing you can find to latch on to the focus on, tell, kiss them off. Right. You know, he's getting a two or two tell of this, stimulate his adrenaline and make him mad. He can go on and driven and, you know, yeah. And so do I love property management? What I do now? Do I, am I, am I as passionate about that? As there was a lot of body building? Well, no, not exactly. But do I love the challenge of business and something that I never and any idea that I would do? Yeah, I love that. Yeah. But that's why successful time because you don't, you don't get up. So that's obvious. That was there ever a point where you would nervous like, hey, you know, what I'm, I'm, I'm I die because, you know, because of the fact that I don't have kidneys left, you know, IMean, that has to go through your head at some point, you know? Yeah, what goes to your head? Um, just to carry that, like just to piggyback off what you just asked. You know, when you get, when your on dialysis, the dialysis machine only clens about 80% of your blood. Right. Well, if it's clening 80% of your blood, what is the other 20% of the toxic blood going? Like where are those toxicities going in your body? Sure. There has to be a reason why it's got to be a reason why those your body wants those out and now has, now can't get rid of them. Sure. You know, so eventually that's going to start building up. You might start having other problems. Right. Right. And, you know, and I've had a few other problems. That you, you did get a kidney trensplant initially, correct? A day of the, before I did, didn't, the kidney trensplant was really enough, how I ended up finding out that I've got FSTGS. Okay. You know, they did the trensplant and four, five days after the trensplant, they did a biopsy of the new kidney. Yeah. And that's when they told me, hey, we did a biopsy of this and your cells, or your blood's attacking the kids and your children. Oh, oh. Like a little bit right off the bat. Sure. Oh, that was a big, whether that was a gut punch. That was brutal. Who, who, who don't need a kidney? Was it a random person or? Well, yeah, random. Yeah. Oh, wow. Nobody in my family. Everybody's at my kids or two young. They both offered and between my mom and my wife, they weren't a match. Well, basically. So, you had this kidney and what did it last like two years you said? Two and a half. Yeah. It was that, IMean, it, it, did you realize, did you know it was coming to an end at some point where you like, because obviously, you were going to the doctor. Did we see it like, Ari Tom, you know, we're going to have to put you back into the analysis, is that when did that happen? IMean, IMean, they told me, excuse me, they told me that was going to happen right after the death of the results of the biopsy. So, I was still in the hospital, we're coming from the trensplant. Well, they told me that. Right. And I remember that point saying, I'm, I want to go home. No, I want to keep you in the hospital for, to do a few more. I want to send me to something called for recess treatments. Right. I'm like, like, no, I'm goinGHome. Get like, little and let me out of here. If this is going to die, how long is, how long was the kidney's last? I'm roughly, you know, about two years. Like, like, just send me home. Right. I will cover better at home. So, and just, you know, IMean, all you can do is say, you know what? I got, at that point, my business was really doing well. My wife and I are phenomenal. I've been married for 26 years now. Yeah. You're my kids were adults. Like, everything was going great. They shut my health. Yeah. You know, so, you know, I did, like, there was so much more positive than the other one was negative. I just said, screw it. I'm just kept it all in my life. What year, what year was it that you went back on dialysis? So, the trensplant was in 2012. We're back in January of 2015. And you've been on the last five years, continuously three times a week? Yep. Is that, IMean, how is that? IMean, how is your health now? How do you feel doing dialysis, you know, like that? And why didn't you choose the route that Don long did, where he was doing it every night? Like, it's at home. Yeah, because I didn't want to do that? Oh, okay. Well, no, you know, again, you can do it at home. But like, I would rather prefer to be at a clinic and let them see me. Right. And let them, we have to do all that. I didn't want to do it at home. And because of some of those wrong at home, you gotta have somebody else that are with you. Yeah. You know, and what am I going to do? I didn't want to keep my life off every night while I was on dialysis. Right, I understand. You know, and IMean, she's got she works on my company too, of course. Right. Or it's not, it's our company, not my company. But, you know, she, I want her to have her own life. Sure. Her life wasn't taking care of me health-wise. Right. You know, like her, you know, so, you know, so, it's much easier. It was so, it was so, it's so easy to go, you know, two dials is getting it down there. I could answer the phone, taking calls at work, what was your dialysis? I got you, yeah. You know, I brought my, you know, little, bring my laptop with me. Got you. A little, I've got many with me. And work on the computer at more add dialysis. Right. And I can actually use that time. I'm not just sitting or sleeping. Right, you're actually working. I can't even. Right, yeah. You know, so, is that, IMean, is it my favorite, but I can, again, like I said, if you want to, you can turn anything in a, how do you feel? Now, how do you feel Tom, like, you know, on a regular basis, do you, have you adjusted to it? IMean, is your body adapted to the dialysis? IMean, IMean, you do it a long time now. I, yes, then, IMean, since, uh, watch it out, it's been 16 years. Yeah. If I don't count the tears of the trensplant, um, yeah. IMean, it was better 15 years ago, because I was younger. Yeah. You know, not at 51. And, you know, it just start to, not feel as good afterwards. Right. You know, a little groggy for three or four hours afterwards, but, um, I don't know that if you'll get all with, what, what, what, you able to stop taking the anti-rejection drugs once the kidney, you know, stop functioning? Yes, thank God. Yeah, because that's, that's the worst part of it, I think, right? So, yeah, nobody tells you that prior to the trensplant, nobody tells you, they said, oh, you're going to feel great. Don't worry about it. So, the anti-rejection medications, um, yeah, that you can keep your kidney. What they don't tell you is, I was a kind of person that would get sick about once every three years prior to that trensplant, would the anti-rejection medication? I was getting sick like three or four times a year. Right, because your immune system is all- You know, it's all- It's all-right, yeah, you know, and, you know, maybe that's obvious to some people, but that wasn't obvious to me. Right, come on. Yeah. And by the way, you might get sick three or four times a year. Anybody who's coming contact with, that sneezes arise a cold, you're going to get, and I hate it. Like, I feel better on dialysis than I did with the trensplant. That's- that's, yeah, that's a- It's weird that you and Don Long who kind of were 1995, you know, sitting next to each other at that way and you're both wound up with the, with kidney issues, which is just, you know, bizarre, you know, bizarre coincidents, really. Right. Now there's been a bunch of people, right? Yeah, well, that has really, that's true. But I'm just saying you guys were kind of like neck and neck at that show. Um, I guess- I guess it's better than going to jail for the rest of your life or trying to, for killing someone, so. I'd like your other body there. That's a whole other conversation, yeah. Yeah. When you look at the day that happened, yeah. When you could take that half in, right? We found out, Craig was going to jail. Yeah. This is all, again, we don't have to talk more Craig at all. Yeah. So Bob called me and said, this is the entire conversation basically. Yeah. First thing out of his mouth, he was, if I could name one guy in our industry, one guy in body, that committed murder, and we'll spend the rest of his life in jail. Who would just say, he barely got the words out, and I went, tell us. Okay, tell us. And I go, I go, I go, don't, I go, you're kidding. Don't tell me he did that. He's like, yep. Oh my God. Yeah, crazy. Not to- I don't know if I don't know what was. I didn't realize that I had to matter. A blood, what? Well, you do, I didn't know you knew Melissa, James, yeah. She, when Craig got, when Craig met her, he met her at the junior Florida when he was guest-posing. And he came back and he was telling me all about me, and I'm going to fly around to come stay with Kelly and I, and sure enough, he flew around. They came in and we went to Craig Kelly, Melissa and I, IMean, Craig Kelly and Melissa, and I went to the right. Right. Went to the flyouts together to eat a couple of times, and she didn't really, very super quiet. She didn't want to talk much about it. But, um, you know, just sad. She was like a fan, I think, really. They got roped in without their whole, you know, their whole mistake that they had going on. I think the whole rock star lifestyle they've lived in really. Right. I'm no question. Which, look, when you look at today's variables, I know you don't really follow the sport that much, but, you know, who do you like? Like, what physics do you say, hey, you know what? These are, this is a good physique, you know. Oh, I like kind. Is Craig going to beat this, you? Yeah, it's the, that's the, how million dollar question every single year, I don't think he's going to ever compete again to be honest. That's a key. Okay. He's making more trouble with me. IMean, what he competed, what does he need to compete for? The last time I talked to him, I didn't get the idea, he didn't get the impression that he wanted to compete. Yeah. I had to impression that he didn't want it to be, actually. So I like to him like Sean Roden. It's, yeah. Roden, hopefully Roden. Those are the two. Roden guys own the problems with, you know, with the rape accusations and all that stuff. So he's going to deal with that. I don't have to know these guys on that level. Yeah. Tom, you know, look at this. You're not the physique. Yeah. Looking back at your career. If you had to give the fans, we'll end the interview with this. The fans like a bit one piece of advice that you think that you've garnished from your whole, I guess, experience in the bodybuilding world, what would it be? Like if you had a take home message from this interview. IMean, I think the biggest thing is believing yourself. You know, the believing yourself and, you know, stay true to yourself. You know, if you love it and you're driven by it and you're passionate about it, absolutely go with that. You know, you know, and no regrets, right? Right. You know, no big, no other sage-related advice, no other than that. Yeah. Well, I think also another, I think a take home message also for you would be, you got to be out. You can't, you have to be brave enough to recreate yourself if, if you have to do it, you know, you don't have to, you wrap yourself around your bodybuilding identity. People always ask me, Dave, how do you deal with the fact that you're not as big as you used to? There's a body who I said no because I've recreated who I am. And that's not who I am anymore. That's who I was. And I could be proud of it, but now I'm someone else. I'm doing something different now. So, you know, I guess I was thinking just bodybuilding, but when you say it that way, you absolutely, no, then I would change it to what I said before about it. Like, what if you're passionate about something absolutely, you know, like I said, it's a, it's a, it's a weight that passion is within you. It's a laser sight on a gun. Yeah. It focuses on anything. You know, you get behind it and you're driven by it. You be shocked at, I was like, I know I'm shocked that I like property management as much as I do. Even saying it out loud, I still can't believe it. You know, I can't believe that I'm that I'm interested in this in some way. Well, you like the challenge, it's a jobiest, you know? Like I love the challenge yourself to do different things. And that's what makes you, you know, a passionate guy, and that's what makes you successful at what you do. Absolutely. Tom, it was always a pleasure to be your friend. And you know, I thank you for doing this interview. I think a lot of people have been wondering, you know, what you've been up to. And, you know, your journey was an interesting story. And I think it could be a lesson for a lot of people. And I think another take on message and I always tell people this because I, I, just like you put my hand in the sand a lot when I competed. Guys, go make sure you get checked out. If you feel alright, get your annual, you know, medical examinations. Do your blood work, whether you want to see it or not. Just check it out because, you know what, sometimes some of these issues can be averted. Sometimes not, but at least you be aware of the status of your health, especially when you're putting it on the line, you know, every single day in the gym. Absolutely. There's two of the things that are easily avoidable. That you don't want to wait to be, you don't want to be trying to fix them after the fact. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you can name a jar of dirt longs. You're getting these, you're liver. Oh, that's tough. You can't fix afterwards very well. Yep. You know, and it's not worth it just to say I was whatever. Two, two, ninety. Yeah. You know, 300. 300. 300 to different story. If you say 300, you can just, I'll just kidding. Hey, Tom. Right on. Best of luck. Yeah. With the property management, and I understand your grandfather, too, is that true? I'm a grandfather. Yeah. Unbelievable. I'm a daughter. I'm a little girl. I'm a new father. You're a grandfather. If you're, you've got to cut, you've got to cut. You've got to cut. I've got to catch up. Right on. All right, Tom. Thanks for joining us in, keep in touch. All right, guys. That will take us to the end of another episode of live with brought you by species nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo for Tom Prince. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: TONY DOHERTY： ARNOLD AUSTRALIA '21 IN JEOPARDY! [w4Q03jV4qwo].txt ===

Welcome back to Live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is a good friend of mine. He's the promoter of the Arnold Australia as well as the guy who runs all of Australia in the bodybuilding world at least. From my perspective, it's pleasure to welcome back to the show Tony Darny. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I know it's very early over there, still, right? Yeah, I've got up early just for you. Thank you. Well, you got nothing else going on there. It's not like you can run a gym or anything like that or any bodybuilding shows. They've got you completely shut down, right? Completely. It's really bad, so. It must be murdered. It must be driving you crazy because you're a workaholic like I am. And if they don't let you work. You must just not know what to do yourself all day. Well, yeah, it's been difficult. And I feel for the members, you know, because with the gym like this, Dave, a lot of people come here for mental health reasons, you know, I'm sure about building muscles and flexing in the mirror. You know, a lot of people, this is what they do to cope, you know, and without that mechanism, right, I think it's really hurting a lot of people probably a lot more than what the virus is. But, you know, I'm never going to feel sorry for myself. The first lockdown for us was 13 weeks. So I actually worked harder than ever. I came into the gym every single day, I think for 91 days, completely renolvated the place and we polished the floors, put insulation in and that's the most important. Head up more pictures and made it, you know, better than ever. And did all the things that I can't do being in 24 hour gym. Right. Then we got to open up for two weeks, which was absolutely fantastic. And then they gave us 12 hours notice to shut everything in the state all over again. So this time's been, you know, more difficult. IMean, I'm lucky I can come into work and do my own light orders. I'm doing a big warehouse conversion next door for education, events and stuff like that. So I've been staying busy with this. If I had to sit around in the apartment all day, I'd, you know, don't know how I could do it. You're like me, that you probably could find a million things to do despite not opening the gym as something that like you said, you're reading the whole gym. But obviously, you know, having to cancel the Arnold Classic in Australia at the last minute, you know, I never talked to you after that. But I have to imagine, I know you, because I know you for a long time. You must have been going, you must have done everything in your power to try to get pull that show off because, and I remember we did talk about it. Because, IMean, this is your livelihood. This is not only, do you make your money from a bit at your passion, that's what you look forward to every single year running that show. So that's the pull the carpet from out from under you. IMean, I can't even imagine the depression you must have been in after that. Yeah, it was crazy because, you know, I left Columbus, obviously the, the expo got cancelled there. Right. And at that stage, it was two weeks to go into our event. And looked to sum it up, we missed out by a week. If it had been a week or early, I would have gone away with it. Right. And then six days before the event, the government just said, no, there's no expo's we're closing the convention set and down, you know, bad luck, kind of thing. And it was, it was just a point for me and also for my staff because that, you know, there were 365 days straight on it. I've invested everything, I was sorry, but you know, if I lose money, we ran an office for a year, you know, with seven staff, we, we did all that, all the advertising, all the billboards, all the steel and I built out the phrase, we all the street posters, all that sort of thing. So we pretty much, you know, lost, lost everything. And with six days notice, it was really, really difficult. So, what do, when you lose that kind of money, and I don't know if you want to share the number with us, but when you lose that kind of money, how do you recruit that? IMean, what do you do? Do you just take that, do you personally take the loss for it or how does that work? Business work. Yeah. Yeah, basically, I just took the hit, you know, just moved some stuff around and, yeah, but I've had a very more, honestly, wouldn't wipe me out, you know, it was this close. I guess I was lucky thaT3 or four of our, four or five of our big sponsors and exhibitors who put their money in agreed to leave it in for next year, just helped me through it, you know, and without that, you know, we wouldn't have, we wouldn't have been able to get through or would have been bankrupt. Wow. So, God. Yeah, it was pretty bad, and I thought, well, at least I've got the gems, you know, to keep the cash like, right? Yeah. It was the sun, the Sunday night, should have been the close of the Arnold. Yeah. So it was Sunday the 22nd of March, and I thought, you know, at least, you know, tomorrow we'll go back to the gym and we'll just rip into it and just, you know, I'll make it up. We'll take me a while but I'll catch that. Right. Right. One of my buddies called and said, hey, turn your TV on and there was our prime minister, which is equivalent to your president saying, all gyms close tomorrow, 12 noon. Uh, huh. What? So it's just, it's this year's just been a ship, you know? Yeah. It doesn't matter how you put a day of it, it's just a fucking ride off this year. And now we've had to also cancel. So here in Victoria, which is where Melbourne is, our state's been isolated from the rest of Australia. So when I'm traveling, even into state, let alone international. Wow. And therefore, you know, I had my, all my state shows and national's due to run in October. And IMade the decision last week to cancel the whole thing because, you know, what's the nationals if you can't have each state being able to show it? Yeah. Travel to the show actually, right? Right. Right. And then a couple of states could come here, but then they'd have to isolate the hotel and their own expense for two weeks when they got back, which is about $3,000 to do. So it just wasn't fair. So basically, all income streams from this year have been wiped out. Oh, thank God. You know, Tony, the reason I bring this up, and I think it's important that we bring back, you know, we bring light to this, is because your guy who has worked your whole life busted your butt to get the nice things that you have in life cars and houses and gyms. And, you know, you started from nothing, you built yourself, your own little empire. And every year, you, you kind of laid on the line to, to raise up your game. The problem with that is you never expect to take a hit like this where they're going to completely turn off all your businesses like on the drop of a dime. So here you are thinking, ah, you know, I invest everything every year and I try to make my stuff bigger. Now all of a sudden, all the money you put into it is gone. IMean, IMean, IMean, I can't even imagine how that must feel because you kind of risk it every year because of that. And there's really no risk usually who would expect, you know, some kind of an epidemic like this to pop up, how do you mentally stay positive in that situation and say, you know, why I'm going to recoup this? I'm going to come back better than ever. A lot of people will get seriously depressed and would almost like to give up. Well, I think what kind of makes it easy is I've never been driven by the financial aspect of it because I've been broke so many times Dave and I've lost it before. So, you know, I'm driven by by passion and loving what I do. So I guess that makes it easy because I, you know, I've built this, this brand with the gems that I absolutely love, you know, I never, I never get up and think, oh, shit, I've really got to work. You know, I can't, I get out of bed and I can't wait to get here. And that's never changed in the 20, something years I've done it. And each year, you know, being a promoter and doing things on the scale that I do and always scouting up, there's a chance I can, you know, lose it every year. So it's not like normally, you know, it's been, you know, you know, you know, I've talked this been a ton of years where I haven't made money or I haven't broken even. And I've actually gone back with my answer, I will just go again. Yeah. And I've always had that attitude. So although this one's kind of blind side is a little bit. I thought it took me an opportunity just to have a good reset and to think about the things I do enjoy doing. And then, you know, as I said, to renolvate the gym, it was really, really well, me, not just this gym, buT3 of our gyms. Yeah. And how many gyms are you on now, Tony? I'll just go back to three. Okay. Three here and then we've got a license, one of our franchise, one over in Perth. So four, four, dolly these gyms in Australia. Gotcha. And with build of fantastic brand, you know, the people love our renewal rates higher than probably anywhere in the world. And you know, that was the other killer. When we did get to open up and everyone saw what we'd done and the renolvations, of course, it was so desperate. We had the best two weeks of business in 25 years. Yeah, just in this gym, IMean, runs without headquarters here. Yeah. I've over 400 members, new members in two weeks. Oh, wow. We're back. This is going to be great. Then we're going to honestly be the 12 hours notice just to pull the pin. They do have to set up special combinations in the gym for like distancing and stuff like that. Mass. What was the protocols that you had to put in place? We were allowed to have 20 people per route. So fortunately, this is, I guess, like, if you think of Gold's Venice when, you know, you go through one opening, there's another problem. Yeah, I've been doing that. Yeah, it's great. Yeah, I'm like that. Right, right. So it's like that. So that kind of meant we had five spaces here. We could have up to 100 people in the gym. Oh, that's good. Yeah, that's good. So what I did, I put extra staff member on each entrence to each room and then they had to count. And if we got to 20, no one could come in. You have to wait to somebody finishes. What? What a panic. Yes, that is. You know, you go do some sit-ups, room and other whatever. And the members were very understanding. Another thing is, because we're 24, 7, you know, we'd never close. Don't forget to, if Donald's a story, we're not first open up here in 1998 and we're the first or the only 24-hour gym in Australia. I threw the keys away because I didn't want to have the only one I haven't planned to be. So when I'm in the door, I said, well, I'm not going to need these ever. Nothing's ever going to let this place close. Natural disasters, whatever. So it's really the keys. So when I heard of the news that we had to close, the first thing I knew was calling lost my sense. You know, like, so the morning that we had to close down, we had to move. So how do you get this guy to go round the three of our teams, putting new barrels in the locks and givinGHis keys? Those go on a weird. You know, I always think that Dave and this might be good for the listeners that you consider and feel sorry for yourself and be miserable and just be like everyone else. Or you can stop and think, hey, you know, my worst day has been in some poor person best day. You know, I've been all the shit holes in the world. You know, I've been to the forvalorizing Brazil. I've been to the townships in Africa. I've been deep into the slums in India. And I think, think about those people in those countries that have got nothing and what they would do to have the lives that we've got even in lockdown. And they don't cut off their friggin' leg to have the kind of freedoms and lives that we've got. So although it's difficult, I think you've got to keep perspective and say, you know, it's not that bad. You know, our grandparents went through way worse than this on a daily basis for years at the time. So I'm not going to let it get me down. Fuck around. You know, it sucks, though. It sucks is that it's like ours is being caused by ourself. In other words, there's no, we don't have to have this, you know, this kind of quarantine. The government decided they're going to do this to us. And it's disheartening because it's like we don't really have a saying. You know, I always felt like, you know what, if you don't want to go to the gym because it's like, I have three young kids. So I probably wouldn't go to the gym. Even my gyms are open here and floor. I don't go to the gym because I don't want to put them at risk. God forbid, I get COVID. But that's a personal decision that IMade. You know, if I do want to go to the gym, I can go to the gym. You know, my gyms are open. They're making money at least to gym owners. I don't know why the government feels necessary to put a to sanction and make their own rules telling you you can't open your gym. IMean, your gym probably was the safest place to go with all the protocols you had in place and the safety snacks. It's like, you know, they're not allowing you as a business man to do what you love to do. And there is essentially, you know, potentially bankrupting you. IMean, if you had just started these gyms recently, IMean, you could have been out on your ass, you know. Oh, man, if it had been even three years ago, it wouldn't have made a bet. If you're stopping thinking about it this way, two days like when we first opened, you know, restaurants where I opened was something to have limitations on restaurants. But when you're checked in, you had to write your name like on a clipboard with a pen. So they give you the same dirty pen that everybody else uses. I hand you a clipboard that everybody's touched. And then you can make up some bullshit name. You know, you can be Dave Colombo. I just make up a phone number and they've got no way of tracing that back because it was all about tracing. Yeah. And so when I spoke to the government about it, I said, and I did some media and some big radio shows, you know, talk radio here. I said, hey, gyms are the safest place in the world. Because we're in the sweat business. So I said, we've had hand sanitizing stations in my gyms for 12 years. We've been in the water down. And then when someone checks in with their membership tag, we know what time they got there, the name, the data birth. There's a photograph up on their file. We can tell you what time they got there, what time they left. We've got 28 CCTV cameras just in this gym. So we can even see who passes who in what room. There is no close contact. You know, we've got the benches or 1.5 meters apart, which is like 6 feet or whatever the equivalent is. You know, I taped off every second treadmill and switched it off so that nobody could be next to each other. Yeah, we went above and beyond anything they could imagine. And this is where I agree with you that I'm so well, if we've done all that and people still want to come, well, so let them come. Right. So we've got hygiene stations everywhere with the, the spray disinfectant and paper hand towel. So they had to come in and they had to agree that they wiped out every single bench they used. Yeah, and the big guys in all those fantastic, they're wiping down dumbbell handles the ropes. Because they want to work out. They don't care. They'll do whatever they got to do. Exactly. Right. Right. And then we don't get to say in that in fact, when they get any consultation whatsoever. And you know, what I do my daily questions on Instagram, people always say, oh, they told you when they can open, I'm like, I'm that don't call me. I'm not going to get a watch. I just got to watch the news like everyone else. Yeah. We don't get consulted as an industry. And you know, you're not just me, but as crazy because we can still go to the, well, this lockdown in the city now, it really is just a pharmacy and the supermarkets that are open. They've closed all the retail. But the last lockdown, I could go to the retail life. We're going to be think called Batings, which is like your home deeper. Yeah. And you go there in your lineup and there's a thousand people in the store. And they don't take your name. You don't have to scan in and then check your ID. Right. I'm like, well, that really is close distancing. It's not being released. And even now, I can go to the supermarket here, which is packed. I don't know the market. That's packed. And their excuses now, we've got mandatory face masks. So if you go outdoors without a face mask, it's a $200 fine. Oh my God. If you get caught during the day, driving somewhere more than five kilometers, which is three miles from your home, right? And there's only to go to the store or to say drive to the park to do your exercise, but within the three mile limit, it's a $1,670 fine. I guess better. Are you guys a serious person over there? Wow. Well, what about this? So then from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. There's a curfew. And if you get caught outside during that time, unless you're an emergency worker or doing a night shift in a hospital or something, the fine's $5,400 for being out of your house at night. Wow. You guys got like martial law over there. It sounds like holding that. Yeah. The police are actually patrolling the parks and the streets with soldiers. Wow. You would think that when you weren't wore or something like that. Yeah. I think the most deaths with anyone that's like 20 or 25. And it's probably just from all people that would have died anyway. Let me ask you this question. The Olympia obviously is going to be in December. You're going to actually be able to leave Australia to come to the Olympics. I know you love to do that every year. This is a killer, then, because obviously I do all the backstage interviews in peace and news online. You know, the us media people work together. We have a lot of fun. It's great. It's probably one of the highlights of my year. The problem is, because they've moved it now to December, if I was able to go and right now, we can't leave the country. But let's say they're losing up on there. They've said now until there's a vaccine. If you're on a straight end and you leave and you come back, you have to go into mandatory detention in a hotel at your expense for two weeks in isolated. You know, if the December, the Olympia's on December 16 to 20, you lose the day cominGHome. So at the best, I get back home December 22nd, which means I've been isolation locked out for Christmas in New Year. So I wouldn't get to see my kids. Wow, my family. Even now I haven't seen my parents for three months. You know, your mum's 80 years old. I can't go visit her. Yeah. I was actually thinking two weeks in a hotel all by myself actually sounds like a vacation to me. You're able to promise you when you do that, you can't leave your room. I know. I know. IMean, you really lofted like a jail cell. You're sitting there just watching Netflix and talking online. That's about it. But Tony, who patrols this? Did I have like government employees watching all these people coming off the airplane in the hotel room? Well, what happened here is that originally they did that and they had they put them into hotels. And this is in our state where they lost control of it. Instead of having like the military or something at the hotel, it's for the international people arriving, they just got the cheapest security guards they could and apparently some of them were taking the girls out for a cigarette. You know, sneak it back into their room for a little interview time and this sort of thing. And this is how it's spread. Then the other thing they did here that they were rotating the staff between the nursinGHomes or the old people's homes. Oh, wow. So we've had two big problems here. One they fucked up the hotel quarantine by being cheap. Yeah. And then they just passed the blame between the really, really they fucked it up. And then secondly, they let it get into the nursinGHomes. But what? You know, the solution to this would have been really simple. Because our numbers were really low-day. Like we were getting 20, 30 new cases a day. And they said back then, the best thing they could do instead of putting all these to say, then they banned all the international flights. But they still had like 60 hotels at the government were paying for. So it said, well, why not if you test positive, you got to come with us right now. And we're going to put you into a hotel at our expense for two weeks, we'll feed you. Whatever you want. Right. The problem is when people tested positive, they just say, hey, go home and isolate, don't worry. No one listens. Yeah, a lot of people, particularly on a socio economic lower level, they've got 10 people in their house. And they're sharing one bathroom. You get COVID, they say, they've go home and don't leave the house. You live with 10 people or three other families. And this is then it got into the, the, what do you guys call it? Which one has in commission? Like the, you know, the government housing. Yeah. Yeah. And then we got a pandemic went through that those kind of places. So they've just screwed up everything they could here in this state. Whereas the rest of Australia is almost COVID-free. You know, they're getting like one case at a time. Like it's the other Australia, they've had no new cases in a month. In Perth, Western Australia where our other gym is, their borders completely closed. They don't want anyone in there. Even other Australians. It's just shut. And it got zero cases. Right. So we've got seven states in Australia and pretty much there are locked down to themselves and they don't have a problem. Right. Let me ask you a question. There's no tourism. There's no international tourism. There's no domestic tourism. Just kind of messed up. Yeah, I know it is. You guys go to bankrupt your country over there, even though ours are probably going to be bankrupted. So, do you, do you foresee body building being restored by 2021? Yeah. I think our state borders will be open. International, you know, I've got a conundrumist to what to do with the Arnold in March because at this stage, they're saying there's no way we're going to accept any international visitors for at least a year into Australia. That's right. So that means, yeah, my men's proshow, which is really the big draw card, which as you know, this would be a 20 second consecutive year that we've done. He can't do that with that international athlete. I hate the break of the attorney already lost your streak as over already, but from this year. Unfortunately. Well, yeah, well, that's it. We've burned the straight this year. So it'd be fresh time. It's the new shriek every time. Yeah, everyone do that. It's going to be two consecutive years. You don't hold it now. IMean, would you just hold a, IMean, I guess the amateur shows is probably where you make most of your money anyway. IMean, so as long as you can hold those, IMean, financially at least that would help you, right? Yeah, from a body building point of view, you know, we'll get by. I think body building will be strong and well, we'll do our, we do two big seasons here. One in March, one in October. So what do the March season as usual? We have a qualified NH state. Right. And then they come here normally for the Arnold. They've had my change shape a little bit because as a multi sport festival, you know, there were 50 different sports and people coming from 50, 60 different countries. That's not going to happen there. IMean, Arnold might be able to come, Bob Lorum or I'd be able to come. And when the National Judges Steve won't be able to come, yeah, this is, this is a fact. And then at the end of the year, IMight do something bigger than, and we'll have our nationals in October. So from a body building alone point of view, we'll be fine, you know. What IMade the decision last week to cancel the nationals. I guess it was 11, 10 or 11 weeks out. Which gave people time to get back off their diet. IMean, you know, a lot of people said they're very grateful because I could left it until the last week. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And IMean, you can't, you know, people are paid for coaching and, you know, all their diet, everything else they do. So I think we made a good call date. It just sucks. Yeah. It like we've never been to anything like this. And me, I've got a happy disposition on my, you know, upbeat kind of person. As you know, always find a solution, always find a way forward, like a US day busy. But, you know, the impact of this year is going to have on society in the world. I don't know that we'll ever recover. I think it's it's shit. You couldn't have written a script for this day. You're like, you know, like, when I saw you in March, if we had to say, okay, you go home, cancel the album. Shut your gym down for six months. You were in a lot. No. I know income and not be that a leave your house. I would have kicked the head for a long time. It's like a bad movie. It's like a movie you're watching that you can't believe what's going on. You can watch it if you saw it in a movie, you'd be like this will never happen. You know, it's really important. Right. Right. It's something else. You know, I said, but it looks good where you are in Florida. I saw they moving the knee or even the knee or crow is going to go down. Yeah. Yeah. They don't care and fly. I think the governor's life. They're only worried about Burmese Python's down here. They don't care about COVID or anything. They don't want to shut on the land. God forbid, you know, everything's open here. We got to be a thankful that they're that, you know, liberal and progressive about it. But the bottom line is that we were closed long enough. I'm sure people, the businesses were hurt long enough here. You know, it is people just got fed up. They started suing the government. The government's like, you know what? Screw it. Open up everything. We don't care. Thank God. I know Steve Jim just Steve Jim just opened up the other day up there in New York. Yeah. I said even message because he's been shot for a while. Pretty much five months or something. Yeah. And I'm really happy for him. He's got a very similar clientele on similar clientele. Yeah. Yeah. But we have, you know, where it's, it's people's home away from home. They live for it. You know, and I really feel bad for the members that don't, um, tren because they want to tren. They tren because they're fucking need to tren. And they're not cases for the other. Are they going to make it mandatory over there in our strategy? I know it. They're Australian. They tell you guys what to do. You don't. There's not as much freedom as we have here. I think it to make it mandatory to get these vaccine that they're supposedly developing that we know they already have developed. Probably years ago. All right. Well, what they've said is that they're not going to make it mandatory. But if you don't do it, you won't be able to get any social welfare benefits or going anywhere, basically. Or travel. Yeah. Right. So if you want to use your passport, you're going to have to have the vaccine. Wow. That sucks. Yeah. IMean, are you into, uh, do you believe that there's a conspiracy here? Or do you think that it's a legitimate vaccine? Look, I don't know. I think when they rush anything medically, you know, normally, there's things to take years to develop. So you've got to stop and think well, um, they sent you a rush for this one or, you know, was it already there? Was there an agenda? Yeah. Um, you know, so part of me's life. I don't really want to put something in my body that's, you know, not tested properly. Yeah. But the same time sucks not traveling and not having a life. So yeah. Yeah. So it's really not voluntary is what you're saying. In other words, yeah. You don't have to get it if you don't want to. You're just not going to be able to, you're basically just being jail for the rest of your life, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, look, I'm just going to cross that bridge when we come to it. Right. Yeah. If the numbers keep dropping in and the figures are low, IMean, up until this lockdown, Australia was probably handling it the best in the world. And then we, at death rate was really, really low. Like, we couldn't, the total in Australia didn't hit 100 until like July. Yeah. You know what I'd like to know? I'd like to know the statistic on the amount of deaths that have been prevented from pneumonia. Because I have to imagine the lockdown probably also influenced all the other diseases that normally kill people that we don't even talk about, right? Well, a lot of the people that are listed is don'tiscovery. So, you know, already immune deficient, or they had, you know, states three cancer or they're in, you know, an old people's home, you know, living with dementia and prone to pneumonia and all these things. So when they die, they say, what was the COVID? So, you know, I don't know. IMean, you hear all the conspiracy, you stop and think, why? Why would a country effectively bankrupt itself? And why would 100 different countries that fuckinGHated jail? Right. All shut down and kill their economies. Yeah. You know, so none of it really makes any sense. I think it's, you know, obviously a highly infectious disease that wipes out unhealthy and old people. It was just drivinGHere early this morning in the dark to do the interview with you and I heard of the radio. They said, um, obese people have, you know, four times a risk of getting COVID dying from it. That's because they're obese. They're going to drown that. They're everything. It doesn't take a brain surgery to figure that went out. Right. So, um, I look I understand it, David. I try not to overthink it. In fact, I've made a habit of trying not to watch the news to watch the news to watch the news. You really get, you really get sucked in. I don't watch it. I don't watch it at all. Too negative. You know what? I'm really happy for you guys, you know, I know, you know, talk to Bob Lourner and the gym is your open up there in Columbus. That's often my buddies in Florida and all your gym is your open. You know, it's basically just flexed the other day and he was saying that to, you know, they all just threaten the government. He comes out. If I could just open up as you were and, you know, wish me. I wish we had those kind of powers here. But we're done. Yeah, but then again, you guys don't have any cases of it. So maybe they're maybe the government smart. Let's take it. Let's change gears for a second. Let's talk about the Phil Heats come back to try to win number eight this year at the Olympia. It's you and I like to talk about the Philippine shop at you. Yeah, that's enough of that. Yeah, that's enough negative stuff. What do you think about his chances to win? You know, everyone, you know, everyone hated Phil when he, you know, the last year he was in it when he lost the road and because everyone loves to hate on the champion. Now that he's been gone, people are kind of like rooting from always going to save the Olympia. He's going to come back because the win number eight. Do you think Hill Win 8 when the toll set and done? Do you think when the smoke clears? Do you think he's got it anymore? You think we're just like remembering the Phil Heath from his heyday. I've sincerely believed that if Phil comes in his best shape, you know, he had that operation fixed up he's stumbling problem. What about supposedly, yeah. It's a bit right. So if that's all good, let's say if that's the case and he comes anywhere near his best condition, nobody's going to stay next to him. He's going to be first second answer. Well, you know, he really didn't, he really was in great shape. The year he lost the road and IMean, aside from the fact that he had some distension issues, he was, IMean, he was the best condition guy on stage. IMean, so IMean, you really. From the front, you know, he sees flaws, but you're from the back. He was the winner all day. Yeah, IMean, he's back. He's back by a set shot was better than Rhodes, only when I was in that show. I think that, you know, he was probably probably a little stiff. And obviously he didn't take it too well, getting beaten, you know, when you go for his eight Olympia, why would he? But, you know, I don't know Phil, as well as anyone in fact, every year at the Olympia when I'm backstage after the pre-judging, you'll always come back and say, listen, what do you think where he, where I'm at? Because you know, so I just shoot straight. Yeah. Like those years with crime and I've managed really close. Like he's, he's beating you in some poses or you're a little flat tonight or he didn't pop when you walked down. Yeah. And we've always had a very open thing backstage at the Olympia. We're kind of bending in his corner to a big extent, just with pure honesty. And I still think that there's no one in pro-body building at Phil's level if he comes close to his best shot. Right? Yeah. I think the other interesting thing, and this is no respect to, you know, Brandon and Role and Rami and all these guys, you know, Brandon looked fantastic last year. You know, he bought him proved probably more than shit. Look how much he's improved over the last say three years. Yeah. And I think everybody's terrified of Rami. Well, I'm not sure if he can get into the country, but let's assume he gets into the country. Right. We still haven't seen the best Rami. IMean, he hasn't nailed his condition at the free judging yet period. The year that he won in, we're really Brazil, I don't know, one year. He went pretty close to being, you know, right on it as I've ever seen him. Right. But he just just seems to miss that final little peak. And he goes through the guys, you know, Brandon and his best next to Phil, he's best. I think Phil wins. Yeah. Do you think you think we'll see Rodin on stage? Apparently not, you know, reading between the lines, it doesn't look that way. And you know, that when when Jake took over the Olympia, the initial statement was, yeah, he's good to go, you know, he's innocent until proven guilty. Right. Obviously, I think they're, they're free assessed that, you know, whether it's a pro league headquarters or whether it's at the Olympia office. And so it will maybe that's just a little risky. IMean, it's a serious case in charges that he's facing, Dave. Right. And if he was to be found guilty, I don't know when he's trial is or whatever. I don't know what's taken so long. I've never seen a trial takes so long, have you? Well, I thought it was going to be in July this year, but I know over here, like, a lot of big trials have been postponed up to 12 months because of the COVID thing. And even the courts are shut here. So, you know, part of the real emergency stuff. I don't know. I think that they're probably ering on the side of caution with the whole thing. IMean, it could be a minefield if they get it wrong. And here's a bunch of feel for him. And I like sure. I think that if it was any other major sport, yeah, they probably do the same thing. You think so? If you ran bodybuilding and it was your decision to make, would you let Rodin in? It looked like I'd have to know more about the facts. There's no facts. He's accused of rape. He's going to go to trial. He's innocent of proven guilty. I don't know what the right answer. I'm just asking your opinion. Would you allow him in until he was proven guilty? Probably not. And what would be the reasoning that you would use for that? I'm just wondering, you know, to protect our sport, you know, I just think that this sport doesn't need a black eye like that. Let's say it's 50, 50. Okay, let's say it gets found innocent. I'm saying, well, come back and compete. Your rein stated right now. Right. But if he's found guilty and it's in Utah, right? Yeah. Which is like the Mormon capital of the world. Yeah. If he's found guilty, he might get what? 15, 20 years. Part of it, yeah. So the risk of having your champion guy doing 15 years for rape. I think it's it's it's too great of a risk for our sport. So if I was running the sport, you know, my thing even in the position I'm in in our sport is we don't own the sport of run the sport. We're guardians of the sport. Right. You know, you know, Joe Weeder started all this him and Ben all these years ago and Jim Manning doing fantastic job as our leader. And I think all of us in these positions, you know, even me with the director for Australia or whatever I am, it's our job to be guardians of our sport. Yeah. You know, not to make the rules, not to change the rules, but to protect. You know, what, what all of our previous people have built for us to have the life for you to do what you do and for me to do what I do. And I think you have to protect it, man. So as much as I hate that answer, that that's probably what I would do. It's just it's just it sucks for him in the sense only because because of COVID, he's also taking a financial hit too because, you know, if he was 20 years old, it would be different stories in his life. You mid 40s now, you know, he's missing the two best years of his career. You know, so it's a shame if he's innocent, it's a shame if he's guilty, then obviously he deserves to go to jail. So IMean, that's, that's the bottom one. So just just on that, you know, you know, feel, please, not up on right, right charges of Brandon Curry's not up on right charge. And, you know, I hope the guys in the center had to work. That's right for him. And like you said, and if he's not, then, well, you read what you saw. No, what? Yeah. Let me ask you all my questions. I don't mean to interrupt, but I want to get this in before I forget. I can't remember things anymore. Kai Green, you know Kai pretty well. IMean, you, you know, you've spent a lot of time with Kai. Why do you think Kai is not competing? I don't know. I don't think even Kai knows the answer to that because he gets, well, I think I think when he didn't win those two or three Olympias, where he probably should have won one, yeah. You know, I think he really thought, well, the world's against me and body would never going to let me win. Right. You know, so why bother? And then, you know, 2016 was that he came out here. He won the Arnold in Columbus, he won the Arnold here. Yeah. He won Brazil. He won two or three Arnolds a year. Yeah. And, you know, he looked unbelievable. And then, even last year, you know, when Phil wasn't competing, and you saw pictures of Kai like four weeks before the show, just looking like he always looks, you know, like a fring. Every year in Vegas, you know, a fine Kai will have breakfast or whatever. Yeah. And he'll come into wherever we're staying at six or seven in the morning. And he's absolutely drenched in sweat. And he's already done like a two hour cardio session. Right. And he's eating clen food. And he looks like he's two weeks out of stay, and he's all the time. So as a fan, man, there's nothing more I'd like to see than Kai at his best to have one more shot out of it. But for whatever reason, and I think, you know, previous to Dan taking over, he had some problems with the previous administrative. Yeah. Yeah. There's a whole, you know, you know, the backstory. There's a whole lot of it. Yeah. But now they're gone. That's why he has a perfect opportunity now to start fresh, you know? Right. Well, that's why I thought he might have stepped up last year. And then this year, I'm sure they would extend an invitation to him with that good. And they still may have been starting to sell. And Kai always looks incredible. But I think he's been able to go in different directions, because Kai works, man. IMean, he doesn't stop. He, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, I work both of us to put together. He never misses a session. He never reached crappy food. He's, you know, he's got these projects. Here with these TV appearances and movies and comic books and all the other stuff that he's working on. And then on top of that, he's suffering and company. You know, how hard that is. Yeah. How hard he works. IMet. So it's very realized that he can be pretty healthy. Look absolutely insane and make more money. He, the brand, Kai Green, right? Then trying to win this sand out statuously. Yeah. I think he's a priority shift at a little from just being single minded. I have to win the Olympia to accomplish something in my life to say, well, you know what? I'm Kai Green. I don't, I don't need that either. Yeah. So, you know, more power to him. I'd love to see him there. But if that's not for him, I'd support him no matter what. Yeah. Yeah. Well, he really proud of Kai, you know, because he's doing a lot of mainstream stuff for these working with Marvel comics. He's got all this stuff going on in the background that he might, you know, crack to another level. Who knows? Yeah. That's true. That's true. Now, before I forget, the one that I think we need to discuss coming into the Olympia, because it's a wild card, it's flex Lewis. I was going to ask you that next. Right. Now, as we know, and I'm always being close with him and Neil Hill and talk to them extensively, you know, about how much weight he needs to lose to make that 2012. Yeah. And sometimes he's sacrificing, you know, 20 pound in the last two, three weeks just to make that number. For a lot of weight. And to make that weight, right? So let's say, to 12, let's say, 225. He's already in contact with shape. So the sacrificing just muscle and water to get just under that weight just for the weight. So let's say if he doesn't sacrifice that money, that weight and he gets out to, you know, 240 or something before he gets really hard and cranny as he does. Man, he is a serious contender. IMean, you look at him shot for shot with anyone. And, for, rather, he can push, IMean, I'll just say he'll be top five no matter what, but he could squeeze up. Right, fourth, third, second. Yeah. IMean, the only thinGHurtinGHim is his height, obviously. But, you know, I think that, you know, because of his grain, and that quality that he brings to the stage, he's definitely a dangerous guy. You know, how do you say it? How do you say it? I see him as dangerous. I see when you see him, when you see a guy like him next to a, you know, a brand and curing next to a rammy, these are guys that have impressive muscle, but they don't have that Dorian grain, you know, dry, you know, freaky muscle that is actually on a nice shape too. So, I think that he, he, he, he, he, he, good will beat guys that I think that a lot of people think he's not capable of beating, because when you see him next to him, you're going to be like, holy, macro. This guy is like from another planet, you know? Yep, yep. Hopefully, I've wanted him to step up. I've been doing a lot of four or five years ago we're having this discussion. And people were saying, if no, no, stay in the two, 12, that's where you're, you're best of a fact that goes for it. It's not really happening. So, I know if you watch this show, thanks. But, yeah, I'm rooting for your man. I think you're the most dangerous guy in the show. He's definitely, he definitely watching it. There's no doubt in my mind. He liked the show. Well, Tony, you know what, it was a pleasure to talk to you as always, you know, I could probably talk you for two hours and not run out of topics to discuss. Obviously, we're praying for you that they're going to open up the gyms again and that they'll, they'll pull your quarantine pretty soon. So you guys can start, you know, making money again and get back to normal and hopefully restore bodybuilding by the end of the year to its former glory over there in Australia to shame that the Arnold is not going to happen. But I think it's a realistic approach at this point, given the fact that, you know, things are still closed. Then we're coming to the end of the year already. But, hey, tough man, keep doing what you're doing and showing, living the passion for bodybuilding because, you know what, it's the guys like you and, you know, that keep the sport alive, you know, and I think a lot of people are in a very negative state and hopefully that watching this interview picked them up and made them say, you know what? I don't have it so bad either. I'm going to, you know, put my best foot forward and I'm going to try to, you know, make it work because that's all we can do, right? Yeah, thanks, Dave. You know, and with the Arnold next year, we're doing something in some fall. You know, we're just going to work at your house. So just hang tight on that one and watch that space everyone. You know, we're not going to quit. We're not going to give up when keeping encouraging people to be the best. And as I say, you know, when you get down about this, just stop and think it's just a pause. It's not the end of the world. It's just a pause that has been in some ways good for us. And enough enough can't wait to get back to normal. But, you know, a little bummed that I won't be able to come to the interview this year. Yeah, that's just a lot of hanging out with him. Hey, you got to be family over the holidays that are the most important and you're making the right decision. And I look, I've had it makes him tough decisions over the last two years, too, with the birth of new children. And I have young kids. And I know eventually I'll be back to going to the show as again at some point in the future. It's not the end of the world to miss a couple of the limpias in a couple of Arnold. So I've seen plenty of him already. And when I go back, when we're all old men, we'll have to find that these shows will toast to the fact that everything's back to normal again. And we'll talk about 2020 that year when the world was almost shut down. Right? That's the one thing we will not discuss. Fuck it. That's tough. No one will believe us. We'll be like, I wasn't that bad. We'll be like, it was that bad. It was that bad. I'm telling you. Listen, I'm taking a dive and saying everything. Thanks for everything you do. If it's the sport, I think I've been coming on, interviewing you for being interviewed by you for about 20 years and boys. But a lot of fun and mutual respect. So much love to you all. Everybody stay safe out there. We'll be back. Absolutely. Thanks Tony. And guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo for 20 Dardi. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: TRANSGENDER OLYMPIA： Coming Soon？ Iron Rage [Q0vyo8B91hM].txt ===

Welcome back to Iron Rage, the show, our John Romano-Lee priest and I, event our frustrations with the world. I told Lee to late to come on the show and for actually with the time difference he's trening at the gym, but he's a Johnny's very happy that, you know, we kind of hinted that Lee was going to be coming back in 2020 and people are really taking it seriously and I think Lee's taking it seriously now. I think so too and it's good, you know, out of all of these athletes that make their comeback, you know, first of all, Lee's already done it and he won the universe. Okay. So Chuck number one up for Lee and Fred Lee is a freak man. There's no reason why he can't come back and, remember we always talked about seeing Lee in in in in 2012, 2020, 24, whatever it is today, you know, he clen that shit up. So for a guy, his size of always only competed in the open against guys like NASA and the lead and the, the Dorian and the J collar, everybody, he competed with the biggest of the best ever and did pretty damn well. So I'm looking forward to this. So this is really true if he gets all this next stuff straightened out and his good arm ends up looking up as good as his bad arm. I'm all I'm down with Lee, pretty, man, that's good. That's going to be great. Blacken to my mortgages house to like to try to finance, you know, signing Lee one last time. Yeah, I always believed in you. He might get one more contract out of blacken after all, so I'm not. I'm a star adding again, you'll come back. I'll bring you back. I'll have to use his inheritance, but it will be worth it to see. Did the mother ever die, is she still alive? I don't know, you think they probably have more money coming. Maybe when he gets a second inheritance, you know. Yeah, when she goes, there's like another like 3, 400 million to split up. Oh wow, so then he might be able to be back in business. Maybe that's what he's waiting for. I think though, IMean, you know, prudent financial planning that that stuff's probably been. I'm sure Jenny and Jordan, I know they already have their trust funds. They're probably going to get another, you know, distribution, the other kids. Hopefully you guys got to be a little slush fund though, John, for bodybuilding. I'm sure if there's a way for him to divert some money away from a leases. It's like selling alarms to the Iran conference, right? He's always going to trade. It's like how the Mexicans get cash out of Mexico in the United States. It's like if you have a million pesos and you want to convert the dollars in the states, what they do is you give the million dollars to a, a, a narco. Yeah. He, it gives you a, you know, a $50,000 car when you get to America. Oh, is that how it works? Yeah, yeah. Well, today's topic is about something a little different. We had a show in Vancouver last week and there was an amateur part of it and there was women's bodybuilding and the woman who won the women's bodybuilding was very controversial. In the sense that she was born a woman, John, she lintes his a man, trensgender man. But obviously they, they make her compete in the women's division because she's actually genetically a woman. Now, I got a lot of emails, not just one or two or three. I got like five emails from people who were either in the show against this woman and didn't, and lost to her or they were watching the show and they're outraged that the IFPB would allow or whoever the Canadian organization is now would allow this woman to compete or this gut man, excuse me, to compete in the women's division. And, and I feel that it was, it was absolutely justified. She's a genetic woman. Does she have a naturally god-made vagina? Yes, she's a, then she's a woman. Right. Well, care where she's living and how she's living and what kind of hair cut she's got. She's a fucking woman. Right. So, you know, it's sour grapes, man. These girls, they look for any excuse whatsoever to justify why they suck. You know, though it's, this is the bottom line. You're a woman. I don't care if you live like a man. What? Because why she lives trensgender, so she's taken hormones. What? And you're not? Okay. It's stupid. It's a stupid argument. It's got no merit. And it's, the bottom line is the gender you are is the gender you were born with. Now if she was born a, a dude and hada, you know, a, a, a giantoplasty don or whatever I called and had, had had a vagina made and turned into a woman. Well, all the requisite hormones. Okay, then you got an argument. Or if she really is a dude, you know, living as a woman. Right. And she peed as a woman, but she's really got a penis like then, a ratio. Okay. This is a woman by virtue of female genitalia competing in a women's division fair game If you lost to her, it's because you're not as good as her. You're a story shut up and go tren. Right, and you know, especially in B.I. I can understand like when they talk about this stuff like in in high school like when they You know, you have a girl. She wants to be a guy. She's on testosterone and she's trying to play soccer with the girls. She's got an advantage because she's taking testosterone. But in bodybuilding like you said, a women's bodybuilding, they're all taking the same hormones anyway. So there's no advantage that she's getting over the other women who are taking the same hormones. So I think it's a terrible thing that all these people arecomplaining and making this girl, she would consider herself a man, making this man who is actually genetic female feel inadequate because she was told that she has to do this division and she did it and she won. It should be a time for celebration, not a time for, you know, for making this person feel bad about themselves. There's no argument. There is no argument. She was born a woman. Whatever she's done to herself over the course of her lifetime to assimilate a male role is kind of zero to do with her physiology. So she is no different. Zero difference between her and the girl competing next to her on stage except for maybe their drug protocols a little differently. Look, but who's is it? Okay, so any woman that's complaining about this is got her head up her ass and it's a real shame that they can't see this for what it is. And like I said before, there's all kinds of other gender confusion out there that can foil these contexts if you don't let the right sex compete in the correct category. But that's not what happened here. Absolutely not what's happened. It's a woman born a woman competing in a female division and a story. Her name is a Sioux Fung law, just for people who might say what the woman is name. And she like I said, you can if you look at the results of the Vancouver amateur show, you'll see her up there. Now, John, here's a question for you that I think is a relevant question. It might not have been relevant five years ago, but it's relevant now. You know, we see all these new divisions, you know, when you go to the master's national this over 50 is over 35 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 they got every division in the world. They got masses figure mess to this will there ever be a division for trensgender? What did there be a division is what I'm saying? Should there be a trensgender division? Is there a need for it? How many trensgender body builders and that encompasses all the divisions? How how how how how many trensgender body builders are there looking for a place to compete? Maybe there's more than we know. That's thEQuestion. Yeah, just for them. No, unless you don't want to set up something in Bob Bonham's back room, you know, we can know, do. Only because it's new jersey. Now I'm going to get it. Now I'm going to get a text message from Bob saying that he wants to fight. I got a jar of fun. Because he's going to come back and go crazy. It's not because it's because it's new jersey. No, no. It's a jersey. It's a win. So women's extravagance and reference more something. IMean, everything else. Look, you could have a trensgender division, right? And I guess you need to have two, right? One for men who are men and now are women and one for women who are used to be men. Right? We need a non-binary now too. Because now because there's no such thing as no sex. We have a matter of time. Yeah, but how many of those are there? We got to ask. I don't know. It might be seven. Enough for a line up. As long as you can get a top five out of it, who gives it shit? You know, just think about it. You might have to stumble onto something. Think about the new schmo fans of the trensgender. That's a whole new door. It might reignite the whole session. This thing going on. We should stop talking immediately because this is going to be good. Get out from under as too quick. No, you know, so in my take it over and start. We lose the month. We should do it ourselves before someone else does. That's what I'm saying. No, but I'm, but it's an all serious issue. Is there a need? IMean, do you think that that's a legitimate category? Because it seemed like there's a lot more trensgender people who are coming out and saying, Hey, look, I'm trensgender. I've been hiding in my whole life. And maybe they want to waste the taking and peat. They don't have to feel like, you know, if they don't belong there. Because if I'm a man and now I want to be an, and I'm a woman now. And there's a lot of us out there. Then we should all be able to compete someplace and not be ostracized for it, right? Same thing. If you, I'm a woman. And I want to be a man. I should be able to compete someplace where I don't have to compete with real genetic men. And I can't, you know, I can't beat, you know. Here's what's going to happen. They're going to do it, okay? But they're going to put them with the wheelchair and the amputee and the over 95. They're going to put them in the side showing. And then they're going to complain. Well, we're not after the open and between the bikini girls and the figure girls, you know. So, it's not going to be any satisfying them, but it, but in, in the, in the, in the spirit of competition. Yeah. If there's enough of them and like I said, this is needs to be determined. If there's enough of them, then yes, absolutely. They, they should have their place to go to. And we'll see next logical question, John. Yes. If they do have this division, will there be an Olympia division, the trensgender Olympia champion? Are there enough of them? Are they that good? Let's see what happens. IMean, you're, I don't know. IMean, who knows you could? IMean, I can't, I just can't imagine something looking like Jay Kotler would have bikini top. Oh, but, but, but, IMean, if that's not what they'd have to look like a woman now, that would be part of the, you know, the whole, the whole femininity thing. Now, what you're saying is I can't imagine a woman who would look like Jay Kotler, who's actually now a man, right? Well, no, you gotta go the other way, too. You gotta give the other side. IMean, you got, you got men who think to women, women who think to men, women who think to men that look like women, women who look like men that want to be whatever non-binary. IMean, they got to choose. So it's like, what do, see, like you said, you gotta have at least, I think you got to have three divisions. You gotta have, you gotta have female to male, male to female, and a mafro diet. And, and how do, if you can lump those three together and get 30, 40, 50 people who want to compete? Right. I, I would say, go for it. Now, here's, here's another question. These are the things I think about. If they did this, John, and it became successful, would you have people thinking the fact that they're tren, gender, just because they think they can, they can win a show more easily? No, no, no, we have a whole, for our server. Now we have a whole new, schmog job opening. Gender, gender verifier. No, no, let's say it's very sweet. It's a girl woman. I want to compete as a man, but you're really not, a woman, you're really not a man, but you're just pretending to be one because you think you can do better in that division. You know what IMean? You're gonna have to go into this little booth, right? I think you cross over, John. That's thEQuestion. And this BDI little schmog with a would a European camera is gonna, it's gonna inspect your genitalia. And he's gonna have to determine the difference between a large, and a penis. But if he can do that legitimately, okay? And verify the gender, then that is, that is germane to the classification of the division. So if you're in there, if you're in there claiming you're a woman, but you're living as a man, you better be in there and not have a penis. Right. Okay. So you're actually, you're actually almost confirming a negative. Oh my God. How can you even do that? About a year ago, John went, when Donald, when people would joke about, John will Trump should be president, and people just said it ridiculously. And then now he's president. 25 years from now, we'll be fucking old men. And people like, didn't remind him and pull on those, say that this might be happening this one day. And you see, black men with rising of the phoenix, it's third coming, he's gonna have to, he's gonna be in charge and all the thing. You know. Oh my God. The things you can speculate, but you know what, it's, it's, it all seriousness. It might be something that actually happens because, you know, it's, it's, you know, you, here's my final question for this, it's shy. We're going too long already on this. But do you believe that there's always been a lot of trensgender minded people in society for the last 100 years? Or do you think that something's changed in society? Some evolution has occurred. We're all of a sudden now, people are being born in the wrong bodies. I think, I think there was probably, or they probably had to have been, people back in the day that had questions over to over their sexuality. And maybe they're a born a man, but, you know, like to go shopping at TJ Maxx on Tuesdays. I don't know, it's, this female tendencies that they may have suppressed, not recognized, ignored, whatever. And maybe if they got strong enough, either way, male to female to male, they would act on it in maybe homosexual ways or, or, or whatever. I think what's happened now is that society has made it okay. Right. And, and in fact, glamorized. Now, look at the Caitlin Jenner. IMean, you know, glamorized this sort of, you know, morphology that doesn't follow normal societal trens. I guess in the modern era, whether or not this is, I would say yes, this has been around ages ago, but nobody had the, the, the ability to determine whether they were the only one who ever felt like that. Now, they know they're not alone, right? So they come out of the woodwork and, you know, have a community where they're, you know, accepted by, you know, like minded, like body people. So I think that's the difference. I think the fact that you have such an open means of communication now and sort of, sort of, um, blurring of the, of the wall that people put up, you know, with respect to, you know, what they're going to let out and what they're not going to let out. People seem to be less private about this stuff now and more easily, you know, able to talk about it, um, whereas, you know, 50 years ago, 100 years ago, nobody would even ever even dream talking about. Right. So, so, um, yeah, I think that, I think that we have, I don't know if you want to call it evolution, but I think we have, we have come to a point, you know, in society where people have more balls than, you know, no, I can't say that. People can add some of the instances less, but IMean, in terms of, bravado to, you know, admit that, you know, the girls of boy, the boys of girl, the girl wants to go to the boys room, the boy wants to go to the girls room, you know, they want to dress, they want to be non-binary, they want to do this, they want to do that. I guess it's become, especially in the far progressive side of things, you know, sort of, you know, diversity breeds, you know, and diversity breeds acceptance, they want all kinds of diversity, so they want, they want homosexuals, they want, they want confused, they want, they want, they want, imported, confused, sort of bisexuals, they want them from all, parts of the world, all religions, all deciding whether they want, you know, animals, humans, boys, girls, whatever, they don't care, they just want all this diversity, so because they do, they've opened the door for people even on a minor, on the sort of middle side, just a regular role, girl, it feels like being a boy, well, that's kind of really normal now when you look at all the other crazy shit they got coming in the other end, so yeah, between, between society accepting it, it becoming talked about them realizing they're not alone in the, the, the the pervasiveness of the internet and that information and the, and the communities that they breed, I think it's much more easy now, and in some cases advantageous for people who feel this way to come out. Yeah, and, and you know, I think a lot of people might be just not necessarily feeling the way that these people do, but I think they asked you, think it, like you said, it's being glamorizing that people, I think this people doing it, who really aren't trensgender, who just think it's kind of cool to, to, to pretend, you know, so to speak, that you're trensgender. Now, what do you think of these, you know, what do you think of these people who are, you know, embodying sort of inanimate objects, like Barbies and Kendall, you know, you know, those people I've met the wilderness, John, let's say, did you see that one dude who's got like every single body part is a prosthetic body? Yeah, every single body's clod's calves, biceps, triceps. Yeah, those people just have mental illness. The people who are trensgender, they would just born in the wrong body. The guys, the people who, and guys girls, whatever, who do all the crazy plastic surgery, and then, and the sinful injecting people, you know, who, not even sinful, they're injecting, you know, motor oil into their arms. Yeah, those people have mental illness, you know, and that's a completely different topic we can talk about another time. That's why I brought it up. I don't want any trensgender person watching this thinking that we think you're mentally ill. Oh, I don't know. I have a lot of friends in it, you know, that I know. We accept everybody. So that's established. But when you do cross a line and to mental illness, we're going to call you on it because we just have to. But it was an ex-great jokes. But IMean, if you're, if you're in the other, you know, deriding that's, you know, trensgender, however you want to call yourself, and you want to place the compete. I think it's incumbent upon somebody in your community to take the reins and be the leader and determine if there really is a need for this. And if there is, bring it to us. We'll get it. We'll run it up to later. We'll get me and you know, look at it. Add another fucking division. The shells will be over in Christmas time, you know. That's all right. Well, that's why I think they got it. If they had any more divisions, they got to make this like a weak law in a vet because this is ridiculous. You go into so many shows. I'm not going to name any names that are promoters. The pisses them off and they have such thin skin and more thinner than any other competitors. So you get there eight o'clock in the morning for pre-judging. It's not over to late o'clock at night. And then you'll write into the finals and they're over four o'clock in the morning. That's why I don't go to show us anymore. It's too long. I don't, I'm too old. I can't handle any of my, I'll give my align my dad's days for the young people to go hang out all day if he shows. But anyway, the topic is will we see a trensgender Olympia champion who knows? Stay tuned. I'm Dave Palombo with John Romano for another episode of Iron Rage.

=== FILE: TURNING PRO AT 60 YEARS OLD! Live With Ralph Coccio [1PCaqhq1e3c].txt ===

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Detrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest took him 40 years in the making to get here today. I can actually announce him as a new IFBV pro. The man I'm talking about, Ralph Kocheau. Welcome. Thank you, Dave. Thank you. It's great to finally meet you. I've been listening to your channel forever. You're 61 years old. You won the master's 60 over class at the NPC universe this last weekend. Or two weekends ago, I should say. You got the IFBV pro card. You've been trying since, for 40 years since 1978, you told me the story and I'm going to let you tell. But in 1978, you actually, the show that you first did was won by John Kemper. And a lot of us know John Kemper is the NPC district chairman and Jersey. A great competitor is on right. He's no longer with us, may rest in peace. You've been around the block a few times, Ralph. Yeah, yeah. I started competing at 21. Like I said, I showed up to Ramapoke College from my first contest. And back then, Dave, it wasn't wait. It was height. Sure. This is before wait. So I had got, I'm like, one, six, they have guys over 200 pounds of my class. I told you, Elliott Gilkrist, he was in his 50s at the time, but he had beaten Franco Colombo. And there was some other really big guys. So honestly, when I got back stage, I was so intimidated. I almost left. And then I said, you know what? Nobody knows me. I have nothing to lose. So I went in and I actually took second because I had my conditioning was good. Yeah. Yeah. Now, how did would you say bodybuildinGHas changed since the 70s into the modern year in 2018 right now? What have you seen as far as the competitors go that has changed dramatically? Yeah, you know, back in the late 70s, 80s, I would go and Mr. New Jersey, you know, local shows here in New Jersey. And we would sell out. We would sell out every contest. It was crazy. There would be people outside that couldn't get in. Really? Yeah. It just seemed bigger back then. And the guy seemed to be more conditioned. You know, nobody thought about, I want to get my pro card in three years or whatever. We just loved the tren. We would, I trened at a gateway gym and Bloomfield and all the guys therecompeted. And we just trened hard and competed. We never really thought about returning pro. And you know, back then Dave, like one guy a year would turn pro because you had a win. You had a win the overall in the nationals. So there was very few guys turning pro. So I never had any expectations of turning pro. I just loved to tren and compete. And the funny thing was, even winning the nationals wasn't enough back then. You had to go to the World Amateur Championship after that. When the Mr. Universe contest, you know. Yeah. It was crazy hard back then. And you know, I was in middleweight. So as a middleweight, I'm not, I'm not beating any heavyweight in the overall or anything. So, you know, I would just do the best I could. I just loved doing it. But now today, you know, I guess they're trying to grow the pro rank. So they have a lot of pro cards, right? They got, you know, we got classic. You got physique, you got bikini, you got masters. You got, it's, it's easier to get your pro card today. It is, but there's also a lot more people competing. So I guess they figure proportionally, you're getting, you know, better representation. Now, let me ask you this question. Was there ever a time period over that 40 years where you kind of took a big break? Or was it, were you continuously competing the whole time? Yeah, no, no. I competed for like 20 years, like two, three times a year in the beginning. And then I had kids. And I took 12 years off from competing. Now in the last 40 years, I never stopped trening. I never took my foot off the gas. I took off a week the most in the last 40 years. And that's when I partially tore my rotator. So never stopped the eating, never stopped trening. But yeah, I took 12 years off for competing one of my kids. We're little. And then went back in like 2010 and started competing again. So you got a lot of, you know, quality, mature muscle on that body. We're looking at pictures of you right now. And the condition was amazing. How many of you have no loose skint at 60 years old? I have loose skint at 50 years old of my body. So what, you know why Dave? I don't gain 40, 50 pounds after a show and then have to lose it. I was always within 10 pounds of my competition weight. Wow. You're a real OCD guy, huh? Yeah. It's never about weight cut with me. It's, I need 12 weeks to get crazy peeled because I don't have the best genetics. And the guys with the better genetics, you know, would kick my ass if I didn't step on stage shredded. You just, you just outlasted everyone, Ralph. That's how you, you want. Basically all the guys you can compete with, they just either died or they just quit. You're exactly right. And you know, way back then, we didn't have these gurus. You know, we didn't have Chad or Right. Or Kisasito or honey. IMean, I think you know the guy back then in the late 80s and even late 70s was Bob Grusky. Sure. Did you work in Bob and all? Bob used to come to my gym all the time. He used to use the nicest guy he would talk to me. But I didn't have the look for Bob. I didn't have the blonde hair, blue eye and superior genetics. He helped guys like Natta Shaq. He helped guys like Casey Kichurka used to tren with he turned pro. I, you know, I didn't have the kind of genetics that Bob would waste this time. But Bob was a great guy and very knowledgeable. Yeah, we all learned a lot from Bob. That's for sure. I'll be the guy myself included and he right. He was one of the original guys. What was the like the big title to win back in the 70s and 80s? What was like the title everyone went for Mr. America? Yeah, yeah. You try to win Mr. New Jersey. That was big around here. And then you know, you thought you were ready. So I won Mr. New Jersey in 81. Okay. And then you know, I thought I was somewhat of a big deal until I went in my first national show. It was Mr. USA and Knoxville, Tennessee. I think it was 1983. And boy, I got back stage and looked at those guys. They were the walls and were just genetic freaks. Right. But you really, you really get, you really get an education when you see what you're up against, you know, those guys that are with the superior genetics. Let me ask you this question. You know, a lot of people think they're body-building, you know, obviously. It's kind of health benefits, but it also got it's, it's negatives, you know, we eat a high crazy high protein diet. We, you know, there's drug use and body-building. And everyone always says how bad it is for you. Your obviously a testament to the fact you look like you're 100% healthy to me. How has you maintained your health over the years, you know, of continuously competing? Yeah, you know, that's a great question. So for me, Dave, health always came first. Once I started competing, I started researching, reading, everything I could get my hands on about nutrition, trening. So I could be successful on stage. And you know, I've learned it's 75 to 80% nutrition. So even in the offseason, I eat very clen, you know, organic, everything's grass fed. Like, you, you know, grass fed beef, grass fed, bison, no farm race fish, you know, the real fish. And I eat that way all year round. And no processed carbs, no bread, no pasta, no sugar. Keep the carb. Remember when we were in school, they had the food pyramid. Sure. And don't eat any fats because you're going to get heart disease. And then you had protein vegetables and down the bottom, eat a lot of carbs, processed carbs and grains. Really, get spot. Oh, oh, that stuff causes inflammation in the body. And that's the stuff you need to stay away from. You people out there should flip that food pyramid. Eat the good fats. And I've heard you say many times. And that's why I like I take your macadamia nut oil. When I was younger, I did not eat enough fats when I used to do my prep. And your body wants, it'll hold on to fat. It wants homeostasis. So it'll hold on to fat if you're not given it fat. So I've learned over the years to give it a lot of good fats, even when I'm prepping. And it helps your skin. And it helps you get lean. Now, you look, your skin is some of the best skin I've seen on a 60 plus year old guy. IMean, you really have no looseness anywhere. It looks very taught even on your face. IMean, your obviously a testament to the fact that good clen living goes the long way. What are you doing for a living aside from bodybuilding? I'm an accountant. I actually worked for shop right supermarkets. Oh, really? Yeah. I've been working for 38 years for them. Ever since I came out of college, they're a great company. You know, people always have to eat. They hired me in 1980 during a recession. So, you know, that told me that I should stick with them. You're one health and consistent guy. You've been bodybuilding to be 40 years and we're in a shop right for 38 years. No wonder why you have no deviations. I always tell people, look, the most successful bodyvils are the ones that are the most consistent. Because consistency is the most important predictor of success and bodybuilding. Most people have great genetics. They eat, right? They take drugs, but they're not consistent in applying it on a regular basis over and over and over again. And that's what it takes to be a good bodybuilding. And you just proved it. 100%. I'm sick like that. IMean, you think you take a lot of supplements I hear with you. I probably take more. People think I'm crazy. But, you know, it works. You stick with what works. What do you think of the most important supplements for people to take as they get older? I like Omega 3s. IMean, a good Omega 3. You know, back thousands of years ago, our Omega 6 Omega 3 ratio was almost one to one. Right. You know, based on our diet, when we live off the land. Today, with all the bad oils, vegetable oil, all these soybean oil, it's in everything. The average American is like 20 or 30 to one Omega 6 to Omega 3. So we do not get enough Omega 3. So I try to get a lot of Omega 3s. I supplement with Omega 3s. Crayloil, Calamary Oil. You don't really want to fish you all. You don't want an animal that's been around too long and has been able to accumulate toxins and pollutants. So you want a young animal like Crayl or Calamary that haven't had the time to pick up a lot of pollutants. Yeah. We used the anchovies and the small fish in our Omega-wise formula because of that. Yeah, because I don't want to use the big, the big game fish that have like you said the mercury isn't something that. That's wise. What about in terms of you taking a human to co-cute 10 and tell us supplements? Oh, God Dave, in the morning with breakfast, I counted it once like 25 pills. So I take like you, you know, elbow to thigh on all these supposedly that will help anti-aging. Right. I take all those bird-ock root. IMean, the list goes on and on. And then with, you know, with every meal, I'm taking more tug-ca milk to this whole things for my liver. You know, bodybuilders have to be careful with their liver and kidneys. You want to make sure you're detoxing them. How often do you go for blood work? Once a year, once a year, I went in last, last fall and everything was fine. Well, the doctor's amazed when they see you coming there, it's six months of your age. You know, most doctors give me a hard time because I'm honest with them at the way I eat no, because Dave, I eat like 85% raw. And most of them would give me a hard time, but the doctor I'm with now, he's like, you know, my wife eats like that. And she's so healthy. He goes, you just keep doing what you're doing because your blood work is perfect. Do we protein sources raw, too? I do. I do. You know, beef, bison. It's got to be grass fed, honestly, obviously because if you're eating something that's grass fed, it has an alkaline environment. Disease can't live in an alkaline environment. It lives in a acidic environment. So things like E. coli, you know, that stuff people get, that can't survive in an alkaline environment. I eat all grass fed natural. You know, you do eat sushi. IMean, some people have trouble. Yeah, IMean, you know, I like food. I'm just nervous to eat like meat and stuff like that. I know people eat chicken raw. Yeah, I eat chicken, um, uh, hearts chicken livers raw. Wow. Now, how do you prepare that stuff? Is there any special way? Yeah, I just throw it up my mouth. Yeah, really. You don't like put it into kind of brines and any kind of seasonings. No, put a little salt. The Himalayan sea salt on the beef and the bison, but, but that's about it. And I always eat my beef and vegetables first for digestion purposes. I'll eat those first all the way to a couple minutes and then I'll eat my carbs. And my carbs are always out of the ground. You know, whether it's, uh, yams, kingua, uh, oatmeal, but nothing processed never and no sugar. Interesting. Okay. And does anyone else eat this food with you or you look like a lone wolf? No, I've been divorced twice. No, I do it myself. And Dave, I've been doing it for eight years and haven't been sick. That's all right. So this is, this is not a short term thing. Well, boy, he's, you know, he better watch it. He's going to, he's going to get into trouble. Yeah, I've been doing it. I've been doing it for eight years. You slice up to me like in slet and thin slices. How do you make it palatable? I, I, I buy the 92% lean ground beef. Oh, because you even ground beef. Do mix it up into rice and stuff. Oh, how do you do it? Like, just raw. Just put it right in the mouth. Just raw and I'll put like raw asparagus or some kind of vegetable in my mouth with it. So, you know, like hard core, you'll just put it in the top of where and just take it out and start eating raw. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Wow. That's all. Yeah, the vegetables in the meat first and then the, and then the carbs, you know, after. Because I saw shop right into buying a grass fed beef here. Oh, they do. Oh, they do. Okay. I get most of my grass fed. That's not right. Yup. They have grass run farms, Clayton's. Wow. Even, even Walmart now is carrying grass fed beef because it's growing. They're not stupid. They want to make money either. Everybody's carrying it. Well, you got a fascinating story. It ended in a terrific note with the I.F.E.B. Pro card. ThEQuestion now is, what do you do? Do you want to, are you going to keep competing as a pro now? Well, you know, I feel like I should do one pro. So, Dave, there's, there's one September first in Pittsburgh. Yeah. They actually have over 40, over 50, over 60, over 70. Pros. Wow. I feel like I want to do one just to see how I stack up against the. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. What? You might want some prize money after all these years. You never know. Yeah, you know what the prize money is like for anything out of the milk. That's all right. It's the same prize money that when you started in 78th, they were given out to the Olympic guys, a thousand bucks. Exactly. You went full circle. Look at Craig. Craig, Richard, you just won. Yeah. And he, I saw his prize money. You know, it didn't even cover his supplements for sure. Yeah, I'm sure. I'm sure. Well, Craig. Right. I want to congratulate you on the big win. Thank you for filling us in on some of your longevity tips and your eatinGHabits. I always find that stuff fascinating. I know my viewers out there probably do as well. Good luck at the Pittsburgh pro. I guess you could say masters that's going to take place at that North American weekend. And if you win, you got to let us know. I guess that's a great success story. I will. And Dave, I want to take this opportunity to thank you for all your work, all your information. There's so much misinformation. After 40 years, I've learned a lot. There's so much misinformation out there. And you tell it straight. And you're my go-to website. And I want to thank you for, you know, your 30 minutEQuestion and answers every week. Very well. You're bustling the morning. All your content is amazing. And I want to thank you. Very welcome. And like I said, I love to hear a good ending or happy ending to a hard work and guy. And you're, I don't think if there's anyone more passionate about bodybuilding out there than you because you've had the tenacity to last almost 40 years in our industry now. And that's, that's got to be some kind of record. Yeah, thank you, Dave. I appreciate that. You've got to go up against Robbie Robinson now. Forget that. That's not, that's not a new Robbie on stage after all this. You started in 78 watching probably pumping iron and seeing Robert that. Now you can actually get up on stage with him. I went to the premiere in Manhattan when it came out. I was at the theater. Yeah. Robbie's in his 70s. He still looks amazing. He does. He does. He's like, he's like, you know, he's, he's into very healthy, natural eating and, you know, he's into the whole Zen relaxing, meditating type thing. And you know, there's a lot to be said for that Dave. And when I was younger, I was all about intellect and physical. But I was lacking in my spirituality. So now I'm trying to bring, I spend most of my time and effort, bring in my spirituality up so that it's, I have balance in my life. And it, it helps so much. You know, I'm, I'm sure you probably meditate. Yeah. It helps with your trening. Sure. It helps with your outlook on life. It's, it's for people when I was younger, I'm going to tell the young guys out there, start getting some books and get into some spiritual stuff. It will help you immensely. Ralph, nope, no injuries, no joint problems right now that. You know, I have some knee issues, but never surgery. I have some in this, it's, meniscus issues in my knees. But never a surgery. Thank God. Yeah, you're lucky. You're definitely lucky. You're, you're scary. You probably have good genetics to do. Probably everyone in your family lives to 100, I bet you. My dad's 94. I think you're married. Good genetics, I always say never hurts. It's all about genetics. That's right. All right, Ralph. Keep us updated, good luck in Pittsburgh. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live With Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com. On the April on Belf, we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Tampa Pro, Europa Games Phoenix, Pacific USA Recaps! [l-3xFaSZ1g0].txt ===

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love it as shown. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to the vegetarian food lesson this morning. I'm Dave Bollando and today is Wednesday on this flat. One, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we're back and better than ever with it on our brand new editianavar world famous Recap Wednesday. And by popular demand we're starting off the show with a recap of last weekend's Tampa Pro. In the men's open Ian Valier came in and saw and conquered and now he's heading back to the Olympia stage with a ton of momentum thanks in large part to scoring the biggest win of his career. In the 212 class, just like we said on our Friday pre-show, it came down to Carat's Bash, and on that all the sunny, and when the dust finally settled, it was Carat who ended up with the big win. Germany's Earth, Palacin's ski looked amazing on his way to picking up a hard-bought win in classic. And for the second year in a row, men's physique, Andre Ferguson crews to an easy win. Over on the women's side of things, Mona Porcelay looked great on a way to claiming the top spot in women's bodybuilding. And so did Czech Republic, Lanka, Farron Chukova, as she ended up takinGHome the Tyland Women's physique. In bikini, former Olympia champ, Esa Pesini secured a big time win after bringing in one of her all-time best looks. In fitness, Florida zone, Orika Tyrell held it down big time on the way to locking up her first win in a year. Lorhana Robinson brought home the top honors in figure, and we're wrapping up our coverage here with the wellness division, where a familiar face in René, Jewett, punched her ticket to the Olympia stage with a big win. Way out there in the scorching desert of Phoenix, Arizona, we also had some prime time action in men's and women's physique at the Europa Games Phoenix. And we're jumping right into our coverage here, starting with women's physique. We have Brooke Walker finally managed to break through into the winner circle for the first time in her career. Thanks to a monster effort here. Rookie Chelsea of Worcester rolled into second and a strong effort from Toma Fafa Amiko, as enough to help her slide, come to lead into the third position. In men's physique, Jason Huna continued to impress by adding to his win total for the second time this season. Nick Koi came out and managed to crack the top two in his season debut, and we're wrapping up our coverage here with third place finisher, and one with her spoon. Our last event of the weekend went down and out in the beautiful shores of San Diego where the muscle contest crew put up another great event at this year's specific USA Probecini. The talent for pound, this top five was probably the most stacked bikini group of the entire weekend, which is part of the reason why getting the win here was so big for Jasmine Gonzalez. The Neo Augusti brought in her best look of the season, which was good enough to land in the runner-up spot. And the red hot Carolina Colazos slid into third by edging out another strong effort from Spain's Ivana Fernandez. The top here was none other than Kaylee Huda-Shell, who seems like she's placed in the top of a show every weekend since for as long as I can remember. And finally, it absolutely breaks my heart to end the show like this today, because this is a sad time for a lot of people after hearing about the tragic passing of John Meadows last Sunday. We honestly thought about putting together a monologue to talk about this, like I have with other people in the past, but I didn't think it was right. There's nothing I can or putting to words in the scribe house special John Meadows was, or how much he'll be missed by his wife and his two boys and all the people that he touched over the years. So instead I'm going to end the show now with these pictures and a moment of silence for one of the truly great men that ever greased the bodybuilding world. Rest in peace, my friend. Thank you.

=== FILE: The BEST White Fish for Dieting？ [VAva_ZIdCa0].txt ===

You know, the probably the most popular white fish that people eat is to lobby it, which is probably the least healthy because it's all farm raised and you know, they feed it stuff, you know, they feed it like corn based, you know, foods which is not which changes all the good fats and the fish. Most of these tolapia live in disgusting, you know, fish tank conditions where they're basically in their basically swimming in their poop. So I don't need to lobby it, even though it tastes good, it tastes like chicken. Why does it taste like chicken? We feed it the same thing we feed the chickens corn. So if I had to pick, you know, a white fish, I would pick the wild, you know, caught ones like, you know, if you live a long island, you can get a flounder and and fluke, that's really good. I really like those. God is really good. Haddock is all right, you know, the wild caught one. If you go to like Sam's club or some of these price clubs, you can buy like frozen, you know, wild caught fishes. That they have usually it's like cod and that I think cod tastes the best of all the white fishes. It's it's tasty. You can get it readily in the wild court form. Watch out for those farm raised fishes. They're just not as good for you health wise. Now, you know, macro nutrient-wise protein fat carbs, it's the same thing. So you can eat to lobby or you're going to lose weight and something that because it's the same thing. But for a mental health standpoint, if you're going to be eating that much fish, you might as well eat stuff that has good stuff in it. Because you can get nowadays, you can get frozen, frozen, wild caught. Just as easily as you can get the frozen, you know, farm raised. Just you got to do some smart chopping. In other words, you got to ask questions, you got to read labels. Some people just blindly grab whatever's there or whatever's cheapest, and that's not always the way to go. For a dollar more, you can get, you know, a wild caught. And I would always choose wild caught if I had the options.

=== FILE: The FUNNIEST Ronnie Coleman Eating Story, Ever？ [viAIPXurrW4].txt ===

Before I forget because that's super funny story about eating. Eating, we were in Dubai, but this time I was with the Ronnie Coleman, jet jet marsh, Flex Wheeler, Art Cugherley in Hong Kong. 1982, Boloyangian battered there. So of course, Bolodian speaking, there's a time and there was at that time hardly anybody is spoken with that. So when you go there, you try to order food. It would be impossible. But that time, it's just the Bruce Lee movie. It was some boat and you know, like, enter the dragon when they do, you know, this thing that's different foods. OK. So Ronnie and Art Cugherley, that eating something that you can start coming and they're eating like crazy. I can't determine what it is. So it's like, oh, what is it? Oh, chicken. It's great. And Ronnie is eating and then somebody is trenslating. And let's not eat chicken. What is it? Rack. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Where are they going? Ronnie is eating. This is the, this rat, every tasted man. Milo, this was Boloyang. The one who was eating in the intro of the dragon. He's eating. He's eating. Yeah, I'm not why I knew it was Sunday, but I never seen Milo or Boloy. I've been a scrolls. But yeah, Boloy was in the movie, into the dragon. A lot of people didn't know he was a gold gym regular. Oh, I didn't know that. And he was, yeah, Boloyang was, yeah. You know, he's the big muskler guy. And that's a little bit of a record. How many pounds of rat did Ronnie? IMean, Ronnie was eating like you can't even believe. But I just remember that then because the face that he made, IMean, he was just stoppinGHis face. He never goes, okay, I ordered a chicken salad there. And I'm looking at this. I see everything but chicken. But then it's a chicken skin. The only part of chicken they use for the chicken salad is chicken skin. They eat the fat. It's very fatty in the food in Hong Kong. Very fatty. Yeah, yeah. But the, uh, I'll keep going. And, uh, IMean, the, How chewed probably went the bathroom and threw out the Ronnie probably finished his meal, I'm sure. I said, How chewed probably went the bathroom through the rat up. Ronnie probably finished his meal. Oh, that was like so many different things. Probably. Oh, yeah.

=== FILE: The Opening of the 2011 Europa Super Show [scT5wwq0388].txt ===

Come on, tricky, get lifted. There you go. Oh, guys, come on up front. All right, Mark. There you go. Oh, guys, come on up front. All right, Mark. There you go. Thanks, guys.

=== FILE: The REAL Reason for 'Ruined' Waistlines! [yI1YhCLy8i4].txt ===

You know, I thought a lot about this tip, because I ate a lot of food back in the day, but you know what? I'm almost of the belief that I don't necessarily know if the drugs and the food ruin their waistline as much as father-time did and genetics, because, you know, in order to get that big, okay, let's, IMight use myself as an example, because I wasn't a pro. Let's use Ronnie Coleman as an example. Ronnie was eating an enormous amount of food and trening with enormously heavy weights. And his waistline was great, his body looked great, okay. And what people don't realize is that he won his first Olympi, he was in his early 30s, he wasn't young. So by the time he got to the end of his reign, he was already in the 40s, you know, and when you get to that late 30s, 40s, things start that, you know, you lose the elasticity of the fascia around your abdominal area, whether you eat a lot of food or whether you tren really heavy or not, okay. Look at Flex Wheeler, he still has a really tiny waist, he always ate a lot of food and trened heavy, he was big, you know, he, for his frame, he was huge, he was like 260 on stage. So to the end of his career, he, any term pro at 218. So, and his waistline didn't look work bad for him to me. So I think what happens is your genetic structure, is your genetic structure, and as you get older, it deteriorates and breaks down a little bit and you lose the elasticity of your skin, and the fascia, sheets that surround the muscles stretch out, and I don't necessarily think it's a drug issue, because I see when guys go off drugs, it kind of reverses. Like, you know, I had a lot of problems with distension, I'm excited, a very short torso in my midsection, and my waist is small now, and my stomach's flat, you know, so I reversed it somehow, and I don't have loose skin on my abdominal area. So I don't, I don't buy in today, I think it's just genetics at a certain level, you know, your body can only handle, you know, I wouldn't say, you know, my body, I don't have the tightness of the skin that I had when I was younger, and I don't have this, the kind of like that fresh looking muscle that you see, I'm like a Nick Walker, but age is what ravages us really, and some guys, age better than others, Dexter did a pretty good job aging, you know, although his midsection also wasn't what it was, Phil Heets wasn't, and I don't think Phil doesn't look at the kind of guy that was abusing a lot of performance enhancing drugs, he wasn't a super heavy trener, he didn't, he wasn't an overeater, so you know, why would happen to his waist? He just got older, you know, and that's what happens, I think, and so, you know, I think people just, you know, they get carried away with the fact they want to blame something, oh yeah, he was a good champion, but he ruined himself. No, I think, you know, the guy won fucking seven Olympias, Ronnie won eight Olympias, you know, they obviously had a lot of times during that rain that they looked amazing, that's why people don't last forever, you know, body building is a very short live sport, you could only have that peak look to your body with a good quality muscle before you start tearing things and things start, you'll lose elasticity in your skin and things just go wrong, IMean, that's just what happens, especially when you walk around in 300 pounds, you know, all the time, it's a big stren on your body, so I think thEQuestion, the answer to thEQuestion is that, you know, I don't think that it's the drugs that's necessarily in the overeating and the food that did it as much as it is the person's genetics and old age.

=== FILE: Thyroid Hormone Explained by Dave Palumbo [Gq7aQsD74Eo].txt ===

Day polamo here for another RX Muscle Ranch brought to you by RedCon1. Today I want to talk about thyroid hormone. A lot of people don't really understand how thyroid hormone works and to be honest with you, it's a pretty simple hormone. It's a pretty easy system. There's nothing too complicated about it. That's why it's very easy to replace it if people have thyroid insufficiency. Believe it or not, a large population of people out there, not just bodybuilders, but everyone in the general population, tend to have a lot of hypothyroidism, more prevalent and women than in men, believe it or not. Now let's talk about how we talk about how it interacts with other drugs and other scenarios like dieting. First of all, the thyroid gland is located right here around your voice box and it produces a hormone known as thyroid oxen. Or we abbreviate that as T4. It does this in response to a signal received from the pituitary gland and you're brain. That pituitary gland sends a signal known as TSH or thyroid stimulatinGHormone. That tells the thyroid gland to produce this T4 or thyroid oxen hormone. In school, I remember learning that and I always thought that thyroid oxen was the thyroid hormone that did things in the body. It turns out that that T4 needs to be converted into an activated form. What it's turned into is what we call tri-iodothyrony, also known as T3. T3 is active thyroid hormone and that's what indicates how fast or slow your metabolic rate will be. So T4 really has nothing to do with your metabolism. It's all T3. So when you go for blood work and you check your thyroid status, a lot of times these doctors will just check TSH and they'll say, oh, you're a lot lower high according to what those values are, which is really not accurate because I got to find out what your thyroid hormone status is. Another, a lot of times, doctors will just do TSH and T4 thinking that's adequate. Once again, you can have normal T4 levels, but if you're T3, if the T4 is not converting to T3, you can still be low thyroid. So you need to check TSH, T4 and T3. And the only value that's really relevant in terms of how you look and feel is T3. However, there can be problems with why T3 is normal and the other hormones are off. So thEQuestion arises when you take, I guess, drugs like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Everyone, I've heard the gamut of people saying things like thyroid suppresses, IMean, a GH suppresses your thyroid, GH stimulates it. No one really knows what anything does. And everyone thinks you need to take thyroid hormone and I've heard people say you need to take T4, you need to take T3 and no one can give you an answer why. Everyone just has heard it from some guy in the gym or has read it on some website. And the bottom line is going back to the science of what I told you earlier, T3 is the important variable here. We need optimal T3 levels so that everything works well on about. When you take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, okay? A lot of people have reported that, you know, it drops to thyroid gland. And if you look at your only look at your T4 levels on your thyroid, you test, you would say that's correct because T4 seems to go down when you take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. But T4 is not the active thyroid hormone. When you look at T3 levels when you're on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone however, it goes up. So what's going on? What's going on is growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is telling T4 to convert to T3. It's facilitating at T4 to T3 conversion. It's making it happen more, okay? Which is probably what's contributing to some of the fat loss that the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, I guess you could say, causes and about. You take GH, we know you burn fat. Why? Well, it's probably too full. One is a direct mobilization of fat from the fat cells. The other is an indirect effect from causing more T4 to convert to T3. Now, when that happens, is that a problem in the body? No, I think it's an advantage of anything because you're going to put yourself in a better fat for any state. It's not, it's certainly not bad for your body to be lower and T4 because T4 is in active. So it's basically just activating what thyroid hormone. Now, sometimes you might see a your TSH levels go down a little bit because when T3 goes up, obviously it tells the pituitary, actually it's the other high-performance. It tells those glands in the brain we don't need to produce as much thyroid hormone. But I haven't seen that. So in other words, even though T3 is elevating and T4 is decreasing, TSH usually is still normal. So where are we at? Where we're at is that growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone does increase thyroid output in the sense that it creates more T3 to be available in the body. And the lack of T4 is not a problem. You don't need to supplement with it because why? If you take more in active thyroid, what's going to happen? Nothing. It's not going to convert to active form. We already have a super physiological amount of T3 being produced in the body because of this GH use. If you are a person who is high-po thyroid, in other words, your thyroid stops working for whatever reason. You can blame it on things you did in body building too many stimulants or bad genetics or whatever the case may be, most of the time it's due to an autoimmune issue where your body is immune system will attack the thyroid gland and stop it from working. Let's assume that that's the case because that's the case probably in most of the people who have thyroid insufficiency. So you go for blood work and you find out your TSH is low or your TSH is high because what's happening is your T4 and T3 output is low. Your brain is trying to tell the thyroid produce more thyroid hormone. So it raises TSH and the thyroid gland can't respond for whatever reason. So you'll see on blood work, high TSH, low T4, low T3. When that happens, what did they do? Well, you would think, well, take T3, right? Is that the act of thyroid hormone? Well, that's not the solution because it's very hard to dose how much T3 you really need in your body. Your body knows best how much T3 it needs. So what they do is they replace the T4 component. So most people who are on who have thyroid problems will take sinthroid which is a synthetic form of T4. The great thing about that is if you take a little too much it really doesn't matter because your body only converts what it needs into T3. So your body self regulates how much T3 you're using. Now people have asked me what happens when you take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone when you're on T4 or a place. Well, this plenty of T4 present. Your body will convert more of the T4 just like it does in an atracate into T3 and you'll have higher T3 and your T4 will be a little lower, okay? But that doesn't matter, right? Because the ultimate important factor here is T3 levels. When T3 is elevated, we have a faster metabolic rate. Now to a certain point that's good. If it gets too fast, you know, do you just popping T3 pills which are known as side of melt, that's the brand name? All day long, you would probably give yourself a heart attack because too much thyroid hormone can cause aridmias in the body. Hard aridmias, which can lead to obviously death. We don't want that. I'm once again the dose is just pretty high to get to that point. So what's the answer to thEQuestion I'm taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone? What do I do? Nothing. Don't take anything. Work every so often. Check your levels. If TSH and T4, okay, if TSH is normal and T4 is a little low and T3 is a little high, that's to be expected, okay? If T3, T4 are both very low and your TSH is high and you know you have some kind of thyroid issue unrelated to the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone you're taking but it just could be you have an underlying thyroid issue. A lot of people have thyroid issues, they don't even know about it because they never go for blood work. So you know, someone can go for blood work and find out that they have low thyroid and like, oh man, it probably was from what did I do last week? That's probably because now it could have been from 10 years ago or five years ago and you progressively getting worse. So hopefully you guys have a little better understanding of the dynamics of TSH T4, T3 and how growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone can possibly or negatively affect that. Now interestingly, a ketogenic diet, which is a very low carb diet, okay, which has very low insulin output, can negatively affect this T4 to T3 conversion because the body senses that it's in a calorie deprived state. When insulin levels are super low for one period to time, the body knows you're cutting that calorie into specifically carbohydrates. So what does your body do? It can slow the T4 to T3 conversion down. That's why I recommend that people have what I call a cheat meal, some people call it a really feed meal. That seems to be the new millennial term for it. But I like thEQuote of cheat meal, sounds a little sexy. You know, you use the cheat meal once a week, okay, to stimulate insulin release because you're eating carbs in that meal. Obviously, when you release insulin, T4 to T3 conversion will restore itself to normal levels and it will stop that slowing down of your thyroid that can happen when you're dieting for one period of time on the same type of a low carb diet. Once again, simple solution, but you need to know why you do it. Some people just think I'm getting a Machima because I feel bad for them once a week. I really don't need it. I can say, no, there's a reason for it. That doesn't mean you should eat like it's your last, you know, on earth or you're going to an electric chat of Mara. But you can certainly put in, you know, have a plate of pasta or have, you know, a piece of two of pizza or if you want to have a burger or fries or whatever. Enjoy yourself. Just don't go nuts. That's all because if you go nuts, it's too much and then you set yourself back a whole week. All right, guys, hopefully this helped out a little bit, gave you some more clarification on what thyroid hormone is and how it works in the body and how it interacts with diet and drug and or drugs. Guys, if you like these videos, subscribe to the channel, you know, click, turn your notifications on, hit like and put your comments below. I read them. I try to read them all. Good and bad. I'm the hateful lumbar with another R.X. Muscle rant brought to you by RedCon1.

=== FILE: Tiffany Robinson Routine-2011 IFBB Ft Lauderdale Cup [lChMI1w0iTI].txt ===

music It's good WOOOOO Never Thanks!

=== FILE: ToneyFreeman [hBhsZEwttvM].txt ===

撃ちぽー撃ちぽー撃 diab

=== FILE: Tracy Bodner Posing Routine at 2012 IFBB Desert Muscle Classic [aLdAvUuFfxY].txt ===

The Yes, yes, yes, yes Can you hear how? Can you hear how? Can we go? Can you hear how? Would they― He is cage diving White I don't know how to take any all our back death But I said, it was all But don't know what to call Get it, get it! Get it, get it! Get it! Get it!

=== FILE: Training SECRETS For MASSIVE Growth! Iron Debate (Part 1 of 2) [BpZDSTZv6x4].txt ===

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsens supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results, and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Old School Bodybuilding Clothing Company. If you wish your fancy fitness center was a hardcore gym, you are old school. If you just ate chicken and rice and are about to eat chicken and rice, you are old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest trening athletes. Great again, partying, meals, and regular contributor to Rx muscle. Meal, first of all, great to have you on a second of all in 30 to 60 seconds. How would you make this country phenomenal? I'm a little bit. As I said, making insulin great again. Shram said yesterday that he's going to make insulin super cheap. I'm not just that because of all the international pharmaceuticals that can be imported for a production of the cost. Let me tell you, I had some viral thing that I was supposed to buy in the pharmacy here, and there was two gram tube. It's not that good. It's not that good. It's not that good. It's $97 for a two gram tube. It's like 30 times as a amount of gold. I say, hold on a second. This is impossible. It's become a friend in India, and he says, in India is 75 cents. One of the greatest things for us, what we believe in community, to make it great, open the borders, please. Let's pharmaceuticals from the international sources coming for the cost, what do you can buy them there? Meal, I'm going to show you this that our next panel is Tom Prince, or Dave, should they ever become president. You certainly will become a debauchable of insulin and secretary of foreign gearing just in America. We now bring in our next panel as you saw in our last week. Actually this week, we recorded in last week that two part interview, glad to have him on, has been a long time coming. Dave is wanted to get him on the show for quite some time. What do you know, we got him on for the second time now in the course of two weeks. In 1997, NPC Nationals, over a winter 2001 Olympian, of course, we are talking about Tom, Prince Tom, welcome back to RX muscle. 30 seconds, how would you make this country phenomenal again? I'm with you. I've died out of meals. This is my second one. That's me the first thing. Second thing, I'm going to piggyback on what meals. I think I'd make all forms sooner, because legal on this country. It looked like Amsterdam, doesn't. That was to let everything be legal. They've got their crime rates ridiculously low because of it. I'd start there. Other than that, I've done nothing else more. That we are good as we now go to our Cape Coral Studios, bringing Dave Palombo, Dave. I texted you last night, because of course the big news from last night was big Ronny's announcement that he's going to be competing at the IAPV European Championships on a total of 11. So exactly two weeks from now, I'm like, Dave, can you give us a quick reaction video and you're like, I'm watching this debate. It's given me a bigger headache than when I record after I've ever had it. So, you're going to last night, 60 seconds, you or your puppy, whatever you want to go with, would you make America phenomenal again? So, Tom stole my, stole his ass and where do I want it to say? Make all drugs legal. Clear out the prisons, get all the drug dealers out of there. Let them go. As long as they're not violent, it crimals. Tax everything to death. You want to do cocaine? Going to a pharmacy and buy it, but you're going to pay through the teeth. You're going to pay through the teeth, but you know it's going to be pharmaceutical great. Just like they do in Amsterdam and you go, you can buy mushrooms in the 7-11 convenience store if you want. Let everyone do whatever they want. Tax it, like you do cigarettes and alcohol. Bring that income into the country so we can offset some of our deficit and stop arresting people for drugs. Once you get, the jails are overcrowded and I know it's a big business in this country, but I think it's a complete waste of time and money. That's what I would do without a doubt, make steroids legal. They get everything legal. Just allow people to go buy it in a store where it's regulated. So the people who have to worry about, you know, hey, I wonder if the guy who made this in his bathroom actually used sterile technique because that's where we're at at this point. So not only is there, we make criminals out of people who are just, you know, want to go to the gym and work out, but we're also, you know, we're putting their health at risk because they got to use, you know, underground stuff. It's crazy. And I think that the drug situation is not, you know, if you look at Amsterdam, they don't have any crime is almost zero there. And even if prostitution is even legal there, why is that? Does obviously a reason because people, there's no criminals when you don't, when all the criminal activity that normally would take place is now legal to do. So I, I think that that would be my platform as well. Now we trensition into the bodybuilding portion of the show for those watching, we're going to have some fun with this. Obviously, whether you're on the Republican side of the Democratic side somewhere in the middle, let's have some fun with it. If we're not laughing about last night or about what's going on in the country in general, then what are we doing? Let's talk tren. Something that we like to talk about on the show is especially when it comes to different nuances of trening, different styles of trening, trening between the 90s era, which we loved to discuss. And obviously, the glorious bodybuilders that came out of that era, and then of course, today. And the evolving forums of trening. So Tom Prince, we're going to go to you first on this one because what we want to get from you and we usually when we bring on high profile guests, we want to get the there style of trening, what they prefer, what made them successful during the career, when you look back at your career, what would you define as your style of particular trening? I had, you know, pretty, it's a pretty straightforward. It's, I don't want to say simple, but most of those all just basic exercises doing three sets per exercise, four exercises per body part. That was almost true for every single body part. I know that my followers and back might have been five movements for three sets or 15 sets, but everything else was literally 12 sets. Rep range is always in the five to eight range for the most part. If I could go back and edit myself all these years later, I probably would have a few more and now I'll say 25% of my workouts would have been in the 12 to 15 rep range. I didn't, I kept it all heavy. That's why my joints are just all just right now, but as far as building muscle does, I thought that was a great way to do it. Only did four straps on the third set of every, on the third set of every movement. So on sets, whatever you do, in time just press, you only do four straps on the last set. All the other sets were two failure and by two failure IMeant until the muscle didn't move. For example, if you're doing like a dumbbell curl, that means you're doing as many reps as you can do with whatever weight. And then if you can only do like 75% of a rep to do 50% of a rep, 25% of a rep, you're moving iT3 inches to it just one inch until a little bit until the weight doesn't move. That's what two failure means. You know, you never just say I'm going to do 10 reps, do it, stop and then when you've cut it out in another three reps, ever. That's a complete waste of time. Like I said, did your point would do either four straps, you know, or drops at the third set of every final set of never movement that I did? Meals, it's good to be because first one, quick primer just in terms of the prime of your career, what your preferred method was. But more importantly, because right now you are a very sought after coach. We've seen you go, you know, different parts of the row. You see, you go to China. Whenever we try to get you on the show, your calendar is completely booked up. When you tren your clients, do you have a particular pattern that you like to go with or is there more of a base of what it is that they can do, what works best for them approach? Well, you know, let's define what is best of them. We all want to define this maximum stimulation, you know, for each master group when you're trened. So I understand Tom was a old school guy. He was just going very heavy, very heavy. Because that was a tren. IMean, a Dorian Yates, you know, I've achieved what your chimney did. He's doing methods, right? So I run the common, go ahead, go home and moving some crazy pounders. We've seen for me, I was maybe fortunate that early in my career. First time I stepped in the gym and I said that to the pitch coach, I'm about to bring a lot of time back in a day. I remember watching two guys, one was benching over 200 kilos, which is 400, 40 pounds, right? And I had literally no chance. And then I had the guy next to him 80 pounds, 80 kilos, 180 pounds, with the chest like that. And you know, so imagine kid coming into the gym and seeing this kind of stuff, the cocaine, right away, little confused because you expect a stronger guy to have a more muscle mass. And then fortunately, this guy was also very good friends with the surgeon, Brake. I was in the brain, being one of my favorite bodybuilders. And if you remember his physique, especially his chest, chest was like, that tool, my bubbling stride, and you know, popped the bottom, he says the surgeon, Brake, even though he could have benched, well over 500 pounds, never, ever, ever bent over 220, 500 kilos in the trening. So this is how I started. And I said first, I was introduced to this heavier, it's not necessarily better. And then being from a medical family and my father, my other sister, they were all being a doctors. My father told me from very beginning, like, listen, popped shot because of a young guy, I just want to leave heavier, silky. Your body is not designed for this kind of pounding. And they have to leave it up to here. Your muscles, my handle is a tendency of looking at it and it's going to go. It's not a question if but when. And interestingly, even Tom in this short interview said, yeah, he's joined a trash. You know, look at Ronny Coleman in the Jordanian age, right? The muscle pairs and ligaments and tendons injuries just waiting to happen. And let's touch a subject of a greatest bodybuilder. I think nowadays, that's the Jackson who at the age of 50 is still improving and why he is doing because he's trening safely. So to answer your question, we're not having a very, very minute debate. I believe in combining sexual plasma hypertrophy. Sorry, it's kind of pump trening with a lighter weight, with a my fiber, heavy weight. When your body is ready for a couple of sets and Tom said, you know, maybe pushing to the limit, go to those four straps, you know, try to go above what is usual. And on that note, I just want to mention, few days ago I've seen a hand to the brother, stating something that is very true. This is almost every workout he does is exactly the same. It's not the fancy, it's not the advanced, he just got progressive overload. Same exercise right to do with the more weight. And of course, look at him. IMean, he's a confinano. So it is not one way to get to Rome, right? There's many different ways. You know, Hunter is still young, okay? Maybe he would tell him to slow down a bit, like my father told me, he best to get to know me to back off from heavy weights because he says when you jump from a hydrized building and you're falling down, he feels great until you hit the floor. Then you know, you did too much. So I would like trening smarter rather than harder and heavier. It was going to you quick touch on this one as far as obviously we know your style was heavy low reps. But now when you look at your clients and what you advise them, we'll kind of approach you suggest. You know, I think that one of the aspects of trening that we have to take into account is genetics because, you know, we mentioned Serge Newbry, we know he trened for out. He would tren five hours, you know, Chris the suitor used to tell me. You know, just a lot, not heavy weights, but he would just tren like repetitively. Anyone else did that, they would probably lose all their muscle. You know, Dexter Jackson is a genetic freak. He probably can do anythinGHe does just to stimulate the muscle cause his growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So you know, meal us as approach is completely scientifically sound and logical, but I know for a lot, I don't think someone with my genetics would have ever put on the amount of muscle, the sheer muscle mass, and probably Tommy, because that don't think we're just big guys by nature. I think it was the progressive overload of heavy free weights that enabled us to get that big, you know, combined with food and drugs obviously. But the point is that you really need, if you look at the guys that tren the heaviest, they got that dense, deep muscle. Are you more prone to injuries and possibly later in life? You know, joint problems? Absolutely. IMean, I got double shoulder replacement. I know Tom's going to have to get one pretty soon when they want to acknowledge it or not. It happens, but it was worth the sacrifice for me because that's I wanted to be the best at what I was doing at the time. And so I was willing to push the envelope. Now, if you have the genetics to be able to do anything and not, you know, not injury yourself. And you still hate, I don't think Phil trens particularly heavy, but he grows. So there's no reason to do it yourself at risk and lift the critical, so you have the weight if you can grow the one lighter weights, because that's just logic, right? I think the change in physique's a lot also had to do with nowadays guys love machines. I think back in the 80s and 90s and even obviously in Arnold's day, there was only free weights. Every with different free weights. And I think free weight development gave you a better, morecomplete round look to your body. I think today, guys are not everyone, but there's a lot of guys out there to just lack to something like missing it. They're big, but they don't really have like a, like a, I don't know, like a well, grainy, developed, deep, grooved body. And I think that's because they don't, people don't want to tren free weights anymore. They're, it's easier to tren with machines. There's a lot of machines available at every gym. You could put a lot of weight on the machine, but you just don't get the same look. So I still believe in, in heavy free weight movements, especially early in your career when you're building your base of muscle. Once you've got the muscle, you can incorporate more machines. You can incorporate, look, I probably, like I actually did lighten the weights up because I had injuries later in my career. But I think as you get older in your body, going to bring you already packed on the mass, you have, you can start focusing more on squeezing and doing, you know, higher reps because at this point now, you're not looking to put mass of amounts of muscle on. So I think that you have different stages of your career initially free weight, you know, heavy movements are probably the right way to go. And then as you're getting bigger and more in your body is maturing, you don't really need mass of amounts. The muscle, but quality changes, then you can start using machines and targeting type of certain things. I wanted to ask me, this onEQuestion though. Meal, we put up a video and I saw a video of you trening Arnold Sun, Joe by Joseph by Anna. How is it? What was that like? Was that just like a goof? I do trening them on a regular basis. No, no, no, no, no. We were trening in the same gym and he was doing squats and then of course he was doing a giant set. So you know, my trening part of the cellicule and a joint in and he never did, by cellicule, you know, your father was into giant set. IMean, first time I probably heard about the giant set was Arnold mentioning over some giant set. Okay, so what is that? You know, so I put him through, it was fun. But you know, just to get on your topic here, I absolutely listen, respect both you and calm you guys on the match monsters and you can see you have that heavy weight and muscle, mostly wall trening. You know, so it's all of us, you have to respect that. And yet by all means, you know, you don't have to reinvent the wheel. We know basic movements. I agree with you. Three weights, nothing replaces three weights. IMean, if you're just telling me, just the machines or just the free weights, just one another, then I would choose it free weights. Because because there is basic movements, your whole body is involved, stabilizing, not realizing muscle, so that it belongs to the groups. You have to feel the weight, the height, the weight. Right? My machines, like I said when John Brown did the other day, it was John Ray and so he goes to the gym and look at his whistleblowers. They do like, you know, I think that is, you know, IMean, I do agree to the, you know, some my master connection and isolating the muscle. Of course, but you have to fight the weight. It's not like a posing session with whatever you're holding. So, therefore, I'm sure that you guys thumb, you know, all the basics, you know, squats, and leg presses and overhead presses, bench presses, bend over rows, you name it every free weight as a set as you can possibly do, get your base. And then as you guys were growing, you don't have a reason to change, right? So that's become your trening style. So, you know, from my side, even I heard Tom said that maybe if he would start it again, maybe he would involve his thumb, other lighter sets, 15 reps because he was going 08 to 08, 5 to 8, which is super, super heavy. So, Dorian himself also, you know, mentioned that he was probably changed by implementing more sets and maybe not go ahead as heavy. So, I just think that combining both, some heavy duty, you pushed the limit, but then after whether you change it to the drop sets, drop sets, you know, changing the tempo, peak contraction. So, just, there is no reason, okay, it's not to be fancy to be different, it's in lacking the language, very active, is the lectant, variety is delightful. So, why would you do the same thing over and over and over? It's like, excuse me, I'm going to again put the sexual connotation to this. If you want to have sex, I don't just submission to the style, you want to change the position. No, no, let's just go with the basic. Well, I'll show you, there's, you know, it's a much more to it, you know, if you want to have a different feeling. So, this is how I approached, but it is not different in exercise for a sake of being innolvative, that you actually have a child and thought how good that feels, you know, by substrates it, whatever. So, this is why I like to open minds and put them on like supersets, reset giants, change the tempo, angle, grip, stance, and just, you know, make them stimulate because muscle is adaptive. If I get you out of your zone, for example, now, if I would change with both you and calm back in a day and I know that you got some monsters, okay, I would get you out of the element after you do your heavy and I would put you through my giant sets and insist on that we go to the failure with a lighter weight. And you would get the absolute crazy pump. I don't know if you've seen the video I chained on one by hand, they have to the bag of show and a video chest and in a pretty much his statements, if he's never touched this pump in his life. Well, my idea is every time across the foot in the gym to get out of that, to have an absolute crazy pump where I could possibly achieve. And you're just saying to give it to give the muscle a new stimulus. Yes, it's just another way to stimulate the muscle, find a different way to stimulate it to, hey, you know, there's more than one way to grow a muscle, find a different way to stimulate. You know, so like what you said about when the use machines to, and both of you guys did, you know, you did, did you solve three weights on all the basic stuff, you know, incline about about duct flat, dumbbell presses, you know, dumbbell flies. Usually, when I got to the fourth exercise, it was usually machine, because I thought you got on it, so I'd get a greater range of motion, you know, using the seated pectx, like the work, you know, sitting the other way through a chest and the reverse del machine. You know, you just can't get stretched that far back and nor if you're using a dumbbell, you know, can you push all the way through to your hands or together with tension, like you can on the other way in a rear-dumb machine, you know, so you're, in a zone of way, that's its own stimulus, different than a machine. So you're trying to get the best of both worlds with those. But let's, let's, let's, I want to ask me also question, I said for, why do you think it is a meal us, and it could be, the answer could be genetics, but why is it that some guys, and I've seen top pros do this, where they do partial reps, you know, you see them doing like, they don't even touch their chest with the bar when they're doing bench pressing, and they got these humongous monster packs there, and, you know, most of us, if we ever did that, we would have no development on our chest. You think that's a genetic thing, or do you think it's a, it's a, it's a mind muscle connection that some people just have, they can, they can benefit from, you know, partial, you know, range. Yeah, you see, I did it with you, and I even made those comments, they taught partial movement, partial development. Yeah. And then like you said, you see, Ronnie Coleman does the kill the press, is this thing, or, uh, press for, yeah, yeah, friends, what IMean, max shots, watch him, he was doing like, you know, a few inch movement, and, uh, who am I to jump in, I say, I don't know, you're doing it wrong, right? It's, when he's on, uh, like, 100 times bigger than me, you know, the greatest thing is every time when I put some trening video, there is some pencil next, they would always tell me, you're doing it wrong. Just like, would I, would I have a, got to tell to the, uh, rottenly Coleman and say, you're doing it wrongly, he has a three times a month of much for the I did, but yeah, genetic, but his inception, not the rule. Yeah, he's the, the option, not the rule. That's what you're saying. Yeah. No, but yeah, the, the there's question is, do I think it's rubbed genetics, or, uh, maybe freaky ability of those people that even in that, uh, parts of range of movement, they do, they do put the load on a muscle, therefore, the stimulates and therefore, they reach the failure. So, you know, they, they, they, they accomplish the job, read out, needing to go the full range of motion. But now thEQuestion is, what would it happen if they do full range of motion? Would they get additional growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone? That's thEQuestion. You know, yeah, this is what I think would happen, but they're genetically, also, you know, you're writing about, when I look at maybe your bone structure, you know, you're just whole physique. What, you look to me, like you are built genetically for a carry weight, right? Right? And you have like, guys, like, let's say, John Brown or let's say Flex Wheeler, and you see the, the guys with the, you know, thinner joints and small bones and wrists and all that stuff, you would think if I load this guy with a like a 600 pounds quad, he's going to break. You know, so, so it is a lot, you know, about genetics, but one thing because I'm reading a lot of these streets that you're in that is constant in the cabinet, you know, you read such, I don't know, if you're seeing about the hyper trophy that you don't really necessarily have to go to the failure. And, you know, you don't necessarily have to go with the happy load and you create just like, if you're in the volume, it's going to be pretty much the same. And then I remember, when I talked to Bill Pearl back in the day, and Bill Pearl was saying, why fail in anything? IMean, take that word failure out of your vocabulary, why fail? The girl, okay? And then Lee Hanyan is, you know, there was, don't, uh, annihilate, just stimulate. And when you look at him, IMean, Lee Hanyan was the master of a time, right? In 80s, he was my mubgling tool heavy round, you know, the most muscular guy, and he didn't go anything super, particularly heavy. You know, so there is that question, but, so what I'm suggesting is, like you to keep your head is stuck by own means, but experiment with the pump and that sector plasma, uh, high-pensure feed that you just, you know, push the blood, push the blood, and then we're dead, you and I talked about about the insulin and product oxygen, hydremia, the energy heated, you know, and then see what happens. Yeah. But let's get into the cross of the wall we're here to discuss and, you know, all of that on this show and often throughout the course last year, you know, in body-building narratives, right? There's always the comparison between how things are done now back in the day, particularly in the 90s, and, you know, the topic of trening often comes up because there is the, you know, debate as far as different trening styles, different intensity, volume, whatever you want to call it. Now, Tom, you were on the show with Dave last week and you're talking about the importance of trening. You know, we have had this question on ass-dave as well, like the chicken of the egg, right? What comes first? Is it the trening? Is it now, I guess, the increase usage of whatever supplements that you're going to use? Obviously, there's this diet aspect of it as well. But Tom, let's talk, the importance of trening as he equates to the overall equation of the body-building puzzle in your opinion, where does it fall at? One, two, or three, the routine that somebody has to go through in order to get their physique to the point where they're able to add all three components together to build that kind of a physique. You know, I tested this. I took an egg, I took an egg, it bottle of testosterone and put our plate in the middle of my kitchen table and looked at it and nothinGHappened. So without being in the gym, nothinGHappened. Okay, so I'm going to be the way for that. I do that all three things are divided up about equally. I guess in my head, I would say that the gear is the smallest thing. I don't care who you are. Genetically, if you don't have it in genetically, you don't know how to tren hard, then I don't care how many millions of dollars, not nothing anybody's doing that. You can throw out whatever money you want at it. It's never going to be there. Genetically, you've got to have some sort of natural genetic kind of action for it. But I think the trening is everything. The trening and then learninGHow to learn how to eat right. Those two are equally important. I see those two are about 40, 40 by percent each. You know, the food thing, I like the analogy of building the house. You know, if you're building the house and you're using the the shittiest materials, you know, what's your house going to look like? You know, right, if you want like big concrete bricks, you want, you know, the best wood, the best whatever, everything, travel team tile, whatever you're going to use. You're going to have a better look in house. You know, so the better you can learn how to eat, you know, the better quality protein use, the better the house is going to look. You know, so the trening's got to be, you've got to learn how to tren and like, show you the right way. That's 45 percent of the food. Is the other 45 percent. And that might be the biggest thing, the hardest thing for people to do with the eating part. You know, I know what trening you can be eating the gym for two hours a day, but it's still only two hours a day, even if it's six days a week. You know, for me, it would have been three hours a day, six days a week. Because I turned twice a day, but the food part, those, you know, the six meals a day, you know, that never ends. That's six days that seven days a week for 16 years. You know, that, I understand that's a, that's a big commitment for a lot of people. I'm not that everybody's going to be a pro, but it is a big commitment to, you know, hey, that's a food to be super important or such a long period of time. And that's really, I think we're you know, me, thEQuestion that we got specifically on our show asked me a couple of weeks ago was that there are body builders right and again, the original poster it basically laid it out to look. I've been dieting, I've been trening, but until I was enhanced, you know, I didn't really realize my full potential. And then he's like, I look back at the period where I was not enhanced. And I think a lot of body builders can speak to this. He felt that it was a quote, waste of time in a sense to that, what do you say? And then in your overall equation, because again, when we think about Milo Sarsev, obviously today, the narrative is that, you know, you're known for your your protocols. So in that light, what would you say as far as thEQuestion that you're from equation? Do you see the seven months for a product? I tren seven years, uh, a drop free, you know, seven years, uh, a directory and then I agree with Tom, IMean, when you put it, uh, like this, trening, uh, nutrition and, uh, from ecology, from ecology comes last. I wouldn't say just 10% would say a little bit more, but uh, uh, something got my attention also. He said he trened twice a day. And we heard about heavy five to eight reps, uh, for different advertisers, you know, so many sets. This is, uh, an answer to all this, the cry babies, overtrening, you know, don't do it. You know, everything that I was trening, I was trening, uh, 550 times a year in average for 15 years straight. I was trening like Tom twice a day, you know, six days a week, you know, pretty much so, uh, and also I would say, uh, because, uh, not people in the beginning, back in the 80s and 90s and nowadays, it's not the same. I do think that guys, like they fall on the, um, Tom Prince, trened hell of a much harder than nowadays. Nowadays is what they're down and like you say, you show up in a gym, many gym don't even have a, uh, in thaT3 weeks. They have a little bit of like well, bench running, client one, this square track and some of that and then shit load of the, you know, machines. So back in a day, you'll go into the hardcore gym, you pick up the barbell, you know, you're laying on the bench and you do, you have to stop. But, uh, okay, now that's a go back to what you're saying, uh, people are saying wasting time without the ball. You get to a certain level. IMean, of course, look, look, I do believe that Ronnie Coleman was a drag tree until like 2005. I have a computer to him, 2001 to the people five and then sticks and I've seen the difference. I do believe that a Kai Green was also a drag tree until that New York show at Billion, 2007. And then you see what was the next step. You know, so let's not bullshit people around. It's impossible to reach a limpio level to physique, be that enhancement. But now, there is a right way to do it and it's a stupid way to do it. I keep saying this, if you do reasonable cycle and if you consider that on the ball, it's a medicaments, not drugs. If, like you said, we can legalize all the pharmaceuticals and you don't have to have a underground labs. You can have a pharmaceutical grade, you know, cream Ebola and a muster on and, you know, the insurer, whatever else from whatever country and you know what you're taking is real and you take a right dosage and you have a doctor's recommendation and, uh, uh, the supervision. You can enhance your help. Let's say, on the ball experience, uh, increase constructive metabolism, not destructive. They have built things, right? They're not breaking down. They're always in every time and they're in the insurer. They say, oh my God, you're promoting this dangerous destructive drugs. They're not the, the word is anabolic to read it, read the induction. What does it mean? Constructing metabolism. The medicaments have given to the patients. Oh, what? The insurer, they have burnt the dying, they are weak. The muscle vacancies is HIV, anything? Protects you to recover replenish. So if you use anabolic wisely, you can enhance the help. And not just that you can counteract that crazy pounding, the dump prints, uh, the diploma of myself who were putting our bodies for 20 years in a gym, you know, picking up heavy weights, you know twice a day for, for all and a half to hours and then, it's, a body is not designed for that. So you can protect it by actually having a clinical, a clinical, a drick-off and hasmin and now. Dave, what's the problem with the, I'm sorry, we're, just it's not the waste of time, I think that everybody should push their body to the limit, naturally. And then, you know, they want to reach the top professional level of world class. They absolutely have to consider it. Get as much out of your base, not to carry out. So if it gives much out of your base as you can, you grow naturally for a number of years. You know, IMean, I don't know if you can do it for 10 years. I can eventually, you will get to a point where the more you make gains, the harder it is to keep making gains. You know, the human body doesn't have an unlimited amount. A muscle is component. But so if you want to push past where your body on your own way, put on, then that's when you might introduce the gear. I think, you know, to me, like, if you're, if you're starting up taking gear within that first year, all you'll do is do what your body would have done naturally. I think that's a complete waste of time. And you never look right. The muscle never has like that hard dense look, it never looks. Like, it's got any kind of maturity to it. You know, basically it just looks like a water balloon blow to the hour. And as soon as you're caught trening, you know, they'll go like that too. You know, you'll lose it. And you know, they, the, the end of the one that introduced you because again, you answered this question on ass day, a couple of weeks ago, I want to ask you this person, I'm going to go around the horn and this one. You know, we talk about obviously influence for social media in bodybuilding today. And I'm not saying all this is a blame social media, but what I am saying, there's a lot more information at our fingertips now. And I think now because, you know, the, the bodybuilders of today have so much a flood of information on protocols and, you know, to the point where, again, there is that temptation. Well, even if somebody's not restart genetic potential, naturally, we're just going to take that step anyway. How much, weight do you put on that? And again, if you want to give a primer as far as sort of ranking that equation between trening, stop trening that mellows just talk about in this last answer and putting it all together to build a an Olympia level or it cools to that bodybuilding physique. Look, I'm, I'm agreeing, I'm really with what these guys are saying. And, and what I've seen in my own body, I've seen a guy green. I've seen the guys, you know, look at, um, Keon Pearson, who was an actual up until a year ago. When you tren your body to the level where it can't go any further naturally. And I took my body fell, I trened for like five years naturally. And I couldn't gain any more weight. Like, I couldn't eat any more food. It didn't matter how much food ate, my body just burned it up. I, I couldn't put more muscle on it. I hit my, my genetic limit at about two hundred eighteen pounds. Okay. The second I started doing gear, it was a very weak cycle. Like, pre-mobile and a winch. I just my body exploded because I had very well trened muscle. I had maximized myself naturally and my, and I put on a hundred pounds in five years. IMean, that's a lot of muscle. That's 20, an average of 25 pounds a year. So, it worked. Okay. I've seen it happen with other guys like high green and ramyan. And, and I'm not, not just genetic freaks. Guys that tren actually for like a really long time. And then they take gear, even if they don't take a lot, they don't even have to. They just grow. It's like, there's something there that they've created that enables their body to go beyond what the people who just start out taking gear, go with them. Because they seem like they hit a plateau and then they don't go beyond that. I see a lot of guys that haven't taken gear their whole life. And they grew when they were younger and then they just never ever put anymore muscle on. Now, I don't, I don't know what the exact mechanism of why that is. But it's just, it's just a known fact that steroids work better on unwell-trened muscle. I don't know why. I, you know, I'm the science that I like to quantify. I'm not really sure. So, I can't even answer to that question. But I do know it just empirically, what I see. So, the best, my best suggestion would be, tren naturally. Learn how to eat first. Tom made a very, very good point that a lot of people do not understand. If you don't consume enough protein and you don't consume enough of the other stuff, essential fats and enough carbs to fuel your workouts so that you, the protein and fat will get used for building muscle in energy. If you don't do that every single day, day in, day out, if you can't perfect the eating part of it and you're like, oh, I was just wasn't hungry or IMissed a few meals. I had to go to a meeting. If you can't figure out a way to never miss a meal, you'll never make the, but you'll never make the gains that you see people reporting like, oh, like they plumber game 30 times a muscle one year. You can't do that unless you're perfect, okay? And the, body building is a sport of, of, perfectionism, it's a sport of OCD, anal-retentive, mental focus that is every single day of your life. It's not like, you don't have seasons, you don't have like on and offs. It's always being on your game. And so you have to not only like the sport, you have to love the lifestyle. If you're not that kind of mindset that where you can do things on such an OCD, you know, focused basis like that, then you're gonna, you're not gonna be the best body builder. You're gonna fail. Now, you could might have great genetics. We see this all the time. How many great genetic guys out there that we always say, hey, this guy can go all the way and then he never does. Because they didn't have the mindset that, that, that, that work ethic to go along with the Ronnie Dorian. I'll use Ronnie better, because Ronnie had the genetics, you know, to do whatever he wanted. But he also had that crazy mindset. That's why he became the best ever. Had he not had that mindset, he might have been great, but he might not have been the greatest ever. You know, so it's a combined effort. You know, the drugs definitely will facilitate you getting to that next Olympia level and they're important, of course. But the food and the trening are probably the two pillars that if you don't perfect those first, you'll never, the drugs won't do it. The drugs are not gonna get you to that next level. You got to have two solid foundations first. Can I, can I, can I, can I think about just one small thing? Yeah, just I'm just, IMean, I don't think I'm saying anything different than David, but the, the, one of my favorite things I used to use is seminars was in bodybuilding. If you want to be a good competitive bodybuilder, good great Olympia level, whatever, bodybuilding doesn't just happen. Okay, not any different than if you say, you know, like I don't want to, you know, I don't want to go jogger on the block a couple of times and end up in the Olympics. No, right, you're not, that doesn't happen. You're not going to go out for a couple of blocks on your neighbor and from my own here and there, and never, would be in a great runner. You know, David used to be a runner, I'm sure you're trying to tell you this. You know, but you, right, you want to be great at anything, you're going to devote an unbelievable amount of time, physically mentally, you know, and in your kitchen, you know, being a great bodybuilder. Doesn't matter what it is that you want to be great at. You're going to have to, you know, you got to be slightly neurotic about her. You're going to be slightly obsessed, slightly focused about her. But you loved it, Tom, didn't you? You loved all that obsessiveness about it, right? I loved it. I attracted you. Yeah, yeah, I loved it. If you don't love doing that, then you're not going to be successful at it because you have to be, you have to love it, otherwise you'd never be insane enough to do that. Hey, if you listen to Howard Stern talkinGHis radio show, he talks about what he went through to make it to where he finally got to be an upper level guy. And he went to all the small, you know, BS smaller cities, going to Hartford, going to Cleveland, going to, you know, doing like these little rickety radio shows until he finally started to make it. You know, well, by the time other people see you start to make it, 10 years has gone by. Hey, yeah. You know, what's the same? He's trened for seven, 10 years on his own, trened in natural. Nobody sees that stuff. Right. You know, they only, you know, when they see me, the first time he's in America, they see my god, this guy's an overnight sensation. But I think I'm going to be in the physical arts. Well, yeah, but you missed the first, you missed the first decade that he killed himself in the gym. Right. You know, that, that part bugs me about a lot of people taking, I can just drug my way or gear my way, you know, to a great physique. Well, IMean, I was the, the reason I want to refocus this on one particular area of this, but we know today, we had this discussion as well. Today's bodybuilders tren hard. They tren discipline. We get all of that. But, you know, again, someone like you look similar to Dave, you both come from a medical background. You coming from a family of doctors. So, again, your understanding of protocols and someone to the discussion about protocols and today's bodybuilding. And again, I go back to, you know, the information that are now at the fingertips of bodybuilders. Nobody's saying they don't tren as hard. Nobody's saying they don't tren as long. But there is much more of that discussion of what peptides are available, what protocols are available to stoster on those who just are available now to you. Back in the day, in the 90s, maybe in the 80s, when that kind of information was not as readily available. Do you feel as if there was maybe a touch less of an emphasis on the protocols as there might be today? Yeah, absolutely. And we talked about this. There was too much information now. Yeah, so, again, I bring up our show at stake. You look at about 35 to 40% of thEQuestions that we get asked are hardcore, hardcore drugs, drug related questions. That PD question. IMean, again, that's something that, again, people see Dave as an expert in that. So, they want to ask thosEQuestions, not saying that, but sometimes even lead police or poke fun at some of the comments in that thread saying that like, all right, you have some who maybe have touched a wait for a year or so, and now they want the hard work. If one more person asked me about cruising, I don't know if Tom knows what that is. Everyone's cruising. No one goes on. I can put you through. I just put you on two together. They cruise. They cruise and I just don't know what you're off for. No, but we're off. Everyone cruises now, man. Yeah, that's okay. Yeah, to ask if it's a deep. Absolutely positive. Medium percent, right now, all these emphasis on new songs and peptides and those edges never get off cruise and cruising levels are much higher than Dave Tom. My self-free pre-sumension did it for a limp or national preparations. Dave, you talked to the audience. I remember talking to the audience back in a day and I'm a hundred percent sure that his genuine is not lying, because he told me his cycle several times. There was always, you know, very accurate. And it was like, let's say, three parable and a week, the 76 milligrams at the time, right? That would be the highest, those, IMean, if you, right now, you mentioned that the upper cycle of the five years of not trening and all the trening and not doing anything, then you did the seT3-mobile on and something else and you just said it's loaded. Those edges werEQuite minimal. I'm sure that Tom did that as well. I remember 2006, you know, all these forums like, I think that's a kind of button that comes, they're talking dealers would make up the stories that whatever provided build it is doing, you know, 10,000 milligrams of this or that. You know, so if you want to be like him, you should do it like that. Therefore, they can sell more drugs. If I tell you, take 150 milligrams of something a week or 15 hundred milligrams, I just made a 10 times a sale, right? So this is where you came about and I do remember, still there in 2006, I went on the get big that kind of selling it. Listen guys, please don't listen to this idiots. Here is one Olympia cycle and I posted Olympia cycle at 12 weeks, many cycles, changing for one thing and other. And about 75% of the people are starting to feel fucking liya bullshit, you know, get lost, you know, because they don't want to hear this. So IMentioned in the 10 minutes ago that anabolic series, if you used wisely, can contribute an enhanced care health, definitely contribute to your physical and the scalability. But if there is certain point of why push it, which does because it's expected, I don't have in the preparation for the contest. I don't use everything that is on the list. You know, now there's, you expect if you're in the contest, you need to take carried and feed three people and computer all the course and maybe you can be. And then, you know, add this, add that, this type of that type of an average, you don't need to. You design a cycle and then according to, okay, you need to bring up a little bit more benefit, maybe we include this one or that one, adjust the calories, you know, increase the cardio, but pharmacologically, there's a small little contributions to what I see now because then like you, I have a lot of clients that maybe change the coaches and then they came to me and then they gave me the previous cycle. It's like, oh my god, there's not one thing that is not done that list, you know, because, yeah, I guess they should post the takin. I did disagree with that. So, so that information overload and then comes as a missing information. Yes, there's so much missing information on the internet, people posting, you know, because let's say, if right now, I would design some new peptide, I'm going to have a good marketing team and we're going to have some doctors, some valid athletes, stuff like that, just crazy about it. I'm from Europe. So, in Europe, when the check to set something Americans have a secret and this is that and then you come to America, oh, Russians are these three Europeans, they have a secret and then you solve this, there's no secret, you know, there is a hard trening like we talk about it, there's a meticulous nutrition, you know, probably overfeeding. IMean, even Dave said that he couldn't anymore, right? You kept that. I was forced feeding myself, you know, basically forced feeding myself. But again, even though the many people are putting label on me, that I'm next from to die, because they look so unhealthy at age of 56, you know, they were just expecting to drop that, I think to not come to good, I looked healthier than most of my generation, I feel, you know, how much better than them, because most of them, you know, never exercise and they just go on to go life. So, if he used anabolic series wisely, I promise he can enhance your health. I don't know, Dave, I'm going to put you on a spot because he probably, right now, you're not even on a TRF, right? No, nothing. Is this any particular reason for it? My testosterone level is a 550, I feel good. Oh, oh, so you have no reason? IMean, I'm not on the high normal, but I feel good. The sex drive is good. I feel good. My blood pressures normal control. So I think, you know, why, why mess with the perfection? I'm not trying to get any bigger. If I didn't feel good, me alone, if I didn't have like a lot of energy, and I thought like it wasn't recovering, I would absolutely be on HR too. But, you know what, I don't even sleep a lot because I think I goT3 young kids. If I was sleeping eight hours a night, I probably would even be better, you know, you know. So once in a while I got a drink a little cup of coffee, you know, like to get through a day of tapinGHere at the studio, because it's just something that's sleeping enough. But I, on a regular basis, feel really good. So I don't see a reason to do it. You know? Yeah. That's just a question. That's perfectly. Plus, you know, and I've talked about this. I have an aortic aneurysm too. Like I have an in large a order. So IMean right now it's being watched. So I think, you know, why why even, you know, put any stren on anything and any organ system at this point? Because I don't want to have to get surgery and get a fix up. I'm, I'm like stabilized now. So I'm three, you know what? Why push the envelope doing anything? Because I know what'll happen. If I go on HRT, I'll gain 15 pounds of muscle, you know, from that. Just from just from that happening. You know, it's it. There is a pharmacological effect from HRT from hormone replacement therapy dosages. If you're on nothing and you take 200 milligrams a week, you know this, you did your first cycle probably 200 milligrams a week. You grow. You definitely grow even though your levels might be high normal. You still put muscle on. There's a pharmacological effect from exogenous testosterone, just like you point out that there's a pharmacological effect from exogenous insulin. Even if you just restore normal sugar balance, you body. That's a, yeah. A time. Yeah. Oh, I, I, I, you're on the, the, I think. Oh, Todd, there's even a good in the gym. All right, exactly. I'm doing push ups. I'm doing push ups and synops and home. That's all I'm doing. You probably grow a ton. You, you're like a freak that you, if you went to the gym, you'd probably put 20 pounds of muscle on, you know, even with the dialysis you're doing, you know you would. You know, when a couple years ago, like I stopped trening a couple years ago, but a, a through like when I was 45, 46, 47, like I, I used to have a my own little personal mantra, which was if you can't be huge, you gotta be lean. Right. So it's gotta be one of the two. It's either big or four percent body fat. Then the, the small fat shit. Yeah. That's out. Yeah. You know, so, so what I do was keep myself at about 195, 200 pounds and super super lean. Right. We want to eat it like that, like two years ago. Right. When I got back to Italy, it would from Italy, I had no reason to keep trening. So I just said, it's correct.

=== FILE: Travis Ortmayer & Dave Ostlund go head to head in the Atlas Stones at 2011 America's Strongest Man [uH7Sq4jGFZc].txt ===

that unknown island. Movie strive

=== FILE: Tricky Jackson Posing Routine at 2011 Europa Super [uivwzJS6-_o].txt ===

so this is it it did what Give that a refreshing channelно�

=== FILE: VALENTINO'S HILARIOUS RONNIE COLEMAN STORY! AH Podcast (9⧸8⧸20) [iuiA97zRIVA].txt ===

Apholumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest body-building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. We also have beef cuts. If you want to introduce one of 25 cm long, try to take out out your all-time box. When you're asleep there just help you start John, D's Polygon, Astorows. Welcome back guys, to After Hour, I'm Dave Polymbo and I'm joined as always by my partner in Crime, John Romano. And we had a very busy weekend in the body building world, because we actually had body building shows, believe it or not, which is a rarity in 2020. Was there an actual audience this time? I think there was, yeah, surprisingly, the New York Pro, which was not held in New York, but was held in Tampa. It took place, Ian Valier, won that, of course. And then of course we had the North American championships in Pittsburgh under a tent outside an parking lot. Gary, you did somehow made it happen, pulled it up. I think it was the biggest show of all time, John, like the most competitors ever, like, I think it was like over 1,500 people in the show. Oh my god. Yeah, that's the most. Oh, and joining us is my good friend and client Phil Bordelone. I was going to give you a big introduction, but I guess you don't really need to introduce yourself big anyway, right? Not that way alone. I'm not that popular. I've known Phil for a very long time. I've worked with him over the years. He's a good guy. He's a bodybuilder's bodybuilder. He loves the sport. He always seems to come back to it. He competed this past week. He looked really, really good. He didn't get the pro card, but we got another, we got another set of shows. We get the master's and the master's and the master's coming up in four weeks. But I really want to get Phil on just because number one because I want to give him some credit for all the hard work to do. But you don't know what this guy's been through, John. If you remember last week, there was a crazy hurricane in Louisiana. Right. Phil had it die through it and he works in, in, like, the epicenter of where he hit. Tell us the, Phil, tell us what you went through last week. It was crazy. I don't, I don't even know where to begin, but all the obstacles we had to overcome in this trip. Right before prayer, got laid off. You know, things are slow and gas and all feelin' everything right now in the plants. Just in general, and then on top of that, you got the COVID. That's slowing things down, then we had the hurricane. That's slowing things down. So I got laid off right before prayer. And that's why I didn't compete in 16, 17 and 18. Because every time it was be right time for me to get ready for prayer, I get laid off. You know, there's no job security in this industry. What I do when the job gets slow, people get cut. So fortunately this time when I got laid off, they're same day, I got laid off. I picked up another job that is same day. Because normally when I get laid off, it takes two, three months to find another job. So that was one hurdle we had to, not to mention you have a family to support. It's not just you. I got, I goT3 girls and we're actually trying to build a house. I'm moving back home to be with my family, if I can find a real home to be with my family, if I can find a real home. Oh, I got a stop here for a second. John, he actually lives in, he has like an R&D that he parks by his job site there. He has to let, because it's such a long commute every day that he has to stay in there. So it's like a rock climb around, it's horrible. Yeah, but imagine this, the hurricanes coming. You've got this, this R&B with a, with a generator, basically. And, and you have all your body building food. Everything's going good. And now they tell you, we guess what you've got to evacuate because our can come. Yeah, I stayed in the camper when I worked. I only come home on my days off. The last five or six years. I worked six to seven days a week, 12 hours a day. Wow. And then on top of that, I have to go to the gym. So it's, it's extra hard for me to compete in my line of work. Because in the amount of hours I'm putting in the work, my job's not that hard physically, but just mentally. And, you know, being away from home, that much and working in the lonGHours, we do that having to go to the gym. It's tough, especially where I'm at now because I'm going to shift work. When we give our days when we keep work nights. And so it's kind of hard. That was another option we had to overcome this prep. You know, I'm used to eating at the same time every day waking up every to the same time on the bed at the same time. But this, this time it was all over the place because when we come on days, when we come on days, when we come on nights. But yeah, I stay in a camper down there. My wife's called out of vacation. If I, if I was staying in a camper, where the work started. Yeah, I've made a decision to move the camper. I know we were working in hard. That, this last week or two, you know, suffer and try to sub down. And get the last little bit of fat off the boots. So I was really depleted tired doing a lot of cardio. You know, restrict the calories. I did not feel like missing a bit of camper. So, well, that's the last minute of the decision I call my buddy. And I said, man, do you have somewhere that I can put this camper or warehouse or anything? And he said, yes. So I looked it up, poured it over there and they got it because every camper at the RV place got flipped and rolled. IMean, it looks like a bomb went off and laid your arms. Every, every building and every house, the roofs ripped off. Every telephone, my power lines down, every fence is down. Every billboard is not down. Farmer equipment flipped over, trailers, flip overs, 18 wheelers, flip over, trackers, flip over. Think about the force of a storm John to cannot over a tractor. That's you. We've seen that in Florida. They're not really aerodynamic where it's like, it's going to, like, a sale is going to pick the model. And you have to have such a brute wind force to actually lift and tip over a trail. I like a, like a, a tractor rather. You see, you see, you know, wheelers tip over on the side of 95 durinGHurricane. If you've ever seen drove past a plant and you see those, that those big flames coming up out of the plant of the flames coming out of the plant. That's the big flares where they burn off excess gas. Right. Crack it down. I should sit, Dave, a picture of our flare. It looks like somebody took the cocaine and crushed it in their hand. Yeah, it's like this big chimney, John. It's like, it's literally like the hand a God came down and crushed it. But the thing is like the size of a building that it crushed. How that wind, this speed can crush metal like that is, is, is, is unbelievable. It's unfathomable, actually. Isn't that cold day cracking tower? Yeah. Yeah. They have, they have, when they have tractor units. Yeah. You've been a big, you've been turned off the excess stuff. Yeah. You can't be refined out of the crude oil. Yeah. Those are cool. I want, I want, I want, yeah. Oh, yeah. You're just got crushed down. Yeah. It looks like somebody took the cocaine and just smashed it in like that. Do you have that on your Instagram, that picture that thing? No. I didn't post it. I don't know if they would want to be postin' that. You know, they got, they funny about taking pictures in the plant. I can, I get posted there. But I, you know, yeah. So, so the last week of prep, I had to go back to work. That was another obstacle. I had to go back to work. Well, I ended up having to commute an hour and a half drive there. Hour and a half drive back after working and then still going to the gym because I couldn't stay down there because there's no electricity. I was like, oh, well, I'll just bring my generator. Well, I thought I brought my generator. I've got stole in a hard beat. Plus, there was no, no, no, no gyms are open. There's nowhere to get food. All the stores were closed. So I had to drive back and forth every day on top of working and trying to get ready for the show. Then the last week I caught on a massive ear rate. IMean, I see it, they have the picture of my ear end up ruptured and I had a pulse pour out on my ear for like three days. So smooth and then like the last two weeks is like the world can't crash. Thank you. I told the stop, the stops. He kept telling me this is the easiest prep I ever did with you. I can't believe how easy it's been. I'm like, stop, stop saying that. Stop saying, you're like, jinxing yourself to the right off the bat. Because he's, he's one of these guys that has all these weird things always happened but the last minute he loses his job. You know, somethinGHe cares a muscle. Something terrible always happens and I, at all, is perhaps and I always feel bad and he's always, but he always comes back. You know, he always, he doesn't let it get him down. And he kept saying, oh, this is everything's going so smoothly. I'm not really suffering that. So, like, stop, stop. It was one of the best food. Man, I had no cravings. It didn't have no breakdown. You know, man, why am I doing this? I want to quit, you know. And IMean, we had cheap meals. I was doing less cardio than I normally do. IMean, everything was just going good and then just bail. Like, you know, the last two weeks, I'm like, Jesus, whatever it was going to go wrong, you know. But everything worked out. We was able to make it to the show. But, you know, talking about injuries. When I got back from the North America's last year, I had texted Dave. My shoulders both of them out of the blue just started hurting. And I thought I was going to have to go have shoulder surgery. IMean, I was in so much pain. I couldn't, I couldn't bench a hundred pounds. I was in that much pain. And I never went, got to MRI or anything. Because I currently don't have any insurance. It's too high through my company where I work. So, I don't carry insurance. I was going to go pay for her MRIs out of pocket. But I tried a couple things and my shoulders ended up getting better. I showed Dave this pillow system. I got it today. I'm $300 pillow for shoulder pain. And I bought that. And that actually, when I sleep on my side, it's built or made for side sleepers. So it takes the pressure off of your shoulder. So with that, and I got some cream. It's a BMSO. I've rubbed on. I was able to get the information out. Once I got the information out of the pain and the, you know, my mobility and range of motion started to come back. I'm nowhere near, you know, a hundred percent. You know, I used to play around with 500 on the pitch. You know, I would rip 315 for 30 reps. You know, now IMay get 315 for 5 or 6 reps. Child, is it a terrible job that like, you know, like a guy who works full time has a family can't get a affordable health care in this country? Yeah, you know, that was, you know, big promise that was made to us, you know, back with the during the last administration. Yeah, but even if he gets an MRI, what does, IMean, Oh, it's Mr. G. Hey, what's up? George, you can't afford you. I never rise a thousand bucks. Think about it. But hey, hey, what did that? That's the right. What's the country? What does the, unless you don't think it's surgery that, that was the main reason I said, if I could go get the MRI, they take them out and be surged. I said, I can't pay for the surgery anyway. You know what? The sixth thing is I have the best coverage you can buy. It's a very expensive coverage. And you know what, if I go for an MRI, I got to pay the same thousand bucks because I got a deductible. So you know, I had, you know, I didn't even saving anything. I wanted to get an MRI and my shoulder and they said, well, that, that, that'll, before I'm going in, no one said it was going to cost anything. Yeah, get in there and, and, and, and, and I'm doing the paperwork and then, the, the, the, the, the, the clipboard and then the lady looks back at me. She goes, that'll be six, seventy five today. That's cheap. Six dollars and seventy five. And she, she, she, she, she, she, you know, it's a copay. Yeah, I can let it get, you know, like a copay bucks paper clips, you know. So, so, um, six hundred seventy five. I got six hundred seventy five out. No one told me it was going to six hundred seventy five dollars for a freaking containment. How much you charging for today? It just make, it, they just make them up by me. They have, they get stoned. They sold them out of the crowd. It's moving, it's moving, it's moving, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, for like 30 seconds out. And then why it's $1,500 for that? That are for all the money. Interesting. Fantastic. I, I, I work in medical good thing for rehab for old body builders swimming. You know what, I swim, George. He's right. I'm really going to point there swimming. Because I've been surfing and swimming the whole time. And I, and I have, I've never had any type of injury. And I lived super heavy. And then it goes to the point, you know, so I guess at some point you get to decide, are you going to keep lookinGHeavy all the time? Oh, IMean, well, fill is so competing. So he's got it. But you know, your right, Mr. G, I'll tell you what, when I swim in my pool, like regularly, I do a couple laps. And I'm not even talking a lot. I'm talking like I'll do 10 or 15 laps. You know, and I take breast in between. I feel like my body is looser, like more limb-right. I don't feel as creamy. It's like being weightless. So it's like being weightless. That's why when someone has an injury or something, you take him in the water. And then you take it actually, you know, where they couldn't bend any of them on land. They get bend into water. So everybody was really, you know, a race horses. They got a hole like a moat that goes around. That's right. You're right. Go through the things. I swim laps every day into pools. And then I go underwater, what one, and then I come back with a backstroke. I think, I think, I think we're officially old men now. We're, we've been, we've been a sport. We've been a sport. We've been a sport before 11 because this isn't over to head. Yeah. Never do you ever rise up. We've got to get skin care on the wall. I will never get an MRI. Mr. GHas been for the doctor for about 40 years. I don't think he's ever gotten to the doctor. There was an article about a year ago, his kid, he got killed in MRI. IMean, she never get in one of those fucking things. They put him in the tunnel, right? You know, I'm MRI's giant magnet, right? Yeah. It's like a car room in the room. They got an oxygen tank. This is what that's made. Oh, it blew up. They fucking turned out, no, they turned it on. It got sucked in into fucking tube and it crushed the kids. Oh, wow. Holy, macro. You're going MRI. You're going to check. No fucking metal in there, man. Look, an orthopedic surgeon makes money. Bro, what? Doing it. Doing it. It's building the insurance. You're going to surgery. Doing surgery. I am going to people I've had and I'd surface this stuff to say, that we're recommended, you know, I'd say, listen, thought way trening. Oh, your muscles are bad for fingers. You're going to have to do it at any point. If you got surgery, you did what's the protocol doing that. So I'm going to have 100 to guys start a way trening. And now as a result, if surgery came free. Yeah. No, you're going to do it. Wait trening. There's the answer. And John, you talking about going to the doctor and then charge you 675 for the MRI. When I went to the doctor, the urchin care from my ear because I did it. Dude, I was just so much pain. It was ridiculous. He wasn't going to go. I said, you need to, you need to add about out of it. I said, you ready to go? Yeah. Yeah. They give me antibodies and some ear drops. So I go to turn my prescription in and the lady comes out. The bottle of ear drops. I'm telling you is like this. IMean, you can barely pull it with two fingers. So small. She says, that those are the big 350 for the year drop. What? My job. As if prep isn't expensive enough. I'm about to leave. And you want to charge me $400 for some year drops. Yeah. $300 to $50, but $350. Yes. Unbelievable. Yeah. This is probably the highest cost as far as maybe trening that that then actually has to lay out on their own. It's not much money to support. You know, pay the guys. So IMean. Tell you camera down Mr. J. What? Tell you camera a little bit. It's your head is like almost off the camera. There you go. I was going to do the background. But I was in the middle of prepping. Go on. So I think it was like. Yeah. You know, you're an athlete. You're going to be playing with history. That's the bottom line of my knowledge for it is. You know, so IMean, it's. You know, as far as like drop, two way you couldn't find out like how that's in those drops. You know, like you can put it in. You know what the truth is? Those ear drops is probably the same ear drops they give the dogs when they get like, you know, infections in the ear. And probably if you buy it in your bed, it's probably 10 bucks, you know. Here's a good example for you. I bought a 200 grams of siallus powder for 400 bucks. Right. Okay. 200 grams. Do the math. You get you pay 20 bucks for a 20 milligrams pill. Wow. How many 20 milligrams pills do I have in 200 grams of of pound? But you have, but you also have 10 grams of COVID in their toe, probably. I'm. So, so big deal. I got 90. 90. It's a flu to cold. Same thing. Okay. You know, I want to put up a video. I want you guys to comment on. I don't know if you've seen. I let John see before. The mellow source of his, uh, had a video on his YouTube channel of him trening, uh, Arnold's other son Joseph Byanna. You know, the one he had with the, um, with the maid. The maid. This kid looks so much like Arnold. His facial expressions are so much like Arnold. It's, it's uncanny. But, oh, put, put you the clip. I don't know if you get, you probably guys probably can't see it, but John's sort of. No, you never see any clips you put up. I could act like a little bit of the, I'm unbelievable. This kid is like, mellows puts him through one of his crazy giant sets. He does 20 reps with like the hacks flat first and like, you know, the kid thinks, all right, that was the top set. I'm done. Now, Neil has brings him up to an extra machine. And he does that like before machines in a row. I thought the kid was going to drop dead, you know. Probably does what my hell. I can't see him. He does exactly what my. It does. The exact same. Well, he learned and he, he must have learned and you learned from Steve. No, but you know, this he doesn't do as many as many. Like, Mahalic would do the giant sets. But he would do like a hundred giant sets. That's what I did. I was the guy. But Neil has went through a hundred drives. He might do like like five or six of them, you know, so it's still intense, but you're not in the gym for like three hours doing, you know. Mr. G, how long was the typical Mahalic work at seven eight hours? Well, two, two and a half hours, don't stop. And then we had, we had actually thanks. It's according to him. If I couldn't breathe, and I couldn't put it next set. So I would, I would have do up to the bank set up. We could be the set. And then when we were at the land when they, when they hired us to do the Jack Delane, you know, into the valleys, right? Our friend was surprised, President. We wrote both the whole downstairs with like about 50 piece of equipment because we got the order all the stuff we wanted. And everyone would like watch, you know, I was Steve. And then Steve maybe could have said I was trying to like, okay, so man, like, I'm like, can you tell you what happened? What happened? Mahalic had sold his gym at that point? Steve sold his gym to any local dirty. Right. And also, by the way, all Steve's equipment was, was, was, was, was hand made by him. He made all the stuff. Why did he sell the gym? I guess he wasn't making, IMean, making any money. Okay. But by then, and then Ken's no less Ken's no less of the course street. I think Ken, I don't know, I heard that they were, they were at all, as with each other. So Ken, at one point, he's the only one in the all up. And he opened the next one and he gave him the credit course Steve. Oh, really? I'm surprised Mahalic can you feed him up or something like that? No, see, IMean, that's when they had TK store equipment was. I remember it. I've interviewed Ted. Ted, Ted, Ted, Ted, Ted, yeah. Yeah, he had up in burning up in burning up in New York. The warehouse we play was great stuff. I know I, I, I interviewed Ted TK store, which is, uh, Tom Kenny. And that's when both gym was, I think, those gym, they went to a little gym and uh, franchise with extra energy grand. I think it's that point. So you can get a goal of gym friends. I don't know, why burger had, they had the goal gym there for a while until they switched out to the charge of too much money, but um, yeah, he was originally. No, no, no, no, no, they're been friends for a while. IMean, they don't even know. No, they're still powerhouse. They're still powerhouse. The one thing about one burger and any system with his gym is his. He's a business guy first, a bodybuilder second. He's not a bodybuilder business. So treats as a business no matter who you are and then he keeps the place super neat clen and keeps getting old brand new stuff. Yeah, always. You know, you got it. You got it. Where do you tren Phil over there in Louisiana? Well, IMoved here in 05 and I tren at Reds, uh, I put in TL 2015 when I got laid off here at Lafayette. So when I started working in Lake Charles, um, I joined an old school gym. They got in Whitz Lake called Genesis. Okay. So when IMet work, uh, in West Lake, I was trying to tren at General Lake Charles, I tren in Genesis or any time. I'm feeling when I come home. I saw a, like a documentary on Reds. Isn't he like the first guy to have a gym? IMean, it's a great story. If anyone's ever seen that. Reds was the first, um, Mr. America. I believe he was the first crown Mr. America. Was he? So he owned some title like that. He was the first. Yeah, something. And his gym is top 10. It's top 10 either in the US or in the world. It's crazy. I don't know if maybe Tyler could find that gym, Reds gym. It's on YouTube. It's unbelievable. He built like, it's like a city there. He built, right? Yeah. It's like on the size of a mall. You'll get lost in the public out there for like, 15 years and I've never been in all the regions. He kept adding onto it, right? Like adding on and adding on and adding on. I remember, and the documentary is great. If you guys watch on YouTube, it would be good to find it. Yeah. Yeah. Where is he? He's going to laugh at it. Yeah. Lafayette Louisiana. Yeah. And he's still there every morning. Forkloc and aboard. How old are you? The Fred Hoon. Man, Brad's got to be man. I was sayinGHis 80's. Right? Yeah. The American title was the it was with the, you own that title. I enjoyed it. I said something I expected you to have. Like I have your own gym at this point in people which is becoming until you like 90 years old. Yeah. Yeah. Where did you go? What did you do? What did you do? What did you do? Yeah. That's right. You need to have like your own gym. You can have a, you can have like a bakery on the back. Will you make you your cookies? Right. If anyone else wants to invest, contact Mr. G. I think you guys got to find a gym, Joe, and you put a kitchen on the back. You can cook your food. And I'll cook all your cookies and stuff like that and make all these stuff. It would be great. That's right. Right. I agree. I would encourage you. He almost had it going on when he had the Tiki hut. Jim. Now he needs a big gym like where you can walk around with the mayor. And when Jimmy came in and he said like, there's no equipment here. Yeah. I've heard of club four fitness. No. You all have any way away. Wait. Wait. Wait. Back up. Excuse me. There's a significance to what Mr. G. You. What is dringling it's like 10 grand a month to drain him in their Money? Hey, because what? Can he get in? Being a automate. Oh hi, Joe. I saw Mr. G do a sale once. I was in the gym with him in his office. Yeah, that's only I was in office. And he sat this person sat that. This person thought they were going to just come and see the gym. He sold them so they spent so much money in that gym. you signing up with him. And it was really what it was. It was like a mental thing. It had nothing to do with trening whatsoever. Yeah, I had people coming in that were lost. They were out of shape, they lies were out of shape. And as we saw, I got them back into believing in themselves and giving them hope and believing void, you know. And that's a scary. So during that time, during that time, I get a call from some show, John Stossle was a 2020, I got a call from 2020, John Stossle once the interview me about steroids. And he's just can you bring somebody to the gym or like work out behind you, right? So I go Mr. G is like the logical choice, all right? So we went ahead and we made a Ferrari's bakery. We had a couple of canolies and a soy of them and we started walking. We get to the gym on a rhodson river. We climb up there and here's Mr. G. They're interviewing me, Mr. G's in a background. All you say is some total of his of his of his of his speech. Okay, so the guy in a background, okay, the can't be out to the story has gotten nothing to do with it. But I'll tell that one later. Anyway, we go through this whole thing the interview me we leave. That was Mr. G's full on that was to interview to the interview. Okay, two weeks later, he said, he's done. Remember I had Stossle doing pull-ups off the raft. He did. That wasn't that wasn't on kick. We did. We had a lot of things I said. There's a caveat to this. I'll get to it. Okay, but in terms of on film, okay. So when you're watching the when you're watching 2020 on TV, you see two and a half seconds of Mr. G gone. And then that's it. That's all you get. Two weeks later, he's got this van wrapped with his big red rarer and his van. Mr. G always had called Mr. G's fitness 80% of his life. Mr. G spelled me YD at BODYS. That's how he spelled bodies. Right. And then in big letters, I'm going back on the side of that both sides, right? Let's try. As seen on 2020. He was on that John. He, Mr. G is a master at never wasting a model of closure. That was brilliant. I've seen on 2020. It was a total Truth. You really should have put a seat on the house. You really were on the house. You really were on the house. It's a church house. In particular, she came. Right. Wasn't he? So wait. So the caveat to this, Mr. G's got stosled and won on pull ups and all of this shit and everything. And then we come to find out that the camera man's retirement is his last day on the job. Mr. G organizes the whole crew. OK, Jim members and people in a standing around the choir. And he's got in his leaving them in the spawn happy bird or what was he saying in terms of old ang's sign or something. I didn't have to hurt that. The whole trip. That was at the Chelsea pit. He's worked with John Stosle. He's worked up with all his stuff and then went and the whole time. He was with us. He was like, oh my god, I remember that. He was before. He was John Stosle. He was John. He didn't know that was his last name. And he was Mr. Nelson. And he was John Thosle. The funniest thing was that all this footage that he orchestrated that they had no interest in filming, they actually used for the guys retirement party. Yes, they did. They should have hired Mr. G to come perform at the party. That's the time. That was one of the best days in New York. That was so much fun. And I just had to go with the flow. God. And then they had a big party. That stopped to begin the volleyball. That was really funny. That's a big piece of shit. You should have, that was a classic. But just to G, you know he said that. He was on how it's turned to remember. I don't want to go through the whole story. I think that was how it's turned. And then Rose Yudano was saved here. 1996 I was going to launch by a biGHealth club with a beauty spa where people would come and get out of the saws. His hand cut. You know the whole mind, I had like the time and package. He was like 10 grand. He was like, let me see how much I could actually charge people and shock them. And I probably will get it. And you know what? It's a good business model. If you would have charged people like 20 grand a year, they would have paid it because they would have said, we got it. We got to sign up for this. I want the best, you know. IMean, think about it. If anyone's crazy enough to charge out much money, it must be amazing, right? You got to have so much fun. You know what? So it's like, you're right. If you're looking at the remote, it comes to the place. They get to work out and then they get them up in the saws. And they all is done. Then the remote guy would take him out and they'd have like three grand or shopping anywhere they want. Yeah. And then all the guy had to do is just wait at home as he came home. Because he was definitely going to get lost. Missorgia is not afraid to throw around them now. But get to my investor was. Ho. Gonna be in that. Ho. It was one of the guys from the Wall Street. Oh, the left of Wall Street guys. The Wall Street? Yeah. Yeah. His wife. Great. And if not, he goes, he goes, he goes, yeah. So part of the million dollars million dollars to me to get my wife by the way, by the way, you know. No, I don't, I don't want another door in it. Right. So then when it came down to do the whole deal, I put everything together, right? They were going to put it in a 200 grand. And I said, well, someone has to run the company. So I said, if you see, yo. And she goes, what do you mean I go, I, I got to run the company. You haven't done anything. I put the whole thing together. The whole business plan found that. No, we're going to go and everything. So the next thing it all is the guy I heard. Well, I don't want to say the guy gets on on the phone. But what are you talking about? Because it's your chest. It's a whole lot. I'm like, listen, don't give me that move. Both shit. No, I'm not doing the deal. It don't feel good. I hung up. What are you going to rest in right after that? Yes, what happened? They all after that. That's when they all got busted in the old one. These jail. Wow. Those guys. Yeah. You're skating. Yeah. Because that place would have been hard. Yeah. Yeah, definitely would have taken it from you without a doubt. Look, you're getting, you're getting, you're getting, you're getting, you're getting a mask. I was the on the phone. It's the on the. Let Jimmy rant and Jimmy, but he's always kind of turned it. Why do we got to tell him the same thing every show? Let me turn it. You see it if cemetery again? Oh, that's great. Oh, sorry. Look, Greg. Hey, guys, what are you doing? Greg, this is a Phil board alone, a good client of mine. And he was just competed in North American. So we got a mind. He's talking about the crazy hurricane down in Louisiana and everything like that. Oh, okay. You know who he's the president. I just figured it out. He looks like Rocco. Yeah, LeBrosha. Yeah. I can't see him. IMean, I only see Georgie and you. And where is the Illinois? The room is through G said when he met Rocco, he goes, yeah, you look at this guy. That's his name, Rocco. Oh, yeah. He does look like Rocco LeBrosha. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. He took a little Rocco. He just liked him. Yeah. You're right. I didn't even think about that. And I know Rocco really well, too. You're right. You know, Dave, you keep sending that the link. You send it to my, you keep me getting, I got a flip phone. You got to send it to my email. I'm trying to get on here. Oh, well, I thought you were just copying it and sending it to your, uh, to send it to you thing anyway. I don't, I keep forgetting. I can't. I'm flip phone. I keep trying to get. Greg, can't get you. Yeah. You know, can't you share that press on share to you. He said what I did. But no, but I got a flip. You could probably go to this. I know you don't want to, but you could probably go to the, uh, this the, like the 18th Easter I get a free iPhone now. They'll probably give it to you for free, Greg. Yeah. No, I got an iPhone here. I just don't, I don't want to do it. I'm going to get it. I'm going to get it. I'm going to get it. I love it. Here's what we got to do right now because the technology being the way it is and we know that Jimmy the bull's got issues. We just should let him do ramp down because we're going to lose him. You're right. Is he on the line? No, we already lost him. I was too late. Uh, no, well. No, I, without, when I visited him at, at his house a couple weeks ago, I was talking about doing it. He has a guy that's going to do his website stuff. And I was trying to get Jimmy to go to, you can, you can just small laptop, you know, just a small little laptop so we can go on and do stuff by going because we can on that people going to go on your site and going to ask questions and stuff going, you can answer them back. Go. And the guy said, there he is. He's back. No more right. I don't see him. He's down. I don't need right there. So he's, oh, Jimmy. Jimmy, go. Greg, come on, baby. Come on, man. What's pissing you off of me? He's a fan of waiting for it, man. I had, we're going to save this souls with the red. He might not have the audio down. He's fall fucked up. Jimmy. Jimmy. Jimmy. Jimmy. What is he listening to? I, I wouldn't you love to know what he's listening to? Jimmy. Jimmy. Jimmy. I think that's, the spring scene. Yeah. It's the spring. All right. So now we're losing value. Yeah. Right, but no. Jimmy. Yeah. Yeah. No. Let's go. I'm going to go back to Greg for a second. So Greg, Phil actually lived through the, he had a finish his last week of prep during that hurricane. He actually works in St. Charles, Louisiana, which is where that epicenter of that hurricane hit. Oh, shit. You saw the devastation. It was there. And you know what I always say that, you know, guys, and you know the script, because you've talked about this. Guys are always bictionary complainin' on. It's too hard to die and I don't feel good. I can't do this much cardio. Absolutely. This guy had a drive an hour and a half back and forth through his house because to work from work through his house he worked the last week that he was actually doing the show and sucked it up. And when I hit people complain, he's a warrior. That's the kind of mentality that he's a little bit very bodybuilding. He's, he's walkinGHis gym's open. I'm in New York, many gyms, he have to gyms are open, have to gyms on. And they're open now, near in a hurricane. Yeah. They're always, he's going to win the, he's going to win the North American become a pro. Too late already. Just doing that. He's doing masters. We four weeks. Yeah, we shooting for next month. Yeah. Oh, there he is. This was soon. I was shooting for the B. My life show. Right. The North America is was supposed to be my life show. I promised the wife and the family. I was going to hang it up. I've been competing since so five and I told him I was going to hang it up. But uh, man, me and they just did that show lift a bad taste on our mouth. And we're trying to be so good to make it. And go to Orlando and get it done. We feel like we can do a lot better. And we got a few more weeks to improve. We only died for like 14 weeks. Yeah. So this actually may be a blessing because we have a few more weeks to improve. I think we'll be able to get harder. I've been eating good the lasT3 or four days. I'm going to eat good today. Today's the last day. I'm going to eat good. I feel out a lot. Only actually you put on about nine pounds of water. But I could feel it smolting you talking about oxygen. I needed that. I couldn't catch my breath. But uh, I stayed on my cardio and trening. I'm not trying to blow up like a water buffalo. But I am going to enjoy my food. So, and I said, Dave, a picture of my mom could you talking about beinGHard to compete. Living in the weeks and in the order compete because we have the best food in the world. I agree. I think Louisiana does have the best food in the world. I love that food. You can't get it up here. There's no place that that makes that kind of food. Yeah. Have you eaten? Have you guys all eaten in the French quarter before? No, I'm me. I've eaten a few French women. And I've eaten for a few times. But um, let me ask you a question. How to fuck do you do that with all that shit going on down there? Like at a grocery store is open just to get to float in the tren. Well, I work in Lake Charles, but I live in Lafayette, which is an hour, about an hour 15 minutes. I want to have the final traffic. So, uh, I stay there when I'm working in the camper. I come home on my days off, which isn't very often. So, when the hurricane hit, like you said, all the gyms are closed. There's no electric clothes. There's no electricity there. Uh, stores just started opening back up to where they have food and everything. There was no food. So I had to make an hour and a half trip there and I would have trip back. Uh, I couldn't stay down there. I don't know, man. That's just crazy. Let me ask you a question. Are you trening where the mask gets shit on like they want us to do here in the room? No, no, no, no, we don't have to wear masks. Uh, and if we did, I wouldn't because you can't breathe in that thing, man. Yeah, there's just some tell me about you can't breathe without the mask. What the hell? You're in the south. We don't believe in masks. Yeah, yeah, you're even walking to the store. Bro, you fucking, this is the democratic state brought in. Yeah, we got a mask. If you're trying not wearing a mask, the Toyota store to say, get out. Really? Yeah, the opticol cops, too. Well, people, if you got rats, you got people that are right here. Really people. I don't. Oh, yeah, you people tell you right to your face. You know, you're a mask on. Yeah, it's bad. I think if you're not going to use a mask, police, excuse me, you're the mask, police, but don't tell me what to do. I'll do what I want my first experience. And that they elevated, I throw the mask kind of like, oh, yeah, the Nazis do. Yeah, when the COVID first hit, uh, all the gym's here were clung with, with their people in the audience should know, right? There's no people in the audience should know what it is, a lot of people in the audience. No one is in the audience allowed. No audience? Not at the minute. Not the North American. There wasn't no. There was outdoors in the tent. Did they do it to be? Do it to baseball players, do it to fucking they PIPe in fake crowd like this. But you know, a giant, ironically, it seems like Florida doesn't care. That must be weird, don't fucking standinGHere. There's no audience. Was you like, was your wife allowed to go in there? No, no one's Greg. No, what? Yeah, I watched the livestream from the hotel. No, they wouldn't even let them, yeah, they couldn't even come to the team. No one, the judges must freaking love that. No one's no one can, you can, no one can say shit because you're right. You know, the funny thing is, Greg's acting all like surprise. He was in a hospital and they wouldn't let anyone come into the hospital. So IMean, why doesn't surprise you that you can't have anyone backstage with you at the body knowing what? That's because you're just, you know, he could get away with a mask you can't do that. No Pittsburgh, you know, Greg Pittsburgh was bad too. That governor there was, was, Gary thought he was fine holding it in a tent and a parking lot. The last minute they told, sorry, I know we said originally it's 250 people allowed outside. Now it's only 20. So that's why they couldn't have any crowd there or anyone there. What? Yeah. Yeah. It's based on what, what science is this? I have no idea. Gary, you know, Gary was really very mellow about it. I got to be honest, I said, Gary, you know what, I take my head off to you that you made this happen because man, they made me jump through every who possible. You took it to my Gary, you did it? Yeah. Yeah. God, that sucks man. That's ridiculous. But there's no need to do this like that. We're baseball for falling in the end. Well, that's why they moved the masters, Greg, they have the masters in four weeks in Orlando. You think Jim Manning and Gary wanted to move it to Orlando, they love having Pittsburgh, but they can do anything in Pittsburgh. So they held the whole of the in Orlando. They can do anything you want to work. That's why you got to get fucking Trump back in a guarantees goddamn Democrats, man. You're all they love. They love that shit, dude. It's unfucking believable. They love that shit. I was tellinGHim last week, I have two friends that were online. Okay, to get ill to want to get the COVID test. And it will wait for hours to like fuck this, I'm not going in. And in a couple days later, to get a fucking ticket in a mail, you tested positive. Did he even take the test? I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. It's bad. Bro, they had a guy decapping. Well, Greg, it's like, you know, if you don't show up, you fail the test, right? You're proof of guilty until you prove your innocent. You have COVID, and pull you prove you don't have it. That's the new law, basically. But they had the guy that was decapeted. They listed them as COVID. You know what IMean? I was in a COVID unit, and I didn't have COVID, you know, it's such bullshit. They want this. They democrat fucking, they democrat mayors and governors want this shit. You know what IMean? And we're fucked. If you, if Biden ever gets in fuckinGHoly shit, me and John, we're moving to fucking, I don't know. I don't even know Mexico anymore. We're all just kidding in. Have you seen one person walking around with a Biden? No. According to the media, they are, but no. No, wait a minute, no. Wait a minute, no, don't fucking cheat their way. They already said that there's no way they could succeed and it's fucking if, if Trump, if Trump wins, they're going to keep doing these. That's what it makes. That's what it makes. That's what it wants to do to mail it, balance. You want to hear something about, you know what's so frustrating about that? John, you tell me. Wait, listen, we have we have a mail-in system. It's called absentee voting. What do you know is, register voter. You send away for a mailing ballot. They send it to you. You fill it out and you send it in. If you go actually on voting day and go to the polls to try to vote, they won't let you vote because you already voted. They have it. Because they sent you a ballot. We have that system. The Democrats just want to mail ballots out. That's all they wanted. And there's 80 million of them that they want to mail. And they're going to mail the houses where people have four different sets of. Now the statute has already been proven that it's, that it's, it's right all over the place. It's already been proven this one lady on A-50,000 ballots. They got the mail in throwing the mail away. They got all this, they're the only way that they're going to try to pull a Biden-victory out of this is by manipulating those 80 million mail invoices. The only chance he's got because the guy is fucking, he's like, we can't get Bernie's every time he stand up. It's like two people holding them up. It's by the party fucking dead. You don't know where he is. You don't know what he's saying. It was his wife. You don't know anything. All he knows is Orange Man Bad. That's thEQuestion. It comes winter. It comes winter. It comes winter. It comes on election night. Three weeks later, they're going to fucking change. You're saying, uh, more ballots are coming in. It's just you're going to do. That's exactly what they're going to do. It's what he knows. He said it. They already talking about the rush of being a jail that he loses. Oh, fucking that shit already. He's a hell of a reason. What rush. That's who he's in rush. That is the stupidest fuck. Anybody who believes that shit is unbelievable. Biden's son Biden's son that died paid from the from the chain. It's documented. The game of billion dollars, the Chinese government is now going to back gave him his son Hunter of billion dollars never. How did this turn into a political, until a political discussion. I don't know. I'm going to talk about Phil competing in the event. Everything is about politics. Yeah, like even in this sport. You know what? It's old guys love to talk about politics. You haven't noticed that? It's like five. Yeah. The stock market. Yeah. Golf. Yeah. Young girl. Hey, you're. Let's talk about your motorcycle. John, that was way more interesting. Young latinas. What do you think about this guy? I got to tell you, what do you think about this guy? You're a Tyler couple of the picture. I'm going to be interviewinGHim later. Nick Walker, who won the North Americans, the overall open man. Oh, he looks free. What a free disguise, right? Oh, shit. I couldn't believe what that guy looked. He's like a throwback guy from like the 90s. Don't you think? Yeah. Where'd you get to find him? I didn't find him. You know, he found us. He competed. He's making beating since he's like 17, but he keeps improving every year. You know, now you're Corey? No, he's not. Now I just put it up. I said, it's a great picture of him, you know, but oh, God, I looked like freak from the right. Like, said the 90s looking incredible. He looked like like, like, like, how we wanted to see tree brewer luck. He reminded me. Yeah, right? Yes. Yes. Yes. Like when tray was coming up, everything else is going to be the next coming. He is like the the he is the next coming of tray brewer, basically. How did tray brewer just disappear? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what. I see still he's coaching people and stuff. But he just, I think he just mentally lost it. IMean, look at a size of this guy. I was pulling at the time the most promising rising star. It was, everybody was looking forward to it. I know. But Nick walking, he's for real this kid. IMean, he's a freak. I love it. You know, and he was talking about his trening. He trens just like, you know, like, I used to tren low volume, high weight, you know, not a lot of sets of the Dorian, you know, and it works. Look at the size of his physique, you know. You know, that's called dropped a rep. She increased the dosage. No, it means, let's have your weights heavy weights build muscle, right? I'm just fucking on. You know, I'm just fucking on, you know, you got to get muscle a reason to grow. He's huge man. But I'm more impressed with honey, the broader than me man. 100, 100, 100, 100, the next, I think in the next two years, he'll be the mix there. Let me. He's pretty sick, man. He's got a shape like his dad, but it's even like six people. Oh, he's not think they're about the same height. But he's, well, he's a lot tall than his father. Lee had to be like five. No, I'd say, 10. Lee had to be five four, at least. But he's been a big building. He's big. Much bigger, the least. Lee never weighed more than 185 pounds on stage. Yeah, but he's killing physique. Yeah, oh, no, he was a great fan of great. He's a 30, if you didn't. It's a second, a couple times. Yeah, a lot of people, you know, one year, a couple years they tested for drugs, you know, the drug testing. She's a conco. And yeah, and that's when Lee, the broader probably should have won when Haney was did not look like the old Haney, you know. I don't, I think it was before an 91, I think it was the 91, the 90, a limpier. The Haney came in 20 years, 20 pounds lighter, though. Yeah, it was a big, Lee really looked much better than I thought, but that's because Haney was probably really natural. He was fucking with a 20 pounds lighter. Probably probably was. He probably think, well, I got to, I got to fall the rules, you know. I love, I love, I love, both of the least, a good guy. First, both of them were here with my house. I got to put your, you got the post, you got the post, and we're the great interview with him on Fitness Famin Fortune. He should check it out with Lee LaBron. Yeah, that was good. I got you to hear part of it. Oh, LaBron, you took it about a Haney. Both, we did them both. We had them both. Yeah, I had both here in my house. Is it dead? Yeah, but Haney hates spaghetti and meatballs. I know, I love that picture. Yeah, when you're mumbling. He's kept on my mother's sausage. I love it. He's he had great things like last said best said. That's as easy as junk butter soup. That's like, that's like the Ronnie Colvin. That's just junk butter soup with the fucking snot. That's what it's like, nothing butter peanuts. That's Ronnie Colvin. You know, say, yeah, Jimmy, like, Cody Niley. That's Emily, but the way we think it's stimulant, Dylan, now like it's right. It's Southern Wizz. I'm sorry. He tells a really funny story about what him and Gritchie Spari were trening for the Olympia at at the Golds in Rassita that despite it was a fuckinGHot head. He was a typical Jersey short like, you know, question guy is really good. Yeah, he's a Jersey short. We don't hot head, all right. And he's kicking people off the machines and telling them, you know, how many more such you got? You're done. Get the fuck out of it. We're trening at a focus focus. And he's one night. There was this gang of guys outside the gym and they're like, all talking and Haney gets there early. And he goes, hey, fellas, what's up? You know what's happening? We're going to get you trened a partner. We're going to fuck that mother fucker. We're on it. We're sick of that shit. That guy comes in and kicking every boss and everybody around. And Haney's going, whoa, whoa, you can't kick him. Kick his ass. So yeah, I need him. I'm a fan of free. He's trying to be real empty. Let me talk to him. Let me talk to him. Let me talk to him. He's just a kid. He's doing it. I thought he died. I thought he died in the car. He he fell asleep and he went into my car, right? And when he sleeps, we've heard the story for a long time, Greg. Yeah. All right. He when he felt when he sleeps his eyes, it is eyes don't close all the way. You know what IMean? So it looked like I was, I kept looking at him like I'm like holy fuck, you see that? I thought he was at that body. I have a knee step does that what she sleeps. You know, if you walk in the room, it's like she's staring at you, but she's asleep, you know? And I don't even know if he knows that. IMean, I told the story because they in times, you know, so now you're getting a people. I don't think he's talking about that. Well, it just fell. So you know, we need to sleep in the eyes. Well, I think we hated used to take maps between sets. Did he? He said he would take 20 second maps. No, that's runny. Yeah, that's runny. Brian Dapsion tells the best fucking story about Ronnie Coleman. That's fucking one time they went fishing and they quote like a 25 fish. I forgot what kind of fish they were. And they breded them and then they cooked them on a fucking grill. And then they said get a, because your blind doctor's got a grill down here, right? So he said he got a, he put him out on a, on a platter, you know, where to, you know, by the front desk at a gym and Ronnie was doing chess. You know, so he said I got a phone call. He goes in the back. He makes a focus on a phone for like a half hour. It comes out and there's two fish left. And one shell like a bite mark in it, you know, and he's like, holy shit. And he looks over Coleman. And Coleman was out cold sleeping on the bench and he said his gut was sticking out like this. And he woke him up. He said, Ronnie, did you eat all those fish? He said, I left too. You know, IMean, you know, because you know, Ronnie is a deficient. And so you know, and Brian Dapsion, I thought that was a great fucking story. That was a good story. That's a classic story. I can't Ronnie eat like 20 fucking 23 24 fish and fucking left to him. I think the Kai Green has the record for the most fish in one day. No, I don't think I don't think Ronnie could touch Kai Green when it comes to eating fish. I think like 10 pounds of fish in that. That's like that's like literally like what like probably, I don't know, like a thousand grams of protein, right? I don't know, but it's a score of fish. It's like a hundred grams of protein per pound. Because Ronnie always throws them farts, bro. Can you imagine if fucking when it happens? You know, you have speaking to the fish market. You know, Kenny Jones, right? Greg? Yeah. Of course. Kenny Jones is to go to the full fish market at like five in the morning. Like when the like I like a Monday morning, I think whenever this whenever the boats would come in and he would buy direct for you used to try and he wanted to get me to go with him one day and I I just couldn't get up that early. That's when I used to go to bed really late and wake up really early. I would really late in the afternoon. He would go there and he would buy all his fish fresh and he would drive those guys crazy. You know, he'd get the best pieces. He'd get good deals on it. And you know, they probably found them amusing as hell because he was out of his mind, you know. So, but he would go there and he would he would eat all fish every single meal too. He said it would come out of his pores. You'd smell the fish coming out of him because if you eat them, it's like home and was fucking fishing that shit with a bucket. You know what IMean? Like you know, catch a fish and a drone and then the bucket. It brand. I got another one. You know what IMean? Like you know, I'm pushing off a bridge and something on the side of the, you know, like get a fuck. I don't know what kind of fish it was. It was a catfish or something. I'd be deranged. It was the tell me that he would drive what Ronnie and he said that he would stop like every fucking 20 minutes of shit. He'd want to get like food, you know, it was crazy. And he would be like, well, you know, a lot of McDonald's and burgers and shit. I love him. Kenny Jones is a name associated with some shenanigans. He's a unique individual. What's your name? It's a little bit. Besides that being redundant, it's very true. I'm going to great story about Kenny Jones and Fort Lauderdale. There's a bar called the elbow room on the corner of Lasso, Las Boulevard and the beach. The famous locations in the Scott two, two floors. Scott of balcony and a bar at the bottom is right on the wall. It's on the street, but the water is across the street. So I'm walking down in the bar's famous for fights. So I'm down there and walking around and quite, I'm on a bicycle actually. I'm going to, and I look up, I'm across the street and I look up and there's his fight going on. It's all this commotion, right? And the next thing you know, I'm standing there by the red light, three guys go flying off the balcony onto the deck below. And then you see this guy, Kenny Jones, doing a flying front kick down the stairs and it picks out two guys down the stairs and it's flying front kick. Then he gets to the bottom and he's like, he's people these guys are like dropping like flies. Not in the eyes at one time and it's Kenny Jones. He's like a four feet. Ha ha, you know, he's a black belt in karate. He took out. He took out the whole barn. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't know that. There was like Bruce Lee. What a funny thing. The flying, the flying kick down the stairs. I'll never forget that as long as I live. You see that foot out in front of him and he's in the air and he's parallel to the bandester flying through and he knocks one guy with the kick and another guy with an elbow and he lands at the bottom and he's like, who's next? He was ready to kill everyone. He was probably like this. This will be your last date. You know, you're a perfectionist. You know, the mouth that the one that's a perfectionist. But man, he took these guys out in like one second. He was like boom, boom, one guy goes flying off the rail and the other guy goes flying off the railing. Another guy goes flying off and he's flying down the stairs two more guys and then he's wants more and and and what's the floor? What's the floor? What's the floor? Waterdale, right? You still hearing New York don't I haven't seen him and he was living in Florida for a while. Did he buy the emperor and disappear? I don't know where he is now. But he bought a camp. He's back in New York though, I think. But he was definitely in Fort Lauderdale for a while. I remember that. Yeah. But then he had to sew this kind of lackey, water camp, or he was going to disappear. Yeah. We should find them and get him on his show. This guy is a stereotypical. Mr. G. She going to business with Kenny Jones or anything? Oh my god. Water fantastic idea that is right. Miss Jay. And they should hire Steve Selver and two probably to work. You know, I just saw him. He was on the boardwalk. I just saw him on the boardwalk and see side heights. What were you doing there? Oh, dropping your knees off? I just went for like two nights, you know, bang the girlfriend shit, you know, you didn't call Mr. G. Up? No. Hey Greg, tell me when you come up. Take your ass surfing. Yeah. Remember I told you, yeah, I'm going to do that. I'm going to come, I'm coming back. But let me, I'm going to go surf from Brown, afraid. But uh, my I'll get you up first. I'm going to remember that's right. IMet that guy at the, at thEQuick mark that says, oh, I want you guys on it. Oh, I know. And it, and he was asking about George. George went so hard. Hi. This is the one that's on the guy. I've got a look at the cook. Yeah, you sent me that picture. I broke the cook kid and he has no show. Yeah, yeah, called muscle central. That sounds, sounds familiar to me. But that's, he used to compete. Yeah, I'm going to ask the Harry goes, goes to his plate, goes into that place too. Goes where? To the, to the gas station, he works at a rich, yeah, because I was in Tom's river right where you are right up to street. But you know, it was with the girlfriend and I didn't have really have time to get a holdy, but you know, I definitely want to get, we'll hook up. Did you see the size of the owner? How big the owner is it? Where? At that, at that, at that, at that, at that, at that, at that, oh, you made a quick start? No, I didn't see him. Get away, it's like five or six hundred pounds. Why didn't you get him to do a trensformation with you? I was going to get him to the other cook you hired. I, that's crazy. I saw a silverman down there though. I saw him. He was there. He's cuttinGHair now. He's cuttinGHair. He's, he's a barber. You know. Yeah, told me he was doing it. It was doing, you know, we was doing some barber work. He actually looks like a young Greg Valentino, doesn't he? A little bit. Yeah. He's better looking in me. You look like you can be his dad. Listen, when you go to a barber dirty, expectinGHim, when I go to a barber, I don't want to grow. I expect to, you know, guy, you know, cut my hair, you're with the month. Yes, we're all screw. Yeah, and do your, in Jersey, it's women. I went to barber shop, it's all women. I'm like, I'm like, I don't know, this is a barber shop. Not a hair slum. That's going on. He played. Dave, do you know who he looks like? I'm going to hit you with this. You're going to be like, oh, shit. You don't really look like to me. I'm a young friend, Holtby. Yeah, he does. He's got that same stocky build. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It looks like, but even in the face, a little bit like friend Volpi. When I first saw him, I'm like, hopefully shit is that Volpi, but you know, Volpi's not jacked anymore. No. And then, you know, it was, it was the Ram. The Ram. Yeah. I like him. He's a good kid. Now I had him on the show a couple months ago. He sees his balance. Yeah, I was on the show. That's right. You are, yeah, he's hysterical. He's very, very funny. He's a good guy like him. He's had some problems, you know, drugs that he admitted that, you know, he went to jail for a little while, but now he's, you know, hopefully he's on the straight now or now. But he's, yeah, he's cuttinGHim. Mr. G, you should look him up. I think he's right in your area there. You could probably go get your haircut by him. I definitely will because just, no, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's Barbara chicks. That's what he does. He's a barber. You can go right there. Yeah. I want to, and I want to put my one foot hot cream on. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, he's a, that's what I want to. That's what I want to. That's what I want to. That's what I want to. I'm not going to make, I give you a size, all in my brother, my brother with. Yeah. My brother, no, my beard. He charged. When, when Blackman came for us. Yeah. Black with her. We were still, I said, brother, you can't put massages on the, on the, on the, And the, the,�뜕. B.G. B.G. Next week. Sunday. High, that gray head hot cheap eggs. Six, the, th,t. Stock gang in the chicken eggs has hot cheap eggs on it. A little. Wool is not going to save, it's just something that lives as fine collapsed. Genie, you got to bring Bobby under a show, for a little bit. I'm gonna, you will never get off. You will never get off the air, Jonathan, if he comes out. Oh, and you and I can take a break. Yeah, I'm gonna show you when I Skype with my brother So I Skype with my brother he thinks he's talking Talking on the speaker ball he talks like this This is what he does like dagger up Probably that I speak about Well, you a brother watch text me no shit 20 something times in less than five minutes and I got a flip-punch I'm like what the fuck I thought it was just broke it Great so he's by the text with his with his plan I Without gonna do it this year wait till next year and we're gonna have a whole thing We were gonna get I told you can't do it this year Yeah, you have to do it this year. There's no next well we were gonna get a bull you don't want those both my cows a bulls Yeah, I'm a cat a cow couple We're gonna get a wrestle ring with veggie wrestle magic. You know, we're gonna have Shack dance contest We were gonna get I was ordering check 25 inch Those shoes that's that's so I shoot really a fair and it's She had a weather shoes How funny would that been? I would have been a star Well, I wanted to just wrap before you wrapped it up. I wanted to say a fill. You know, I'm really proud of you What you went through to get get to that North American championships You're gonna be even better in four weeks from now at the master's national's which is gonna be held by the way guys for you Who weren't listening earlier gonna be in Orlando Florida so Gary you didn't team moved it to the show to Orlando and fill will be down there for that show competing for being 35 and over in the open category there oh actually master so it's 35 and over that's it But it's gonna be another great show. I'm really happy that guys like Gary you did a making these shows happen because You know what this a lot of guys are missing out on pro card opportunities because these shows are being canceled left and right And it's nice to see that body buildinGHas has restarted again, so to speak and so I want to just wish fill of course We talk every day, but I want to wish you the best the luck in your preparations and you want to thank anyone You know before we go Yeah Of course you you know I've been with you. I think this is our fourth maybe fifth time working together. Yeah Like I said I couldn't ask for a better prayer Things went so well, so thank you. Thank you all my supporters Especially Going into this master's I had to find a couple sponsors that help make this possible my buddy great right My buddy Don Hard Broder My buddy Benny sport shack helps me with all my supplements Trying to think there's anybody out here For a film set because I have no money to compete, but I'm gonna try to find a sponsor 30 seconds later He's like all right I got 500 bucks about 90 seconds out there. He's like all right I got a thousand bucks. I can do it Yeah, my wife she helps me with my food and prep my food but as far as mental support No, as soon as she found out that I told you know I'd like to tell you my I'm gonna tell you wife I'm against I'm on her side Yeah, I was done and that's somebody said well, why don't you do my sisters nation? I said well, if I can come up with the money then I'll do it So my wife's like oh yeah, that's okay. What people start sending money? She's like you're gonna take that I don't need your shit, you know I can't wait to my mom sees this because nobody else knows I'm a competing So now I'm gonna hear it from my mom and my sister and everybody I'm gonna go out So yeah, let me ask you quite what what you said you gotta go to work if you like where else do you work? Like what do you do? I just I work in the plants and late trolls. That's it oil fields oil plant Yeah, it's a chemical plant. I respect that a guy that works that is you know Well, I'm a personal trener you know, IMean I wish I if I could feel the client's ill I'll help them love to do that But I can't I can't get the client to have a Step three kids. It's great. He's got to support the kids, you know No, I know you got to do so drunk I'm just kidding. It's just Jimmy. Jimmy's calling me Well, I love to tell us no red. Yeah, yeah Of course, he's got technical difficulties. What? IMade it so easy John. I basically said here's a link clicked on the zoom link I can't make it any easier to call the call the shower Strengers call it to the show. It's so easy and Jimmy can't get on the easier. You click the link right. He can't throw it Jimmy Jimmy quick you're on the show that the Show When you got to go through this the jeez following you know you're in You put my speaker George at least George put him on speaker You can't you guys can't hear You can't hear I see your phone He's in Huntington he said that he's tryinGHe's got a person sounds like he's yelling from Huntington Oh, you can hear Why don't you put it on speaker I thought I heard Huntington I Got other people to interview today Real people interview film man best a lot. Thank you for joining us today You know hopefully all your fans enjoy your little Episode he had to I want to get Phil a chance to talk about the What he went through Thought is important and you're welcome back anytime when you win we'll get you back again, of course All right, I'm gonna wrap this thing up Greg love you man George These were out of cookies and John Pilts congratulations Congrats all right That's it. I'm Dave Palombo of course with the entire whack pack John Romano Mr. G Greg Valentino Jimmy the ball and Philip border loan joining us today. We'll see you next week

=== FILE: VALLIERE GOES BACK TO BACK! Texas Pro Results & Recap [RdHnSLRpzKo].txt ===

Day Palombo here with an RX muscle, news update, the Texas Pro has let out and in the men's open division, in Valier has won. Yes he has won. This is two big wins for him, back to back Tampa Pro, Texas Pro. He had a come from behind or at least it looked like he had a come from behind because having a lot of people had Steve Cuclough winning that pre-judging. But according to the judges, that was not the case. The judges had it quite differently. The judges had Ian just narrowly winning the pre-judging and then they had him pretty convincingly winning. The night show now we're looking right here at Xavier Wells, my good friend. That's top body, that's a good footage. I was just playing that. You can see Steve Cuclough in the middle here. Steve was really, I thought dominated the pre-judging. I think he did enough to win. I think Ian came back tighter. I knew it was close. We said in my wrap up of the pre-judging, I knew it was going to be re-judged at night here between these three guys. Ian just came back better. He's got a lot of wow to his physique. I think Cuclough, I thought he did enough for pre-judging and yet he still wasn't in the lead. What does that tell you? That tells you that the judges really liked Ian's look. They liked him in Tampa. They liked him here. They gave him the nod, although by one point in pre-judging, and then it seemed like at night when he came back for the finals when he tightened up a little bit, they said, you know, this guy has got all the bells and whistles we want, and then they gave him straight firsts that looks like. But it was a very close battle. IMean, Cuclough, hard, was very, very close to Cuclough at the end of the day. I don't know why Cuclough seemed to have dropped down so much after the pre-judging. I thought he looked really good. I wasn't there, obviously. So, you know, it's sometimes it's hard to see the little nuances. Both him, I think, all three of these guys looked incredible. You know, you really can't almost, there's nothing you can really say about the fact that the way the judge's decision went. And we were just looking at Hassan Mustafa who we'll talk about in a minute. But I think that, you know, when you evaluate at the end of the day, you know, who is the better person when it's that close, you know, it's personal preference. And so, even if each judge thought that, you know, Ian was just a little better at the end of the day, he's going to get the win, you know. And so, that's what I'm going to matter. I'm a little upset that Steve didn't win only because I wanted to see him get thEQualification in the end or he had thEQualification. But the judge's job is the judge's the best man. And they felt that Ian Dahlia did enough to win this show. He gets two wins. He gets 10 grand. And so, he made it, he definitely made it worth his wild to be there. And, you know, he's got to come in from Canada. He's got to do crazy quarantine on the way back and then, you know, so for him, he didn't to show us, you know, coming into the US is probably worth it. Now he can take the 10,000, take a little bit of vacation, although that really, because we're going to see him at the Arnold class next month. So, congratulations on the big win. You know, like I said, I'm really, really excited for the fact that we are seeing top-top quality guys in the, you know, division now that are doing so well. And it's exciting. It's like it's not a foreground conclusion. We didn't know who was going to win this show. IMean, if you think about it, right? IMean, it could have gone to anyone. Look at Phil Clohar. IMean, who finishes third year. You know, he's arguably as good as he can be, you know. And I said this after the pre-judging rap, obviously, he's going to have a lot of difficulty winninGHere because he doesn't have the structure of a cooclow or a valier. And yet he's still almost snuck in there. So I think my hat off him. He did tremendous. IMean, we go back to the back poses on here, which I really believe, you know, what won it for valieria in the end, although I thought cooclow after pre-judging really had it. But valieria has a lot of, you know, loud to his physique too. This had to be a tough battle for these judges when it was all set and done. I personally, I really like both cooclow and valieria physique. I think that cooclow will make it to the Olympia somehow. I don't know how. I think, you know, obviously doing the oral classic, you know, I don't, you know, he'd have to get a win there, which seems unlikely. But, you know, at the end of the day, I, you know, once again, I feel bad for him because he really showed up at his best at this show. And, and what else can he do? He absolutely belongs on that Olympia stage. IMean, we talk about special invites. IMean, I don't know if maybe by he'll collect enough points, but he only this is only show of the year. So I have a feeling that's not going to happen. And we probably won't see cooclow unless they do extend the special invite to him. That's what happens to me when you wait for the last minute, sometimes, still in you bank all your, you know, put all your cards into one show. If I would cooclow the cotton on an airplane and flew to Spain to do the tomorrow night is this show in Spain. So maybe you could have gotten into that show and won that at the last minute. I don't know, but, you know, I don't even know if that was being a possibility. But I certainly would be trying because he looked so good, you know, I really, I really, really, I feel like one. I think a lot of fans want to see him on stage, too, at this point. And, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's disheartening because, you know, they these guys work so hard, you know, and he's in his home state here. I, I, just, I have to imagine that, you know, he's, he's probably sittinGHome right now and he's really disappointed, you know, and that's, uh, unfortunate because, you know, he, he put so much effort into it. Let's talk about some of these other competitors though because he wasn't a three man show. There were other guys in the show. A sudden, a stop, I thought, looked really, really good. I thought that, you know, at the end of the day, you know, we know that he's having problems gettinGHis, you know, conditioning downpatt. I thought he looked pretty good here. I think he just, I think his body is not responding anymore as what's happening. And, and when your body stops responding, there's really nothing you can do. You can die, die, die, die, die. You can continue to push your body and it's just, it's not going to make any difference. You know, and I think that a lot of people have figured this out the hard way. I remember one year when I did the, um, I think it's the USA, the North American and the nationals all one year. I said to myself, you know what, I'm always in a shape. I can do these shows. I can peek over and over. And unfortunately, you know, my body just looked tired by the third show. And even though I was hard, it was hard. I actually think he looked good here. I think that when you, when you go and you get to line up against, you know, top Olympia guys. IMean, with huge structures. IMean, at the end of the year, IMean, I think he was just out there. He was just going to be a gun here. And I don't even know how he been in the best shape of his life. How he been able to, would he? I don't know if he would have beaten Cuclowe or Ian. And I don't even know if he would have beaten Phil Claw, to be honest with you because they were that good. And we haven't seen Huston Mustafa for his best. But, you know, he has a slightly narrow structure. And because he has a narrow structure, it can sometimes, you know, in a line, a lot of money looks great. But when you put him in the line up with other guys, you know, he doesn't look so great. You know, I think a guy that we have to really take a look at, though, however, in this line up would be Martin Fitzwater. IMean, here's a guy who I don't think anyone, even even was on anyone's radar. I don't think anyone picked this guy for top five. And he was able to come into this line up against a really good feel of people and show that, you know what, I belong up here. And he's from Colorado. I really didn't know much about him prior to this. And I think he's going to surprise a lot of people in the future. He's got a really nice structure, small ways, big legs, good arms. Can he be a little tighter? Yeah, I think he's got to tighten up a little bit. And I'd like to see him even so out that frame a little more. And I think if he does, we're going to see some really nice things from him in the future. It's nice when you see Newtown in there and a new guy sneaking into this lineup. To beat a guy like a Sond Mustafa. IMean, right there, that tells you that, you know, you did something special. And he didn't. Hasan had a settle for fifth place here. And, you know, he's got to be frustrated because Hasan has all this muscle. He's got these hugEQuads, biGHuge legs. He really has no weak body parts whatsoever. He just can't dial in the conditioning enough to show aesthetically his physique at its best. And that's really what it amounts to because when he's a little off and he doesn't have all that detail in his lower back, who's hamstrings, he looks, he could be a little blocky looking. You know, and I know that that will disappear when he gets in shape at a hundred percent. You're going to see lines that never existed. And that happened, I think with Rami also, when Rami would come in at, you know, 90%. He was huge and he was amazing, you know, but he didn't show enough separation in the areas where we look when we think about conditioning, which is glue hamstrings lower back. And when he finally dialed that in last year at the Olympia, all of a sudden we saw something that we hadn't seen. And I still think Rami could come and type. So at the end of the day, you know, this show, we're going to evaluate it five years from now. We're going to say, you know what, Ian Valley, you are established himself as a competitor that should be taken very seriously. And when I say it very seriously, IMean that he's going to be a top six Olympia guy. Obviously, the judges feel that that's probably the case. He got two huge wins. He was not afraid to compete against the best of the best. We're going to see him again at the Arnold Classic where he could give everyone a run for their money. You never know. He can walk out of there as the winner of that show. Don't be surprised. He's got a lot of momentum. I think he's getting a lot of stage experience from this. He's feeling more confident up there. I'd like to see him smile a little more in a lot of people. So, well, that's just as, look, I want to see him smile. He should be having fun up there. You got to project that to the audience. At the end of the day, however Steve Kukos got to be super disappointed. This was a big disappointment for him. I know it. I can feel it. I'd like to get him on my TV show and talk to him about it. But hopefully there's going to be a way we can get this guy to the Olympia. He belongs there. Phil, you know what? You should get a pat on your back man. You really delivered. I worked with him before in the past. He's a good guy. I know he's a super hard worker. Congratulations on this third place here. You went up against some dease these past two weeks. And you're hung in there. And you know, a lot of people thought you could have gotten a nod in Tampa. But you're going to come back next year bigger. And better. I know you will. That's going to do it for today. I hope you enjoyed today's little wrap up. If you want to see more Chris Ascito on heavy muscle radio, we'll be doing a complete wrap up with me of the entire show. All the classes on Monday, live. Probably around noon. You can tune it to that for now. I'm Dave Palembo with an RX muscle. It was up to it.

=== FILE: VERTICAL DIET EXPLAINED! Live With Stan Efferding [pQWcN4yWPG4].txt ===

Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition Visit Speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is a good friend of mine and to the show and he's backed by popular demand, he's the world's strongest bodybuilder, stand-efforting. What's up, big Dave? How you doing? Good. That title is a great title for you, you know, because it's really apropos in the sense that you really are the world's strongest bodybuilder. And I still think to this day, even given some of the lifts I've seen by the late Dallas Macarver and a key Williams, I still think that, you know, in the three lift max, you know, the bench press, the deadlift, the squat, you still got the, you still got the undeniable record. Well, I did it on the platform, that's the main difference, but I have to put a qualifier in there now that the world's strongest pro bodybuilder, because that freak, Larry Williams has been doing some crazy stuff, Larry wheels. Larry wheels, yeah, what are you, what are you thinking about? I'm going to ask you about that. Yeah, he's ridiculous, you know, and so I have to put that other littlEQualifier in there. The world's strongest pro bodybuilder over 50, I love that. What do you think wheels is potential is in terms of powerlifting and bodybuilding in your estimate? I think it's limitless. Your mind's moving young Ronnie Cole, and obviously he has to volumeize that tall body. He's 61. Yeah. And so he's going to have to, you know, get more sweep to thEQuads and hamstrings, but he's a, he's just a really big muscular guy, but you know, more importantly than the bodybuilding aspect is just that he's a real athlete. He's a physical specimen. So, and he's so young. He's 24. So, yeah. He'll feel that, he'll feel that body out. You know, and I've learned that lesson a long time ago that the heavier I lifted at some point, it kind of impairs hypertrophy, and you have to set that aside for months at a time, at least twice a year to try and build more volume. It's interesting because sometimes powerlifting right, you know, is because of the way you guys lift to get the strength aspect of it. You sometimes neglect some of the hypertrophy aspect of it. To me, we all look like he's just a, he's a natural lifter. I don't even think this, does he even think plan that far in advance? Is he even think like you would in that sense or does he just go and lift? I don't know. He loves to lift, but he's going to make a life out of this. He loves to, you know, to compete. I think the big thing is with powerlifting is that you end up using a lot of muscle groups and leverages and tendons, joints, and that, you know, to use to specifically use, you know, say a quadricep muscle, you just have to get a greater range of motion. You can't be loading onto your glutes and onto your spine directors and using your hip flexors. And that's the big challenge because we're so focused on how much weight we lift is supposed to whether or not thEQuad is doing the work is compared to all those other muscle groups. Yeah, you know, you're right, but IMean, when I look at wheels lift, it's like, it's not like watching another paddle lift. When I see a paddle thing on their bar, it's such a mental focus and then, and it almost looks nervous like, and you don't know if they could be, this guy gets under the bar like he's at the beach, he's up like that, and reminds me of a game William's so, and it's just looks so easy for them. He doesn't look like he's strening. He looks like he's just, he's very supposed to be. Does that make sense here? Makes sense. Yeah, he's a feet on. I had some throughout my career. I had some times at which it seemed like everything I touched was light and I understand the feeling. It's been for it. It's not that way anymore, of course. You have a very interesting story that I've stamped because you spent many years working on a company. I don't want you to explain what you did, and you sold the company for a lot of money, and then you said, you know what, now I'm going to live the body going dream that I wanted to dream, which is, you did it in the right order. Some guys try to do the dream first, but explain to us how you got into this business and what it was all about. Well, I wanted to be a pro bodybuilder from the time I was 17 years old. I used to, when I was in college at the University of Oregon, I used to get my car and drive down the gold's Venice, take a long road trip, and sit and watch those guys tren. Right. What's interesting is the side note is that the same things that they did way back then in the late 80s are proving to be the most beneficial to the day with all the science that has come out and all the studies and the research and the great information that we have accessible. A lot of them are saying the bros were right. And every single one of those guys, as you recall, was trening twice a day. They were eating six to eight times a day. They were sleeping eight nine hours a night plus a nap. And it was almost every single day. They didn't just pound it away at it for months and months and years and years. And those are the things that stick in my mind as being the pervasive, I think, consistent things that you have to do to be successful. But I wasn't, you know, I wasn't gifted in that regard. I was 135 pound guy in college. And so I did everything I could to chase my dream as far as I could. I thought that lifting the heavier weights would make me bigger. And at some point I learned my lesson that is because you're stronger doesn't necessarily mean you're, you're look better for bodybuilding. Right. So, you know, I changed gears at about 1997 or so. I competed solid for over 10 years. And then I started a business. I realized that power lifting a bodybuilding is never going to be a career. At the time, we didn't have social media. You couldn't monetize that. Right. I asked you winning and in the magazines and getting sponsorships. There was no way to create your own value. Very different picture today. So I spent 10 years building a business. I didn't compete. There were times there where I didn't even tren for a year or two. Wow. And it wasn't until about 2006 that I came back and decided that I was going to compete again. But by then, like you said, I had created a couple of successful businesses. I built a telephone company into a $25 million year business. And I had built and converted and sold nearly $60 million in real estate during that time. And still. You get into that, though, stand. How did you learn about all that stuff? Was that just something that you kind of fell into? Or was it something you were interested in before that? You know, you're making it seem like it was so easy. But how did you do such that something so elaborate, I should say? Well, I was important that you asked that question because I had the intellectual property. I had experience in that all throughout the time that I was in college and after college, I was managing large apartment communities and helped to develop or build 150 units, you know, $15 million in community. So I learned a lot of that. And then we had our own telephone and cable access. And so I learned all about that. And then I worked for a billion dollar reed, running a hundred million dollar property. It was 1,200 units with almost 3,000 people living in it. And so I had the experience. I did it already for someone else. And that's important because I knew a lot about it. And so when I started my own very small phone company, I already had, you know, as Vice President of the telecommunications company for three years. So I knew about it. And I always encourage people to do things that are in their real house that they have experience, you know, knowledge. So they, you know, flounder for many, many years. Fortunately, I was able to be mentored by a good real estate developer. So, you know, first the phone company and with the revenue from the phone company, I was able to invest in real estate. And of course, at the time, you only needed 3% down. All right. You know, you could buy land and build properties and buy condo conversions and the bank with finance, the lion's share of the conversion. So we did really well. I bought and sold multiple department communities either in pole or part of the mountains into condos and built subdivisions and single family homes and bot commercial real estate and remodeled it and sold it. More of you like a service rack stand doing this. IMean, because you have to, you must have had huge loans you've taken out from the bank, you know, mortgages and stuff like that. That had to be very stressful. Yeah, absolutely. No, of course, at the time, the real estate market was booming. And that's kind of when I started getting back into bodybuilding. And I had a lot of free Time. I had a lot of money. I had a good staff working for me. Right. And I was able to pop on a plane and fly down to tren with Flex Wheeler for a couple months and then fly over and tren with Mark Bell for a couple of months. And, you know, I've said before, I did a rant called, you know, I think I said, why I'm a hypocrite because I was able to pay Flex Wheeler. You know, that's not cheap. It's trading me twice a day for two months straight. Wow. You know, that's 15,000, 20,000 dollars. Wow. And that's black. So I'll try to keep it on your neck. And that's reasonable. That was a discount. That's a hundred bucks of session. That's right. Sessions a day is 200 bucks a day for two months. You're looking at, you know, 12 plus grand. And then even worse than that, just trying to stay in a hotel with a kitchen. Right. That's another hundred and fifty bucks a day. So I kind of started doing the math. And it might have cost me $40,000 just to win my bro card. You know, at least you got it now, right? You know, at least I got it. And I learned a lot in the process. There's no question. But that was an interesting time. I was able to go down and tren with Charles Glass at the time. I was able to go out and tren with Mark Bell. I spent two months there. I go out and tren with Eddie Cohn. Right. You know, I was able to work with some of the greatest coaches in the industry. You know, I work with you on an offseason program back at the year of 2010. I absolutely took my guru course, too. Yeah. And I took your guru course. Matter of fact, I got the book right here. I didn't keep that. Kept that. And I thought I was sleeping just because I was day after that gum surgery. But I actually took notes. Wow. Look at that. You know, stay. But you're like a prodigy. You must have a photographic memory. I'm convinced of it. I don't know. I just all read something ten times or I'll watch a video over and over again with a note pad. And if I watch a really good video, I'm pissed because I have to watch it again with a note pad and write everything down that I wanted to remember. And so that's, and I try to put all this into my bucket, you know, my tool kit to work with over the years. And I apply it to myself. And you know, I did the blood tests every month for 12 years. Now I've done blood tests. And all kinds of different things to try and garner whatever information I can. Right. And I'm going to apply it to myself and then to others. But you're not to get. I watch your YouTube channels. I'm not to interrupt. But I didn't watch your YouTube channel. And I actually almost believe that you're reading off a script, which I know you're not because you're driving your car. I don't know how you do it. It's like you have some, you, it's a organized, you thought it's very well in your head. And you can, you know, and I, and I consider myself pretty good at articulating my thoughts. But you're like, like, almost like a computer reciting this stuff. I don't know how you're doing. It's a may. Yeah, you know, I get so tired of watching an hour video and getting 10 minutes or five minutes worth of information out. Right. That's my time's too valuable. So I didn't want to do that to people who watched me. And so I spent a lot of time all research and right and, and, for her, and record all of my stuff that I do. So I didn't do that. I didn't know that. That's interesting. Yeah. That's why I don't do them very often because it takes me three days to go one together. I feel better now because I thought you would just a prodigy, you know? Yeah, no, not at all. I watched your stuff and I've always amazed how you come up with this just right off the top of your Yeah, but you can do it for so long. Yeah. And I, you know, I just wanted to make sure that if somebody's going to tune in to me that they get, you know, all of their value in their time and the takeaways. I don't want to just sit and rant about nothing. I want to make sure that they can actually implement something from my videos to improve their performance. Or their health. When you were on Shark Tank, how many how how many times did you rehearse that script that you owe it to? It's gone. Yeah, I had my family sit in the living room holding up pictures of the sharks. I printed them out. Big pictures of the sharks. So I could feel like I was actually talking to them. I did a rant about it behind the scenes of the shark tank. So people knew that I practiced that dozens and dozens of times. It was good. It was great. I was like very entertained. I've watched it about ten times. You know, it's interesting though because, you know, you're a guy who's been a lot of money. You obviously are set for life. You don't need to make any more money. And yet you still are out there creating new businesses for yourself. You know, what's, is that just because you're a creative being that you need to constantly be doing something or is this something that you're really passionate about? You know, I'm just type A. I've got to dive into something. I don't know what I would do if I wasn't. I'll tell you this and a lot of people don't know this. I've talked about it a few times. When the real estate market collapsed, I lost $20 million over night. Oh, did you? Wow. Yeah. I went to bed on a Friday worth $20 million. And woke up Monday and the banks were calling me asking me to pay down these loans. It's kind of why IMentioned that you could put 3% down on a property. I owned a couple of apartment communities. I had 20 homes. I had just finished it hadn't been sold. I had a commercial building. We're $3 million. Right. I had a $2.5 million home. And the banks were lining up trying to get me to pay down my loans on depreciated properties. So let's say for instance, I paid $4 million for 100 unit apartment property. And I only had to put 3% down. So they asked me for 120,000 to holders. To buy that property. Wow. Well, when the market collapsed, all of a sudden the property was worth about $2 million. Right. And they wanted an 80% debt to equity ratio. So they wanted me to pay it down to 1.6. And I only had $120,000 down on the property. So they were chasing it for millions of millions of dollars. And of course, I personally guaranteed that. And then I had all my assets lined up against it. I had multiple homes. Condos, my home, my own doubt, right. Everything I owned other than my investments. I owned that right. And so it was a really, really difficult time. Kind of reminds me of Donald Trump's story in the 80s when the market collapsed. And he had to go to the banks at 4 a.m. in the morning. And I was in a similar situation. I had to negotiate. I had to postpone payments and get the afforded the opportunity to sell properties. And wow. That took a long time. And during that time, I obviously got out of the real estate market because that was horrendous. Sure. And started an engineering firm, started some medical marijuana businesses that we still have going and recreational businesses. And just kept, just kept fortune away. So I'm not as risk-tolerant as I used to be. Right. And certainly not as, let me say, comfortable as I used to be. So I'm a little more conservative now. I got out of it without being completely destroyed. I didn't jump in front of a tren. Like most people did during the time. Yeah. You can remember many folks were, it was a bad time. But you know, that's just to me, I always looked out like monopoly. I didn't grow up with money. I was a very conservative home. I would say modest. My dad worked for the government. My mom was a homemaker. And so I never really looked at it. Is anything more than an adventure. And so I didn't take it too personally. To me, it's monopoly. And when I take out a credit card or I take out a loan on a home that the people that I do business with, they're investing as well. They're getting a return on their money. And they have to take some risk. So if I've got credit card companies calling me, I don't really care. It doesn't phase me. You guys took a risk, sucker. Yeah. You know, nobody's bailing me out. So I just reinvested my time and energies into something that I thought would provide a return. And fortunately, you know, I was able to build a couple more multi-millionairecompanies in the meantime. So I'm certainly quite comfortable, but I'm not a fat cat like I used to be. Sorry. I'm behind Donald Trump at the UFC fight. So the second row. You know, it's a little bit old days. Stay at what explained the vertical diet. There's a lot of people. I kind of know what it is. But a lot of people have been asking me about, you know, what I think about it. Just explained to give us a brief synopsis of how you came up with this and what exactly, you know, under the ten and seven. You know, I created the diet mostly for performance. And I wanted to start with a solid foundation of highly bio-available micro nutrients, which means I wanted to eat the foods that were the most easily digested and provided the most vitamins and minerals. I don't look at a nutrition program in terms of macros, necessarily. I like to look at it in terms of bio-neutramps. I also designed it because, you know, if it fits your macros or macros, as it were, doesn't address gut health. And one of the big things I've always struggled with is that a lot of foods would wreak havoc on my gut. That's the bull oils and of course, when you're trying to bulk think just things like breads and pastas and pizzas and pancakes and, you know, all the carbs that we tend to forage on to gain scale weight. Don't necessarily sit on us very well. It causes insulin resistance and interferes with digestion and people are popping thumbs like crazy because they're getting gastrogrief lugs. That's very, very common in the industry. And this includes women who are dieting and they're just eating very nutrient-poor foods and egg white broccoli and they end up with deficiencies. Iron deficiencies, B12 deficiencies. So I wanted to create a diet that wouldn't cause bloating and gas. I focused on digestion first and make sure that I didn't have any problems with nutrient deficiencies. And you're huge on that as well. You're one of the few people that's really focused on vitamins and minerals and understands how important they are. We see all this metabolic adaptation. A lot of it is a result of micronutrient deficiencies. And so we make sure and get people adequate calcium, adequate magnesium, adequate sodium, adequate potassium. All those things are really essential for stimulating metabolism. And I added a few other items in there from my experience and from the literature that also seemed to help people with performance. And another thing that doesn't address is the immune system. Something like a macros diet doesn't address whether or not your digestion is adequate. It might be creating autoimmune deficiencies. Getting indigested proteins are indigested carbs into the smallest intestine and creating gas. Maybe turn the ability. That starts to lead to a lot of havoc. And ultimately, the big thing about the program is not just the vertical diet. It's the vertical diet and peak performance. And it takes into account sleep as a huge component that can't be separated from nutrition and digestion. It takes into account hydration, which is another huge component. It takes into account how all of these things affect hormones. We take a lot of abuse in this industry, Dave, you and I both. Because the industry is very commonly, a lot of people use performance enhancing drugs. And for a while, they can compensate for these deficiencies. Maybe they're experiencing metabolic adaptation because of these egg white and broccoli diets. But they toss in some thyroid or clumbuteral and they get a temporary fix for that problem. But taking thyroid doesn't fix an iodine deficiency. It doesn't fix an immune system problem. It doesn't address the source of the problem, the micronutrient deficiency. So ultimately, athletes end up rebounding. They end up with these deficiencies. And they come back all of a sudden progress stops. So it's a stop gap. It's a temporary thing. And so I wanted to get in front of it and make sure that my athletes didn't have nutrient deficiencies or hormone in balances that were caused by a lack of sleep because we're getting athletes up before in the morning to do an hour of cardio. When they've only gotten five hours of sleep, which suppresses testosterone, suppresses thyroid, you know, increases hunger, increases, you know, decreases metabolism. And we compensate for that by taking medications. And that's not a long-term plan. And so I wanted to create a diet that addressed all of that. And a lot of it, one of the big things with the diet is that when people are dieting, they tend to lose stamina and endurance and energy and just feel like shit. Because of metabolic adaptation, because their body temperature lowers, all of that happens. And so I put foods in there that help stimulate metabolism and help make them give them more energy. Sodium is obviously a huge piece to that. Wearing a CPAP, if they're sleeping, that's part of my program, if they aren't getting out of sleep and they snore. I am poor then to get CPAPs. And oddly enough, a great athlete like Hawthor, Ryan Shaw, 400 plus pound guys didn't have CPAPs and they snore. And I'll talk to their wives, and I'll talk to their girlfriends and I'll ask thosEQuestions. And remedy that problem because it's critical to their performance. The diet, stay eye-to-gay anyone over 250 pounds, probably, need CPAPs, because... Oh, 100% agreed. And I don't care how hard you tren and how well you die it. If you're holding your breath at night, it's a done deal. Your performance is going to suffer. Yeah. And there's so many more things in there. I encourage the blood test because I want to find out what people are deficient in or if they have insulin resistance, they have low vitamin D. And so I try and encourage them to address all of those deficiency issues. And I put in a host of different foods. IMake sure they salt their meals. I ask them to get in iodine because about 50% of athletes that sweat a lot. We have a iodine deficiency. And that's directly related to thyroid, which of course is metabolism and body temperature, which is critical for people who are trying to perform. How many people do you know stand nowadays to take in like Himalayan sea salt? You know, thinking or it's good for them. Himalayan, thanks to all the use of sea salt. They have no iodine. The regular stupid cheap store bought iodine salt is probably the best thing for you to use because of the iodine in there, which obviously, like you said, helps thyroid. You know, when I created the species of line of products through address, a lot of these things you're talking about because I knew people wouldn't get what they need from their foods. I see what people eat therecompletely devoid of minerals and vitamin. And I'm also, you know, I'm a big advocate of salting everything. People think I'm crazy with the amount of salt that I consume and tell people to use with soy sauce. My wife, cringes when she sees me pour the soy sauce bottle on my food. But you need electrolytes, especially when you work out. IMean, it's just you're right. People a lot of them. And it infects metabolism for weight loss and it affects performance. It affects digestion, sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid. So it's absolutely essential. Probably the number one thing is when I did my salt rant that people reach out to me from all over the world is about how their performance improved and how much better they feel and how their digestion is improved. Salt is probably one of the biggest things. Another thing that athletes tend to do is they tend to restrict foods for no particular reason. One of them is fruit, especially women that are dieting. And because they associate it with fruit toasts, which then, you know, high fruit toast corn syrup becomes their tren of thought. But fruit is hugely important for metabolism and stimulating the liver, which is enormous. Too much, of course, you can get into fatty liver disease with fruit toast certainly. But a little bit, you know, taking periodically throughout the day raises the body temperature. Increases metabolism. And it's just very effective. I've also noticed that it helped bring down AST and ALT liver enzymes, which is huge for athletes that are using performance and has drugs in particular because the liver starts to get taxed as a result. The orals in particular. And that will snap. Appetite and that will prevent fat loss. And so the fruit really helps with that. And I've seen that in my blood tests and those from many athletes that I've trened. It's critical. I've also noticed that with those three or four things with the iodine and the salt and the fruit and calcium. And I'll talk a little bit more about it in a second. Those four are potent stimulators of metabolism. And I've had women who have been on thyroid who would wake up in the morning and test their body temperature. But a thermometer under their armpit for about 10 minutes. And they would try and see whether body temperature was because as we know, that's indicative of your BMR. How many calories are going to burn that day? It's going to be based on your body temperature. And that's the bulk of the calories that you burn at rest is from body temperature primarily. And we think 98.6, particularly that runs 97.8 to 98.2. But if it's below 97.8, you're going to have a hell of a time burning calories. You may already be experiencing that of all of that uptation. And your metabolism is going to slow and you're just not going to burn as many calories. When I get them to consume those four things, all of a sudden, their body temperature starts to go up. 98.4 in the mornings. And they can decrease or eliminate their thyroid medication, which isn't always advisable, but oftentimes it could be a benefit. So that's a huge thing. And of course, to increase calcium, you want to take vitamin D3 because that increases calcium uptake by about 24. And then you'll need K2, which I try and get from egg yolks and grass-fed butters and the like. So I can help keep the arteries decalsified. As you know, and hate to bring up bad news. But if Dallas and Carver had gone in and had a cardiac angiography, he would have seen the calcification in his arteries. And whether or not that would have changed his path, you know, I always recommend that people try and find out if they have preexisting conditions. Hence the blood tests, hence something as simple as a cardiac angiography. There are only like $300 now to get an MRI with contrast dye to see exactly what the calcification looks like in your arteries. I've had it done twice. I've had it five years ago and I have it done this. I believe it's a cardiac CT. I think they do it to CT scan. I don't know if it's an MRI but that's a chronic CT. Yeah, they use contrast dye and they can see exactly what the calcification looks like in your arteries and which ones. And whether or not you have it. And that can potentially be a cause of high blood pressure. But I found in the vast majority of cases and I deal with a lot of big athletes and I've had blood pressure problems here and there throughout my career when I've been too heavy and haven't paid attention to my nutrition. I found that the vast majority of high blood pressure can be addressed through nutrition. It's kind of why I did a high blood pressurEQuick fix kit recently where I talked about sleep apnea. I talked about low thyroid. And why it's important to keep adequate thyroid because people think that sodium causes high blood pressure. But the difference in the systolic measurement is maybe two to five points. Not the same. And with thyroid it can be up to 20 points. And that's human studies showing a hypo thyroid individual may have elevated systolic pressure 20 points above somebody who has normal thyroid. And calcium as well. Of course we know that that relaxes the blood vessels and magnesium. So and potassium's the huge one. I get all my athletes to consume 4700 milligrams of potassium a day. And whether that means that they eat a potato or spinach or fruit or salmon or yogurt or a combination of all of them in an act with those. That seems to be one of the key components that in the thyroid obviously and the sleep apnea being addressed with a CPAP. That almost within 72 hours they can bring blood pressure from 160 to 190 down to 120. Very very very quickly simply by mostly with potassium and magnesium. What you're suggesting is that a lot of people's medical problems could be related to the fact that they have mineral and vitamin deficiencies is really what you say. Of course we know that that's not a stretch. We know that vas majority of people we're taking medication be it statins blood pressure medication. Proton pump inhibitors you know and acid medication. The vast majority of them it's a lifestyle issue. It's not a clinical medical issue. That's why I've gone on rants and that's why I say to people all the time. The three most important supplements that you should take that most people don't take. In other words these are not the luxury item in supplements. These are the imperative ones is a good multi vitamin multIMineral with real dosages and absorbable micronutrients. And I'm not trying to plug my own line but that's why I designed species around that the mineralize. The essential fatty acid supplement okay you know omega lies and a fiber supplement for your colon you know. If you would take those three things you probably would be 50% more healthy right off the bat doing nothing else. I agree 100% I put foods in there first because I want to see somebody you know. But it's saying you know people are lazy that's the problem. You're diet is probably awesome for someone who has the time to sit down and plan out and follow all the things. But most people arecompletely lazy they don't they don't even cook their own food they hire certain purposes they drink a lot of shakes. So for most people you have to find a way to overcome the ideal situation would be to get it from your foods. But just people can't do it you know and that's that that I think is a huge problem in our society because everyone's in such a rush all day long you know. You're absolutely right here's one thing I'll say to that. If you're taking a supplement then you're probably not as likely to be as diligent about what you're eating. You might eat a little bit of everything trying to the whole if it fits your macros or the 8020 rule. My biggest challenge with that is what does that 20% do to you how does it affect your digestive health how does it affect your immune system how does it affect your hormones. You cannot compensate for. In taking in poor food by taking in. You're right you're right but you know it's it's a good it's a good insurance policy like you know and that's what the physician study said about multivitans anyhow this and it didn't increase all course mortality but it's a hell of an insurance policy for for those outliers that may be adversely affected by it. Having nutrient deficiencies. The problem is that a lot of people that take multivitans take you know a central one a day which does nothing you know has no no absorbable nutrients in there there's no real. A dosage is an anything of any relevance in there and they think it's a panacea in their mind oh I took a multivitamolum good so you know. It goes back to the old you know marketing you know employees that these companies use you're watching TV and you see oh take this you don't have to worry about anything else you can do whatever you want. And obviously that's just not the case and that's what you're trying to address you know I'm a big believer also in eating foods. You know first and supplementing as an insurance policy but it's really the food you eat you are what you eat. Let's face it the old's trite saying is really true. Yeah and more than that you're not you're more than what you eat or what you absorb or but that's why. I'm cautious to use the kinds of foods that are highly viable that's why I use red meat because the heme iron is highly available and a lot of women in particular who issue red meat. Our subject to you know anemia and that's a huge problem B12 is another enormous one and that doesn't just impact energy impacts digestion and also with those multivitamons a lot of them there's most of them are synthetic they don't have the proper co factors. They're not in the doses in relation to each other that is necessary to be off them all if you're going to take vitamin D that you need to have some vitamin A and you need to have some vitamin K. You can avoid some of either the deficiencies or the surplus. Start popping a whole bunch of vitamin A you might end up with too much but eating vitamin A foods whether it be you know in retinol form or. Cratenoids you're less likely to have a vitamin A surplus. So it comes down to me one of the big things I focus on with the athletes in getting in the foods that I get them. Is gut health and that they're digesting it properly. I'll have people that have been on prescription and I an acids for years. Right and within a week I've gotten completely off because I understand that the that the bird and an acid reflux is not caused by too much acid. It's caused by too little yeah and that impairs digestion significantly and now you're not absorbing those nutrients the B vitamins in particular or the calcium or anything. You have to have good stomach acid enough of it and the proper pH to absorb all of these these minerals and then they make they have a huge impact. I've watched it myself and on my athletes when you start taking in all these nutrients and you're digesting incorrectly again the blood pressure being a huge one and you've said before. I've used that this years ago steroids won't kill you high blood pressure will. Yeah and that's important to people understand that that's not the thing that you look at that you overlook and I think it's very easy to fix in the vast majority of people. They're deficient in potassium because 4700 milligrams potassium is hard to consume you have to deliver it to about it and most people aren't. It's interesting you know you mentioned earlier that not having enough you know digesting ability you know when I was 300 pounds and I was eating you know 12 times a day and guzzling shakes all day. I got a lot of acid in digestion and I noticed that another guy is that I work with it or that are bulking something that there is a lot more in digestion because you're eating so much food I think your body just can't necessarily break it all. But I would notice that when I would be really really really hungry like maybe I just didn't eat for some reason for five hours something like that because I was just crazy busy stuck in motor vehicles whatever the case. You know and then I ate it didn't matter what I ate after that I could eat the greasyest most disgusting meal. It's like I absorbed it no problem and you can get any acid refuture. IMean normally that would destroy my stomach it was like my body was primed for anything I gave it and I'm not suggesting to eat junk food but what I'm saying is I think that you know sometimes you know. And dare I say because this is body going much we too much food you know. Yeah that happens as well and that was what's going on with both half four and Shaw. They were eating too much food. We remember the video that Shaw posted about a year ago. It's got millions hits or more about his 10,000 calorie day. But it was what I called horizontal eating that was pancakes you know I hop for breakfast and burritos for lunch and pizza dinner. And that was causing a massive amount of distress and he's probably used to me callinGHim out like this now because I've mentioned it so many times. One of the first things he said to me after starting my diet is when I saw him he leaned in and kind of quietly said, stand. I'm regular. And I understand that because I've done that to myself for nearly 30 years trying to bulk up and I know what it's like to have to run to the toilet after every meal. And I didn't think that that needed to be that way and I've had been times as a bodybuilder when you're eating clener, which you realize that you're not wreaking that havoc on your body and you're more regular. Especially when you're eating really quality food. I was eating a lot of top-sourm-line steak. And so that was very efficiently used by me and my the stool was quality and normal and regular. And so I tried to employ some of those same techniques with Hof Thorne Shaw. They just said they reached a point at which they were just gaining fat. They weren't getting any stronger. They were just getting fat. And so we've performed the blood test to find out they were invited in D3 deficient found out that they were insulin resistant, find out that they obviously didn't have a CPAP. And so we went about trying to correct those issues. We dropped a little bit of body fat and noticed Shaw this year lost about 15 pounds of body fat and got pretty lean. And then we just drove, like with the vertical diet, I created a kind of a foundation of these highly bio-available micronutrients and foods and they eat those first. And then an athlete that requires more calories, just based on their mass and their workload, I can't fuel that to them in oatmeal or pasta or pancakes because it will completely wreck their digestion. And so at that's where I start pushing a lot of white rice and I start increasing their red meat intake. Even then I'm not trying to get their protein above the gram for pound because when they consume that much that much carbohydrates, they're very protein-sparing. And so it's been very effective for their digestion. Their body composition of chains, their strength obviously, you know, Hof Thorne just had a whirlwind of a year. I went from pulling, say, I think, 940 at the Arnold to a thousand 40 at the world strongest man, which is just ridiculous. And it's not just, it's on both ends. I work with 120 pound IFBB Pro Piccini girls too with the same theory that I don't let them over restrict. I encourage them to eat fruit. I encourage them to have a calcium source daily, which is usually dairy. And if they can't handle milk, then we go to a Greek yogurt and if they can't handle that, and we use a slice of cheddar cheese. But they don't appreciate how important calcium is for their metabolism as well. And these women quickly shut their metabolism down with their caloric restriction and their high workload. And so I have to keep fueling that with some fruit, and miss some salt, and miss dairy with some iodine for their thyroid. I had to combat that. He's a constant battle. And in doing so, they don't rebound after the show. Their body doesn't, it's not, it hasn't been depleted of anything. And so it doesn't, they don't get the the edema and the fat, the outrageous fat gain back and all of that. Well, you got it. Great channel on YouTube there. You're getting tremendous amount of traffic and hits. I see it. You know, I watch some of the videos myself and I have time although I have very little time these days. You know how that goes when you have kids. I do. Yeah. But if people want to get in touch with you, Stan, what's the best way? You know, Stan Epertig is always good. My Instagram stand up for me. My YouTube stand up for me. My website, stanfraiting.com. And then of course now I have the vertical diet, which is the vertical diet.com. And at the vertical diets on Instagram. And I should before we close out, I should say that because of my big push into Whole Foods and nutrition, I recently partnered with one of the largest. Meal prep companies in the country and they do 4 million meals a year. They've been in business for 20 years and they have an extraordinary track record. They also have millions invested in meal prep equipment. They have ovens that are moisture controlled. They have a modified atmosphere pressure machine to then wrap the food after it's cooked. Which takes the oxygen out of it and so it stays pressure longer. And then they have these rapid freezing equipment. We call flash freezing. So that the there's no moisture develops on the food and you don't get ice crystals and cause the freezer burn. So these guys and that those are millions of dollars worth of equipment they've invested in. And they ship all over the country all 48 states and I went up and I partnered with them and I sat down and we were there's chef and they're nutritionist and we ordered the we sourced the grass bed bison and the line caught salmon. We're rendering our own beef tattle because you know I won't cook anything vegetable oil. And we're boiling our own bone broth because I don't want to make sure that it's just boil bones and doesn't have a bunch of chicken flavor and vegetable oil and things that might wreak havoc on the stomach. And we put together delicious menu and so now I own meal prep company the vertical diet calm serving monster mash is all over the country we're about five weeks in and we've served over 30,000 meals now on the first five weeks. That's a lot. Yeah. You got to send me some meals stand so I could sample them for the. I'm going to tell you. I'm telling you these are there to the list which is you know I get people sending me free meals all the time as a lot of people do in this industry because they're trying to market their products. But I won't eat them for more than a week because they taste like garbage. Yeah, and that was the one big thing that I wanted to do different here was make sure the meals tasted good and so we we went the extra mile the source the better quality ingredients. And you know to make these things with beef, talo and bone broth so they would be moist and delicious. I'm like I said I always like to see healthy foods out there does not that much available. You're making it easy for people to get shipped to the house. IMean that's that's a great service you're offering. What do you see yourself going now? Like where what's the next step and what you're trying to do because I know you always got a plan ahead. You know I'm getting the vertical diet. You know David it went absolutely viral. I thought people. You look at this show this program is that is that you're ultimate goal because you like to do these big these big projects and then sell them on. Yeah, I took the same I took the same diet that I've been using with Hofhor for two years and it's very detailed and it's the same one I gave to Brian Shaw. Even you know across fit. This week commiel a block Ben Smith, Becca Voich. They're all athletes that use the vertical diet. They're all former cross fit national champions. Tyne Rebe is the picture from the San Francisco Giants. Of course Larry wheels and Dan Green used it. Stephanie Sanzo from Steph Fitt mom from Alaska or from Australia and even Bradley Martin when I went down and worked with him. He was having trouble with his diet. So we got him on the vertical diet. So I've used it with a lot of people. It's very comprehensive. So I put it out abouT4 months ago for people to buy exactly the same program. I provide for all these high profile athletes that I work with directly and it just went viral. I've sold thousands almost 10,000 of them. Wow, but it's been downloaded 50 or 60,000 times because I can track with downloads. And so and this is all over the world like it messages from every country. What are you actually selling though, Dan? Stan, what actually a people buying? A customized diet for themselves or is it what is it? I include everything in there from the sleep protocol to the hydration protocol to the diet. I list exactly what foods to eat. I put sample macros for different goals. I have sample diets for different goals. Of course there's a BMR calculator to adjust your starting point. And I also have hypertrophy trening and the strength trening program in there. So it's supposed to be something that you can customize. I'll have husband and wife at the same house, one powerlifter, one bikini for a competitor using the same diet. But just adjusting for calories, using the same nutrient-dense foods that help them with their health and their performance and their energy levels, et cetera. It's exploded and so now what I'm doing is I'm working on getting finalized to do. So I should say this, I've already put out vertical diet 2.0 where I added more information about all the people who bought the 1.0 got it for free. I'm working on the 3.0 and everybody who purchased the 1 or the 2 is going to get the 3.0 for free. So as I continue to develop the program and work with athletes and get feedback and incorporate hacks and tricks and diets and all that stuff, I'll keep providing it for people. But now I'm going to launch a book next month and then put it out on Kindle and Amazon. And that's kind of the next phase of this and then start doing vertical diet certifications because I have an app being developed. And I want treners at any gym in the country to be able to download the app for free and set themselves up as a trener. And then have their clients download the app and set their clients up as their clients so they can see all of their clients underneath their heading as they're going to be. They're heading as the as the trener. Right. As the admin and now they can they can follow their diets. They're going to be able to take pictures of their food every day and you can see exactly what they eat or be time and date stamp to be able to submit photos on a weekly basis. They'll have a checklist and the tren will be able to see how many hours they slept, whether or not they tren what they ate all the different checklist items. They're not they took their vitamin D what they wait in the morning if they have a record wait. So they can use it as a as a method for compliance which for me as you've heard me harp on the number one thing you can do is I always say that that what's the best diet the one you'll follow. And what's the best exercise the one you'll do. And this app is a compliance app that allows treners to have more information more often about their clients so they can quickly intervene where necessary and provide them the information they need to be successful. Well, that's great. Stand congratulations on building this whole program and you'll keep us updated. You'll send me some meals. We'll we'll I'll do a little review on them and I always love talking to you. We always have great conversation. All right. Thanks Dave. All right. That's going to take us to the end of another episode of the live with brought you by species nutrition visit species nutrition dot com. I'm Dave Palembo and we'll see you next time.

=== FILE: VICTORY FOR VAILLANT! California Pro Recap ｜ Dave Palumbo [0zVZkBIEXOY].txt ===

Day for Lumbar within our Ex muscle news update. This just in Antoine Vallions has won the Count pro and will be going to the Olympia in December. Congratulations. What a great comeback story. This is Antoine. What a promising young career he had when he first started out as a teen. People were talking about this guy as the next Mr. Olympia, the next coming of a great body builder. He had classic lines and tremendous size. It's such a young age. At some point he got sidetracked by his own admission. He got involved with drugs and he actually became homeless and had no money. He really hit rock bottom in a sense. He talked about that on one of the interviews. I did with him and he's done a lot of interviews. He's talked about how he went about as long as you can go. He was as high as he can go and he went as low as he can go. He decided that's it. I had enough to clen that. Made the comeback two years ago. Successfully, I think a lot of people said, hey, this was a great comeback. Last year was supposed to be his year to really make his mark. He tore his bicep a couple weeks out from one of the shows he was preparing for. Big set back for Antoine, but he seemed mentally strong. He got through it. This year, obviously, was the comeback at the New York pro last weekend. Some people thought it was a great comeback. Some people thought it was not a great comeback. I thought I saw flash of brilliance and Antoine. To me, it looked like he was very flat at the show. I think that he just maybe overdid it. You know, you look so good. We saw the pictures on his Instagram reading up that I showed he was looking tremendous. Sometimes it's too much. You just overdid it. I've done it before all of us have done it. You deplete too much. You don't carb up enough or you overdid it. Whatever the case may be, he finished seventh in New York. Comes back here to the cow, which actually took place in Las Vegas this weekend. Obviously, California is a nightmare with the whole COVID restrictions. They still had a wear mask on stage as you see. Which is kind of like really kind of, it takes away your personality a little bit. But it is what it is. The show did go off. The muscle contest guys made it happen and that's the most important thing. Regulations. So those guys and I get friends over there. But Antoine did not walk through the show easily. Max Charles, who another body, both of the lot of people may have written off, seems like his conditioning was never showing up the way he needed to be. He just wasn't bringing the mask Charles we had seen in the past. He had joined forces with Milo Sarsav this year and they brought a terrific look into New York. Milo's story should have won. I didn't think it was that good. But I thought that it was one of the better Max Charles we've ever seen. He was full. He was lean and even as legs look pretty good for Max. And they kind of matched his upper body a lot more than they had in the past. I said, you know, this is a Max Charles on the comeback trail here. So Max and Antoine went head to head at this show and it was no easy battle. But you know what Antoine's presentation is so good. He knows how to hit the shot, hit the right angles. He has some kind of a stage sadting that I think, you know, just smells of and gives off the order of on the winner. And that's important and that's an intangible that you really can't, you know, quantify on paper. But it is important. And it is ironic that actually Antoine was working with one of the greatest poses of all time, Flex Wheeler, who's eating up to this show. There's some pictures on his Instagram or him and Flex were joining forces. And Flex of course, going through his own, you know, trials and tribulations with having to have his foot amputated on the comeback trail. And he can see he's got the white beer now. He's in like that beast, you know, attack mode, you know, looking in great shape, maybe some of the best shape of his life right now. And really motivating a lot of people out there who were handicapped and who maybe think that, hey, you know what, I have this terrible thinGHappening. I can't overcome it. Flex is a beacon of light actually for these people. And I think that that's great. What he's doing and it was great that he got to join forces of Antoine. I heard he put him through a brutal two hour posing session. Was that the, the little extra Antoine needed to beat Max, it might have been. It might have been. And that's what makes it exciting. So good to see Flex Wheeler in action over there and helping out Antoine. And, you know, every little bit helps, I always say. And sometimes when it's really close, it's the details that go in really make the difference. But you know, I think it's, it's a victory for Max and for Antoine here because Max is his best ever. I think Max will definitely get to the Olympia on points. And that's all that really matters. Another great dark horse in this show is on win. On win always does the Cal pro ever year. Usually when it's in California, that was the biggest. But on is always a top five finisher. I think this might be the best on win we've seen. His presentation is great. He's got great flow to his body. His conditioning is, is good here. You know, on, not against him is just not as big as some of these other guys. But you know what, if you place the size game, he always does terrible because he loses that conditioning and that, those are the lines in his body. He played it right here. Third place tremendous, you know, finish for him here. I think you got to be thrilled. Patrick Moore, what could we say about him finishing fourth year? Alone he's the win. It's got the best of conditioning. He's got the best lines. He's got muscle bellies. He's, you know, the next coming, but he's just not big enough. And when you put him next to these other guys in the lineup, you see his flaws in the sense that he just can't stand with them size wise. And after all, bodybuilding is about building muscle. I think it was a mistake from not to take the year off and really work on growing. But you know, he did really did he placed all of these shows. He can't really, not come for, you know, people want to see him win shows. And I think he's going to start winning shows when he adds another 10 pounds of muscle to his body. And I know he can do it. He's still fresh. He's growing. We're going to see a great, great Patrick Moore next year. I can smell it. I think he should just take his time. What the size on and then come back to the stage is no rush at this point. So congratulations to Patrick Moore both in New York and now obviously in the Cal Pro here. And finishing in fifth was Eddie Breckermontes who could be the biggest guy in the stage. You know what? With the conditioninGHe brought in the size he brought, I don't think anyone would complain if he had finished third here to be honest with you. If this is a great look for him, no one expected anything. I, in my preview, I did highlight him because I know Eddie is always dangerous because he brings ridiculous conditioning to the stage. And he is one of the biggest guys up there. So congratulations to the him. But the real pat on the back and the real, I guess we got a hold them up. Little him, raise his sword up in the air as he answered one volume up because he did it. He delivered. He shot up all the naysayers. You know, Chris Asito was very, you know, critical of him in the New York Pro. Obviously came back here and proved them wrong. And you know, that's great. We do a little fun video on it. That's cool. You know, hey, you know what? The press got to be called out when they're wrong. But Antoine congratulations on a big win here and a huge comeback to you. We'll see you at the Olympian December and you should be very proud of yourself. For now, they're on day polimbo with an Rx muscle news update.

=== FILE: VPX Nutrition Tour- Part 1 [sHv5W1NAYJ8].txt ===

Hi, welcome to the PX. Hey, welcome to my new home. Come on up and show your around. Hi, I'm here with the owner of the PX, the Jack O'Wack. I remember you, I think it was maybe 15 years ago. You came to the Arnold Classic and you had this little blue bottle with a little plastic syringe, syran wrapped around it. And you said to me, look at my new product. This is going to be the greatest new product of all time. Do you remember what the product that was? Yes, it was Paradaka. And where did that idea come from? Is that how VPIX originally started? First of all, I remember when I saw you because I kind of freaked out, this guy had long workout pants on. And I guess it's for moral artery or whatever it is. Running down his leg, you could see it through his long pants. I guess that's how it is. This guy has a true freak. And he was walking around and it was the Arnold and you were bigger than most of the competitors. And I was wondering why is it in his freak on stage. And we started talking and you were very knowledgeable about science. So, you know, my big exciting thing was I didn't know that many people in the industry but to show this to you and also to show it to Dan to Shane who had just gotten out of jail. Right, Dan was there and I remember you guys took that famous picture of him. Dan holding up the bottle of the Paradaka. Yeah, and I have that picture so you'll be able to view that later. But one of the things Dan was just getting out of jail and kind of I think muscle media Bill Phillips pushed him to the side. They wanted to go more mainstream and he wanted to get some publicity. So I said, do you mind if I use this picture? I didn't know back then you needed to sign a release in all this. He said, yes, he was a man of his word and Flex Magazine actually rejected it because it had Dan to Shane. So I was I read, I said, why can't this be in there? And they go one of the dubias, quote unquote, meaning I think it was Eric Weedor, rejected the ad. I guess he didn't like Dan to Shane or whatever. So I couldn't put the ad in there but nobody knew anything about viral marketing because I think I had a syringe on it and everything like that. It's not really a syringe. You were in jail with your idea, right? No, no one ever did that. Right, right. But you couldn't, it's actually not a syringe. It's like the bottom piece of the syringe. It's actually patented because you can't put a needle on it. It was happening. It's not to top of your bottle, didn't it? No, you put a little special bottle top on where you can draw it out. And it kind of had the same feel as using steroids. It was a pro steroid. We created the delivery system to kind of almost like an injection. It was a polylipid delivery system which is long chain polymers and fats. So that if you could imagine active ingredients in case within that, they go into your bloodstream and they release slowly into the bloodstream. And no one was doing this in an issue. Where did you innolvatively come up with this idea? I used to teach chemistry and your intestines are lipophilip. You feel like they're fat. You taught chemistry to high school kids? I, well, mostly discipline a little bit of chemistry. You work on three discipline kids and you teach maybe five to ten. But you always were interested in chemistry. You were at my nature. Well, for nine years, I taught six different science disciplines. And I got, to fired every year, nine years, I was in eight different schools. Why was that? I'm kind of a leader. It's why I run this company. So I was always at odds with administration. Something, if something was broke, I'd fix it. And we, you know, I didn't understand it. You're not allowed to tell the prince what to do. You liked it. Marks to your own drama. Well, I'm not necessarily doubt, but I'm a leader. And so if you see bad leadership and you tend to take over a situation, you're going to get in a confrontation. So that's kind of what happened throughout the whole. What happened just started VPX? Because this is an interesting story. Because a lot of people don't know the story behind this. What was the first product you ever produced? Was it the power deck? And how did you actually even get the idea to call it VPX? What I wanted to do, it's a good question because you, you just saw down Stairs. We went through everything. And most of the people you see down there are formally from Pharmaceutical companies. Like when I've asked move, we hired their top chemical engineer. He specialized in liquids and semi solids. But before all that you had no money to do this, didn't you? IMean, we had the money company. You must have had an idea to start at the whole process. Well, I was teaching school and I was doing a bunch of people's diets. But instead of just doing the diet and trening, I was using supplements. But I was using other people's supplements. What happened early on is two incidents. One is there was a product called egg pro. And as a scientist, I was getting a loss of about 46% body fat a month on just regular individuals with trening diet and supplementation. Using a fat burner, proteins, different things like that. And one of the months went by and nobody lost anybody fat. And so as a scientist, it's real simple. And you're in a science. You go, okay, what variable did I change? Why went from, you know, back then it was egg protein. I went from Beverly egg protein, which is, to me, a high quality brand to this egg pro. And because they were out of the Beverly and put my clients on that. No one lost weight. So I sent it out to be tested because, you know, taught nine different science disciplines. I knew you could have these stuff tested even way back then. And this product was 90% carbohydrate and 10% ash. There was no egg protein in it. And it said 100% egg white-out-beam and on the label. You're frustrated with the fact that these companies were lying about what they were putting in it. Right. And then another instance, one was called egg pro and pro egg. I don't know which was which. But one was by a company called MedSport out of Florida here. My friend was a pro basketball player. So I recommend, again, back then, you know, egg protein was the thing. You know, I'm allergic to milk. He goes, recommend me and I protein. So I gave him the, yeah, pro egg by MedSport. So he has 68's and always chokes to death in the shower. He has the pound on the glass. Wife has to take him to the hospital. And I wrote about both of these incidents, Incidences, and Debbie Bakery's natural muscle. And people were, I rate and I developed a huge following because people were pissed. And I started testing all the supplements. And that was teaching school. And I could barely pay my bills. And there was really no teaching. Schools all discipline. It's just made your deal with all society's ill. They're babies. Right. I, I, I, I tested these products. I wrote about it following become, came bigger and bigger. And then Debbie's phone start ringing off the hook. And these people wanted to know, look, you need to develop a product. And I go, wow, this is easy because how you really have to do is Put what's in the product on the label. I don't want to stop there. IMean, you know, I'm a scientist and just taking things further and further. I wanted to create great products. But I remember something clicked in my mind. And I go, this industry's right for the taken over every, you know, none of the, nobody's ethical. Everybody's ripping everybody off. And I started creating my own supplement and to answer your question. The first product I came out with, I was too complicated. Always am kind of like you. But it's, um, ATP recent the sizeer. And it was a great, and type product. And it's sold like crazy. IMean, it was, it was a, it was a good little mix. And, uh, you, you were, you were really grassroots at the time. You were just selling to your base of listeners and followers. Right. So what I did at that time about the same time is that, um, I realized the school teaching thing was not, when I happened and formed me, I could barely pay my bills. But I had a, you know, a son, he was two years old and, and I was, I owed money to end of every month. So I was going to, um, vitamin whole sale. There's buying about seven to seven hundred to a thousand product, uh, dollars worth of product a week. So I go, I guess you were reselling it to your clients. So I started, um, it was interesting because, um, my dad and I went and the store, the rent was 600 bucks. And my dad's old school. There was a lot of vacancies. And this thing was, and the back of a winddix, see where all the dumpsters were. There were rats everywhere. And my dad's offering the guy three hundred when it's six hundred. He's not offerinGHim five hundred three. We're sitting there in a battle in the parking lot in the guy. I've been a bad guy still. I was, but I learned a lot from my dad about business about sticking to your point. But my dad kept sticking to three hundred. This guy kept coming down. My dad would never counter with three fifty. He would counter with three hundred. And my dad kept going, look, it's three hundred more than you have today. None of these places are running. So what trenspired was I felt bad for the guy who's about the cry. So I go, okay, three fifty. And he was relieved. And he took the deal. We got it. Store rent for three hundred fifty dollars a month. Three hundred fifty. And that's still cheap. You know, bad at them because the average rent in the era was about 800 to a thousand bucks. So now coincidentally in the back of the store, there was a carer practor. And he had set up a place where he can get a shower and stuff so that he wouldn't have to go home. And he can run his, you know, business. But it was only 700 square feet. And I called it Vita House. Nobody knew why, but it was vitamins in the front house in the back. Are you living there? Yes. Wow. Sleeping on an air mattress. And all my friends were making fun of me. The hurricane came and he waged a big tree in front of my door because I wouldn't go out party with him. But it was fun and it developed a huge cult following because people go, oh yeah, going this, this guy's a freak and he doesn't wear a shirt. What I would do is I didn't know anything about business man. The first person knocked on the door. I just get up and he answered, you know, on my shorts. I'd be all ripped. Like eating protein all day. And it developed a huge cult following and soon outside the store. It was really cool because there'd be all these Ferraris vets. I go, all these guys aren't working during the day. Of course, this was during the Scarface days and people had money. So we come to your store to buy supplements. Yeah, but then they started hanging out there and they're all beach chairs out in front of people mix and protein shakes. It was like a little community. It was like a little like hostile almost. Yeah. Yeah. So wait before viral marketing, this thing created a huge viral thing because. People would get to know really. Yeah. People would go, go to this guy's like a freak. He knows everything about nutrition. And I didn't. Like if you wanted, you know, back then it was all champion heavyweight gain or nine hundred or ten hundred or the table all the way. Whatever. Here's a box cutter. Go find it. You'd have to open the cardboard box yourself. So it was creating this huge viral thing and I didn't even know. But it was so busy that I had no time to stock the shelves. I used to try. I gave it. Okay. What point when you're in this store did you actually want your own product? Um, probably about almost immediately after a year, I launched a creatin product. And then I remember whey protein isolate and read about it and understanding it and. I was a. I was a different name back then. But they had the first cross flow, micro filtration whey isolate and I knew that the ion exchange process. What happened was you blow the thing the protein up in a big tube and it sticks to the resin. Once positively charged one's negatively charged, but what happens is it leaves out all the low molecular weight. Uh, yeah, excuse me, the high molecular weight. Uh, excuse me, low molecular, you want in there like the IGF-1, the bovine serum, abulant, all those. And so I realized it was a bad process, but this cross flow, micro filtration yielded all those IGF-1, IGF2, bovine serum, abulant, CCK, glycromacropeptides. So I go, wow, this is, uh, so we were, we were first with a whey isolate because there was. It was called CFM. Right. And then, um, and then what happened was we got so popular. So all the big companies, um, this was great on Debbie's magazine. I had, uh, my Oplex champion, all these products. And I go, these products contain way concentrate and it was Dorita. No one used, because no one used the isolates back then. You were the first, first people that I remember. Yeah. And we were the first with a hundred percent whey isolate. People would sprinkle it in there, but nobody really, you know, okay. So what I did though is I got all the top sewn product by champion, uh, my Oplex, all the big players twin your buddy is a twin lab. And I put these, and I sprinkled Doritos all over with a big Doritos back. Cause Doritos contains way concentrate. So I go, these products contain whey protein concentrate. And the bottom half of the ad, because Debbie had a real big magazine. I go, this product is way out protein isolated. I was your product. So they all called her, but her magazine became super popular because, Isn't that it? Yeah. Well, because of that ad, because of the articles calling all the supplement companies out, I didn't know back then, and Debbie would be so elated because her phone was literally ringing off the hook. And she would call me later crying. They're all going to assume me. I go, well, you have no money. And I go, and I got retained samples for everything that I tested. So I go, don't worry about getting sued. That your first big product, they really put you on the map, so to speak, as far as making money goes. Um, it all contributed. You know, so and other people supplements. And people liked our supplements the best because I'd always go that extra mile. I didn't, just like nowadays, I should care more about profitability. I, I, IMake the product first and it's look, here's what's in it. Here's what's got to be in it. If you want to pay the price fine, but if you, if you know that, that's what it cost to make. And you saw it. You're going to buy it. You're going to buy it.

=== FILE: VPX Nutrition Tour- Part 2 [gyBqOrmude8].txt ===

Let's flash forward now, 15, 20 years almost, probably 15 years. You have one of the most high tech pieces of equipment anywhere in the industry. I don't think anyone has it. Each machine is like you said, $1 million. You have two of these machines, only back in the equipment. You came up with an idea to create capsules. They contain not only liquid in them, but micro capsules. You're playing that. This comes to you when you have an ePIPhany like while you're on the toilet or something like that. I'm here. Great because it's good. With the two super freaks in the industry, John L'Amano and Dave Palombo, Dave. We've got all kind of cameras here. We're going to go in and see redline ultra-hardcore. It's really cool. It's a liquid. And two microtabs of black and blue microtap inside of one pill. Then it pills banded around the seam so that it doesn't leak. Really cool concept because there's micronized particles in the liquid that get the system super fast. Somebody takes a fat bar and they want to turn the light on. And then when something to happen, the black and blue microtabs bypass the acidic environment of the stomach. That prevents a lot of degradation of the great raw material ingredients in there. And then it's kind of cool. And then it released over three or four hours. And then each individual ingredient also has a different form of coconutac value. In other words, a different ton of duration of action. It's called. So absorption of action. That's pharmacokinetics. Excreation is too, but we'll leave that up to you. But what I wanted to do is have something that had a three-stage delivery system that we take you up to a super high level and sustain you there, like red line ultra-harcour, for about nine to 12 hours. People get an effect from one to two. What did manufacturers tell you when you were asking for that? Do that for you? Do they think you were crazy? Usually they always think I'm crazy. And like with the bar they rejected us and said never come back again because our standards were too stringent. But this company Bosch, well known for makinGHigh tech pharmaceutical machinery. If you're going to pay them to do it and spend one million on the machine and another million on back and front end equipment and buy two of them, they're not going to pass up six million dollars, especially in the economy. You have to pay for the development of the machine as well. They were pretty good with us. But as long as we paid 50% up front, they were willing to take on the project. You were willing to gamble. You believed in this product so much so that you gambled on that by giving them the upfront money. And the other thing we wanted to do too is create that wild factor of a liquid. I don't know if you saw a high speed shear system in the first building you were in. But it takes particle weight down the less than a micron. And so in all of our liquids particle weights less than a micron. So the absorption is through the roof. IMean it's super fast. Is there an advantage to having these microbeads mixed in with the oils? And what is the advantage of having that in the... Well that's the advantage. It's a three stage delivery system. By different coding techniques and having different things to the microtabs, you can control the rate of delivery. The first absorption would be the obviously oil. Right. And what's in the oil? We would tell you but then John Romander would have to. Music failure. Well it's interesting you act but I asked because you can only put a little bit in the oil. Otherwise it gets cloudy and you lose the wild factor. So there's a lot that went into this because whatever we're trying to do here is marry science and marketing. And so if you put too much in the oil it's going to be cloudy. So we put the most potent actives that require the least amount. I'll tell you one for sure would be your hand because you only need a little bit. So that it gets right away but we also wanted some of the pills. Excuse me the little black and blue microtabs. So when you turn the lights which on you take the pill so to speak. People want the lights to go on. They don't want to turn the switch on it. So the liquid hits your right away because it's micronized particles within the liquid. And then the black and blue capsules and they release over a period of three to four hours. And you see you get a second result. Right. So we show that by dissolution but the thing is the full payload is released over three or four hours. And then the each act of again like the phenolethylamines, metrophylylamin, the triohinbe complex. They all release at their own rate too. So that's why this thing works up to nine to twelve hours. So they do last that long. Yes. Do you think that NBIUS because I know you're pretty honest. Is this the most highly technically advanced product on the market right now of any company? Yeah. It's even more advanced than any pharmaceutical company. These are the microtabs. As you can see, the liquid is in front of this little compartment here. And I see them being punched out and you're fitting into the fields. See the capsules that have been written in the right here. This is a little careful. And let's just walk around this machine. The caps is already out of the liquid in them. So then the deposit in the microtabs. And as you can see, now you can see there's some blanks that come out with just liquid. It's just set this up to the real quick. So you can see in here there's a liquid. And there's a black and blue microtab. And around the mirror there's a black scene. I see you can look at inside the mic and the fill. So what we do the drying in the capsules. We check for leakers. As you can see, like here's a leaker right there. You can look at that oil. And then the inspector would pull that caps away. Everybody, of course, would be wearing gloves. These capsules we are going to use. Then these are drying tables. And so they'll take a day or two to dry them. And every one of our pills, drinks, liquids. There's always a preservative system. We test the preservative system by taking these capsules. Putting them in an accelerator oven. It advances the aging, retreat, and vibration. And then we can tell in a year by putting these on stability. It's called for about, let's say, a month or two months. We could tell what they're going to look like in six months on the shelf. We could test for micro. It's micro bacterial. We'll microbiological in a scene whether or not they're safe. And a lot of times they'll fail inspection. In the beginning, we need to develop an product. It's very difficult. That's why I don't trust many products in the industry. Because I know what we go through to get a super clen product. It's free of microbial contamination. It's not an easy process. And a lot of people don't want to wait till it gets done. Like I was telling you in there, a machine cost of million dollars. There's two of them in there. But the catch is the funn and the back end equipment also cost a million dollars. So you're looking quite a bit. With all these machines, the sales guys always, Yep, a million. But no, you're going to get in the funn and it works yet. You're going to get in the back end. Moving into the future. What do you do to one up that? We'll go back a little bit. People always go, if you knew on the front end that was going to take you over four years. What would you really do it? Probably not. That's why we're kind of glad we didn't know it would take that long. But then the closer you get, it's kind of like addictive. To one up that, I don't know. What do you see as the future of the supplement industry, at this point in terms of technology? What right now, what we're trying to do, believe it or not, is with a product like coconut fit. Which I happen to really like a lot actually. I like the whole philosophy of this. It's non-stim drink, taste goods, no sugar in it. And you got your polyphenolics in here. And you're, through next tracks, great tasting too. Yeah, thank you. So you have your right. Hi, Antioxidant fruits in here. It's very low. Coconut water generally, the size will be 22 grams of sugar. We filtered it down to six. We water soluble-ized the mega three fatty acids. Invite them in D3, super healthy. You were just talking about earlier that vitamin, everyone's vitamin D deficient. Right. And so if you're, you're sipping on something. Your choice when you go to a restaurant is either, like, you know, a sugary soft drink or an aspertame soft drink. And both which are health-wobbing. And so this is health-promoting. And that's what everybody wants. You get enough coconuts to make all these things. We have a contract. Fortunately, our protein manufacturers are six billion. Jack actually has a coconut grove in the back. We've harvested something coconut. I do have 26 coconuts, trees in my heart. Yeah. But, so the company is, it's a six billion dollar protein company that we do our protein with. And so they are, they have an alliance with Taiwanese coconut tree growers. Now the Taiwanese coconut trees, unlike the four to ones, they're shorter and stouter. But one of them could have like 500 coconuts. So they're pretty amazing. I didn't have any crack those things. I've had a lot of trouble getting no bite. I'm going to tell them that I've had supermarket. And the islands, they all use the shadows. And they do a very careful amount of meat. See John Ramana. He's very good at opening things. He's in crack and not.

=== FILE: VPX Nutrition Tour- Part 3 [nxLE2ypw6so].txt ===

Any good supplement company has their own gym, so this is our working progress, trening facility, the floor is not in yet that's common as well as some more equipment and some mirrors and whatnot, but all VPX, red line employees are encouraged to come in and work out and we're allowed to do that on our lunch hour, after work before work it's pretty much open for everybody. This is a 2000 square feet, big, big rectangular room, lots of weights more common, so when you guys come down and visit, come in and catch a workout with us. This is my favorite line in the entire buildinGHere where we make our bars, our bars are pressed or not cooked, there are some of the best in the world and this flavor right here, pumpkin is the bomb and you're in luck because they're making it right here, we're going to get the eat one right off the line. So I think that down there holds what we call the dough. It gets dumped in up there and gets mushed into the extruding machine here and they come out, into a pre-measured slice and our chopped off and as you can see the circumcene is very dangerous, they can chop your hand off. But these are fresh, extruded bars right off the line and they come down here and you just grab them. These are the freshest, best bar you'll ever eat in your life. Here you go, have one. Yeah, pumpkin. Wow, it's a little hot from there. It's the labeling machine. We'll make a little back. It's incredible. So this machine folds the wrapper and the perfect little cylinder. The bars right underneath it wraps it around it and it comes through here. Eat, seal, top the other end. This right here is a metal detector. Every bar that we use the machine to make it is actually made or the detector to make sure it's any metal in it. If you don't bite into a piece of metal. Bar that is marked as seen. Right, they're right here, they're boxed. But five thousand a day of each flavor. When you buy a bar from VPX is guaranteed to be less than 48 hours old. When you go right into the boxes, seal it up, pack some cases. Composition of these bars at all natural, uncooked, pressed ingredients. We use peanut butter, honey, oats, various flavorings all natural. 30 grams of protein per bar. Zero impact bars. Zero impact bars means no impact is insulin. In fact, we had a doctor test these bars with a diabetic and this was the only bar he could eat that did not make his insulin move at all. This is where we make our two inch power rush shots. You see, I'm a little shots we have to make over here. This is basically a miniature version of what you saw in the other facility. The bottles come in, they're screwed up, they come down. They get labelled. Here we fill in first and label them later. Whereas the other place that we're labeled first is the fill later. This is power rush. You're going to hear the tops get screwed on. They come through here. Into the labeler. Once again, all our labels we make in-house is our own graphics. Heat shrink. Come around outside of here, all around the corner. And over to they gather it up over here so they can be packaged. And these little packages, little boxes. And we ship 20, 12 to a box. And that's all done by hand. This is a piece of meat. This is peach mango. Seven hour. There's two servings in each container. Two morecompetitions. One, so you get two for one for the same price. You guys want to increase your IGF-1. This is where we keep the hemagex. Check this out. This is where we're procurated. Quapar here. Yeah, that's Marka's rules daily supply right there. Check, let's talk about, we talked about you sleeping on the floor. Let's move forward now in time. You're at this new facility. I came, and not only is it a new facility. It's facilities because I had to go to three different locations. Explain to me the enormity of the empire that you have right now. First of all, I hope you got your cardio in today. Come on through those places. I did quite a bit. Well, the really cool thing was, and it's definitely a blessing from God. A lot of people go, Jack, you should be proud of yourself. And I got to put this on tape of who's Jack doing it. Jack was sleeping on an air mattress in the White House. And so it's a God thing. It's beyond your water, it's the imagination. It's something like this can happen. So we went from a 700 square foot store. And we moved almost every year because of the rapid growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Until the point we are now where the buildings you just toured once 90, 2000 square feet, once 95,000 square feet and the first one was 17,000. So roughly about 210,000 square feet. IMean, that's big enough to have two football games. What gave you the goal, the gumption, to say, you know what? Not only do I want to make my own drinks, but I'm going to make, I'm going to make them here myself and my own facility. That had taken a lot of balls at some point because I'm sure it was a very expensive decision to make. Well, it was kind of an easy decision in the sense that and it's a much slower road to the top. And you do it yourself instead of sourcing it out. But here it is. If you study around the turtles like I do, an active ingredients, three to four hours a night, maybe three or four days a week for 15 years. You have all these special raw ingredients. You develop a formula. And if you go to an outside manufacturer, the El Sine and NDA, they'll promise not to knock you off. But I've had at least a hundred people come to me and go, Jack, will you make me a drink? I go, what do you want? All we just want red line with a different label. I go, I go, we're not going to knock ourselves off. I go, you've got to think of your own. So the same thing would happen to an outside menu. You actually did that. We were going to steal your formula. Yeah. And that's what we weren't willing to give that up. And so we took that slower road. And you know how the supplement industry as soon as somebody comes out with it. Everybody's just waiting like they're reactive. And so we're proactive. We try to stay five, ten years ahead of everybody else. And then in the process, try to at least create a gap between people knocking our products. How many drinks do you produce a year? Many bottles of red line. Well, this year, probably about, bottles of red line probably about 40 million. 40 million bottles of red line. Yeah, so you know the enormity of that number. Mine, Bob Lee. IMean, this is your like probably one of the main, the most used, the most consumed energy drinks on the market. In our world, we are, we're number one in GMC, vitamin Shop, Bally's 24-hour fitness, which is the biggest gym chains and bigus health food store chains in the world. But now and mainstream beverage, all of a sudden, you go from being the top dog to maybe number five or six is the position we're fighting for. Which we want is that elite top three, where there's red bull monster and rockstar. And in some areas, like there's an exon mobile down here, it's really cool because we have 12 facing red line. And between monster and red bull, which are the top two brands, both three billion dollar companies, we have more facing than they do combined. That's not obviously in all stores, but that's how we wanted to be, to compete with the top dogs. It's kind of fun. But you also have the most innolvative formula, most of these other energy drinks, who just caffeine and water. Right, but these guys are powerful marketers and monster does a great job of marketing, so does red bull. And that's kind of what you're fighting against. Is that how you decide to maybe get into, I know you have an indie car now. Is that what made you start getting into a little bit more mainstream America as opposed to just the bodybuilding world? Yeah, you break out, like indie car has 300 million viewers worldwide. About 200,000 go to the race, 2.5 million come to the city that weekend. So, yeah, in order to go mainstream. And then, that gives us the money to do crazy stuff like this, where we can hire more scientists, and we can hire a freaks like John Romano, and probably bring you on board soon. You know, that's an interesting thing you bring up because a lot of people, a lot of companies, they earn money, and they take the money and they buy biGHuge houses and crazy cars. How much would you say if you're profit that you put back into the company? 100%. You don't think anything out of it? I take my salary, which a lot of times in the company for the first 10 years, there was somebody making more money than I was, because I had to have a key individual in. No matter what all the stuff you've seen, you can't ever mistake the fact that your employees, or your number one resource. They're bigger than red line, they're better than red line, they're bigger than VPX. Jack Welch from GE said, if you don't have the bright people on the bus, you can't go to the Super Bowl. This is my nephew Anthony. He was studying to be an MD, just like Dave Palombo here it was, and then he decided to get a life. So you could see what are you doinGHere? I see E. coli, call forms, and L.A. We're sending these out to the micro lab. We were just talking about micro, and it's a really big thinGHere, and a lot of supplement companies don't do their due diligence, and people get sick on supplements, because of that. It costs a lot of money to do it right, put it that way. We're at an nitrogen-extend this shelf life and keep these moisture. The big thing we're always trying to do is extend shelf life for the bar. Very hard to do because it's almost like a bake-good, but you're taking a bake-good, and you're making a shelf stable. So we're always experimenting, shooting nitrogen into the home container. So you could see that's this puffed up, and what that is, that's nitrogen gas in there, and it'll greatly extend shelf life. Let's talk about the HPLC. So we have one here, we have one here. We have another one at the thing these guys keep wanting me to buy more more HPLC machines, high performance liquid chromatography. We use them for several different reasons, tell them why quantitative and qualitative analysis. It's usually used for the essay, for the purity testing, whatever ingredients are on what you'll be at. We have to check it in the right amount, their present, they don't digrates, we check the impurities, and everything in them. All your products are verified by lab and else. Right, and one of the big things we've been working on is an eight-wea stable creatinine, a very difficult thing. And so we created a covalently bonded peptide, we have a 60-page patent on it, but our patent is not a patent just written like a lot of people do. We do the research, we document what we do, so it's a valid patent in the patent and trademark offices, getting strict or in strictor, not only in America, but the European patent trademark and all over the world. So you have to actually have a real valid patent now, they're rejecting a lot of them. Thank goodness, because there's a lot of garbage out there, especially from people in our industry. So this is qualitative analysis, and let's go over to thEQuantitative with this diamond tip machine here. Explain what this is, T-pop. That's the FTIL, what is known as a Fourier trensform in Fred Spectroscopy, what it does is, any of our raw materials, every raw material has a chemical structure having chemical groups and everything attached to it. So what these instruments does, they are less which groups and which atoms are attached to each other. So the end these tell us if there is any impurities of anything present in them. This is just an identification test thing. Your double test. Yes, right. All of you know what that has to go through qualitative and quantitative analysis. You need all this to validate. There's a lot of fraud going on in our industry. We had a guy sell us $500,000 worth of fake courier. We had a very successful product called diatex, a vitamin Shot by 85,000 bottles when they saw the thing on Leslie's stall on 60 minutes. Because we were telling them about it. They didn't believe us. They saw that. They were going to go, how many bottles do you have? We said 85,000. They go, we wanted all of those GNC can't get it. And what happened was, then we got $500,000 worth of fake courier. The product no longer worked. If you would drink this drink or take the pills, you literally couldn't eat for a day. Serotonin was up. You could start swinging punches at my face and I just stare at you because it's like you're on prosack. It's cool stuff. It's kind of strenge how that all works for dieting and keeping your head straight and everything like that. But ruined that product diatex because people go, oh, you got your money back. But big deal, we got our 500 gram back. We had to pull all that product off the market. We didn't have to, but we're very ethical. And we weren't going to let people that were used to getting a great product, you know, before by this. So it costs us a lot of money, set us back another million and a half. But that's life in the big city and the supper world. Okay, we have a bunch of different scales in this place from scales that weigh entire pallets. And so in other words, let's say there's 500 bottles of meltdown on a pallet. We weigh it. We know down to the things. So if the shipper steals a few UPS shippers or FedEx, let's say they take a few bottles of meltdown. We know that when that was shipped out, the weight and how many, if a weighed 500 pounds, let's say, we know that there's exactly, let's say, 1700 bottles of meltdown in there because each one has a specific weight. So those are the huge scales out in the warehouse. But then you come into here and you have super sensitive scales like this one. That you even have to block the AC from coming in because if you get some wind here, let's see. You can see the scale moving just from my hand wave and putting wind on it. And so then you put it in, close it, and then you get your true weight. You see how it's zeroed back out. And then coming around here, we're continuously tasting samples all day every day. We have a rule at VPX, no matter who's here, a billion dollar company can be here like GNC, a quick trip, a vitamin Shop, vitamin world, Walmart, it doesn't matter. Research and development never stops. They are allowed to come into the meeting. Anybody from this lab and tell people to taste samples, test samples or whatever. And be careful. They've, or we'll try to draw your blood. So what is this, Nora? Do you mention Stivia earlier? This is a T were developing sweeteners with Stivia. It has vitamin D, which is fat soluble and omega-3s, which are fat soluble. We water solubleized them. Really cool stuff. This stability of it. Let's see if I can open it. So you'll see there's always stuff. What's stability of it? They're all around here. They accelerate aging. So that you know whatever liquids in there will look like, let's say, in a few years on the shelf. And here are two years shelf stability. Let's see. Got that? This is a mini V blender. Now, V blenders are the only blenders that should be used in the industry for mixing. Why see the V shape? Because it mixes all the powder. What happens with a ribbon blender? You have a big rectangular box and you have this ribbon. And they're used in baking. So the stuff that gets stuck in the corner doesn't get mixed well. And so you have inferior products. You have spikes in product like if you have stimulants in there, then it's like a kilz- Somebody. See the V blenders are the way to go. We use huge ones that are, you know, 1000 pounds capacity but this is the one we use in the lab to get effective mixing. I got a pilot batched model of the water cycle vitamin for the multi-batitamin pack. And this is five kilos and just in the water. Why is it orange? Right, both latent. You follow a gas. No, no. Yeah. Just going to make sure that. Jacket made it. Drink some of that. So show me what you're doing over here. I'm just making sure that the fill weight that I have on paper goes into the capsule. Right. And it's always good to see two because if it's in the capsule because if the water activities too high, I think over 4%, it would actually degrade that capsule in the, it would melt and leak all over the place. This is one of my favorite machines because this validates a lot of this stuff. What these little glass bubbles you see here, there's some of them. They represent the digestive juices in the stomach, the hydrochloric acid, everything like that. So when we put, we'll take a product, let's say some pills or whatever, we'll put it in here, we'll attach this, we'll hook it up to here and we'll dunk it in there and we'll know when this breaks down in your stomach, how long it takes. We tested the number one selling vitamin on the market. It had from zero to 4% absorption. In fact, some of the pills that were in the dissolution baskets after four days, they didn't even break down. Now, what's happening is they're trying to put too much into too little. So when you take a bunch of minerals and you compress them with high heat, basically you're creating a rock. And they pass right through your system. So zero to 4% absorption. So then we took our liquid vitamins and minerals that Lindsey just showed you over there and they have 87 to 94% absorption, which is, you know, unheard of. But we want to actually make it to the truly works. And what we usually do here, and I'm real passionate about this is when there's nothing good on the market. And I go, I got to make something that's actually healthy for us that works and make it to a super high standard. And then, of course, everybody likes it. It costs a little more, but trust me, it's worth it because I think those other vitamins, most of them on the market, actually, make you sick. It costs a lot of acid in your system, if you notice if you ever take them. And to me, it's not about the money. It's about winning and beating out some of these billion dollar companies. We're in a lawsuit with Red Bull, we're in a lawsuit with monster. They tried to slow us down. They do it legally. And it's a good thing that they're showing to people, oh, you should be working. We're not worried because if we didn't matter, they wouldn't pay us mind. But they know, and they try to block us everywhere we go. For example, in Alaska, it's kind of clear. There's a distributor, there's a lot of sell revenues, a lot of sell monster. But both monster and Red Bull, their car drives for the vet, and from selling Redmond. So they're very threatened clients, which is cool. We're sending right now, we're looking to realize the jack and police successful in the back of the vet. Thank you, thanks for coming down, it's great. Thanks for coming to the vet, so be out of great time.

=== FILE: VPX Nutrition Tour- Part 4 [-Ze5K5geY-8].txt ===

We're in the bottling plant now, VPX Redline. We're going to go in to production facility. With the end of the line here, so we're going to start off in the beginning this way. Over there, you'll see both material. It comes in from our other facility at 1600. We'll be going there in a minute. All that material comes in in bulk. It's received out our other facility at 1600, where every bit of it is sampled for quality, control, purity, and potency, and everything on this side. It's tested when it comes back with one of these green stickers, it means this released. It goes from there. In bulk, it's broken down on this side into single packages. It goes on its way to bulk wing, which is over here. So from here, we go into pre-way, which is in this room here, where each component of the formula is weighed on these super high-tech scales. Little buckets containing all of the basic ingredients of all of our products. From that room, you get these containers of components to the liquid mix, which go into this room, into these big mixing vats, where they're combined and mixed, and then put into these big, big, tote containers, we're about 300 gallons. This thing's way about 1500 pounds, so close to a ton of piece. There, samples are taken, of that liquid, back to the lab, tested to make sure they agree with the label on the bottle, and they're brought over here to this staging area, where the complete liquid product is held until it gets one of these green stickers that says it's released. In this case, we are making Triple Berry RTD, which is our red line, red line RTD, Triple Berry Drink, released ready for bottling. Now pretty soon, because we're growing so much, these 300 gallon totes are going to be replaced by these 1600 gallon tanks, and PIPe directly into the bottling facility. Looks like a, like an oil tank, you're almost there. They came from another facility that was making, I don't know, some kind of drink that. Green tea, right? Green tea. How many gallons are those? 1600. So we're going to go from 300 gallon totes to 1600 gallon tanks. Now what do we do with this stuff once? Once it's in the liquid and it's released, it's ready for bottling, and it goes this way. Boxes of our empty plastic bottles are all proprietary molded plastic bottles come in here. They're dumped into this big bat, go up on a conveyor, and they go into here to our bottling facility. The bottle comes down in here, it's a flipped over by that machine. It comes down here, and this thing stands up, whether they're facing this way or facing that way, this little machine will come up and stand them up for the every bottle is standing up on the comes in and all of it. All along the way, it seems a little infrared eye to keep track of everything. So there's our operators know what's going on all of them, and every step of the way. So from there, the bottles come into here, it's going into our labeling, they get labeled first. All of these labels, we've produced in-house in our own graphics department. They're designed, they can strive, and approve right here on law. It's our facility, there's our own labels, they go into this labeling machine up over there, down here, somewhere along the line, there's a whole thing that had a cut to label properly. There's an infrared eye, and every step of the way that tells the machine exactly where the label is in the line, cuts it off, sticks it on the bottle, and it goes down here, presses down and keeps it pressed down, and it goes into the heat-tricking machine. Bottles come out of the heat-tricking machine, and they're all shrunk on the right station tights in the bottle, step over here. Down, go up, and we're just where our watt number, and all of these are important information so we can track the bottles, and sprint it on the label, come through here. This is one of those big 300 gallons of total you saw in the other room, from here, it's PIPes directly into the bottle and machine. So we go into the bottle, go into here, and they go into this bottle into the facility where they're actually filled with the product coming out of that 300 gallons of soap. The nitrogen they cap off, they pump a little bit of nitrogen into the air space and the top of the bottle, nitrogen doesn't compress like air, so when the bottles are in racks or in refrigerators, it keeps the integrity of the bottle and the fact that it doesn't collapse. This machine screws the cap on, and then comes through here in their check. That's a lot of bottles, have any bottles that are pretty cherry-day? We've got 3,000 bottles in our, which trenslates to about 2 million cases a year. Running two shifts. Now we sell the RRTDs come forward to a fact, so they come into this side and this machine is where they're boxed up into our floor facts. The label comes in, the box comes in on this side, we'll suck you up, hold it down, the machine actually folds it, right around the bottle, crimps it together and glues it at the bottom. They come right out here, forward to a pack, nice and secure, ready to shift, they're going to come into here and get, get put into a case, six, six of the pack, six boxes through a case, and then they're shrink wrapped, you can see that machine from through, wrapped the plastic around the top, then it comes in here where they're heat sealed, and they come out all nice and heat shrink. This machine turns them around, orient them, the right direction so the packers can grab them, they're labeled with their tracking number and bar code, the track right here, and right here these guys are actually building a pallet, and they have to be constructed in a certain way so they get the right number of cases on a pallet while retaining the integrity of the cube, because once the pallet is done, it has to end up looking like this, so it fits right on the truck. So you'll see there's spaces in the middle because the number of boxes of cases, the number of boxes in the case, you're not even the equal, the right size of the cube, so we have to construct it so it looks just like that. 13,000 bottles per day, 13,000 bottles an hour, 13,000 bottles an hour, two million cases a year. 13,000 bottles per day. 13,000 bottles per day. 13,000 bottles per day. 14,000 bottles per day.

=== FILE: Versa Gripps Booth at the 2011 Olympia Expo [ujm51ttMYag].txt ===

Alright, I'm over here at the Versa Gripber booth and I stop by your purpose. I'm here with Willah, what's your official title here? I'm one of the owners here. You're the owners. So you're the owners sent me my little gift package, a Versa Gripber booth. Yes, I did, actually. I'm so glad that you loved them. I do love them because you know, it's mostly a lazy factor. I don't like to use those straps that you hooked onto, you have to wrap around the bar and they're always coming off. Yeah, they break in the middle of the heavy set. Alright. How many times have you done heavy deadless and those old straps would break? Well, in the old days, it would happen all the time, but I'm actually very familiar with this one. Well, you also use, well, I live in Maine and they're manufactured in Maine. So I've used these for over, when I was trening, IMean, these go back like 25 years. They have a history, right? Yeah, how did the company get started? We started in 98 and actually, it's a family owned business, my dad owned a gym, and people werecomplaining about lifting straps. And so he said, look to that, he goes, you know, I can make these better. Actually, and he's an inventor, he holds seven patents. He got his name was in Versa, wasn't it? No, he's name is Michael Parker, yes. He actually pated these in an inventor? Yes, he's right there, actually, that's that's it. That's it, that's it, that's it, come over here, that'll be a little bit dead. I didn't know, he was playing coy, I thought he was the clen up guy here, I didn't know. I didn't know the inventor, I'm on, and thanks the camera here. I'm the inventor, he's gettinGHorse and janitor. When you were bodybuilder, or a lifter back in the day? I used to lift him. And so you saw the frustration bodybuilders had with the straight old straps. People, people would come into the gym, which is at a small gym, frustrating, because they hated straps. And I said, you know, I hate straps too. I said, so I went back and back two days later, I came back to him with early prototype. I've goT4 or five other patents. And so I came back at them and they were like, yeah, this is the right angle. So then a number of part of the types later, we've got what we've got. Anything was invented out of Maine, I really didn't, but I'm happy to know that you guys have some production. Yes, we actually manufacture them right in the United States, right in Maine as well. So it's very exciting. Of course, I actually liked them, but I don't think that I use them right, because sometimes they don't fit right. Can you show me how to put these on? Because I noticed you guys have a little barbell set up here, and I know the viewers that they like to see me do stupid things like lift and punch bags like I did before. So I could actually, my shoulders actually function in the deadlift, so maybe you could put them on my wrist. Well, there is a right in the box, and how do you know which is the right? I tell because there's actually a little place for your thumb. So, yes. I never knew that Chris, I've been using these for 15 years. Well, imagine that you may be using them wrong and they're working great. So imagine if you're doing right. And it's a patented product because it stands up in front of your hand. So it's a self-supporting breakfastist. Yes. So I put this on this way. Yeah. So we're going to have a biGHand. So you have a switch, switch hands into my collar. Alright. So they're ergonomically designed to be funnelshape, so that they rest at the base of your hand. Very comfortable, by the way. So it's not going to restrict any of your blood circulation. It doesn't leave those stupid talisons on your hand because it's got padding in there. Exactly. And actually there's a built-in arch support. So it prevents carpal tunnel. I don't even know I had an arch in my hand. It's to prevent. Yes. Just like a feather. It has been not. Exactly. So it stands up in front of your hand. So you time you go to a pulling exercise. You're going to take it and simply wrap it around the bar. And the bar goes down. That way, no. To get the other one on my hand. And then I'm going to try to do some deadlifts with that here and see how it feels. I think I need a new pair. IMight have worn my old ones out. And this is a new camouflage that just came out this week. Oh, I like this. I hope support the military. I know that no one's going to be jealous because she's military. Look at that military. Kamo. There are also available in pink for women. You want paint Chris? No, I don't want paint, but what I do want microphone. I want them to come out for the next pro's versus pros. And maybe they can become a sponsor for the deadlifts competition. You'll be amazed. You'll be amazed at what people live. I'm a little creaky. I'm a little creaky because I have a no. I'll handle the narration. Here's Dave trying to do this. These actually look like small plates. But we have 800 on the bar. 800 rounds everybody. Okay. I should not be taking my speakers off. It's better. They like the thing. You want to just sum up. You want to do a sum of styles? Sum of style or regular style. Yeah, because I like to bring my glue to the whole fellow split my shorts. Because I've done that before. Don't get a buy set. We don't want two buy set here. So one week. That's right. Jay Cutl is enough for one. Here we go. And he's up. One. Two. Two. Your middle two fingers. So your grip is locked on. Look at that. Look at that. He's not even. You're not even. So you think that's very comfortable. Very comfortable. Yeah. You know what you should hold the cuteness. Who can hold the bar the longest like this? Yeah. I would go for Eli Blue Hood. He's in the audience over there. Our grip is our weakest link. So in order to max out our larger muscles. Right. We need the assistance with our grip because that is. We're going to get our first. We owe that. Even Ronnie told and uses grips. And I think I've seen him use a couple of these first grip. I'm so. I love these first grip as well. I think it's a great invention to get that. He should be putting the body building whole faith for this. Exactly. It helps you tren better. Look at people by these things. Are you combined with versey grips dot com. You can also find us on Facebook. You come a fan. So it's versey grips. tren better. Versey grips dot com. The best gripers in the business. I don't endorse just anything. And Chris doesn't just endorse anything. These are great. I hope you guys come on board. Roseverse, pros. If we get everyone wearing these, I bet you they do an extra five reps. Absolutely. Thank you so much. All right. We got more to do. Day polumba with Chris Isido. Our axmuscle dot com. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Vince Taylor on Heavy Muscle Radio with Dave Palumbo - Part 1 of 3 - 12⧸19⧸11 [S2dTwzFwTSg].txt ===

RXMuscle.com! Now you have a place to turn when you want the truth. On bodybuilding diet exercise, up to the minute news and more, is at theRXMuscle.com forum, featuring celebrity Juneais, with IFBB Professional Athletes top amateurs, and the brightest minds in the industry, was into our weekly radio shows, includinGHeavy muscle radio, muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormones, and cast-throwers, and more. Contest coverage videos, even our own social networking site, RXMuscle plays. Visit RXMuscle.com! Every muscle real. Okay, my next guest is the 1992 Arnold Classic Champ, five times master Olympia champ. He's got 23 pro wins in a very long career. Six of those wins came in 1991. He's one of the most upstanding guys in our industry. Like to welcome back to the show, Vince Taylor. Hey, Dave, thanks again. Pleasure to be here. Pleasure to see you this last week, I guess, in Down and Florida there. You made an appearance at the Master's Pro World Championships down there? Yeah, it was in my backyard, so I had to get out of the Mingle again, see what the bodybuilding world looks like. Now, I got to be honest with you. I really expected to see up on stage. How can they couldn't get Vince to get back up there? You know, it's been a long road for recovery, I would say. You know, as you know, the effort my back in 2007, preparing for the miscellaneous Olympia, and it was a lower dis-problem. And it just lingered on until 2008, he shut me totally down until almosT4, I would say three months ago. I hadn't been in the gym, so I was contemplating, trying to get ready for that show when I heard about it early in the year. And I kind of laid it out to myself if I could start trening and really make some improvements, then I would give it a shot just to get, you know, just to try it out there and not, I would guess, pull something like that and knees up a two-word possible because of a Zeechus, was it showing thEQuality I would need to be back on stage at what Amy Reevey? No, it's interesting to you say that because, you know, looking at this well, return to the legend show, I was less than impressed. And in this essence, I was almost a little depressed at some of the guys I saw because they just didn't have the looked at, you know, we were used to seeing when they were back in their heyday. And I guess, you know, we want to see them back on stage, but we really want to see them back on stage with good physics. Is that what in the reason you decide, you know what, I'm not going to show up at this show because I can't be at my best? Yeah, seriously, you know, I'm a bodybuilder at the heart, you know, and the main reason why I was doing the game in the first place was to make some significant changes to my busy. That people will stand up and recognize, taking notice to go, wow, I want to do that, know, whatever it would happen to be. And as you knew that, look, to me, you take the personally, that takes my way, the way it takes me away from the idea of gold, is trying to have something different, and people will recognize and also, you know, it'll give you credit for. And it just wasn't happening with me. And I saw the possibility of not be never to get back to status, but well, then seeing some of the guys on stage, I was like, yeah, tell her, could it result? Then you would split it out there. You know, I know you like to make money just like the rest of us. And you know, they were giving away at least, the minimum you could have made was 5,000, and I'm sure, you know, you would have had a of an appearance fee of some sorts. And then they gave away 5,000 dollars for the best poser awards. I'm sure, in the back of your head, that had to be really bothering you because, to me, I wasn't that impressed with the routines that night. Yeah, after we agreed, you know, the little I did see, and that was from the mountains around the lobby, because I actually I stood out there, I don't tie our time for the pre-judging and the night show. I didn't particularly pay any attention to anything. It was going on. Some of the people came by and said, this guy's doing your routine out there on the stage, but tricky jacks. Yeah. So I kind of laughed, but you're right. IMean, I thought that one thing in this part, you know, my whole interest in bodybuildinGHas kind of diminished the worst from the entertainment factor. And if you're not going to get them, then people just go happy, halfway, do what they want to do. And posing is a dropway way off the map. You think this is a good show, because a good idea for a show, because back in the 92, obviously, you won the Arnold, you won a nice paycheck there. But really, most of these pro shows, they're not giving away a lot of money. This show gave away not only a lot of money, but they give away a lot of money for like best poseer, best comeback award. IMean, did you like what you saw? Is this something that maybe you would like to see continue every year? I definitely would. I think it has its place. It's a fantastic idea. But I think in principle, it's great, but in practice, it's a lot to be desired. The named legends, that's me, was a significant draw to say, wow, the legends represents what caliber of bodybuilder that sets them right here, you're here, then the status of the comeback. What does that mean to come back? Have you been out the game for actually money years? Or have you just been out for a few months now? You just come in back. So there was a lot of things that entitled this show to happen. I love the fact that they boarded out of me. A lot of people are happy. But I just think they really need to do it. Next time I think Jocca will, is to settle down and put some ABCs on each one of the levels that they're going to be suggesting to the audience that we're going to be awarding. So to make it fair to the guys, even competing, and participating in the event. To some people, look to me, on my Facebook page, I have people like, well, you're trying to diminish texture jacks as wind because he'd be to mold the guys. It's not what I was saying. You know, age groups 40, 50, 60, keeping competitive. That's me was a bit of better way to go about the net and one pot of all players. And when I heard that day, when I was first suggested, I do the event. My first question is, Jocca was, are you having a division of classes? She said no. And we're right away, I knew I wasn't going to be part of it. Interesting. That's an interesting point you bring up because there was a lot. There was 240,000,000 prize money to give in money. When you're saying, if you want to have a real legends return, you got to put it on an even playing field because you're in your 50s, you can't compete with some of these guys that just turn 40. IMean, good as you are back, you know, that you still have injuries to deal with and your bodies getting older. IMean, if you would have had the deal with the 50, the over and then this guys that were 16 over, they could have split up the prize money is what you're saying. You would have got a bigger draw probably. A much bigger draw. And the guys would have felt morecompetitive. And I think the whistling winds of your day have gone by is when, and personally, myself in 19 and 2007, you know, stand on stage in a rather city at the math side. Or at my back, but I went to the event anyway. And when you're standing on stage on 50, okay, 51, and now in the guys that 40 will participate in the show, even though my back was hurt, I knew I had enough artillery to fight some guys off, but it couldn't bring it to the show. So I'd 50 out of been very competitive. For being 50 and injured and not bringing my foot, you're standing out there on the winds. My car the hallway winds blowing through the auditorium, and there's seven guys in the middle going through comparisons. And the wake of call for me was, wow, you know, your day has come now. You know, you got one fan out there in the yard, he's going, hey, keep your go on, Vince. So you know, it's like, okay, the right moment is time to get off at that stage. And that's what happens, you know, it's so hard. A lot of the fans that we've been through a day, and they know you, they know me. I was doing a lot of damage at 40, 45. You weren't? IMean, come on at 50, I'm top 11 in Olympia. I'm beating some of the very guys on the math station, at top seven, okay. But now, for me, he's ready, after even after an injury, had 55 and toppled someone on 42s and 43s and the free men's and dexterists. I don't have enough artillery equipment. And do you, um, do you find depressing some tests? I always wonder how people each bodybuild the deals with, as they get older in the injuries. The ability, you know, the limitations that sometimes are imposed on you, do you get depressed when you look back or do you say these stuff? You know what, I had one of the most successful bodybuilding careers of anyone. And I got, and I got nothing to prove anymore. Well, I, I both, you know, I get depressed for the, the mere fact that I wanted to do our with back-offs. You know, I, when IMet out with back in the days, he was 50 plus and he was dangerous on stage, until I told myself, then, pastor, deaf to guy, you got a follow-up longevity. And as I was going through the sport, and I was doing quite well. And then I failed to get the recognition that I always thought I deserved. So I was like, you stay out there alone and nothing can write your own story. So by doing the masters, you know, that recognition still didn't come. So when I injured myself, what the five years off, and I, I wasn't finished day, that's what brought me back. It was like, you know what, you can do this. Try it again. And at 50, you know, IMade a follow-up after the Olympia and top 11. So 207 is like, hey, I'm for real. I'm a two-distro. Right. I heard my back and I was like, well, now when I stand back and look at it and go, man, I wish I could do that. Hey, now that's four and a half years later, my back is like, yes, 65, 70%. You know, I'm going back out there, but on the different rules, you know, 2012, the Benstale is going up in Stale, it'll just be good to me posing tour. You know, starting in Europe, I got a chance to go back to Berlin's Germany. May the fifth, 28 years later, after one my very first show, around that stage, you've been that posing fall. So that's my tour of team. Just be good to me. I'm launching it in Berlin. Excited about that. I'm now in the gym trening for that. And I'm just thinking I got a chance to recreate the Benstale acquire storm wind. So that takes off. That's going to be good. Is there a competition on the scenario in the long run? I don't think so. And they're done that. Really? Okay. Well, I thought you were going to be the George Formans. You're going to come back and win one more. And then we would see a grill or something like that. And we did it. It would be fantastic. But that's for the fact I'm going to play it by ear. But when I'm going to cry, I think when the clouds blow over and the sky is clear, up, you know, when you're standing there, if the physique does not look like an output beckled at 60, almost 11, you know, then there's no way that it doesn't look like mine, even to its improvements could match some of the talent, quality, young lions today. You know, I could shock a few rope and still. But you know, there would just be rope and made it back. You know, maybe 10, for 11. But what about if they made the divisions? Like you said, like they did A-50 and over. They gave 10 grand out plus A-5000 best pose or a word. Would that be something that would entice you back? If my, if I knew the back would stand out, it would be on right, Flint or part 3 of Instaille of Story. Let me dig it. You do all good story. Even though, you know, people, some of the people who listen to the show know everything about you, you know, and then this is the people who don't know that much about you. Obviously, when I was first starting out, that's when you were winning the alarm classic. So to, IMean, I know everything about you. What was, what was the most memorable win for you? Was it the masses Olympia wins, the Arnold win? Which one stands out in your mind as the best? Um, that is a real good question. So right in the book right now, in any way called, it's tail of a quiet storm, my life story, and body building it out flat, body building. That was things will be in that book as well. But if I tried to recan on any one given show, because there was so many victories, one was just a sweetest the other. But um, I kind of want to just, I don't really, I got to say um, wow, the IAPB Mr. Berlin show, you know, the first thing I want. You did that. That was a turning point. Remember that then. Oh my gosh, he was such an exciting day to get to the event with two car wrecks and five minutes time sitting in the front row of the audience, just watching the show go on. Hey, my class will stay. He looks sitting in the front row of watching. Well, the most interested in the class. I had, I got up on one backstage and I asked the guys and we got with Harwin Pinstanoff, and he said, where are you? Right here. He said, look, that means D&E's able to listen. You can go home now. Your class is already on stage. I'm like, what? He said, or you can compete with the heavyweight, which my friend and good friend of mine to this very day. He was in the heavyweight division and he was helping me learn bodybuilding. Most is the end. Don't worry, Johnson, he's up there in Orlando area. And we're taking it. You know, I got in his class, you know, and I won. I have his new one. I want to have his. Wow. So that was the start of. You know, you're in the right, in the right, it's one at that point. Right. I thought so. In 1991, he had six pro wins, which might be a record. I don't know if they were ones. Six shows in one year. What were you thinking doing all those shows? Was that just the way people did it back then? IMean, because nowadays, to get guys to do two shows, you think that you were pulling, you were pulling, nothing else out of their hands. And what if it's so true? Because I always knew my placing. And back in 1991, when I saw how that, you know, the lineup was going on, who was dominant in the game, the game, your course. And there as well, it was one of those games to where on the tour. And if somebody didn't show up, or if you continue to compete, there's money to be made. So when we got the Olympia, when I got top three, again, it was like, wow. So going on the tour, I'm the guy to beat. Right. And then I started looking at 10 grand each show. So I'm thinking, hey, how much they ain't shaping? We go to country, the country, the country. I don't need the bankwits. I don't need none of the food. Well, I need to do it. Get them out. I don't tell a room. Put them a little early on. Go take a run, hit the slana, and be ready for the next show. And I was consistent doing that, and just knocked them down. Like, golf. But you know what, like, every two days weren't they? The shows are every two or three days. Every two or three days. We will be in one country to the next. We'll compete in Spain, next thing you know, you're in Russia, then you won the Germany. IMean, we're all all the place. But it was beautiful.

=== FILE: Vince Taylor on Heavy Muscle Radio with Dave Palumbo - Part 2 of 3 - 12⧸19⧸11 [8Yd0UmiH3T0].txt ===

you won the Pittsburgh pro. You did the Olympia you took third. Oh, actually, did the Iron Man before the Arnold you're fifth there. You did the third of the Arnold at the new one, the Pittsburgh. You with third at the Olympia and then you went on and you did one, two, three, four, five, six, six European Grand Prix tours. You came in the second in England. What happened there? Let me tell you what happened there was really good story. A lot of people put the nose up in there and went to here, but I'm going to tell you because I have to take one over the other one. How did you know that one? I came into Dorian's front yard and Albert Beckles to this day. We just laughed because I was knocking these shoulders off and I was really happy. So at the end, I blamed him to Wayne Demolius as to me. When you go on an England now, you know, we're going to Dorian's, when he put it, we want to Dorian Country. So I looked at Albert, and Albert looked at me and said, I said, Dorian, we're going to Dorian's Country said no, Vince, you're going to Dorian's living room. Because just for a point of interest, Dorian wasn't Mr. Olympia yet. He had just lived in the New York. But 92, he won the first one and, and, uh, St. Kiddany. Well, I was in the best of my eye. He definitely won that one. But in 93, he was definitely the winner. He was sitting back where you put the company. No, he was second at the Olympia that year. That was the last Haney victory. Okay, but good then. That was another wrap. Should have won that thought I did win that. A lot of people thought I won that. I got another stand-in-golfation behind the posing. When I was able to look at the scores at the end, of course, my whole conception of bodybuilding was three rounds, muscularity, there's a shape round, of course, as a posing. Well, Dorian got the muscle, like, I got a more shape, and I know Dan really can't beat me poses from up to the one, but it didn't ever come. I like that. I never want to pose you round and bodybuilding. Yes, that, you know, I always asked that to, because I always wondered how somebody's really good poses lose the posing round. IMeant I found that they don't really pose score the routine. They just can take another validation of scoring. That was, I think that's why they got rid of it, because they never really had a good method of scoring, and people just couldn't understand that the best poses were placing number one, number two, and I went through it, I kind of think. That was disappointing, because that was my game plan. You got to sit down with every show that I went on, I used that thing formula. Whenever guy had mashed up with, and it didn't seem to matter unless it was the guy that was above you. If it was anybody below you, those same determination I had, one, two, three, round, that's the way it came out. It's just never, you never want to beat the guy who was posing, who was the head of you. IMean, do you got perfect scores and posing? Come on. Right, IMean, it's kind of wacky. Actually, it was really wacky. It was in 92. You won the Iron Man, the Arnold, the Pittsburgh pro, and then you was six at the Olympic. That one I never understood either. What happened that year? My Olympia is, we're all, I gotta tell you, my Olympia became personal. Every time I went to Olympia, something was not going to be right, and I don't know what it was, you know, I always looked away with two different looks at times in the Olympic came around, but you know, something always came up to this very day. I don't know, you know, did I deserve it properly? What happened to your head of the iPad, John? What the heck, thank you for asking me. A lot of people have asked me that, and I forgot the story. I don't even know the story. Let me, let me beat a person. I think goodness that you were, you bring that up to you, because a lot of people don't understand it, and sometimes when you're flipping online and you see somebody's fit the comments and different blogs about this person, this person, oh yeah, have been sending the iPad, you know, this figure, and this is that what actually happened was, my wife and I, when we got on the plane headed to help think he, as you know, we just had the hurricane down here, hurricane Andrews down in Florida, just put a new home, so trening and concentration was all screwed up. But when we got on that plane and we headed over to help think he, as soon as we made it to the airport, we landed and I stood up and opened over head, and the pick-out take my luggage down, and I always cared a plaque, a long-strap, a sports bag, like most did, and the strap that goes over your shoulder, that little patch area. It was, when the top of the bag, when I flipped up the cabin, I was opening it up, that flap tumbled out. It just swung down and it swung back and smacked me straight in the eye. And for a minute, there it was like, wow, such a strap right down in my seat at home, my eye, and it was like, whoa, so my wife, of course, he has so much longer said it's strap, you know, hit me in the eye. And by the time we got off the plane, my eye was just burning like crazy, you know, I couldn't blink it, we got a luggage, we were on our way back to the hotel, and I was telling my wife, is there something in my eye? She kept looking, she says, no, absolutely not. I said, it's got to be something in my eye, because when my eye lets come together, it burns like crazy. So it just got worse and worse, hour to hour. By midnight that evening, I was sitting up in a cheer, a little decline. I couldn't blink my eye, I had set there with both the two fingers, my thumb and my next finger, hold in the eyelets open for they would not close on that one area, because it was just too squishy and pain. We wound it up going through the emergency roll late that night, about two, three o'clock in the morning, the doctor gave me some kind of drops, I could put in my eyes, it's got like gasoline, you said, listen, I think you have a slight tear when you're cornering. Oh boy, okay, and what I think you need to do is be very careful, take these drops and we'll see what happens in the morning when you come back. So we rotted my way back to the hotel, and IMind you, we're in Helsinki, Finland. My wife is going around the city trying to find some birth aid. Not aromasingle member of the IAPB came to the room to check on me except with Jim Manjut after, maybe that next morning, the whole entire day after, which I'm sitting in a house. I had a physician on staff for something like that. I was saying that's the same area when my mum or Beno's easing went down to. Oh, really? The following show. So speaking of having some sort of overzeal, going on in this game didn't happen. And we said, and I said my life and I said, you set with me in that room, and I'm tying it for two days. I didn't even sleep. And then when I finally had another physician come to my room, which was mid part through the second day, he gave me some ice drops. And he told me I can use him twice a day. Don't need twice a day. It's going to numb the eye, which was fantastic. He put him in my eye, David. It was beautiful. Man, I could close my eyes. Oh my gosh, sort of first thing I did, you're here for the Mr. Olympia. You need to go do something because these guys get ready, carbon, not doing whatever they need to do the lasT3 days. And you just spent one and a half days fitting in the chair, holding the eyeball. So you weren't eating nothing? I wouldn't do anything. The thing I had me nailed to it here. IMade myself, I got those drops in and worked instantly. I was so happy. I eat them as it elapsed about 30 minutes. I didn't really pay attention to that. So I just told my wife, come on, let's go put on my routine mind, put my baggies on, we got on on the little tren of shot straight to the gym. Did the bicycle about 20 minutes? And somewhere about 20, 25 minutes that I started to slightly irritate it. Oh well. And man, let me tell you, we walked out of that gym and that thinGHit me because of those drops of water 30 minutes in about 10 seconds. And it was like it happened all over again. I literally walking down the street, buckle my knees, my wife, grandma, and the doctor had placed a patched over my eye. A big old white girl with some tape. Oh man, yeah, we just know what's happening. So I go back to the hotel and I'm talking to Wayne and I'm trying to win for me for Wayne. And I'm like, I can't go on stage, just patch on my eye. So can I wear sunglasses? Wayne looks at me and says no, because they're props. It's right. Oh my god. So what did I do? We went to the pharmacy. We found an eye patch, but the patch is self-induced. The rubber elastic around the patch with her elbow to patch so closely to my eye that my eyebrows were present to the eyeball. And that would just create this sensation of painting again. So I had a pack and gloves around my eye patch. And stuck it on my eye just to keep the distance, so I can literally see. I don't want eye. And that's what I was doing. I had one eye vision for those two to the last two days, even on stage trying to compete under those conditions. That's the direction to stress in the cortisol levels that we brought me through the roof because of all this. It was ridiculous. You saw my physique. It wasn't what I wanted to bring to health thinking the first place because it was stress. And it certainly wasn't anything I could correct when I was there and having that injury to my eye. What's the later after we finished the contest, the doctor told me, I think you need to go back to where you came from, which is a US because your eye could be infected or get more infected. And you could lose an eye. So we jumped on the tren and went back to Berlin. Got some attention in Berlin. That was in that story, but I hated to this moment when I see people write some garbage about weapons. We're faking and looking at him. I'm thinking, oh, but you never suppose to take serious what you're eating. I don't know what a fierce competitor you are. First of all, you were never a guy who showed up at a shape. You were never a guy who felt like fake and or pull like what Flex Wheel it did with the ninja but it's done. You and that wasn't you. They don't know that you were serious when you competed. You never exactly. But if you know how much you mentioned, that was exactly one of the captures I won get big and I was from top clips through which I can't stand up. Yeah, it's amazing. It was garbage. It means the starter off is being an inlet to a body but like wow, they got to hijack by some. I will leave it at that but it's something that I don't even consider. I didn't go negative. But they said the same thing. Vince Taylor's eye patch, Flex Wheel is ninjas. What else is a bodybuilder? I'm going like a fine this guy. I didn't know what happened. So you know I'm glad that you told us the story because I knew I've seen you compete. You're very, very serious when you're at shows and you take it seriously. It's never flipping to you or anything like that. That's why you know, it is and we could call like it is because when you see some of these masters guys on stage remind me of watching a Van Der Halley feels who's still trying to fight at what I was 50 years old. You're like man this guy was a warrior. He beat him as something the best back to the whole time Mike Tyson and Riddick Bow and Lennox loose and then you see you know him losing to like these journeymen. It's almost like it's kind of pathetic in a sense. And that's the wind blowing food or a toy about to it you're about when you're standing on stage or somebody's going get a strong wind. You're about to know who's going to die and say it out there. But you know what IMean? I would like to see maybe she should hold a return of the legends but don't don't judge it on how you look maybe judge it on your posing routine. See who can come over the most creative posing routine of some of the best poses of the whole time you know. I think that will be a good initiative. And at the same time bring back your look. Okay, how close can you resumble to look that you had making some sort of goal to reach. Just don't compare it to somebody 15 years your younger and put your on stage and say, okay guys go at it. Right. Well you know, they had this best comeback award which I thought was a good idea when I first heard about it they would he should give at $20,000 for the best comeback award. IMean that's way more than most persons first place versus and shows. And I was led to the belief that there was going to be voted on by the legends like the guys like yourself and Dorian and Ronnie and all the all the top guys were supposed to vote on this. From what I understand that's not the way it worked out. And I was a little myth. I don't know if you were by the fact that they gave it to a guy Bill Wilmore who was a real nice guy but he he was a guy who placed third last year in a pro show in Qual5D Olympia. I didn't really know what the comeback was all about. Did you? Well let me answer that because I had gotten an interesting message on Facebook from a friend of mine who happened to be well we're not sure like from Germany. Okay, and Roland was in the show and he was very upset that he didn't win the best comeback award and he fired me at email and he said to me, Vince I don't know if you guys got you by both ears or what but for these guys to vote this guy for the best comeback when I gave my all and he went to the oldest there and he was going and I'm thinking okay why you tell him this and he says to me how could you justify voting for him? I'm thinking what are you talking about? I didn't go for anybody so he came back to me so yes you did I have a letter here from Sean Raidus said that all the legends including Vince Taylor voted for Bill Wilmore. Well let me let me free This for you right away okay before you say something that you don't understand number one I had nothing to do with the event I said in the lobby I didn't ever I watched five minutes of the pre-judging and left did not see any of the evening show I would stay about 30 minutes and left for somebody to say I judged a show totally lying so now he was apologize to me I think he fired a letter back to Sean he's all up that could be new he should have won I'm not a D I don't know but I certainly didn't appreciate my name being in the negative that was shading I both told you I don't have to do it we asked a couple other the legends there and and no one that I know have actually voted for anyone so I don't know where they came up with Bill Wilmore like I said once again those are nice guy and everything but I actually probably would have voted for Roll and Joe luck because the guy missed 11 years in the gym he didn't tren for a lot of years and then he in one year he came back I guess she had the jarca had contacted him one year prior to the tren for one year and I thought you know he didn't look like he didn't back when he competed but he certainly probably the you know the best condition guy on stage and he gave an effort you know and that's how the most of your men's do you know they go a whole blast and he was really upset but I'll think that's come back as about it's about someone who is out of the game and Kate made a comeback IMean you could have technically won that too if you had come back and look right you know my thing is this what happened I believe by name jaca had a fantastic idea but I believe by association to the health that she was getting I would like to say that she probably got led down that roll to have this particular event and this is how we're going to do it I don't believe she put those criteria forward and that person who put those criteria forward will actually probably move this show right along it took ready for a lot of the shows pro pro progress I believe you can point a thing of that way but she rules me next year like I told you he called the legends promoted by jaca and then's Taylor okay I'll be there to polls and we can make sure we got the rules and regulations right you can say Sean Ray had some some playing this uh real good time to post a guy

=== FILE: Vince Taylor on Heavy Muscle Radio with Dave Palumbo - Part 3 of 3 - 12⧸19⧸11 [orJzr1w8Bto].txt ===

He has a microphone, has a TV, not a TV, but the video can be behind. He's got a lot of credentials pushinGHim. So I believe a lot of influence I'm shown on the how to be very influential for a Jocca to take on. Nothing too downrated about that. So all the efforts that were made may have been slightly more extended and a Jocca was probably running to do. And then I have a total contrary of what she was going to do. I could be wrong, I don't even know. But you know, this little bit of Sean's been a prince on there somewhere. He helped him up. You know, I'm on this no opportunity like that. Definitely not. So when there was money involved on his part, you know, I, because when I originally heard about the best comeback award, the best pose award, I said to my, the first person's name. I'm not saying this because I have you on the show. The first person's name who came to my head was Vince Tell. I'm like Vince could actually leave this place with 30 grand in this pocket and come in last place because the title you went anyway because I knew you. The best comeback was definitely had your name written on it. The best pose had your name written on it. And you're going to get five grand anyway for just appearing. So I was surprised. And I knew that there had to be a reason. That's why I wanted to get in the show. Find out what happened because you could have gone home with a nice little, a nice checking your hand. It would have been appreciated. IMean, Tom, I'm a pretty tough. So, um, then again, you know, you know, we're not really looking for that. Quality anymore. The size of my boy, I love it. You know, and I'm just going to be doing this. And never own talk on a radio show one day, right? And they were covering the fact that, uh, never own beats me out with all most professional wins in body building. And I'm wrong. What? I said none of my Kevin was always heard. Okay. He was second and then he went to third. The Ronnie Coleman, you know, lead frog me. You haven't never heard of him. He was a little bit like a little bit like a little bit like a little bit like a little bit. You haven't never tied me and went never ahead of me. So when I brought that to Sean's attention and he passed it on the cap and Kev came back to me and said, well, yeah, Vince, when I come, when I'm counting the master wins, we just count the old and clap wins. What? Yeah, I'm going to like you want to try anything to get a place in history. I said, the record book says, the Guinness Book of War record book says, Vince, teller the winning touch of body building. It's both wins. Okay. Didn't say, Master's versus this is the professional wins. So I tried to, I tried to play to come up and listen. When the master's come and when texture wins, tell texture that win don't count on his record. Okay. Well, but just try to tell me. You're right because you know what, the the master's win is impressive is the as the regular win because of the fact that you're still competing at that age. You know, I think I've been a Sean. You know, we just have to record straight on that when my brother, my soul machine from Maryland like myself homeboy, you're still number three. That's right. And he's at an age where you were still competing and winning shows. So IMean, if you were to get back up there and then they, you know, start. That's what I tell him. You know, if you win, yeah, you know, Flex, we're going to put it to me very lovely one day. You said, Vince, man, I just turned 40 when he did. He said, I can't believe that you were kicking our butts at 40. And I can barely get to the gym now. Okay. So I was under statement that I said, that needed highlight because somebody didn't put on realized that, but, you know, I don't get credit for it. Why don't you come back and get old when you when you won the Arnold class. I can't even come back and get old when you won the Arnold class again, 92. Um, 40. Oh my gosh. No, it's 30. Hi, 30. You almost 40 years old. Yeah, I really did. 30, not almost 40. Crazy. Crazy. Crazy. I'm crazy. I did it 27 years old and bodybuild. I started a little later. Yes, you did. I had two shows. I had the Berlin stuff. And then I had the nationals. And then I went pro. Okay. You actually competing so far back, Mr. Miracle. I knew I knew I think you were in the class. I think 86, but my very first introductory to bodybuilding. I wanted to be Mr. America. And I did the AAU, Mr. America. And I won. You know, then from that point on, it was, what are the national? Right. And then I went to compete in the national. You won the 88, passels. Yeah. So fourth in the, and I had to go my Bicep in 86. So it was like, 85. I'm sorry. And I was like, wow guys, I've been out for a whole year. I've been here at the national. Getting four place. Well, next year when I can tren the whole year, you're loving me. And I came back and won the whole world championship. Yeah. That was pretty amazing when you did that. Well, you're always a class. Now, what's, let's go through what's going on. Because I know you got a lot of stuff going. You got, you're doing the tour starting one in Europe. We're going to be kicking that bad boy. Hopefully I'm going to put some bookies before the feeble, which is going to be April 19 this year. So, I think I have given myself enough time to get back on the bandwagon. So we're booking everything from April until May. And right now, we just have Berlin. I just put it out there and Berlin jumped on it right away. So we're trying to fill the dates. So before the feeble, I wish really after. I think that we should also put it out there because there might be a lot of United States, you know, promoters that are looking still for guest poses. And I'm sure of you and me in shape. You wouldn't mind guest posing the United States. Would you? A little bit of an exact thing. I'll play it on the beginning. This is my second one. I'm going to go to the stage right now at 55 years old at the league that people go like, wow, he's in shape. He looks good. He's old school and he's back. You know, so that's my gift back to my game. I'm going to make one recommend. The first of all, I'm going to say that anyone who hasn't seen Vince Taylor in person posed, you got to do it. You got to go check him out. Especially if you're going to do something the United States. Secondly, my recommendation to you is, is to come up with something new as far as the posing routine and updated. And something's going to knock these guy socks off to show them that you don't have to go back to the stuff you used to do. I want to see a new routine because I know you're very creative and you got to skill set to do stuff that's going to wow people. Because when you did that terminator routine, everyone copied it after that. You got to do that later with that one. And 12 years strong. IMean, and it's still going to today. And to me, you know, honestly, that was like a one-hit wonder. You know, it was like, how do you top that? You know, you got to hit record. How do you top that? I have some things up. I'm asleep. Don't give me wrong. Like, oh, we owe promotions. But it might cost a little money to put it on that each event. So you haven't seen nothing yet. All right. And what else is going on? Do you have any products you're selling? And you supplement companies you're up to selling? Anything other than that? Right now, I have a great friend of mine. I'll make an a big push to break. Creative, instale a line. We're going to break it out and Brazil. Okay. Next year. So that's the best. Really heavy on the list right now. You know, I'm on entrepreneur. And I still got my exercise band. So I got some companies interested on and off on and off. So I'm still trying to do that. And that's some of the things that I have already been on the table with me. I'm doing my book, as I said, thEQuiet storm. I'm writing it. What's trying to do? Right. You called thEQuiet storm. Why do you call yourself that? It was two things. I associated myself with one of the best boxes in the world that I adjusted my and IMet a couple of times in Washington, fight as well, which is Roy Jones. Roy Jones, Jr. History is song. He put out at the same time. I did the masters. He was just a main for the story. I thought mine. He got screwed up in Seoul career. Would it go in metal in Olympia? It's not going to screw up on a lot of gold. Mellows myself. He was knocking blank blank blank in the dirt. But the same time, I'm knocking down a lot of contests and titles as well. But it couldn't get to respect for it. So when he said in that song, he put, y'all must have forgotten. I put him up. I'm gonna say he's looking at the last week. We'll put it back on tomorrow. Y'all must have forgotten. There he says, I'm like that quiet storm. I just keep on waiting. And I keep on coming. And I'm like, you know what? That's me. Because every time I look around and a contest, it comes up, I don't make a lot of noise. But when it's time to compete, that quiet storm is rolling in. And I'm going to keep on coming. I'm going to keep on raining. And you still dangerous. They're still dangerous. They're still dangerous. Quiet storm. Vince always applies to the talk to you. Thank you. Thanks for giving us some insight. And catch Vince tell this spring. He's going to be up on stage. Guess, Poison? Hopefully in an area close to you. Then you go. I'll be back. All right. Thanks, Vince. See ya. Love you. Thank you, buddy. If you muscle radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. To the next week at the same time, for another round with Dave Pullabbo, only on heavy muscle. Really.

=== FILE: WENDY FORTINO'S BREAKTHROUGH MOMENT？ Muscle in the Morning (7⧸2⧸18) [MwviFCU2lKM].txt ===

Wake up everyone, it's Monday morninGHere at Muscle in the Morning and I'm Day Palombo and today is Monday July 2nd, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. One of the hardest things to do in sports and business is trying to climb your way back up to the top after you've already been there. And come next weekend, we'll all get a chance to see if Autumn Swanson is ready to climb back up to the top when she makes her season debut at the Chicago Pro. Remember it was only two years ago that we saw her come in to this very same arena and come out with a win after putting together what might have been the best look of her career. Even if it's better while since we've seen her hit that peak at the end of the day, Autumn Swanson is one of the only few women ever to call herself a fitness international champion. And when you've got that sort of round sitting in your chamber, you're never really more than one show away from putting it out again and reclaiming what's rightfully yours. You can look like a boss, you can talk like a boss, but if you end it a day, if you are now there putting in the work, then you really can't call yourself a boss. Just in case you aren't sure, let me make this abundantly clear for you. Jessica Reyes Padilla is most certainly a boss. Over the weekend, the figure star released a clip from one of her latest shoulder trening sessions, where she gives her fans a sneak peek at what kind of boss moves she's been pulling behind the scenes in this latest Olympia prep. All intense and purposes, JRP is in the midst of having one of the best seasons of her entire career. And if she stays in this groove, she has a legitimate shot to be one of the real surprises of the Olympia weekend when it's all set and done. Saturday night, somebody tried to convince me to watch the new 4 movie on Netflix, but because I have no time to even time I choose, I figured it was probably a better idea to just whip out my phone and stalk Patrick Moore's Instagram feed instead. The former USA Super Heavyweight champ has been absolutely killing it in the gym over the last month or so, which tells me he's doinGHis due diligence to get his improvement season off to a good start, even though we didn't quite get the placinGHe wanted in his debut with the New York pro back in May. You can see that this guy has a ton of raw talent to work with already. And as long as he's willing to keep working on his craft, it'll pay dividends a few years from now when we see him seriously starting to compete for some major titles. Kevin Sports betting is legal, it's important to remember one thing for all you want to be degenerate gamblers out there. You never win money betting on the favorites. And if I was in the market for a value bet at this Olympia weekend, IMight think about putting down a friendly wager on women's physique superstar Danny Castillo. A few weeks after her huge win at the Toronto pro, which she was completely dominant from wired to wire, one of the most underappreciated stars in the division, does it look like she's missed a date? When she's firing on all cylinders, Danny Castillo can be an absolute force of nature. So if she can get herself in the right group, she's more than capable of making it to the first call out where all of a sudden she becomes a whole lot more dangerous. Listen, take it from someone who's better bride's made more times than I can remember. When you're up there on that bodybuilding stage, there's no more bitter sweet feeling in the world than the moment you hear your name announced in second place. But when you're literally only a few points away from winning, one of the biggest shows on the calendar, in back to back seasons, I can only begin to imagine how figure icon Wendy 14 oh must be feeling right now. A little more than a week away from trying to shake her second place curse on the Chicago pro stage, 14 oh in our team, seem like they're heading into the weekend, pretty damn confident about what they're bringing to the table this year. To a credit 14 oh's proven on more than one occasion that she's about as tough as they come in the division. So if this finally ends up beinGHer year, I can all but guarantee you that you'll look back on this win as being the sweetest one in her entire career. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day polimbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter.

=== FILE: WESLEY VISSERS： THE NEXT BIG THING？ [Wut7F-7sBBI].txt ===

Welcome back to R-AX Muscles. I rode to the Olympia 2018. I'm Dave Palombo and it's brought to you by RedCon1. Today's guest, Classic Physique, Pro Champion, Inchecago, and now going to his first Olympia at the Young Young Age of 25 years, Wesley Visitor's welcome back to the show. Thank you very much. I'll just have to be here for the second time. Yeah, that's pretty good. I don't get many people back for a second interview so quickly. But you seem to be a topic of a lot of hot debate out there. A lot of people really very high on you. IMean, the last time we talked to you, I just turned pro. Now you're going to the Olympia. You won your first pro show. There's people that hate you for doing that. There's people that love you and think the physique is great for the sport. How are you taking all this in? Well, I've always been quite confident in my ability to win shows, but this has gone even quicker than I thought myself. Because at the beginning of this year, I was nothing and never even competed at the NPC. And now I'm going to the Olympia standing at the best in the world. So to even accomplish that is just absolutely amazing to me. And to be able to stand there is just, it doesn't matter what anyone says. I'm just very happy to be there and to prove myself up there. Well, everyone always says I just interviewed Sergio O'Leave a junior and everyone gave him that his same advice. For the first Olympia, enjoy the journey, enjoy being there. I just have fun with it like you're in Disney land because after that, it's a lot of work. Because then you go in a win after that, you know? Oh, yeah, for sure. Then I know exactly what I need to work on. Yeah. Now, you know, like I said, I think a lot of people get excited about your physique. Because you have that Arnold like appearance. You emulate a lot of his poses on stage. People see the resemblance obviously to your physique. But a lot of people don't like almost like, you know, mad that you're doing so well. So, you know, so quickly, does the negative, because you know what happens is once you start achieving things, you get a lot of negative people to come out in addition to the people who are positive. Does that affect you at all? Does it, do you read all the comments and get upset when people don't, you know, give you praise or they might put you down? No, I don't really get upset because I still am kind of, I'm not sure why, but every time the top five of the Olympia of the classic G.C. is mentioned, I'm usually in the top five by any video that I watch. So to be in that top five just feels, you know, it feels unique to be there already, even though I've never been on that stage, not once, ever even been there. But I noticed that after I won the loyal Roman London pro in March, there was no negativity at all, because I just turned pro. But when I want to pro show actually competing against pros, then I did get more negativity. And I think it's because then there were a lot of people who were already trying several times to actually get a pro win. And then I come all of a sudden and win the show. Well, some people think I did in the survey because I lack some parts for the class in deraping and about in my opinion, the judges put me first for a reason. So I do think that judges do want to see that shape. Right. Well, I thought when I looked at the pictures, I wasn't there, obviously, but I looked at pictures for pre judging you, you were very, your tan wasn't good. But forget the pre judging for a minute and forget the tan. When we saw you come back at night, you had a good polish tan on. When I look at the top five line up, all I see is you. It's like my eyes go right to your physique, as you stick out so much from these other guys. These other guys look like bodybuilders and you just look like something else. You look like Arnold standing up there to me. And I think that that's, that makes a huge impact on the judges when you have a physique that just stands out like that. Yeah, that's true. It's not really something you can go in a gym and tren is something that you either have or you don't. So when you have it on stage, you really should do your best to present it. I'm, I'm a very fortunate to even look slightly like Arnold. So using posters like his with a statuette that I have really brings an advantage to the stage. For sure. Do you work on those poses a lot like in study, you know, how Arnold hits him in stuff? Yeah, I do. I really what how he does his poses in pumping iron and even in the 1980 documentary. How he trens the posing and actually performing those poses myself. I notice how difficult they are. That's why I almost no one does them because it's very difficult to hit them just right. Right. Thanks a lot of practice, but if you do hit them right, they look awesome. You might. Who has worked with you on, on helping to perfect how you execute these poses? Well, mostly the Arnold poses I do myself just by studying, just watching the video, putting it on slow motion because YouTube does have that function, putting it on like 0.25 slow motion to, I can really see them moving that Arnold does in the videos. But there's also the owner of the gym that I tren at, it's a very good pose for himself. So IMake the routines together with him. His name is Peter von Drünen. And he trened a lot. I'm actually doing posing lessons from him. And it's going to be an awesome routine for sure because this time it's going to be three minutes. So it's going to be awesome. Now, when you watch the, look, I've seen pumping iron so many times. I could act out all the scenes myself. Now, you're studying it for actually how to actually execute the poses. Do you actually, like, can you, if you had your friends around, would you like do like the Arnold impersonation who's explaining to the guy how to hit the pose and that, you know, don't hide away when you're a big guy up to open up. Can you do all that? Can you do the impression? Well, yeah, not in the same way as him. But I do understand what he means behind it. Like you really have to open up in certain poses. And a lot of people don't do it. They hide themselves because I don't feel confident enough. They don't feel big enough. But you always have to think yourself as bigger than you are. Right. I love that scene. It's like, this is a little guy's, they hide away. You know, they tell you like, this I tell you, you've got to open up like that. Yeah. So. Have you ever been to Vegas before? No, never. She's not your first time. That's got to be exciting in and of itself. Yeah, it is. That's why we're staying quite long, actually, because we will be there a couple of days after the Olympics. So we can enjoy the venue, sure. So I'm going to enjoy it. Look, it's always exciting when you're a guy from another country, you know, is getting to come to Las Vegas to vibe, competing the biggest bodybuilding event in the world. And you're going to be standing on the stage with some of the best athletes in the world. And you're going to really get a true test of where your physique stacks up. You know, for some people, that's a lot of stress on them. How do you handle that? How do you at your age be able to, you know, kind of cope with what's happening to you in the bodybuilding world? Well, before there was classic physique, I used to have worries like that, because I was always afraid that someone could come in. I loved bigger than me, because there was no restrictions on the weight. But now that our restrictions and I'm quite tall, I do feel quite confident that even though I'm not as seasoned as those guys on stage, even when I'm setting next to them, I do stand my own. And I'm confident in my presentation on stage as well. And I'm just very, I just, the one thing that I really want to just stand next to the top guys just to see how I stack up against them. Because I do have, I never met them never seen them in my life. So I have no idea. So I just want to see that. This will be the first time you're going to be standing against some guys that are as tall as you to or close to at least. IMean, you got you Chris Bumstedt up there, you know, who's going to, you're going to stack up really well next to and a couple other guys that are really tall in that class. So it should be, I'm more excited to see the classic guys on stage to be honest than the open guys. So I know all the open guys. They've seen them all next to each other already. But we really haven't seen this whole new crop of classic physique guys that have crept up over this past year. We haven't seen them all together yet. I think the top then is going to change entirely compared to last year. So it's going to be very amazing because the thing about classic physique, but major exciting that you cannot predict what's going to happen this year. There's so much so many different good athletes this time. And with the openness always a little easier to predict the top six, but the 40 classic physique, I would have no idea who is going to be at the top this time. Absolutely. Now you're wearing one of your t-shirts from one of your vintage clothing line that you have. Tell us a little bit about that. I was on your website and I'm like, what this clothing is pretty cool. I actually kind of like it. It's different than anything else out there. Was it hard to find a manufacturer to make these type of shirts since it's not a standard type shirt? Yeah. I appreciate you seeing it by the way. I started the vintage genetics company a couple of years back because I noticed that when your YouTube followers start to increase, they kind of want to have something from you to represent you to support you. So I started the clothing brand, the vintage genetics. It wasn't in the Netherlands. It wasn't that difficult to find good manufacturers for the clothing because there's a lot of, it's a small country so you can drive for three hours and you see the entire country. You kind of find factory right away if there's a good one and there was a good one. Without one, we made a lot of good contact with them. There are so many different clothings that for example, this one I had just scroll through the clothing and I see this one, I immediately say, hey, that's a good one to buy. That's like not so bad for design so I pick that one and then see how it rolls on the side and it goes well, I buy a lot more. That's basically how I do it every time. It can use the ones and see how they do. The great thing about a vintage clothing line is that back in the 60s, 70s, 80s, whatever, there really wasn't a lot of fancy fonts and fancy t-shirts. Everything was pretty much just standard, and it was just the way it looked. You don't really have to act, you're actually it's easier to make your clothing line now because the font is nothing special, it just has to look authentic. Old school is basic and I don't think basic of old school ever die out. It will always stay relevant so the clothing line proved it because it's going pretty well. A lot of people are supporting me thankfully. I really appreciate that, but I love the classic style as well. Yeah, no, I think it's a great idea. Everyone's going to carve out their own niche and I think I don't think anyone's done what you're doing really, which is smart. Going back, hey, if I'm going to be a classic physique competitor with a classic Arnold look, let me get a clothing line and it kind of mimics that. Everyone kind of goes for the most modern stuff out there. You're taking a retro approach which I think might work to your favorite because no one else is doing it. That's true. It's basic in the designs, but also basic in the pricing because the more modern you want to be, the more expensive the materials have. Have you been working with mine? So the clothing that I produce isn't that expensive to purchase as well. So that's an event fit in the zone. If you want, you know, I always say you want to make money. You've got to have good margins, right? And that doesn't have to play. A lot of people try to produce, I'm a dummy. I try to produce the best quality supplements and then I try to sell it and I realize holy shit, my price, your little more expensive than other people's because it costs a lot to make them. But you know, you got the best of both worlds because you got a unique niche and you got good margins. So you'll be successful. Yeah. What's the one piece of advice you give to guys who might be watching this who are kind of trying to emulate you there. They're maybe trening for the first class physique show and they want to like, you know, eventually be pros. You know, what's the best advice that you can give that you've learned over the course of your short career? Well, what I'm always to give advice to people who want to compete, look the show up of the last year. For example, you want to compete this year, look it up, last year, see what the winner looked like and compare yourself to the winner. If you doubt that you can beat the winner, then don't do the show, then build upon yourself. Because if you can't beat the winner of last year, what's to say that someone like that doesn't show up again. Right. So you really have the only, you should only do a show if you believe you can absolutely win. Because otherwise you could still go in and out season and tren more, build more muscle, especially in the classic physique. You kind of have to hit your weight limit first, because why compete if you can still, you know, build 20 more pounds on your frame. You should really go for a good offseason and build somEQuality muscle, work an opposing in the meantime and when you compete for the first time, blow everyone away right away. Are you a big believer in not getting on stage unless you're at your best? Basically. Yeah. I do believe so. Okay. That's some unique advice and I think people can take that to heart and obviously it works for you. Very successful in the competitive career. Is there anyone out there that you want to maybe just plug or give credit to for helping you get to where you are now? Because I know bodybuilding is not necessarily a loan sport. There's a lot of support systems that we have in place. Oh yeah. Well without the support system that I have around me, I would not have made it this far for sure. First of all, my parents who support me very much. My mom and dad have been with me since the very first show supporting me every single show. It's been there with every single show. My dad has been with me backstage, tending me, pumping me up, oiling me every single time without him. I wouldn't be able to do it. Are they going to be a limpia? Is going with me to the Olympia actually. The entire family will go. Wow. Friends will grow so it's going to be very busy. We actually have an entire row reserved for just us. Oh really? Wow. Yeah, that's going to be amazing. Sometimes that's stressful because it's like you feel like you have to entertain these people. But luckily Vegas has got a lot to do there. Luckily that's the location for many people as that. But next to my parents, also my girlfriend who is every time I've done a show since she's my girlfriend, she's been with me as well to the shows. I'm preparing my meals every time she could helping me tan as well, being backstage with me, just an awesome support system. And of course my coach, Feri Robines. And I'm going to be funny because he and Chris Asito, they do know each other from back in America. They used to go to the same class university I believe. Oh, really? That's funny. Yeah, that's going to be a funny meeting. Springfield. Springfield. Yeah, I think you went to. Springfield College. Yeah. They did the same study I believe. So that's going to be pretty interesting. Oh, yeah. I got to bring up the crew. It was an awesome chat to your limpia now. So I got a biGHead of it. And Chris, obviously, has got a lot of top competitors in class as well. Yes. And that's funny. Yeah. Let me ask you this question. Obviously since you become like a social media kind of star overnight, you know, I'm sure you got a lot of, you know, girls contact you all the time. Does that create stress with the girlfriend because you have all these people who just want, you know, to be associated with you? And that really, because she is luckily a very confident girlfriend. She actually, I am my account, my Instagram account is also on her phone because I couldn't upload for a while. So she actually does get my notifications as well, but she doesn't mind at all because she's a lot of the hearts and stuff. But there's so many messages that I cannot even respond to them. So I, I'll immediately just have to swipe them away because I'm a, most of them are, just, you know, nonsense basically. Right. I'm sure you get more of like, you know, gay guys also hit 90. Oh, there's more gay guys in girls. That's what I always said. I always had more guys after me. I'm like, how can I, I get no women who are interested in me. It's all guys that wanted, you know, talk to the, you know, so that's the straight fight with body. Well, Wesley, you know, best to lock up on that stage. We wanted to just get you here, get a little update since you won the, the Chicago Pro and see where your heads at. It seems like you're very confident. It seems like you got everything together. And I think all the little amateur mistakes you worked out on that Chicago pro stage will not be made on the Olympia stage. And I'm, I'm looking forward to seeing that battle up there in that first call out. Thanks. I'm looking forward to it as well. The first call would be, that would be my dream come true for sure. Looking forward to it. Thank you, Dave. All right. No, best of luck. And we'll see you in Vegas for now. There were at a time. I'm, Dave Palombo with another episode of RX muscles iron road to the Olympia 2018. Brought to you by RedCon 1. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: WHAT HAPPENED TO MASS MONSTERS？ #askDave [S7PqQtZS7iU].txt ===

After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. The rush begins once pre-workout vape. I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Spices Nutrition. I created Spices Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensoplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in this Spices Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Spices Nutrition products. If you want to be in your apps, you'll best join the evolution. We're going to be in the next video. Our ex-tellvision on rxmuscle.com. This is as Dave better known as hashtag as Dave. Your third even question and answer show with Dave Polumbau course. All your questions, diet, trening, supplementation. I have to be pros, competitions, whatever is on your mind. It is all on the tables and now bring in Dave Polumbau. Of course, Hunter LeBraut, winning the 2020 Tampa Pro, impressing a lot of people and obviously sparking all sorts of conversation about his potential and what we might see out of hunter over the course of the next two to three years on that Olympia stage. But Dave, you just had an opportunity to interview Hunter if you want to give the fans a little primer. By the time this episode goes up, that interview should be live on the channel. Hunter was really cool and I've interviewed him before. I wanted to get a perspective of how what is mindset was now that he won the show and he got that first pro win in his back at trick. He never lost a show as an amateur. He's undefeated and obviously undefeated as a pro now. That's going to be a supreme confidence boost to him. And it is, obviously, I also asked him what he thought about guys like Flex Wheeler and Lee Prees saying that he thought that he could possibly be a potential Mr. Olympia. And I'm a step in that felt good to him as well. The guy only had four months really offseason trening. He's a really put size on this year because he had that major shoulder clen out and by some relocation surgery. His bicep was hanging by thread like we had in torn. So he really can't tell much from it. But he, you know, so this year I think we're going to see after the Olympia. He's going to make some serious improvements. And I think when we see him in 2021, I think that's when he's going to be as most dangerous. So a lot of excitement, a lot of excitement this past weekend and just in general, obviously all the conversation about when bodybuilding would restart. Whether or not we would even have a 2020 bodybuilding season will of course, that was put to rest his past weekend. Very exciting showing with hundreds of the broader maybe a peak into the future of the top tier of bodybuilding. And then of course the always dangerous invalier and then Dwayne Walker, which you finished third place, but had many fans, buzzing many fans. He may have even placed higher. So very impressive action from the, I guess, quote unquote restart from the 2020 bodybuilding scene. And hopefully a sign of things to come as we get into thEQuestion. The first two questions. I want to explain, I want to explain. I want to explain. I actually asked Hunter about Dwayne because I, you know, I would be doing my job. And he was very complimentary to him. You know, he thought he looked really good, but I think him and I both agreed and I, you know, of course, you know, he's going to agree that you beat him, but I bring that he beat him. So I just don't think Dwayne is big enough to beat Hunter yet and his legs are not completed enough. But I think down the road, if he adds to the 1015 counselors body, what got for this guy is guy dangerous. A lot of people are talking about just that frame that muscle that he packs on the level of conditioning. So Dwayne Walker certainly, a very, very exciting talent to be look for going forward. And of course, Dave, your guy, Phil Clark, very impressive showing coming in for it. Let's get to thEQuestion. The first two questions. Of course, and Dave, let's go. I'm going to experience half the first question. Dave, do you maintain muscle on less protein that it takes to build a muscle mass? Absolutely. There's no doubt about that. And I've said this before. It's you don't have to eat crazy amounts of food to maintain. We have that effect. And you try to lose the muscle. It's pretty hard if you've had it for a while when I, you know, decide I was going to start bringing my weight down slowly. I was, you know, I was walking around 280 and you know, I've seen my head in a lot of food. When I just cut back my food to like normal amounts, you know, five feelings a day, maybe, but just normal amounts not like stuff in myself like I would have to do before. I was maintaining 255 to 6. Yeah, I couldn't lose any more weight. I had to like then bring it down the four meals and then I got down to like 240s. And I had a really reduced protein to get it lower than that. So yeah, IMean, it's what you have the muscle it's easy now. Let's say you just gain the muscle and then you stop eating. Yeah, you can lose a pretty fast. But when you've had it for like three, four or five years. To maintain what you have, it's super easy. You could take an HRT dose of testosterone and you can eat probably five, you know, moderate protein meals a day. And you probably won't lose aromasingle pound of muscle. So you're trened, obviously. Second question again for the deep, a lot of all experience have deep, I compete in the master's division. Can't tren like it did 20 years ago, should I do more volume due to the lack of intensity? Yeah, there's nothing wrong with that. You know, a lot of people think, you know, because I'm a big advocate of high intensity trening and heavy trening. If you can't do it because you're injured, okay? Then do what you can do. If you can do high repetitions, you know, and lighter weights, you're going to stimulate the muscle. You're not going to lose. I had the opposite problem. I had my shoulders were hurting me so badly that because of joint pain that, you know, the doctor, one of the doctors had gone to a game. He had a good analogy. He said, you know, he's shoulder joint is like an old rusty hinge on a door. If the door is real old, then you keep opening, closing, opening, closing, opening, closing, all day long, it's going to break quicker. You know, it's going to fall off the hinges. But if you only open it a couple times a day, it's not going to be so bad. When he gave me that analogy, I don't think he really meant this towards trening. He was just talking about it in general. I said, well, what if I tren heavy with fewer, you know, fewer exercises, fewer sets, you know, I could still, the heaviness will help maintain the muscle mass, but I won't be over using the joint. And so that's what I used for the last 18, 19 years that I was trening through, and I was competing five of those years and doing well. You know, so I was able to maintain my muscle mass, while not necessarily doing the volume or the kinds of trening I wanted to do more machine work. I couldn't do it like more free weights, but it didn't matter. I've already had a ton of muscle. I just had a stimulate. So you got to find what works you if higher reps, you know, lighter weight works well and it doesn't hurt you, then do it. If you can do heavier weight less, you know, sets and maintain it, then that's what you do. You have to find that what works for you. Let's go to our Instagram questions. I get it. We've already following us. It's official underscore our ex muscle. If you're watching us, for the first time on YouTube, hit the subscribe button below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss any of our upcoming videos or segments. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button. Obviously that helps us comment, that helps us even more as always. We appreciate your on going support. Let's go first to Philip Roe, depending on you how to answer this one, this might spark another one of those back and forth around YouTube videos. Thoughts on grant do sense claim that 300 to 500 cows surplus is enough to gain muscle even for professional bodybuilders. Well, IMean, that's a very open ended statement because 500 calories of what? Protein, carbs, fat, combination. You know, whenever you make a blanket statement like that, you're always leading yourself open to like being proven raw. Because not everyone's body works like that. In my body in extrA-500 calories would have been like, well, it'd been like, you know, me walking up a flight of steps and that would have been there's the extrA-500 calories out there that the window. You know, so it doesn't apply to everyone. Some people you eat in extrA-500 calories get fat from it. Don't you put muscle and you get fat, you turn to a fat load. They don't need that. So you have to qualify number one what the 500 calories. So that's why I hate the word calories. When I use it sometimes by accident because I'm so brainwashed by the word, I get mad at myself because 500 calories tells you nothing. Well, how much protein is that? How much fat? How much carbs? Now, if you said if you ate an additional 30 grams of protein per day and 20 grams of fat and you know, that'll cause muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, that would have been a better statement. I think from then saying an extrA-500 calories surplus. So not a good, not a good term to use because most people if you just added 500 calories of carbs, they're just going to get either fat or they're going to burn up the carbs. Carbets don't build muscle. So it's not going to do anything. So I don't necessarily like the statement. I think it's too old or non-type statement and it's not true because of that. And so I think it needs to bEQualified a little better. I think it's going to be an organic 74. What's the deal with pharmacist telling me that an NML vial of my test for TRT expires 28 days after the first use? That's called marketing on the pharmacist part. He wants to sell you what this does. Throw it out. You know, the greatest scam of all time was back in the, I think it was late 90s. Probably no early 2000s when they were selling the serum, Serrano is selling serum, and a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone kits, the eightspatians. They were selling them a bot a botch with seven vials. And each file contained 189 use of GH. Now for most people, that could last anywhere from like six, five or six, seven eight days even. That's one vinyl. So that would be time seven vials on a box. You can, that could be like two months worth, you know, even if taking a nice dosage. They were recommending that you use that in a week. Okay, one vial per day. And if you didn't use, you know, let's say, are you going to have to use 189 use, but you have to throw out whatever you don't use that one day because it's no good after that, which we all know is bowl. They wanted to sell more. So they was selling these eightspatians for boxes per month. Now the eightspatians were in paying Medicaid was paying for it was costing $1,500 per box. So do the math at $6,000 Medicaid was covering on per patient per month. Think about how much money out there out of our taxes was being put towards this therapy and they were overdosed in these people. They weren't. And most of them weren't even using it. They were selling the boxes to the bodybuilders. So it was, it's a scam. You know, it's like, all the drug companies stuff to the skin. You really think that new trick. You think by protein goes bad after like whatever the expiration date I think we're using. We, I think we have two and a half years now on there doesn't go bad. The funny thing is that I'll use the expired protein because you know, sometimes we have some a couple of jugs that don't sell on the weird flavors. I've used protein that was like five years old that I found in like my garage from my old house and I'm like, oh, this has been there for like that. It's perfectly like. Now that doesn't mean that you can't lose some potency, but you're not untestosterone oil based animal steroids last forever. So to say after 28 days it's going to go bad as ludicrous. Well, it's good. A Patrick staff or 50. It's a topic that you have touched on. I know with Chris Cito a few different times. Do you think that the Mr. Olympia will go ahead, even if qualifying competitors from other countries can't travel to the US and it's funny day before he answer thEQuestion. There was the Olympia qualified list that was released a thing yesterday and I think including fill heat. There may have been four competitors US based that I guess were part of that list. And everybody else depending on the traveler's traditions, who knows may or may not be able to make it come December. You're taking that and then I guess in the event that it cannot happen to these international competitors cannot come over. What is your solution to that. Well, look at that word Tampa. You didn't see any international people in the Tampa line up and they still held Tampa. So IMean that's the Olympia. Sox for everyone has looked. Remember when the Olympics had some boycott years where we were like re-boycott in in I think it was 1980 was it. Yeah, we didn't go to Russia. And the Russians I think boycott in 84 or was the 86. 86 I think they boycotted. So we were missing you know big countries and who legitimately would have won a lot of metals in both the those Olympics. And so the Olympics still happened. There's the sole record to still in the book and it is what it was 1980 was Russia in 70 and 84 was the American man. I don't think that that's Russia didn't show up and we didn't show up. So the Olympia will go on whether this five or 10 guys on stage or or not they don't care you know whether the competition is not as deep as it was last year. They don't care is going to be an Olympia champ round this year. That's the bottom line and whoever is able to show up and is qualified. Has a good shot at winning. So IMean this is a good year for people who maybe maybe never had a chance at making top six. They might make it this year because of the fact that there's just not going to be the depth of competitors. Now if I was a European competitor and I knew I had a chance at winning the Olympia. I would be working like getting to the US now. I'd be livinGHere. IMoved I'd get over here in the next month and stay right through the end of December. I don't know how I would do it, but I would find someone to stay with and tren with and something like that because that's my livelihood. So you know they have plenty of time to prepare. So I like to spring it on these people the last minute. I'm William Bonaak or really Winkler. I'm getting my butt over to the US now and settling in Las Vegas and starting to tren people whatever I got to do. You know live there until the Olympia is over and you go back because you can't afford to miss the Super Bowl body. It's just not. It's not on the table. If you're a real competitor, you're going to find a way to get here. Well, they've let me just quickly jump in. I'll read off. I'll zip through the list right now. Brandon Curry obviously the US. Bonaak and other lanes. How do you chew upon Iran. That's your Jackson USA really Winkler. Chris out. Feel heath. Well, they're not heath. We'll not. Please set your million. Nathan Deasha the United Kingdom one morale. If I slow is who's qualified. I'm classified as USA obviously living in Florida as long as he's been in a hunter, LeBraata. So they let me actually add another rinkler to this question. Assuming that there aren't going to be, and I know you've discussed this before as well, but assuming that you're looking at a field of maybe five or six heading in December. What do you think the protocol for special invites potentially would be? Well, you know, who in the US is not qualified that really, you know, we want in the show. I guess that's thEQuestion. Yeah, obviously there's always an invite out there for Kai Green and Phil. He's of course in short. I would. I don't know. It's Sean Rodin's case going to be settled by then or not. I don't know what the trial date is. He would he could save the Olympia, obviously, if he would a panel has whatever's going on with his case and get cleared. And he shows up and him and Curry go battle it, you know, one on one on that stage. I think that brings a lot of attention to the Olympia. I think the excitement is there. If no one shows up to kind of like really challenge Brandon Curry except for like say flex Lewis, it'll still be exciting. We want to see flex Lewis on that stage. But it's not going to be as exciting, obviously. It'll also give decks to Jackson a chance to possibly win another Olympia. Thank you. So deck. I always say the decks are always in the right place at the right time. He's one of these guys that throughout his entire career is always right there waiting for that knockout punch. And this is the perfect environment. Things are a mess up in this country. You know, people can't travel. People can't get to the show. The superstars are not in the line of Sean's dealing with a case. Phil doesn't want to compete. Kai's in, you know, Lala land, you know, doing making movies and variety shows. Dexter could step in there if Brandon Curry's often win this thing, you know, or even like a flex Lewis. I don't know, you know, I'd love to see flex battle with that with Dexter and Brandon. I think that would be an enrolative course. But I don't even know if we're leaking it over here. So it's interesting. Like if you're an odds maker, this might be the hardest Olympia to handicap because we the hell knows is going to be in it. I'll just give you thEQuick, uh, the in-contention, a qualify from the US and Canada, reading Grimes 8 points, Steve Cookello 8 points, Valier 8 points, Sergio Leavad Jr and Dwayne Walker with seven points each. Let's go. Couple of classic physique related questions. The first one from Neil's Luzki. What top IFB be pro in the open class? Do you think would have the best chance had they competed in classic physique? Oh, I can the history of this work. Well, no, let's go. Let's go. Let's stick to the current. I'll tell you what's about power. That power has been a great classic physique. I've currently, I don't know. IMean, well, Henry Pierre now wasn't open guy who switched the classic and he did really well. So IMean, there's there's a good example right there of a guy who kind of was able to cross over. So to speak. Sean Rodin would have been a great class the guy. You know, before he put on as much muscle as he did. When he first came out, he probably couldn't make classic physique. He wasn't. He wasn't he was he a light heavyweighter. I'm trying to think. I don't even remember. But he would have easily, you know, fit into that classic with that structure and beautiful flow to his body. Even Dennis Wolf when he first started, you know, was, you know, because of his height, he probably could have made classic physique. And the early early early part of his career. So I don't know. I guess Rodin would be the guy who comes to mind in my mind. Well, what about a son of like a Rafael Brandeo, was so much debate after his last oral classic appearance? I don't know. I think he's pretty heavy though. I think he's got a decent amount of muscle on his body. I think if he's too small, he's not he doesn't have the lines of like a rodent or something like that. You know what IMean? If he would have made classic, I think he would have been too small. You know, he's he's got a lot of density, but and he's not the biggest pro, but he's also not. I don't think he's close to the classic physique. I don't know if anybody knows what that was something else debated. 2018 or so. You remember you had to make the response video, but you got all the Brazilian fans who are angry that people are saying that he should go classic, but so another classic or the classic because he got really a question similar to what you just brought up. With the spike in classic physique, IMean he goes on to even mention men's physique in the 2012. Do you think will ever get to see super freaks on stage again that the likes of Grecovax, Nasser, Marcus Rules on a silver. Yeah, I think so. IMean we still have them. IMean we have Rulean we have Rame and I you know whether they can over here to compete with thosEQuarantine is another story. We have super freaks in production, so to speak. You know, it's not like we're devoid of that. We have a lot of big guys in the lineups. IMean I think Flex Lewis is a freak, even though he's not tall. He's a for his high. He's a freak. So they're there. You know, and Mustafa, what is it from? Hassan Hassan. Hassan. Hassan, Hassan. Hassan, Hassan, is a freak over there in the middle east. So IMean we have a lot of huge guys that potentially, you know, if they come and in shape and if we could ever get them over here into the US, they can do very well. And so I think the future body building is good. And especially when I see like a huntal abroad coming up and he's a guy who could it's going to be a big player. I think in the next two, three years in the sport. There's there's there's new talent always coming up. We just don't know it yet and we haven't seen it yet, but it's on the way. And I think that as the older guys start to you know see this new talent coming up and they can't beat these guys and build retired. I think the reason why we're seeing guys sticking around a lot longer now into their 40s and even 50 now with Dexter is that no one's beaten them. So why would she doxilev? I don't believe he's going to convert tire after this year. I think he's going to stick around. I think he's going to build what I almost won the Olympia. You know, why would I retire at this point? So but once we get guys like LeBron coming in and that whole crew and they start knocking off some of these guys, they're going to leave. I would. IMean, but for now, stick around as long as you can make money. Let's go to Sabino Lewis went on TRT. What should be the test to estrogen ratio? You know, I always go by the ratios on board work. So on TRT, I like to be in the high normal range, which is around 8 to 7 800. If I'm trying to at least maximize the way I look, and estrogen should be in normal range. But you don't want it. You don't want it lower than normal range because if your estrogen's too low, you lose your sex drive number one. But that's not important to muscle. It's important to your height. You look good. But estrogen also sensitizes and resepters to muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So you don't want your estrogen to too low because that's going to inhibit you from growing. And obviously having sex drive and gain pump too. It's having a good solid pump in the gym. But you don't want it too high. Are you getting side effects like gynacomascia and fluid retention and all kinds of stuff like that. So I like to keep it in the middle to low normal range. Do I remember what it is I have no I don't remember. When I look at blood work, all the ranges are on there already. I can't remember exactly with the normal range would be for estrogen. But that's what we wanted in normal normal low to middle range. We don't want it in the high range. Let's go to be winery 20 during the show prep. Would you recommend doing fast cardio first, then lifting and having a shake or have a shake or eat lift and then do cardio I get it before 30 in the morning and that's the only time I have to go to the gym. Yeah, what if you're going to go early in the morninGHave a shake go work out with weights. Do you cardio come back and then eat. IMean that's that's the smart way to do it. I always tell the rule of thumb is you never weigh tren on an empty stomach. Okay, and cardio you want it either being at the pleaded state or an empty stomach. So if you're going to get up first thing in the morning to cardio you obviously you're on an empty stomach. If you wake up in the morning you want to weigh tren you have to eat something so have a shake and then after you do cardio you're depleted so then you can do IMean after you do you wait to your depleted so then you can do your cardio. That's that's that's the right I guess you can say order of the way you do things. I know we talked about candidates before but I don't know about necessarily using this context is from boost god 97. Is it a good idea to use cannabis to increase appetite to put on muscle? I know a lot of big pot smokers you know people who like to engage in that on a daily basis and when I when I find is the guys that the doom that smoke marijuana or whatever they've ate but whatever they do with it on a regular basis they lose that that month she that hunger. I don't know if you don't do if you never do marijuana and you do you do you know smoke a joint or whatever you do you're going to be really really hungry. But when you do it regularly it's like you become desensitized to that effect and you it doesn't really affect you like that anymore. Some people say it does but a lot I know a lot of guys that they smoke and they don't even want to eat and I need the leaders. So you know if you want to use it once in a blue moon to do that IMean this better way to enhance appetite I would rather use personally if I was competing G.H.R.P.6 which is at least going to cost him G.H. release and it's going to make me hungry. You know where is it worth a lot of marijuana you know it's you know you're kind of it's a hallucinogenic you know it's hard to really focus and tren real hard when you're on that although some people I know they like the smoke and go to the gym so. Everyone has their own cup of tea to me if you could avoid doing recreational drugs I never did direct ghost drugs when I was you know doing my I shouldn't say that. I did do new game but I didn't do like like you know party type drugs or anything that like slowed me down. While I was in that those peak years of like putting muscle on I really just focused on everything body deleted because I don't want to I didn't want to risk anything I don't want to risk not having you know focus or not having you know drive. And food eating food was never a problem for me so you know but you know if you want to rationalize hey I like to give high and it makes me hungry I'll eat more I guess once in a while it's not bad but if you're doing it on a regular basis it's it's not for the increase your appetite. Let's go to Ron like on me to seven can you get hard dense muscle with an only test cycle and proper preparation. I think that you can you can probably do that I think that testosterone is obviously the most powerful at a ball gap there so you can get great results just on testosterone but for some reason. We've talked about this before when you stack two compounds you take to it the same time they synergize each other they make each other work better so testosterone plus something else. Leeds to more gains exponential gains not just one plus one equals two it's like one plus one equals five so. I always like to stack testosterone with another anabolic agent when I'm when I'm trying to grow or even die it. That matter because you get way better results with two of them even if you double your testosterone usage for some reason testosterone with another with something else works better. That makes sense. Let's go to demand it shot is cardio on the bike more beneficial for leg growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone development. I I they asking you think thEQuestion that. That biking will help you build muscle on your legs I don't know if that's that's what it sounds like thEQuestion is. Cardi is not going to build muscle on your legs look at it look at runners. I'm talking about long distance runners to that people who do endurance type like trening don't get the muscles don't high-pertsuiting a bigger they just become more oxygen efficient. So you're not going to build muscle from biking or doing the Peloton my wife's at the Peloton spin bike or you know doing starmaster or step nil you're not you're just going to break down muscle tissue okay. And that sense so now if thEQuestion is which cardio is best so that you don't lose muscle in your legs then I would say yeah I would see like no tension spinning bike like a bike that just spins like the no tension on it. Or walking on a treadmill with no incline even like a little bit of elliptical because it's pretty low low impact with no tension those are the things that are going to help burn fat without burning away the muscle of your legs because there's no tension on them you don't you're not trying to give you legs a workout. When you're doing cardio you're just trying to get your heart moving and your blood pumping and you're you know you're sweating a little bit so when you start doing cardio to intensely you're just overworking your legs. Let's go to S.S. Danzy would it be a good idea to take a free workout in episodes with just a zip water when pumping up before you step on state for show I'm trying to be more a vascular. I would not do that not that's like one of the things I talk about don't do cookie crazy things before you know the last week of the show people. Why would you take that stuff you don't don't take anything backstage. If you're in shape and you're carved up and you're dry you should look amazing backstage with all your coloring and your your oil on you shouldn't have to do once you stop popping things okay that's when trouble begins because then. What if you because most of those pre work I'd dilate the vessels they open up the blood vessels that they did the pump. You know we used to take nious impills backstage and and people were passed and out and drop and that left and right and turning red because they were they were vaso dilating all the veins. And that was dropping blood pressure and guys already have low blood pressure because they're on dioratics that's what dioratics do they lower your blood pressure so. No don't take anything crazy backstage just show up in shape and do you think. Rans Von 752 how would you progress if you want to answer the most general sense how would you approach to contest one week apart in terms of car loading and depleting. You do the same thing I back the back and since it's so easy it's let's you know if I car bump on Thursday Friday and Saturday's the show. Sunday I have a cheap enough to show Sunday I start my depletion again low carb Sunday Monday Tuesday sometimes like half the day on Wednesday I'll put some carbs in Thursday Friday recarb up again and and. And you know. Thursing Friday and Saturday is the show so. You just basically repeat the same exact thing. But the toughest thing to do is I usually used to do when I would do back the next shows. You have to go to the gym the next day and do legs that this broo legs that the day after a bodybuilding show in stage where you're flexing and everything sore and you're still a little dehydrated. You don't go crazy obviously but yeah you gotta tren those legs if you're going to compete the next week because you like work out you haven't done a well work out for over a week now so. I usually go in the next day I'll do legs on Sunday do little cardio and then Monday Tuesday Wednesday do the other three workouts I have for the week and Thursday Friday I rest again and back on stage on Saturday. It's pretty simple. Couple of morEQuestions one from Jay Hubbard your go to recommended supplements for heart health. You know the best stuff that's probably take for your heart number one is you want to take your central fatty acids which are going to help cholesterol you know profiles lower LDLs. That's your own mega lives you know three pills twice a day that's simple. Five or supplement lower LDL cholesterol okay fiber lies twice a day we've talked about that before. To make your heart pump more efficiently. CoQ 10 you'd beckon all form of it is really good 100 to 200 milligrams a day that's going to help cart function okay. And obviously along with the fatty acids that's going to be something that's going to be very a cardio protective if you have coronary artery disease type of stuff really bad or you may even have blockages now you can take a product called omega via omega v is the company that makes it it's pure EPA oil. And the EPA oil has been shown at dosages of 2,000 milligrams per day to actually reduce plaque formation in the arteries of the coronary vessels in the heart. If there's a lot of good research on that Amazon dot com sells omega via pure EPA oil. And like I said it comes in capsules you're going to have to take a 2,000 milligrams a day that's the dosage of that if you want to get a nice a nice effect from that so. There are things you can do to improve you know heart health likewise also a lot of everyone takes vitamin D 3 nowadays because we know we're all D 3 deficient. If you're taking 5,000 7,000 units a day you might want you probably want to take some vitamin K 2 with it. K 2 will keep the calcium away from the blood vessels especially the coronary arteries because a lot of times when you're absorbing more calcium because you're taking the vitamin D because vitamin D increases calcium absorption which is good. You just don't want all the calcium going into your blood vessels and making them you know fibrodic and and creating blockages. K 2 seems to direct the the calcium away from the vessels and into the bones where they should be going. But life extension makes a brand of which is what I use a 5,000 units of vitamin D 3 and the K 2 with the two iso forms of K in in there. So it's one pill you take and it's a it's a small teeny pill makes a lot easier to swallow it actually a gel cap believe or not so you guys can try that and that and that's really good for your heart as well. I was going to do for this episode of as Dave reminder right now on our ismuscle.com and of course the our ismuscle youtube channel. Dave's sit down interview with hunter lebrata who took the first place of course this past weekend at the 2020 Tampa Crow. We have a load of content right now on our ismuscle.com and the youtube channel if you haven't already done so subscribe below hit the notification bell. If you have any of our upcoming shows segment or preview content for Dave plumbo I'm city for you will see next time.

=== FILE: WHAT THE...ROELLY？! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸13⧸18) [6pypYBYCJX0].txt ===

Wake up Bodybuilding Fansets Monday morninGHere at Muscle in the Morning and I'm Dave Palombo and today is Monday, August 13, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of Bodybuilding and Fitness. Sometimes as a fan, what you can do is sit back and stare at some of the stuff you see while your head swings back and forth with one of those WTF nods. And by now everyone who's seen the latest Rully Winkler update goes exactly what I'm talking about. Late last week, BetaBaddae and the camera crew dropped the surprise Rully Winkler update that almost broke the internet. The level of density and fullness and straight up crazy alien-looking muscle that this guy has is completely mind-blowing. I don't think I'm in the minority when I say that I can fully expect this to be the best Olympia ever for Rully because of this guy's head is best. He might honestly be good enough to challenge for a top three spot. While Doria Nights may have been the greatest bodybuilder to ever come out of the UK, Nathan the Escher is personally trying to reset the bar for the UK athletes when he steps on stage for his second straight Mr. Olympia. Since his big win at the New York Crow, all the Escher's done over the lasT3 months his turn himself into a bona fide top threat one workout at a time. When you look at his latest updates, the Escher's team have shown a quality of detail that right now completely blows away anything we saw back in New York. Which shows you how hard this guy is out there beating on his craft right now. For pound this kid is his talent, has anyone in the business. But with the margin of error at the top being so slim this year, if you really want one of those coveted top six spots, he's going to have to push himself harder than he's ever done down these last five weeks. Both of the time when I hear guys talking about their numbers on the scale, my eyes start to uncontrollably roll back into my head because they know they're about to tell me a big S-Li. But I can promise you that when it comes to 212 Superstar, Sean Clarita, those numbers don't even come close to telling the whole truth. Last week the 212 Giant Killer dropped a new update on his fans where he gave them an up-post and personal look at 175 pounds of fury. True to form, Clarita's been like a quiet assassin so far this prep. And as far as I'm concerned, he's probably at his best ever right now. When good guys like Clarita are out there crushing it in silence every day, you can't help and find yourself starting to root for them once the action finally starts to get rolling. Spoiler alert, I watched the movie How It Hands On Netflix the other night and it was so bad that I seriously almost got up and punched the hole right through my TV screen. But thankfully for me IManaged to catch a little bit of Sean Roan's latest back day to help keep my anger from getting to happy Gilmore levels. Once again, I watched the drone has been holed up at Golge and Venice for this year's road to the Olympia where all reports seem to indicate that he's in a good place physically and mentally. One of the things I've always loved about Sean Roan is how he's basically been one of the most underappreciated superstars of his generation. The spite the fact that this guy has been great for almost a decade now. And for this year's sake, I hope he brings his best to the Olympia stage. Do that's the only way he's ever going to get. The love that he deserves as someone who's a true generational talent. I absolutely love what classic physique, Ali and superstar, stand the stand of the Olympia is doing right now. Last at a month away from his first Olympia, stand of the Olympia is been absolutely crushing it out of the Mecca, gold Venice. To the point where I've heard his name starting to be mentioned as a potential top five classic physique contender. The pound for pound, the Olympia is probably one of the most colorful characters in the division. And having a guy like him leading the charge with his next generation of athlete, sure wouldn't be a bad thing if the bodybuilding world wants to keep expanding their market into the future. And that does it to get another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day below reminding you to always be true to your passions. And they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: WHICH ESTER IS RIGHT FOR YOU？ #RXRants [fTasKbhsK5A].txt ===

This is Dave Palombo with another RX Muscle rant brought to you by RedConOne. Today's topic testosterone. That seems to be the hottest topic of the day in the body building and in general. Everyone seems to want testosterone. Hey, I got to take testosterone. I need TRT. I need HRT. There's a million different names for it. Everyone's needs to replace that testosterone. They want to take testosterone to get big and huge. They want to take testosterone to feel better and sleep better at night and have better sex. And all of a sudden that's the rage. You know, 10, 15, 20 years ago it was like very hot shot under the cover that everyone's so much as a starter. The problem is no one really knows anything about testosterone. And I was just as ignorant when I first started to be honest with you. This was back in the early 90s. I remember reading the on the ball reference guy and I was studying testosterone trying to figure out which was the right type to take. Because let's face it. There's many different forms. I'm not talking about different brands. I'm assuming right off the bat, let's talk about real testosterone. Let's talk about testosterone. Test out to them comes from a pharmacy. So assuming your testosterone is real, what? Version or what? Astor. And what we really mean is how fast are the releases of these testosterone that you're taking? They're slow release testosterone. And that, in fact, there's such slow release testosterone out of it. They actually will give shots of something called nebito, which is testosterone on the canoate, which is actually will last weeks and weeks and weeks inside your system. And slowly, slowly release. Doctors are using this for hormone replacement now. But for body-gilling purposes, that's really not something that we're too interested in using. Then they're super, really fast acting, where they actually take testosterone powder, pure powder, and just put it in water. Steril water, I assume. And they make something called testosterone suspension. They probably see these. They build these bottles. Usually they're bigger bottles. They're kind of like milky looking. You kind of shake them up and it goes into what's called suspension. The powder suspens and the water. And you've dried up and you inject it. And you guys, that was pretty big back in the 80s and 90s guys like testosterone suspension. It hurt really bad because these particles that you're injecting kind of just irritate the tissues wherever you inject them. And it works really fast, but it also, it stops working really fast. So you take a shot. Guys were taking every other day and wasn't even enough because we were only less maybe eight hours in the system. And that's not really what we want, but it hit you really quickly. But guys got really water-retentant from this. They're testin' a shrunk really quickly. Why do you have the stuff got into your system so fast? The problem is a lot of guys broke, I used to break out terribly from that using it because your testosterone is up here at one minute. It's down here in the next minute. It's up here. It's down here. So a lot of people found that if they were going to use suspension, they really needed to take it with another longer acting compound to kind of level off the effect of the testosterone suspension. So after all was said, in practicality speaking, test suspension was just not something that people use on a regular basis. Probably more so because it hurts than the fact that it's too fast, I think. But once again, people don't want to have to take shots really twice a day or once a day. It's just, and they don't want to weld up everywhere they put the shots. Especially if you're going to get on stage, right? Within days after taking these shots or maybe the next day, if you have a big wealth on your muscles, it's not going to really look good on stage. So really what it amounts to is most people who take testosterone take the esters. There's different types. There's testosterone propinate, which is one of the fastest acting esters, meaning that the testosterone releases really quickly. Then you have your slowest acting esters known as testosterone probably an antheid. Now we said the undecanoway is slow as but for people who inject on a regular basis and use it for bodybuilding purposes, an the antheid is usually the slowest ester that we use. Now back in the day, they told us only use the fast acting esters before a show because less of it converts to testosterone to estrogen. In other words, less of it can eromeothize. All testosterone can turn into other compounds. And the compounds that can turn into one being estrogen, which is known as the aromatization of process because the aromatase enzyme converts the testosterone to estrogen. And the other thing testosterone can convert into is DHT or dihydrotestosterone. And that's a five alpha reductase enzyme to convert those into DHT. DHT can cause obviously hair loss, acne, it can cause a prostate irritation and enlargement. Estrogenogen, because kind of comastia, which is male breast, you know, development, can cause fluid retention, a lot of water retention from steroids, especially from testosterone comes mostly from the estrogen that it produces. So, you know, everyone was trying to strategize on what the best testosterone is where people always say, well, the long acting ones were good for offseason because you grow better and the short acting ones are better pre-contest. Unfortunately, the testosterone propaneid ester really hurts. And for most people, a lot of people, they're allergic to it. I couldn't even take it. It would be like I'd be debilitated from using this stuff. Wherever I put it, it would be like someone slamming with a jackhammer in that area. So, thEQuestion still remains, is one better than the other. And the truth of the matter is that most people today have realized, and I think I'm probably one of the people who really educated people out to this was that the best pattern of use of these esters is to take it every other day. Whether you're using a short acting or a long acting, because the long actinGHas peaks and valleys too. So, if you took, let's say you were using Test and Anthe, which is the slowest acting, and you took it once a week, and you took a thousand milligrams once a week. You'd probably have a really nice peak for a few days, but then by the time the week is over, you're starting to come down already, even though it lasts a long time, it produces its best result in the firsT3 to, you know, I say two to five days. So, if you take it every other day, you kind of have an even high peak, as opposed to getting super highs and super lows and super highs and super lows. Now, if you're taking off the Test Provin8, it needs to be consumed, taking every other day to every day, because that only lasts a couple days in the system, 48 hours, maybe. So, when all was said, no, I started to realize, you know what? All Test Ostrone is the same, it's the same hormone, right? If Test Ostrone's sipping aid is in your system or an antheid for a long period of time, and it aromatizes more theoretically, because it's in your system all the time, then, you know, obviously, that's one issue. But then again, if you take, if Test Provin8 is only in your system, sure, a pretty time, but you're always taking it, you're still going to aromatize it. So, there's really no escape from the side effects of Test Ostrone other than to take aromatase inhibitors and DHC blockers, okay? Whether you take Finaster Eye, which is an extreme DHC blocker, or you take the product of my Test Ostrone, or you test the Lies, okay, from species nutrition, which is like a Test Ostrone is like a DHC blunter, kind of blunts DHC production. It doesn't get rid of it totally, because that's face it. We don't want to get rid of all the estrogen, and we don't want to get rid of all the DHT, because then our angiogen receptors don't work right. We can lose sex drive, we can lose angiogen receptivity, sometimes you don't store glycogen as well. So, their side effects, so what I found after this big long story that I give you on the history of Test Ostrone, was that the long acting esters like Sipy Nade and Nante, which have no pain upon injection, and have the best, I guess you could say distribution pattern, they last the longest, tend to be the best drugs to build muscle, okay? It's just the case, but you need to take them on and every other day. It basically gets this nice, you know, even distribution line, I guess you could say, of release of this hormone. So you're going to get, and I take the first week or two to get a nice build up, but once you're up here and you're taking it every day, your value is going to stay like this. Whereas if you're taking short acting esters, they peak really quickly, so yeah, it'll hit you in a couple days, but then they drop real quick, and then they go up real quick, and then they go drop down real quick. So I like the long acting esters, I'm a little more patient, I don't mind waiting two to and a half weeks for the stuff that really kick in. Once it does, you have a nice high baseline testosterone, and that's how your body responds best. Your body likes regularity when it comes to these steroids. It doesn't want to have these peaks and valleys, it doesn't respond well. It makes you break out, it makes you moody and grouching, okay? We don't want more model fluctuation levels in the body. We want a steady state of a certain high peak level of testosterone, and that's what an antate and sipping nature. Now there is another compound known as Sostenon, also on the drain it's called, there's a million different brand names for these things in different countries, but what they see is it to blend the four testosterone, short acting, medium acting, another medium acting, and then a long acting one. The theoretically saying, well if you take this, it's going to sustain Sostenon, sustain the testosterone levels over, you know, a two week period, and it was basically made initially for hormonal placement. Once again, you gotta take it every other day. It's one of these things that you gotta take it every other day to get a real steady distribution, even though theoretically on paper, it should have a better distribution, but it doesn't. And that's the bottom line. So you can take your Sostenon every other day, you can take your test, propinate every other day, you can take Scipi-Date and antate every other day, and you're going to get pretty much the same results. So find out what works well for you, what you respond to. And I think most people will find that the Scipi-Date and antate a tandem seems to be good, maybe, you know, use one of the other. I like the antate asserts, the longest acting, I get the least side effects. I always base my side effects, based on acting. When I would take steroids, if I actually broke out a lot, then I knew my levels were not being, they were not beinGHeld steady. They would be variable, or I should say they weren't being, I guess you could say, skewed over the theory that I'm taking. I'm so little about getting this Scipi-Date because one day I would have clear skin, then actually I would be breaking out, one day I'd be a little moody, one day I felt good. And it was only right after the shot that I felt good. So I said, you know, I think I got it. I said it doing this twice a week, I got to do this every other day. And when I did that, a lot of my problems were solved. So test-ostron guys is testosterone. Find the extra that you like that works well for you. I promise you the long acting ones, if you just have patients for two weeks when you first start taking them, let them get into your system. We'll ultimately be the best bank for your buck, and you're going to get the best amount of muscle for your buck as well. So test check it out, test Scipi-Date and Anthei. I would say away from suspension, I tend to hate propping A2 because most people are allergic to it if you're not, and you're not sensitive to it, that's great. But I'm telling you, Scipi-Date and Anthei are way to go. I'm going to be a part of the heart, and you get a nice ease of distribution, and guess what? They build muscle. I'm Dave Olenvo with another red cond one, our X muscle ran.

=== FILE: WHY DID NASSER DIE YOUNG？ #askDave [hqx30TPdOMk].txt ===

All right, tell a vision on rxmuscle.com. This is ass-day evabedernone as hashtag. Askday brought to you by species nutrition visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host of the Barookey Fisk. Is your 30 minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Lumball? All your questions on diet, trening, supplementation, IVV, pros, competitions, life, and all of this. As Dave will have a rant on later tonight on rxmuscle.com, blood work. That rant available right now at rxmuscle.com and the rxmuscle YouTube channel. We're now bringing Dave, Pallumbo, Dave, a special sale right now at speciesnutrition.com. Caramel, Machiaro, Isleys, 22 servings on sale now. All right, guys. I know you guys, I get people now who text me an email me, I'm asking me what's going to be the sale of the month. And sometimes we have some of them, so you don't. We have some product that's going to be expiring at the end of the next month. So we're going to really discount the hell out of it. Once again, it's a limited amount. I think we blew through, I think we said a record. Last month when we did that sale on cookies and cream, I think we sold that was it's cooking to cream, I think we sold out in like five hours or something like that. So if you want it, 22 servings, 1999, that is more than 50% off the normal. Well, price, once again, a terrific flavor. Last time we previewed, actually, well, that's how we did a sale on Caramel Machiaro. We increased sales like tremendous things. I think a lot of people hadn't tried it and it really is how good it was. So here's your chance if you haven't tried it, I realized yet. And maybe you didn't do it because you didn't want to spend the money. Here's a chance to get a tremendous discounted price. If I were you guys, I would buy case amounts of them because this stuff will last forever pretty much. I don't know about after the expiration date, but we can't legally sell it after that. So guys, here's your opportunity to get rock bottom pricing on Icedalize. I promise you, you'll love this and don't come crying to me when you find out later tonight, it's sold out. So head over to speciesindustrial.com and get it now. Again at speciesnutrition.com, let's get you your questions. The first two questions from the day plumbo experience at the first one. Save them on TRT.200 a week test at point 2mg or in the next two times a week. 30mg dha per day. My hematicrit is very high. 56 is a too high for me to donate. What do you suggest I do? Here's the thing with donate blood donation. A lot of times these blood banks won't take your blood if you're hematicrit's too high because they think there's something wrong with you. They don't realize that you're just taking out a blockstep. And you're just producing a lot of red blood cells, which is actually good because they're actually getting more blood for their blood bank for their blood bank for the bodybuilders. Some blood banks are a little more strict than others. I never had problems donating blood when I did donate it. But my hematicrit was never through the roof. The problem is that if your hematicrit is super high and they won't take you, I don't know yet they go get bloodlet, which is a pain in the ass and they charge it for the disposal of the blood. I don't know what the real solution is. I think just keep trying blood banks because they're all not consistent. A lot of times they just take your blood. Once again, the key is when you go to these blood banks, don't tell them like, if you had surgery like a month ago, don't tell them that they won't take your blood. There's a million different rules. Obviously, if you have a disease, you've got to disclose that. But once again, if you just have high hematicrit or red blood cell count because you're on anabolic or even HRT, just go in there and tell them you're perfectly helping you get blood. Once again, I don't even like giving blood unless it's really, really high and it's negatively affecting you. Sometimes I think once again, if you give too much blood, what can happen is your body overproduces blood. But once again, everyone's individualistic. If you have high blood pressure or you're not feeling so good, maybe get headaches, maybe a blood you might have, your blood might be too thick. In that case, it's probably a good idea to go give a pint of blood. I think their lower is, or the rule is you can only give blood every 58 days. That's at least when I was going to the blood bank there with that. I was convinced I had iron overload disease, so I was starting blood every 58 days. I don't think I really had it. But whatever the case may be, it did lower my iron amount than my blood. So once again, if you want to do it, there's no imperative however. Second question from the Dave Lomo experience at Dave I'm following your clinical diet, a cyclical diet rather, if I trened first in the morning, do I just have the ice-lines with peanut butter, pre-trening, and then the ice-alize and 20 grams carbolized post on card days or is there a better option since I trened about an hour after I wake up? When you tren in the morning, you need to get some nutrition in. Otherwise, in very little what you're going to do is you're going to burn some muscle. Your body's going to take breakdown some muscle tissue. It's going to turn those amino acids into glucose and use that as a fuel source. So you never want to wait trened on an empty stomach. Unless you're looking to lose some muscle, which is what I've been doing for less than a few years. But the truth is, if you eat a meal and then you go right to the gym, that meal is just going to be laying in your stomach. You're not getting anything from that. So I like to do shakes in the morning prior to wait trening because that will get in fast. That's a, for instance, you're doing like isolize and carbolize. Maybe what a tablespoon of macadamia, not a oil in there. That's going to be absorbed relatively quickly because there's really no digestion necessary. It's all in digestive form already. So by the time you get to the gym and you're trening a half hour after you have the shake, it's kind of in your bloodstream already. You can use that for fuel and you can use the amino acids, obviously, for repairing and dealing with the muscle tissue. And you shouldn't really have to worry about cannibalizing your muscle. Once again, if you have your five hole eggs and a bowl oatmeal and you go to the gym in 15, 20 minutes later, you're working out. More than likely, that meal is just laying in your stomach and you're probably having absorbed already much of it. You might have gotten some in there, but it's not serving a purpose. So shakes before you wait trening, especially when you're doing it early in the morning, is usually a better way to go. We got this question last months ago, but again, when we have new audiences, we like to, I guess, we're in back these kind of questions from Bill Doom Miller, how do all the competitors travel to shows, gas appearances, exposures, etc. With your gear and everything else, and how do they get it through security? I can only give you my personal experience, and when I travel, it wasn't as crazy as it is now, but whatever you check into your check luggage that goes under the plane, they're really not looking for drugs in that. They're looking for, you know, bombs, you know, explosive devices. That's what they're scanning for, you know. So they don't really care what else you got in there. Now, if you're doing a carry on onto the plane, you're going to go through that little detector and they're going to actually stop and they're going to see everything in there. So they could ask questions. They may not care, but they could ask questions. So my suggestion is if you're traveling within the continent of the United States, in other words, not out of the countries. When you go out of the country, you get to go through customs and other countries. You don't want to bring gear with you. When you're traveling within the continent of the United States, just check the bag that's where you put your gear. You know, just put it, you know, put it inside a sock or whatever. Once again, they're not looking for that kind of stuff. I've had bag search because they put the bag, they always put a note in there when they search your bag. And I've had a lot of the steroids in the bag, you know, that I've taken with me for different appearances and then I'm like, oh, this bag got such nothing was touched. They didn't care. Because they're not looking for that. That's not what they're looking for. Once again, if you're going overseas or you're going to Canada, you're going to Mexico, and Mexico probably doesn't carry the, but if you're going to other countries, you know, they could look through your bags and they will, you know, especially Australia. I've never been searched more thoroughly than when I went to Australia. And I was worried about that. And it's funny for the funny thing is when they were searching me when I, in customs, I was definitely two hours. I went with Aaron, singerman, and PJ Braun. So Australia, and the both of them brought their hormone replacement that they were on with the prescription that they had, figuring it would be fine. Why they needed to bring it with them for, we were there for a week. I don't know. But they got to take it away from them. And they're like complaining. And meanwhile, the, the, the customs people, like, look, you're lucky. We're letting you guys go. This prescription doesn't mean anythinGHere. And Australia, the prescription needs to be on the actual bottle itself. They don't really have prescription pads and something that's not how they work with it. So, but they went through my stuff. They went, it was like, they went through my stuff. They would ask me to bEQuestions these guys about steroids. And I'm like, I don't have anything in here. I don't, I don't know if, you know, I don't know what you want me to tell you. They're like, well, you know, we read your column whenever and you thought you'd be. So, you know, while they were looking for something to arrest me, they were asking mEQuestions about the stuff they were asking me to rescue about. But, you know, it's a pain in the ass because sometimes you forget. Wait, do I have something I have in my bag? I shouldn't have. So, whenever you go into an Ashley, you never know what can happen. Don't forget with you domestically, put it in the check luggage. Nate's lift, Dave, I'm a police officer. My activity level is low when I'm on duty. I work graveyard 12 hour shifts a night. I'm currently 250 pounds. I work out five days a week. I'm down at consuming 1500 calories a day. Currently on keto diet. And still can't wait. IMean, decent shape could there be something else going on? A call is going to hold on to wait or should I just keep dropping calories a month ago? I was consuming 2500 calories a day, but it was way more active before I went night shift. I started lowering calories, stay in shape. I feel like I'm starving myself. Any advice will be appreciated. Well, you probably are starting. So, that's pretty low to go for a man. You might be putting your body into like a metabolic shutdown type mode. So, you probably want to boost your calories back up a little bit. Just because you're not moving around as much doesn't mean you're body doesn't have an increased caloric requirement. The fact that you're working overnight, however, would imply to me that you're probably sleeping really erratically. And when you sleep erratically, your body doesn't function that well. Your body likes regularity. If you're not getting enough sleep, but you're not going to get the maximum performance out of your body. Having said that, you know, also you've got to be careful of what you're putting on your food. I did a video last week about, you know, the hidden, you know, dangers of right? I don't really know what we call it. The hidden secrets and food or whatever. The mistakes people make in other words, all the different condiments they use that have all hidden calories and sugars and carbs and facts in there. And it's funny because I put this video on it. I was very popular. I got a lot of hits. And today I got a question from a new client of mine and the life guy, I think it's fiancee was at it, or his wife was asking me, hey, is it our right if he eats? If he continues to have ketchup on his meals, I'm like ketchup. I'm like the worst thing you're putting on. Not only does it have carbs from the action tomatoes, but it actually has added sugar. So a lot of people, the usual thing people ask me is, hey, can I use sugar free ketchup, which is sugar free, but it still has carbs from the ketchup from the tomatoes that are in there. So that's still not good. So you've got to watch out for hidden calories. So you might be eating a low calorie, but you actually might not be as low as you. You think you are, because you might be adding sauces and stuff to your food, that you think is okay, but it might not be all right. So you've got to really look into that. I would boost the calories up a little bit and try to get more sleep if you can. Cobra Mustang does marijuana lower testosterone levels. I've heard doctors claim it, but does from my experience, I never had any issues. Dr. Drew is claiming you can get guy know from smoking, which I find hard to believe. I think alcohol would have a much greater testosterone, lowing effect. Look, they say that, and I don't know what the actual science is. So I'm putting it on the record. It's just I've heard and anecdotally I've seen when I was in college. A lot of guys who were big, big pot smokers had gynecromascia, and these guys didn't work out. They didn't take steroids. That's for sure. So with at least they think, as they think, if the marijuana can cause more aromatization of the testosterone. In other words, it will convert more of your testosterone into estrogen. Is that true? I don't know. So when I don't know something, I tell you that, but anecdotally I've seen it. I've seen people with bad guy know who were big pot smokers. So it could be that it does aromatize drugs more. We do know one thing. It certainly softens up to the extent. Guys who have big pot heads, they have trouble getting really dry and hard. And as soon as they stop the marijuana or get off of it, they were a couple of probiotics those that out there that you guys might know who did that, they do seem to have a completely different look to their body. So taking forward it is. If I was, you know, when I was bodybuilding at my peak and I was worried about every little thing I put my, I certainly wouldn't, I certainly wouldn't drink alcohol and I certainly wouldn't smoke pot. Let's go to TJ the jet. I drink a whole gallon of milk every day. Have a hard time eating as much food as I'm supposed to because of my job as, and my stomach problems that I have, what else would I, what else would I, if I can handle the lactose, is it a good source of calories and protein? Okay, with the fat, my hard gainers, so I don't put on extra fat, believe they're not. I didn't really get what you were saying, but he didn't mention something about he has stomach problems. Yeah. Terrors and of is a soft biggest two years ago, have them been able to eat like he used to. Oh, yes, Terrors is a, IMean, most people can't, even if you can drink milk, most people can't drink a gallon of the day. That's a lot of lactose to have to break down. And invariably, you're probably not and you're probably, you're gut bacteria, you're probably fermenting it. And when that happens, there's a lot of malabsorption of the protein. So you might not be getting it extracting as much protein as you think from all that milk. My suggestion would be to cut the milk consumption back quite a bit. You know, move to more of a way of isolate. Use that in place of it of the milk. I don't know how you drink it, but it'll give you just gulping it down. But if that's what you're doing, just gulped down way of isolate. You know, I used to make isolate shakes. Literally, I put like three scoops, you know, and they're almost 75 grams or more than 75 grams of protein, I would just gulped it down. Because it went down so easy. So I understand it's hard to eat sometimes. You want to get that protein down. But do it with a good quality way of isolate. Milk is not a really good source or it's not really a good extractable source of protein. I'm going to ask two questions that fairly related one from prime time. Why does it take a long time to feel a pump in my legs versus any other body part I tren? The other question from CT nutrition, any advice on getting rid of the lower back pump when doing legs? You know, pump doesn't mean that you're getting building any muscle or doing anything. It just means you're pumping a lot of blood into the muscle. So, IMean, if you got under a squat bar with lightweight and did a hundred reps, you'd feel a pump in your legs, it believed me. But if you squat, you know, 405, 500 pounds for four clen reps, you're probably not going to get much of a pump in your legs, but they will feel fatigue. And that fatigue is what's building muscle. That's the breakdown of the fibers. It's a good dull, numbness you get. That's important. That's a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone stimulus feel to your body. Just getting pumped out of your mind doesn't mean anything. You're just pumping blood into the muscle. Pumping blood into the muscle is not the same as damaging the muscle fibers. I don't think it's the blood we've done. Mass on the damage. Damaging the muscle fibers, you know, so that they can grow back bigger. Let's go to you can talk something, something something. You did a video recently, Dave, on overcoming depression and suicide. He wants to know how to overcome depression when life seems to always be kicking your ass. Look, in the videos out there, but if you want to maybe give a little primer as we can refer him and others to view that video was about a couple of weeks ago, it's available on our SNLS about the YouTube channel. John Romano and I did a little iron rage about suicide and how it's become more and more prevalent and why do people do it? Some of the solutions to get around doing that and the way to change your thinking and then we did a little fun Steve Blackman make fun of at the end just to kind of add a little lightness to it. But depression is a real problem in our society nowadays. There's a lot of people walking around that are chronically depressed and I could tell you all day a lot, look at the positive, change the way you think, change the way you look at things, things you look at change. I give you every little saying, I give you personal experience, how when I'm down and I've changed the way I've done things and looked at things and I've gotten myself involved with other projects that I find that I'm passionate about. I can tell you that all day long and it's not going to change probably the fact that you don't feel good or that you're feeling depressed and I understand that and so it's hard but I promise you that if you can find something that you love to do and you can immerse yourself in and it doesn't have to be body-mode, it can be something else. I collect snakes, I'm like crazy nuts about that now so all you was thinking about it, I'm preoccupied all day because I'm not graded yet, I'm getting very good at it but I'm not going to say to me that's a challenge to step up my game. So that's something that I enjoy doing away from body-mode. So body-mode is my number one thing I love to report on and give information and educate people about but sometimes it gets overwhelming and you just need to break from it and that I go there and I clen my clen snakes' gloves or I go play it my kids. My new passion, my children, my family, is also there but sometimes you need to break from that too. My son can drive me nuts, you know and I gotta have something that can get me away or you get depressed. Some people have nothing, they don't have a family, they can't get it, hold a relationship down, they lost their job, they hurt, they tore their quiet, nothing's going right for them in their life. That's when you have to take inventory of what's going on in your life and say, you say, okay stop. What is good in my life? There's gotta be something good, there's always something good, it could be the stupidest thing, your plants in a tomato plant, your backyard and you got a great yield from it. Or you found a hundred-all bill on the ground or something, find something that actually gives you a smile on your face. No, I watch an RX mostly YouTube video, I laugh and ask them, okay that's good, I'm laughing, that means this humor in my life. Embrace what is good about what's going on, not don't preoccupy and obsess about what's not good and what you feel bad about. Because when you do that, you get more bad. It sounds hard because you know how can I obsess on a tomato plant producing a tomato? When you do that and you make yourself feel good and you find out that, hey, this is something I did well and I enjoy it. Now all of a sudden you're inviting more joy, more good, more prosperity into your life. It's not an instantaneous thing, so you have to practice looking for the good stuff that's going on in your life every day. In one day all of a sudden a lot of good stuff will come to you. But if you're always worried about what's not right in your life and what you don't have, you're going to get more of that, okay? And that's not what you want and that's why people fall through these funks and it mushrooms on top of itself and then before you know it, you feel like blowing your brains out with a gun and that's not an acceptable solution, okay? That's not, firstly, you're not getting out of anything, okay? You're going to have to come back and redo it again. So you might as well get it right the first time, okay? You've got a lot, there's always a new opportunity around the corner and the next day when you wake up there's always a new day and you get to start over again, okay? People sometimes think that they don't have that option, it's not available to them but I promise you it is. And once again, it's one of these things you have to have faith and believe and you cannot just say, well, day, where's the evidence? There is none. Except experience. And the people who have succeeded have experienced it, people who don't, you know, haven't succeeded. You have to have faith that this will work when I'm telling you, try it, I promise you you'll make things. Amen, brother. Peter, I'll all back, is back in me on that one. That was very, very deep insightful response to that. I don't know sure a lot of people will benefit from it. Rob, team, Fisher, David, your opinion, I'd rather than what's your opinion about trip to RELIN in PCT. Trip to RELIN is an interesting drug because it does two different things and it does two completely opposite things. If you take one shot of it, it actually stimulates your hypothermists and pituitary lip to start producing testosterone stimulating peptides, okay? Signals, LHFSH, it kind of turns your system back on. If you continue to take it however, which is when a lot of people do, it completely does the opposite. It shuts you down and blocks angiogen production in the body. So I don't really like the drug, okay? Because most people don't know how to use it. It's a one shot deal. That's all you can use it. Once again, trip to RELIN is usually used for angiogen inhibition, especially during people who have prostate cancer that's dependent upon angiogen production. So it basically cashtrates a man. It makes you produce no angiogen. So it's not something you're going to use continuously. I personally think that HCG, Kloomid, some of the antiaschogens out there, products, even like my test of life products, are things that are going to be infinitely easier to use and more effective and predictably always doing the right thing. Tripped around, little tricky. I wouldn't mess with it. Mike, you diesel, fake. Can you please clear up these broad science facts about white rice, jazz-minnerbuss-manteed, and then you're going to be able to find out the same thing as cream of rice purely. No added nutritional value when you do this right. IMean, rice is rice. What's face? What is it? It's a fuel source. It's carbohydrates. That's all it is. It's going to give your body fuel. It's like gasoline in your car. The gasoline in your car, and then how much you add to your car, is not going to make the engine bigger. It's not going to make the horsepower more. It's not going to make the car perform better. It's just fuel. Now, there are different types of fuel that you can put into your race car body if you want to call it. You can put like rice, and pasta, and you can use a cane, and oil. There's different carbs that have different release times and how quickly they're absorbed. I guess that would be analogous to the different types of gasoline, whether it's the 92, 94, 87, 89, you know, octane. There's different octanes out there. To me, pretty much all white rice type things, white rice jasmine, fast glycemic carb rice does the same thing, essentially. The brown rice, because it has the husk on it, and the fiber component, slows the absorption of it down quite a bit, and lowers its glycemic index, which means it gets absorbed slower, which means you produce less insulin over the long run. So, offseason, why is I like my guys using the brown rice, is things that have lower glycemic indexes, you know, pre-census when I'm trying to car people up, I like the high glycemic carbs because they get into the muscle faster. Stolen, duck, they, what will be your advice to Aaron Clark, recently competed in both open and to 12 classes, finished after last place? I don't know what's going on in Aaron's life, so it's hard for me to give the right advice. He's got a good physique. ThEQuestion is, should he go back down to 12 and compete, which I think he did suck down for one of the shows, or should he stay in the open and just continue to grow and make improvements? That's up to Aaron, Aaron has to decide where he feels that he fits. I think at this point, once you start gaining enough muscle and go up and wait to try to open it, go into that open because it's hard to go back again. But once again, if he diets down to his best and he's in his best shape and he's close to 12, it, it, it, it, it, it belongs to the probably dropped down and be the biggest guy in the 2012, is supposed to be the smallest guy in the open. I, once again, I don't know where his heads at, I don't know what kind of diet he's following, but he obviously was, we've seen him before at his best. This was not his best. Ronnie Walker, I hate this show, so in a support, your take on the importance of maintaining a pH balance or slightly alkaline body when I began making a series effort to do so, I felt much better and really got sick. Yeah, well, you know, an alkaline environment is what our body, you know, craves. When you're in an alkaline state, you know, your body is working, you know, optimally, you're processing foods and you're building muscle and you're burning fat, optimally, your body is, your immune system is working perfectly, like a wild, well-oiled machine. However, as acidic waste builds up in the body from ingesting tons of protein, stressing your body out, just living life in general, being stressed in general, will raise the acids in the body. Your body's ability to buffer these acids and create an alkaline environment becomes compromised. When that happens, now your body's first priority is no longer to build muscle burn fat. First priority is to fix the pH of the body, okay? Because the immune system will not function well in an acidic state, and that's where the danger occurs. If you test anyone's saliva pH, okay, when they have cancer or anything like that, you're going to find that they're very acidic. And that's because cancer is really a disease of immune system suppression. The immune system can function to eat cancer cells up like they normally do. Cancer cells grow on a baby, and now you have full lung, you know, the test-assizing cancer. So once again, you want to keep your body in an alkaline state and I've done videos on how to do that. You know, obviously a couple of the best things to do is a very high quality, key-laden calcium supplement, something like you would find in the mineralized works really well. You want to give your body outland water during the day. I've sell a product called Santa V. And water filter, it's like a burner filter. You pour your water in there for the tap and it filters the water and alkalineize. Drink three to five less than that of that of day in between meals or while you're trening. You'll feel better because it helps flush toxins out. You're body uses the alkalinity in these products to neutralize the acidity that's in your body. And these are things that you just, you don't really realize are in there, but they definitely, it's helpful to helping your body to work at its optimal best. I wish when I was competing, I knew about acidity and alkalinity. And all that, I guarantee I would have been about about a better bodybuilder. As state brought to you by species nutrition, again, right now, speciesnutrition.com. Maramel Machiato isolized 22 serving is only 1999, while supplies last time for a couple of morEQuestions. David Irons, when using a diuretic pre-contest, why do most bodybuilders opt for ATC-TZ, instead of a potassium-souring-dionate diuretic? I just didn't even potassium-sparing diuretic. Yeah, I know it's very missed all this sparing. You know, the diaside, which is a combination of hydrochlorophyside with the triumtheroine, is potassium-sparing. So it has the hydrochlorophyside action of a flushing sodium potassium out, but then the triumtheroine component actually makes your retain potassium. So the combined combination of the two is you just lose sodium and water. You don't lose potassium. And that's what I like to use. And I've talked about this repetitively already, but that's the best diuretic. The other ones out there have floors, lay six, Demid X, which are two common ones, flush a lot of sodium and water out, but they also flush potassium out. So if you cramp, you don't really know if you're potassium-sodium deficient, that's a problem. Aldactone inhibits the absorption of sodium via a hormone known as aldosterone. The problem with that is if you block aldosterone's action and you cramp and you want to reabsorbs and you want to eat some salt to help balance your lexylides, you can't absorb the sodium because you've stifled or you've de-sensitized or neutralized, your aldactone, excuse me, your aldosterone production. So that doesn't work well. And if you just take the hydrochlorothized component of the dieside, what you can do is you're going to lose both the potassium and sodium, just like you do with leicics. And so that's also not acceptable. So the dieside drug also known as moderetic in Europe is, and there's, I think, di-tide is another name of it. These di-tide work rate because that you know, the only thing you're losing is sodium. Time for a one final question, a bit of a left turn here from the top roller. Why do you think NASA died so early? Did he ignore blood pressure or was he particularly known for abuse? I believe that a doryniate did poison me because he was worried that I was coming for his title. And I think I was poisoned at the 97 Olympia where I should have brought home the first place. Trophy, many people in the tens, you, you, you, you, Dave, a jumbo, polomba, you, you told me that yourself, that yes, yes, that I should have won. But I think that I think the doryniate has poisoned me. Yes. NASA, you know, why would dory import poison you? He won the show. Yes, that, that, that, that's very involved. I, I cannot go into it right now, but I believe that to be true. Now, you know what, this is the deal. I'm going to, we're going to be doing a rant today on, with Lee Priest and John Ramano about the death of four and four pound body bottles because another guy just died a wrestler out there who just, well, I don't know if the time has got the little video. What? Oh, you know, an invader which is died, but big band-bader. And those, these guys are too big, you know, they're too big. They don't control their blood pressure and the blood pressure destroys their kidneys. They get heart disease from it. They get all kinds of different side effects going on. Their blood sugars get out of control. And it's like, you know, while you're young, you can handle it. And then you get to 50 years old and all of a sudden, everything falls apart. And it's, it's sad because, you know, NASA was a smart guy and I'm sure he could have avoided that. But I think what happens is we become obsessed with this, you know, thing called body building, being the biggest, strongest guys out there, always beinGHeavy, always beinGHuge, always eating too much food, never worrying about, you know, blood work and blood pressure. Because, you know what, these things that we don't want to know about it. Because if you don't know about it, then we can't hurt you, right? Well, it could hurt you later in life. And unfortunately, the list goes on from the Trevor Smiths, the Greg Colvax, the the NASA's, to the big band, the Vader, who just died, to many, many of the, the power of the Zothia, Ode Wilson. The list goes on. 400 pound people don't live a very long time. John Romano said it before. We've talked about this on Iron Age before. It just doesn't happen. And unfortunately, I believe that NASA became a victim of the same issue, you know, being over 300 pounds for a very long period of time, not necessarily addressing some of his health issues that he had going on. And he just didn't value his life as much as, as maybe some other people out there. I wanted, you know, I wanted to be the biggest guy out there, but I also want to live a long time, which which could be conflicting, conflicting desires, so to speak. So at some point I had to say, okay, I did one. Let's not push the envelope. Now I want to accomplish the second thing which is a little long time. So I had to switch gears and change the way I look how I ate and what I did. And, you know, luckily, you know, for me, I escaped, you know, from the clutches of possibly, you know, having an early death, you know, and I'm grateful to that. But, you know, a lot of people, that's why I educate people as to how to, you know, maintain your health and what health markets to be checking on a regular basis. Because bodybuilding can be done in a smart, intelligent, healthy way. It can be done in an unintelligent, ignorant, you know, death-defying way also if you're not smart. So once again, makes smart decisions, understand that this body, has got to last your entire life. And if you put too much straps on it, it will say FU and you will be dead at an early age, I hate to say. That is going to do for this episode of As Dave again brought to you by species nutrition. Once again, right now, speciesutrition.com, Caramel Machiazo isalyzed 22 servings available for 1999. For Dave Plumbo and Tyler, sure I'm Siddhi Furuki, we will see you next week.

=== FILE: WHY IAIN VALLIERE IS RIGHT! ｜ Dave Palumbo Defends Iain Valliere on Texas Pro Decision [2PX0efGM6sE].txt ===

Dave Palombo here, where the NRAX muscle ran. Ian Valier on his Instagram did a little post about why he's doing the Texas Pro this coming weekend. Especially on the light of the fact that he won't tamper pro, hEQualified to the Olympia. A lot of people are being critical of him that he's taking away placings from people that maybe he, you know, why he's doing the show if he doesn't win, he'll lose momentum. And he basically, you know, laid it out pretty clearly. Hey, look guys, I'm doing the show number one because this is what I do for a living. I compete. I chose body building as my profession. This is what I do. I'm in shape. I'm going to do the show. I'm not worried about pretty much, you know, losing to anyone. I'm going there confident that, hey, I just want to show. I'm going to win this show too. I'm going to get number one more stage experience. I'm going to, you know, learn a couple more tricks about my body and how it responds to different, you know, car bumps and depletions, smart movie and brilliant move. The matter of fact, he's in the driver seat right here. He's the guy who who's who just, you know, came home with the victory. Everyone else is behind him. He beat everyone and he wasn't even at his very best. I say it comes to the Texas. So he killed me even better. I guarantee he comes in harder, drier and just as full. And I think we're going to see and even better in the value and that's going to give him more experience so that when he goes to the normal class, when he goes to the Olympia, he's going to start knowinGHow his body works now because he's not just competing once or twice a year anymore. This is a great move on his part. Not to mention why not grab the prize money while you're at it. IMean, it's his to lose really at this point. There's no one in that lineup really. IMean, with the exception of Steve Cuclough, who he hasn't really battled this year, that he can't beat. And I think that at his best, he can beat Steve Cuclough if he comes in the way he looked or even a little better than we saw in Chicago. This is a good move for him. Plus he's like basically staying stating to, hey, this is what I do. I can't be here. I'm not afraid of anyone. I'm going to compete again. Anyone who who shows up. If Rammy wants to come to Texas, that's great. I'll go against Rammy. That'll give me even more stage experience against this guy. And that's a great attitude. And you can't put this guy down because you know what? Look at Ashley Cautwasser. She's one 10 pro shows this year. And she's done probably another five that she, you know, placed in the top three at. And she's still going. And she's going to do them all. And you know what? If she can peek herself that many times and get on stage, so be it. Beater. If you can't beater, you're coming second and you accumulate points. And that's how it works. Okay? Flex Wheel or back in the day used to do all kinds of shows. He didn't just do the Arnold and the Olympia. He was doing, you know, the South Beach show. He was going up to Canada and doing shows up there because he wanted to collect money. IMean, that's what he does. He's a professional bodybuild. He wins money. Same thing with race car drivers. They go and do multiple races because they want to collect money. And they want to win. And they want to get sponsorships. Very smart move on the end part. I think once again, if it was huge gaps of time between these shows, maybe it wouldn't be such a smart move. These shows are right back to back. You got the Arnold coming up in a couple of weeks after that. Then he got the Olympia. So then he can shut it down only once and he can rest and relax and do whatever he needs to do. This is a very good move on his part. And I think it's going to turn out to be something that's going to be a game changer in the terms of how his career moves from this point of thought. Because he's a guy who was not comfortable on stage. He loves the gym. He likes the whole process. He wasn't comfortable on stage. You know what? The more you spend time on stage, the more comfortable you get. I wasn't comfortable when I used to compete initially. But I started doing a lot of guest closings. This is back when the guy's guest post back in the late 90s or early 2000s. And I was doing 20 to 30 a year. I got very comfortable on stage. And I got very comfortable in my body and body awareness and knowing where the crowd was and where the judges were. And that helped me tremendously when I competed. And that's why I toured the end of my career. Even though I wasn't maybe as good a bodybuilder as I was a little earlier. And I did better. I was placinGHim higher. And that's because I had better stage savvy and better body awareness and presentation. And that's all he needs to work on. So congratulations. Do what you feel you should do in your heart. Don't let anyone else affect how you think. And I'm not just saying this to Ian. I'm saying this to anyone out there. Look at Max Charles. Look at Muhammad L.A.M. This guy has done almost every show also this year. You know, he's writing the point running to accumulate enough points to go to the Olympia. And I guarantee he probably will because he's not stopping. He's still going. So I take my head off to the guys that are not afraid to get up on that stage and compete. Now, if you want to work to do on your physique and improve misome, I don't have any problem with people shutting it down for the following year. But when you're at the peak of your game and you're trying to get to that elite top six Olympia level, you've got to be if you can't be afraid to put it out there. Who knows to Ian Valier? I'm Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle rant.

=== FILE: WILLIAM BONAC： MIC DROP! Muscle in the Morning (8⧸9⧸18) [qzVbRgBeMSU].txt ===

Welcome back to Muscle in the morning on Dave Palamo and today is Thursday August 9th, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Not to get too intellectually deep to start the week, but there is a philosophical principle called the butterfly effect, which basically says that the things you do here and now have major wide reaching implications down the road. Considering that his road to the Olympia stage runs out of real estate, in less than two months now, I'm sure thaT4 time at Men's Physic Olympia champ, but Jeremy Wain Diaz is paying real close attention to the things he's doing right now. Everyone I've talked to tells me that the champ is coming into this year's contest with an underdog mentality, which is probably exactly what he needs considering the fact that he's still on the rebound from surgery earlier this year. But if he adds a fifth consecutive title to his resume this year, sooner or later it's going to be time for us to open the discussion about where he ranks all time in the pantheon of bodybuilding's greatest champions regardless of division. Another thing about wounded animals is that the smell of blood always attracts predators, and right now in Men's Physic, I think they see a wolf lurking out there in the distance that goes by the name of Jeremy Poppin, the two-time top five Olympian has essentially been a forgotten man in this year's Men's Physic mix, thanks to sitting out the entire first half of the season, but this week some new progress photos began to trickle out, and I'm sure IMade a whole lot of people stop and do a double take. We've seen him have it all working in the past, this guy's physique is on par with the most elite talents in the division, so now that he's had an almost entire year of work on reloading the arsenal, let's see if he can come back and be a serious title contender. Now with the San Antonio spurs, finally sent Kawi Leonard packing, there's a huge sports superstar hole left to fill down there in the great state of Texas, and on the offhand chance that spurs GM RC Buford is watching this, let me be the first guy to say, give Steve Kouklo a contract, that man can sell some tickets. Need deep in the heart of his Olympia prep, the biggest thing to hit Texas since Hurricane Maria doesn't appear to be showing any signs of slowing down, even though it's been a relatively low key middle of the season for him, let's not forget how incredible this guy was throughout the whole first half of the schedule, because that version of Steve Kouklo is a beast in every sense of the word, and that beast shows up hungry and ready to eat in Las Vegas eight weeks from now, there are going to be a whole lot of people out there running in ducking for cover. The good news on the IFB counter heading into last weekend's monster event that went down in Tampa was where two 12 fans had a chance to see veteran rixio topia make stop number two when it's 2018 campaign. Over the weekend we got some new video from our sources inside the topia camp, who gave us a sneak peek at how he's managinGHis rebound strategy after putting on one of the best performance of his pro career. According to Topia and his team, the goal heading down the mid-summer stretch is to do whatever it takes to make it back to the Olympia stage in 2019. A place they haven't been since the start of the Flex Lewis era back in 2011, so if they can show up with his conditioning spot on and be ready to make the judges work, I don't see why he can't find a way to find his old impressive Olivia Form. I have a new fan of stand-up comedy for a long time now, and I tell you first-hand there's nothing quite like being in a room when a comeback is on stage completely crushing it. But the new updates I saw from William Bonack over the weekend are pretty close. One of the scariest men in bodybuilding is looking more and more dangerous by the day now, which tells me how bad he wants to be the man to interrupt King Phil's date with Destiny this year. At this point, I think we can all pretty much agree that outside of it really winkler, there hasn't been anyone in men's open who has been as good as this guy over the last 12 months. So Phil slips up and leaves that door open even a crack. It could be all a guy like Bonack needs to come blasting through and what would be one of the biggest upsets of all time. And that's the end of another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On day, Phil Lamo reminding you to always be true to your passion, and they sort of follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: WOULD DAVE PALUMBO QUALIFY FOR OLYMPIA TODAY？ #askDave [qkq1I2q4k5g].txt ===

You want to save care to your health, maximize your immune system, grow muscle and lose that faster? Over immune is not urgent spices. It's not a proprietary one. It's patented. It's a one-of-a-time product. It's backed by science from the University of Wisconsin Man's. Over is approaching adbion. It's different. It's real science. It gets real results. Check us out at Provid.com. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Bot, our 30-year-in-a-row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching a tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest body-building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition product. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. After workinGHard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery within fear or sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. All right, I still have vision on rxmuscle.com. This has been a great video. As hashtag, as Dave, you're 30 minutEQuestion and answer show with Dave Plumbo. I'm your host, Steve Furuki. This is your forum. Task anything in everything, diet trening, nutrition, news inside and of course outside the body building world. That's been out bringing Dave Plumbo. You just wrapped up a one-hour interview with Ian Valier. Now, this is someone we've been meeting to get on for quite some time. We wanted to get a mum before the tempo probe. He was very, very wrapped up in his prep. You wanted to get him on to talk about what happened in the tempo probe. Or it's finishing runner up to Hunter LeBrata. If you want to get the audience a little primer before you put it up on the channel. Yeah, you know, I had watched he had done an interview with a foot obvious, and he talked about the fact that the stress and the pressure of the show got him, and I could relate to that in terms of like, you know, sometimes people, you know, crumble. Not many people are like Jay Kotler that they have that mindset that's so absolutely powerful and doing something like that. I wanted to get into that and wanted to get into with him what bodybuilding meant him was it how important was it that he really enjoy competing or not He was very very it was a very honest interview He gave and I think people are gonna really enjoy it because I think people gonna be able to relate to it because I think one of the things that that came out Was the guys like Luke Sandow while they loved the bodybuilding they really enjoy the competition aspect of it as much because it was a lot of pressure for them And you know if you can't deal with pressure or if it doesn't become fun anymore You know sometimes you have to go with different direction, you know, and so that was one of the topic big topics We talked about in the interview and I think you guys will enjoy it and then take a look at it and You know because not everyone get everyone thinks wow if you're at the top level you know if you game You know you should love it. It should be great. IMean what it's not that easy when you get to that level People respond differently to stress Look at the actors some actors are Rock solid their whole entire career other actors they become super famous they make a ton of money And then they before you know it they're like arrested or something crazy happens to them or they die young So you got it you know everyone because everyone's a different type of individual and they we all respond to the stresses of life differently And that was it's a very important interview I think for all of us out there who bodybuild should watch because I think it's applicable to all of us Well as everybody knows and as anyone has seen Ian on our channel on other channels Really one of the more insightful minds and all of bodybuilding Bodybuilder himself but also a coach Best known coach to Chris Bonsett his brother-in-law But it is a very very very insightful look into his psyche so something that you know fans of bodybuilding and of course those who you know saw the the tempo approach trenspired a couple of weeks ago wanted to see what was going through his mind then and after So much was made you know between pre-judging and finals and how I guess apparently he had deleted his Instagram So he talks about everything and it's a really really really In-depth interviews you're not gonna want to miss or win a put up on the channel tomorrow Thursday afternoon on rxmuscle.com and the rxmuscle youtube channel if you're watching us on youtube for the first time Hit the subscribe button below hit the notification bell So you don't miss any of our new content of our new uploads of course as soon as that interview goes up with Ian You're gonna see that as well if you like what you're watchinGHit the thumbs up button Comment below obviously it helps us a lot and as always we thank you for all of your support Let's go to thEQuestions first two questions from at the day below my experience after first question Dave something you talk about quite often and the value of fat Well thEQuestion is why is fat essential for building muscle? You know that's a good it's a good question I've talked about it before but you know it's worth remanitioninGHere and revisiting and I think a lot of people feeling can think it's not relevant now I think a lot of people originally thought and myself included when I first started that That was just the fuel source essentially and that we really didn't need very much of it for bodybuilding purposes There was all about protein but when you think about all the hormonal aspects The steroidal hormones all the fat side hormones are made from fat in the body all of the cholesterol carriers HL LDLs made from fats Every membrane that surrounds every cell in the body also known as the cell membrane is made up of essential fatty acids and some saturated fatty acids So when you break down muscle tissue or and or you your body replenishes any any tissues that it breaks down whether the you know the internal intestinal lining you know the bodies in the constant state of remodeling okay but specifically in a very very high state of remodeling because of the fact that we're in the gym destroying Numerable amounts of muscle cells on a daily basis We need the building blocks of a fatty acids Specifically the poly and saturated fats the omega-freezen sixes because these are used to rebuild those membranes So not only is the protein component of the muscle cell broken now, but the cell membrane component is as well So if you want to maximize your gains in recovery You need to take in a certain threshold amount of fat now for each person is different It you know it usually body weight is the Dependent but some people have higher Requirements to not this I have a very high fatty acid requirement in my body I could eat you so much fat eight on the course I probably Almost as much fat as I approach in during the course of a day I just that I think my body uses fat as a fuel source really readily, but it also for repair purposes and Until I restore fact Okay to an optimal level in my body because I was one of these you know late 80s early 90s body bullies We ate Protein and carbs that was it and I could not grow I got stuck at a point and I couldn't gain any mass I told the story before about McDonald's and all this stuff, but The bottom line is you cannot deprive yourself of any essential nutrients in the body And that's why taking a essential fatty acid supplement like the Omega-Lized formula that IMake from species nutrition is so vitally important At least if you take that you know you have the essential fatty acids that your body Absolutely needs and cannot turn cannot create on its own That alone will give you a piece of mind. Okay, you know what at least I'm not Sacrificing my ability to repair muscle because I don't have a central fatty acid So that's number one, but then you also need to intake and dietary fats once again because the more muscle you break down the higher the amount of fat You need to ingest as well because once again if you could if you need to if one person needs 200 grams of protein per day And another guy needs 400 to grow and repair then obviously the four-inch of gram protein guys Gonna need a lot more fat than the 200 gram protein guy because it's proportional So if you if you're breaking down double the muscle you're you need double the fat too So a lot of people just don't realize how how vital that is So probably from a body building standpoint now you're putting aside the health perspective from a body building standpoint of muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and repair We need fat Second question again from the Dave Fulumbo experience app ThEQuestion in itself is pretty simplistic so I'm gonna take it a step further ThEQuestion is are cheap meals or refeeds needed in the off-season? I guess if you want to take it a step further if you want to add the benefits or value To cheat meals in the off-season. Yeah, you know for people who don't eat that clen in the off-season if they're probably not necessary But I was always such a clen eater and the reason why I ate clen in the off-season was it was not Had nothing good metabolism I could do anything the reason I clened is because if I ate too much junk or too much higher sugar foods or higher fat You know higher you know nasty fat foods I would kill my and blunt my appetite. Never remember I would had to eat 10 to 12 times a day If you're eating if you're eating junkier foods, you can't consume as much as you can if you're eating clen foods because clen foods go through faster And they process faster. So for me I looked forward to a weekend sheet meal because it was it was a you know I would eat yogurt or you know like those frozen yogurt So it should really ice cream essentially I would go and have oil you can eat you know buffet Since I'm in that show it was a name it enabled me to have like extra and I always did it the end of the day So I had already got all my good meals in now and then it was like icing on the cake For people who who who gain weight really easy and don't need a ton of food You probably don't need a specific specified sheet meal other than if you wanted to say hey It was one day where I'm eating what I want a lot of guys don't eat that clen in their off-season So for them It's irrelevant but the way I structure my diets and for my you know athletes that I work with it's pretty clen off-season eating and Then I give them that sheet meal so they can kind of go nuts one day a week and I don't mind because it doesn't matter It's only one meal Let's go to the Instagram questions again if you're not following us already it's underscore or Ex-Muscle official underscore or Ex-Muscle day the firsT3Questions that kind of sandwich together So they all have to do with carbs So I don't know if you want to ask them all rat that fire and you want to take your time answering them or you want to go to an Individual league. Let's see let me hear what you grab the fire. So one is your take on front carb loading The other one is can you carb load on BCA's two when I answer those two first? I don't know what would carb loading on BCA's really is you're not gonna not kind of really Stored like a chin-y taking in branch Shane amino acids. IMean So you really IMean I guess they're referring to the fact that maybe mixing carbs with branch Shane amino acids Opposed the eating with like a protein source you always want to eat carbs with protein You never want to just eat them alone. I'll tell you why because protein buffers the insulin response Okay, what it means is it slows down how fast the food is absorbed Okay, and it prevents you from overreleasing insulin because when you eat pure carbs You release your body just goes crazy and releases too much insulin usually so Protein kind of balances that a little bit so and also when you got to remember a lot of people think Oh, I'm carbing up the last couple days. I don't really need to eat any protein You're dumbies just still eat you still repairing muscle You know, you know unless you took three weeks off from the gym, you know before you show you're you know Just because you have been trened in a day or so it doesn't mean you're not repairing muscle It takes probably two weeks before you bite it repairs all the muscle from your last workout you did Likewise as IMentioned earlier you're still Replacing you know the internal lining of your intestinal track your skin cells your hair nails That's that's a protein requirement So you don't want to start cannibalizing Skellable muscle which is the expendable muscle source Okay, while you're carb loading because you're gonna you're gonna start flattening at and not looking as good So I don't I very rarely reduce the only time I reduce protein is that last the day of the contest Because on the day of the contest you don't need to eat a ton of protein So if a person's eating eight or seven or eight ounces of protein per meal IMight have me for four and a half ounces of protein per meal with their 50 60 whatever 70 grams of carbs per meal Only on showday because on showday you're really not drinking anything So you really don't want to be taking the tonic protein, but you do want to have some so it balances that insulin response Now I just wanted to just throw a plug in here for my good friend Heinz senior who sent me these great are a Tumosal masks that are adjustable So if you guys are looking for a adjustable mask I don't even know where he's sellinGHim I got I gotta find out, but see they got this little like dry string I was showinGHim my after I was there that it's the only mask that fits me because I could actually adjust how how why they are August and they don't because the ones that they sell in the store They're usually too tight at the biGHead and they are they're always pulling my ears back like this and so These are great. They have the repeater one. We have the one with a little logo in here I got to get to see I got to get some of these for you so you can wear them through your nails and gigs Yeah, no one Just coverage otherwise I'll be wearing the hospital one. Let's go I'm gonna throw in a third one here It's from Ivan body building Do you think insulin would help at all when carbing up for a show if you're not consuming a crazy amount of carbs? I don't think it's necessary now now you could tell if it's necessary very easily By testing your blood sugars, okay if you're carving up and your your blood sugars are runninGHigh Meaning you're not absorbing your carbs properly because for whatever reason your insulin's not working You don't have you don't produce up insulin or because of the GH you're taking the insulin's not working Or because of the clumbutor all you're taking it's raising your blood sugar because you know Clumbutor all can raise blood sugar by and by causing glucogun production Very simple like I said as your carving up you test your blood sugar if it's if it's runninGHigh It like two hours after your meals if you're running over one 30 or your fastings in the morning or over 90 You might want to take a little fast acting insulin with your meals while you're carving up, but I don't but in my experience most people don't need that Let's go to Samurai 84 thoughts on a young guys in the industry opting it to be on TRT Does Uranus are cycling by young men early 20s? Yeah, I think it's stupid. I don't I don't think staying on HRT is is necessarily Bad for your health toxicity wise because IMean, let's face it an HRT dose is It's gonna do nothing. I think what the problem is Is that you're not allowing your receptors to resensitize themselves because here you are you're on the high dose You go down to TRT dosages, but you're still like taking in the exogenous source of testosterone and you're You're maintaining your your levels at a high or maybe slightly higher than high normal Value your receptors really are still overstimulated So they're not gonna they'll improve somewhat your engine and receptors, but they're not gonna go back to baseline normal If you go off and you go low because what happens? Look at when you go off a side like you can take all the HDG and one you're still gonna be low testosterone Okay, that's good for a few weeks iT4 weeks of being low is not gonna it is not gonna end in a world You won't even realize it probably But what it's doing is it's resensitizing the receptors because the body doesn't know it doesn't have enough testosterone The engine receptors think that this is not enough and the engine receptors pro president So they increase their numbers and that's the advantage of going completely off every year and I guess that I've told the story before One year out of my entire career. I didn't go off. I stayed on like an HRD pet like five million ribs a week I felt like that It was in 2000 1997 I just placed fourth and 96 nationals behind Warville Burke Tom Prince and Jay-Totler I probably should have been hired I year but whatever for whatever reason this I was happy was my first placing in a national a pro qual file show I was over like excited about the whole thing I stayed on the whole year. I had a lot of guest posing. I should have gone off like I did every year I didn't have to national's like stayed on and in 97 I I placed fifth of the nationals And you know what IMy body looked tired even to myself and and one of the judges told me that Of course, I was insulted when he told me that but I looked at the pictures after what I said You know what he's right. I didn't I wasn't sharp something like I didn't improve It was the only year I hadn't really made improvements I did my body weight went up a little bit like five or six pounds But but I I wasn't a better look for some reason and that upset me and I realized you know what I got to clen out and I went off like 12 or 14 weeks after that That nationals in 97 and I looked I thought I looked and felt way better the following year so Whatever it's worth Sorry, I'll just go to JD J bear Shockey your take on doing standing calf raises one leg at a time By feeling is that it allows for a greater mind muscle connection Obviously the weight will have to be reduced because you won't let it at a time Would love your opinion our thoughts and for the more is that something that you tried during your bodybuilding career I'll you can't do standing calf raises one leg at a time because it's impossible to balance the weight would happen to you greatly reduce But what you can do when and what I used to do sometimes is every like maybe other work out I would go on a leg press machine You know they had that little pad that extends and I put my foot and I would do one leg is on there with lighter weight of course Because now I don't the balance myself I'm kind of laying in a comfortable position and I can do my one one leg at a time And this way I would make sure that both gas truck nameiest muscles on the right and the left leg We're getting equal work and if one was a little behind the other one I would do a little few extra sets Excuse me a few extra reps for that the weaker or smaller calf and I felt that kelp kept the balance really well However as my career progressed and my calves kind of came up and they were they looked pretty good I was able to kind of balance it just doing standing calf raises with ball plagues I kind of knew which leg was was the weaker one So I would kind of favor that one when I would do the two leg it and I and I kept my legs pretty much in good balance But initially when I had the little bit of an imbalance that's what I would do Don't try to do a standing calf with the butt with the with the pad on top of you standing one like at a time You'll never balance your wine of twisting your ankle or something like that It's not worth the aggravation and the impossible injury Yeah, so that is second question as well You're take on assisted pull-up machines that a lot of gyms have I've been incorporating into my back trening rather than regular pull-ups And I feel it allows me to really focus on hitting the last back muscles and getting a great overall Contraction I like the assistant it's kind of like you kneel on the pad and it kind of like you can set a weight stack I've of how much assistance is giving you as you're doing those pull-ups and I used to you know when I hit a certain weight I don't know if it was about 280 or something to seven when I hit a show I couldn't pull my body up my body weight in many more it was just I was too heavy And my most of my weight was in my legs so it was like dead weight hanging there So when I would do what I would do is I would usually every other back work I would do the assisted pull-up machine. I still think pull-ups are the best that I fact I said Which is the problem is when you get very heavy it's hard to pull your body weight up and I'm a guy who is a stick Well, I would get my my verse of grippers on there and I would literally pull up with till my chest hit the bar IMean that I believe in full range of motion and it's very hard to do that when you weigh you know 300 pounds So by standing you know kneeling in that little pad and giving you that assistance You can count a balance today as much as you want depending on how much you put on that weight stack It definitely gives you the ability to still do pull-ups without having to worry about you're being too heavy It was good a John Patty current Dave the maximum amount of scoops of way You should put in a shake without it being a waste of protein I've used up to six scoops in the path before bed To try and curb hungering side of so IMight sweet tooth. I'm a bit concerned that a some of the protein will not be utilized and b It may be stressing out my digestive system. Yeah People who tend to do too many scoops like I do a kid or you was doing like a hundred grams of whey protein like four or five times a day That's a lot of protein They their breath would stink of and it wasn't their breath really it was an internal body odor They were just reeking ammonia And that's just because the kidneys and the liver couldn't deaminate all that they were overeating protein That means if you're if you got an ammonia breath coming out of your body You're probably eating too much protein or something toxic is going on in your body so you know 60 maybe 70 grams of the most of protein per meal is probably Nax what I would do I think 60 grams of way I so like if you did two scoops of ice-sized Which is about it comes out to you about 55 grams of protein that's ideal You don't really need to go much higher than that. I'd rather you do more frequent meals or shakes Then try to jam more into each Because remember you can only utilize so much per meal in other words and and it's really dependent on how big you are So if I'm 300 pounds Let's say I could assimilate 60 grams of protein obviously I'm gonna be able to assimilate more than say a person who's 180 pounds would Because I have more muscle mass. Let's say 60 grams is perfect for me But I have a very fast metabolism and IMight even tabilizes this stuff as soon as it hits my bloodstream So instead of doing a 120 grams of protein, you know six times a day I'll do 60 but I'll spread it out you know over 12 meals. That's why that's why I was eating so many times a day because I didn't want a jam at all into one big meal because I knew the body couldn't utilize in all at once So I kind of experimented and so how much my body can handle which for me was about 60 to 70 most grams of protein per meal I would never go over that and Especially with shakes because shakes get absorbed so quickly. Only one shot if you eat a steak that 70 grams of protein It's gonna take eight hours to absorb that whole steak okay, the way you're because the digestion is so slow But way goes right in so if you're infusing that much protein into the bloodstream that quickly Your body has to break something that down and get rid of it and that's just a waste It's a waste number one of money But it's also a waste because it's causing your body to have to work hard it to break down the stuff when it doesn't need all that protein It's gonna jam it and mills with a reclassification of HCG by the FDA for TRT HRT related purposes What are your thoughts on clinics prescribing and forgive me if I get it strong gonna derail in as a substitute? I know that most compounding pharmacies don't want to pay for the new licenses of course, but is this going to have much of an effect on TRT HRT effects efficacy you know, TRT is really Predicated on a replacement dose of testosterone So the the an-an-fate shot you take on the test sipping a shot you think that's really what's giving you the bang It's the Hc is kind of just Stimulating the testicles HCG is more of a post cycle or if your body you for some reason you want to turn your body back on Because you want to try to get your wife pregnant or something like that It's really not necessary to be honest with you, you know Really honest I don't think I took an ACGG I only took an HCG shot once a year Because that's when I would go off so I would do cycle the whole year, you know Offseason into pre-contest after the show is over. I did my HCG for two weeks literally that was it and then I went and then I Stayed off for six or eight weeks, you know, and then I went back and then again I never took HCG off if there's no reason to it's like literally going to the beach To enjoy the sand and bringing like a little a ziplock bag of sand with you and saying Look, let's throw this on the beach. We're gonna have a lot more sand now You're not gonna even know it's there you're basically wasting you should Might just keep the sand at home because you're wasting it because it's you're not Gonna even know it's there. It's not doing anything in relation to what you're taking already because you're taking so much more injectable Testosterone that that little bit of HCG that's gonna cause you to produce a little bit of natural testosterone is not doing anything Okay now Have you said that if you're on an HRT dose to testosterone, which is a hundred maybe 200 milligrams a week max And you know It's not gonna be a super super high amount and you want to take a little HCG with that to keep your testicles working Just to feel good because maybe the the the TRT dose is not giving you enough in terms of sex driving crease That's fine, but on cycle it doesn't even pay to take HCG while you're on the cycle Let's go to mod soloski Lucas low IGF-1 level despite high GH level on blood test farm at GH Should you pay attention to it apparently level of IGF in the blood if not reliable? And we should be interested in the level of IGF in the muscle and that can only be checked with a biopsy your thoughts Girl hormone injections don't cause increases in IGF Basically local muscle IGF There's two types of IGF there's the IGF that's systemically produced and that's from the liver Essentially you're you take a GH shot of your body releases growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone It goes to the liver it tells the liver basically produced IGF-1 Okay, that's why it used to be called so mademeed in C because median mean in the middle So you'd have the GH at the top Sumatem mean into the middle and then and then the the the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone effect from it is what you get Okay, so and then they change the name from some out of the insane to IGF-1, but because it had an insulin like effect on the body But that's the systemic effect now when the your body systemically releases IGF-1 in Relation to growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone injection or release It will find the target issues that have been damaged so if you break down your biceps from doing a bicep routine They'll cause Local production of IGF-1 receptors that systemic IGF-1 will locate those receptors and bind to them and help prepare Okay, they'll muscle there that that that we know But also there's a local production of IGF-1 so when that when the muscle cells are mechanically disturbed Because you're in the gym and you're trening right and they're broken apart at the mechanic of this disturbance You release something known as a mokmocanograph factor Mgf It's really just local produced IGF-1 it's the same hormone, but it's being trickled out locally From the tissues as their damage and mechanically disturbed and that helps with local recovery right there So you don't you don't have to depend on this on systemic taking gh doesn't affect that that local production of IGF-1 Now there was a this this you go to these peptide sites and you can buy a mokanograph factor Ngf and a lot of people thought well if I take an angel and I'll get local growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Not really because what's happening is you inject it into the muscle of your arm your bicep and then it's in the bloodstream And 30 seconds and it doesn't stay there But when your body is trickling it out in that area in relation to like I said a mechanical disturbance down there That's why you're getting some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone from it because it's being trickled out constantly in in this area You can't really duplicate that by injection Okay, now if you're taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone home and you go to get your your labs checked and your and IGF-1 levels are not elevated There's a number of reasons, you know assuming the gh is real it could just be that you're about you have it delayed response to it You might have already released your you know IGF gets elevated, but it doesn't stay elevated very long So you might have missed the perfect window of when it went up So that's why that that whole test of AI'll take a shot of GH go to the doctor two hours later Get a blood work and I'll see what my IGF-1 levels it doesn't always work that way That's just not the way our bite. We're not we're not robots. Okay unfortunately That's why the right test kit that I sell for testing GH at daypaloma.com is so important because it's like It's almost like a pregnancy test you dip the stick in for 20 seconds you put it on the table you leave it after 20 minutes If you got two lines it's fake if you got one line It's real it's that easy and and everyone who uses GH should test because I hate them I keep reporting worse than worse statistics, but it's true I would say 75% of the GH out there is nothing zero has nothing in it And the other 25% you know seems to be good how what's the dosage? We don't really know now what's as far as anabolic skill for my experience over the last You know a couple years with his right test kits. I'm seeing that a lot of the anobox The last six months have been coming back as test propina Meaning that if it's an injectable rather than putting decker rather than putting test an antfait rather than putting masteron and they're putting test propinaated there because it's cheap and Most of the orals I'm seeing tested the anobars and the winchials which a lot of women are using They're coming back as diannable method and just stand alone Probably at least 70% of the time so you have to test your gear you've got to go to go to my website You got to buy these these it's part of your regiment if you're gonna buy the steroids in the GH by the test kits At least you'll know if they're good or not and the great thing is the new test kits arEQuantitative or Senate 70 quantitative Mean that you can see what the dosages on test test Test an antfait test sipping a decat And try an anthe you can actually determine what the range of dosages in there It's a separate test it's called the 20 quantitative test you buy that and you could test your your gear Not only for if it's real, but if it's how much is in there if you buy the complete testing system Everything's in that kit you know you just might have to buy some refills depending on how much you're testing But everything is in the kit so Yeah, it's it's bad news, but it's good news is bad news because it's unfortunate that there's a lot of unscrupulous It's kind of that's a word there are a lot of people that have no scruples about them And they'll they'll sell you anything the good thing is that we have testing kits to verify if this stuff is good Time only for a couple morEQuestions. I'll just go to Ben barnbell at Nutrition. Do you think someone really needs to go all in on Balking or trying to lean out or is there a middle at ground approach to be hadn't gaining muscle and staying only Look, you know depends what your goals are I was an extremist when I was growing I wanted to grow as much muscle as possible when I would lean out I want to get as ripped as possible. I don't like this like well I'm happy with the balance in my life. I wasn't balanced. I wanted to be extreme So for me There's no casual diet and there's no casual bulk up. It doesn't work you get no results You gain two pounds or lose two pounds and that's not acceptable to me So when I did something I did it at a hundred percent Now that's not to say that I'm not going to if I'm walking up I'm not going to eat Way more food than I need and you can turn to a fat slob just the game way It means I'm going to specifically target my diet so that I know that I can maximize gains and recovery Okay, and not worry necessarily that getting bloated or not necessarily worry About hey, oh I have to stuff eight meals or 10 meals down my throat every day. It's too much I don't want to be bothered I'm I've bloated I didn't make those excuses I said hey this is what I want to look like and I know what I get to do to look like that so I'm not going to make excuses If I feel like I'm going to throw up half the day because I hate eating all that food so be it. I'm getting that food down Let's go to Shawnee boy fit Dave. How do you feel you would have compete done competing in this era? Do you think you would have gone pro easier? Relatively speaking and do you think you would have made it to the Olympia stage? What if anything knowing you know now? Would you have done differently again? I just competed today I think I definitely would have been pro because I think it would have been easier for me to turn pro There was more opportunity you know Think about I play second twice at the national level show. IMean now they're giving pro cards for top two It national so I definitely would have turned pro How I would have done is the pro. I don't think I would have made it for the Olympia stage Unless I had a show I got really lucky and one because I was the only guy there that was like shredded and big You know because there were guys the just the structures on the even today These guys have this beautiful structures. I can't see winning a pro show today You know back in the day you place top three you made it to the Olympia You know that's not the case today. So I don't think I would have made it through the Olympia stage I probably would have placed top five maybe a couple pro shows I definitely would have gotten a pro card like that's it just because I think it was bit would have been easier And I probably would have made a lot of money because you know They didn't have social media when I was competing so you know people like to see big freaky guys If I would have documented what I was doing and eating I think people would have found that entertaining You know I would have been doing what I'm doing now just would have been in a different perspective would have been more in relation to me Rather than in relation to what everyone else is doing. You know Last question now you're gonna have to tell the story a little bit to breakfast Who would win in a fight you or your dentist? It's a good question. I don't know When I get angry you know You know the old saying you've seen my routine you wouldn't like me when I'm angry you know I turn it to the Hulk You don't want to make me turn it to the Hulk and I don't like to turn it to the Hulk because I'm a mild man or you know reporter You know from the metropalten newspaper, but When I lose my cool I could be pretty dangerous so You know you screw around with me with my mouth guard, you know three times the succession and you know You're done so I think I would take the dentist out. Yeah. He's a little on the skinny side But he is a little younger than me, but you know when I hit him with the Hulk smash that's it it's over We had to get this one last one in from a surge body dead. Is there anyone in body building that you haven't met before But you wish you had the chance to meet them in person It's good because it's a congression Yeah, I've never had I never had a sit down with Arnold Schwarzenegger I don't know why I I've a cost at him at a buffet once before at Whole famed ceremony and asked him about the meat bully bus eating, but I I don't know why I just never got a chance to interview and really sit down even talk with him I've shook his hands before he's come by by booth before and and we've said hello politely But you know, I've never really had a chance to sit down and talk shop I would love to hear some of the Arnold stories and just sit down and get him in a relax even if it wasn't an Interview for like a like a for for Channel or anything like just to shoot the crap with Arnold you know that that would I think though I think that would be interesting. I'd like to know like you know what he's like, you know Just just hanging out because I heard he's very funny and I already is really cool You know when he hangs out with all his buddies, you know that you know he grew up with you know all the body bulls He'll make like Ralph Mueller hit like most must-see-l-shots and you know He'll tell Fred used to tell Frank a wolf and time to hit poses, you know and you know they would have fun So I I know Arnold got a good sense of humor like that, you know, I'm kind of like that too He's sarcastic he doesn't make himself that seriously So I guess it would be Arnold you know that was really you know Lufra Ignel was my other guy. I really looked up to coming up and dory into so those guys I kind of am friends with so I I can't you know that kind of check that box off But Arnold was always that like a loose of you know because I kind of got into the sport when he was like almost too popular so to speak and I couldn't get close enough to him in that sense and So I guess it would be Arnold because he's kind of like an an enigma for me because I don't really know him on a personal level And that's gonna do for this episode of as Dave Reminder tomorrow episode the interview with Ian Valley a going up tomorrow afternoon Stay around two clock Easter center time on our smustle.com and the our exp muscle youtube channel Of course if you have not yet already subscribed hit the subscribe button below hit the notification button Not gonna miss any of our upcoming segments or any of our content and of course if you like which you're watchinGHit the like button Comment below appreciate your support as always for Dave plumbo and Tyler sure. I'm city for rookie. We'll see you next time

=== FILE: Went PRO In Figure & Women's Physique in SAME SHOW! Ashley Soden Interview ｜ RX Spotlight [pO3ZGKE-Ku0].txt ===

Today, Palombo here with an RX muscle spotlight. Today's guest is a special one and I love to get special ones here, especially when they accomplish something really, truly unique. Not only did she win her pro-card at the team universe in figure, but she also won it in women's physique in the same show. Very infrequently do you see that happen? The woman I'm talking about, of course, is Ashley Sodden. Come welcome to the show. Thank you so much for having me Dave. I'm so excited to be here and to do this with you. Yeah, you know, the last person, I know it's happened a couple of times. I've remembered Nicole Wilkins back in the day, winning fitness and figure at the team universe one year. And I think she was the first person to ever do that. It's very unique. I actually think that that's a much more natural crossover. You did figure and women's physique, which is way different because you got to do poses and one is just turns what made you decide to do both? You know, I've always aired a little bit on the more muscular side for figure as far as you know, other competitors that I go against every point. And so when I was talking with my coach, Victor Nell Campo, he kind of gave me a little friendly nudging. And so you know, maybe we should take a look at women's physique. I have this feeling, this little inclination that you're going to do pretty well. And I'm not going to go away, but you know, let's throw them up there and see where the chips lie. See where you stack up. And you know, anybody who knows me knows I don't have to have everything. It's whole ass all the time, right? And so all in gave it all my efforts when it came to my diet, my trening, the mental side, the opposing, the preparation. And we did it. We were able to come out with a pro-court in both figure and in women's physique. So super excited about it. Did you? When did you decide to do physique? Like how many weeks out? I was, so I started my prep around 18 weeks out. And right at the beginning of prep, I was teeter in the line. So I think this is where I started having those conversations. You know, do I go to the local level and get some shot? Do we, you know, try and do like a little like re-personal run at maybe a little or level show? And we decided not to do that and did just kind of throw it all out there, give the best prep that we can approach it just like we do with full intensity from the figure side. Bring that level of intensity to up level the game. And you know, it obviously paid off because we came out successful with this and it was such a unique and adventurous endeavor that we embarked on here. Was it hard to like learn the poses? Because IMean, it's one thing when you, IMean usually when you learn posing, you do it and like an offseason scenario. Here you are, you know, you start in your diet and you're like, all right, I got to learn the women's physique poses now. You know, Dave, that's actually the part that made me so in love with that category. Because figure, for anybody who's very familiar, obviously people watching us, very familiar with bodybuilding. So figure in nature when it comes to the poses is very, you know, front quarter turned the side, quarter turned quarter turned right. So it's very like superficial nature. But when you start to dive into those women's physique and up levels, that's where it becomes art, right? This like sculpting of the body, how you position, how you move the flowiness with it. But also being able to display that hard body musculature. So that dynamic approach and the juxtaposition between the grace with the muscle. Now that to me, that was like, oh, I just, I need to just dive into that wholeheartedly. And when we started the prep for that, I started the preparation for my posing specifically weeks and events. So, you know, we were taught having this conversation about 18 weeks out. I would say probably by like 17, 16 weeks is when I started putting together my actual choreographed routine and started going through the mandatory for that, especially being way outside of my usual wheelhouse with that. So yeah, it was very fun. I take it from the experience that you're exhibitinGHere that you're going to stick with women's physique now. I'm going to approach it from both angles. So it's interesting that you say that because I have this question a lot after I came out of team universe. And I'm like, alright, what direction are you going to take it? Are you sticking with figure? Are you going to women's physique? Obviously, very different trajectories there in terms of the body style. So what I did was I reached out to the judges, got a little bit of feedback from them. I wanted to see what their opinion was of where I would do well in the industry. And they basically said, you know, take it in either direction and see, you know, just see where you stack up in the competitions. Right. They said I have a very nice all around shape and package for figure. But I also bring the same level of muscular density for women's physique. And that's what I was told was that it's kind of rare to be able to have that like crossover ability because that's kind of a fine line. Oh, yeah, that's what we were thinking. Yeah, you can come into muscular figure and come in under muscular. Well, yeah, IMean, if you're going to tren to be in women's physique in the pro ranks, you're going to obviously start adding more muscle. You'll probably push yourself out of figure. What's your Instagram for people who look into, you know, check you out? Yeah, a great, great question. My Instagram is the handles at Empower Body's Official. That is my business and my company name is Empower Bodies. It's a trening platform, virtual trening platform for lifestyle clients, nutrition and trening. Okay. We'll put that up there. Some people can see that. Now, it's a different when you are coaching people and working with other athletes. And then you've got to work with yourself. And it's almost, I always say it's impossible to advise yourself. Is that why you've got Victor? Absolutely. I am such an advocate for proper mentorship. Especially when you're in competition, right? And so getting closer and closer to a show, there's so many moving parts. It is nearly impossible to stay completely objective. Right. And so you can be the best athlete in the world, even the best athletes in the world have mentors and coaches to guide them and keep them on track and a huge advocate for that. That's amazing. You know, I'm watching some video from Team University. And you look at even doing this for a long time. You look very comfortable on stage, which I assume is just your OCD nature of making sure every detail is covered. Right. That's exactly right. I've actually only competed three times. So once at the local level, which qualified me for the national stage, my first national stage was in 2024 North Americans, a place to second in figure. And then once again, went to the national stage, this is what I did a couple weeks ago at Team Universe. That's where I decided for the first time to throw in the women's physique and ended up landing the program as well. Now you have an interesting background. You were into rowing. IMean, and I always find I used to live with a in college. My roommate did crew. And he would get up at like four in the morning every morning and they'd have to go and get in the boat. And they would go out and they would row. This was a college, obviously. And I'm like, man, you got to really like it up early to be a crew. That's one thing I hate doing getting up early. How did you get involved with that? It's a great question. When I was younger, it was actually my father. He used to be a really well-known wrestler. And in college, he had all these scholarships all the stuff. Well, I'm so short. He had an injury to his neck. He was not able to compete anymore in wrestling. One of his buddies kind of steer him into direction of rowing. Fast forward a little bit. He has five kids. I'm one of them. Yeah. And I ended up kind of following in his footsteps just to growing up around the sport. Right. And just really just being an athlete by nature. I just always had this competitive side to me, right? And so go right into that at a young age. I completed my first World Championships at the age of 11. Wow. Greston, continue to compete in the sport of rowing. You're after year at the World level. And then eventually, whenever I think it was age 17, is when they voted me in as the headwomen's coach. And then headwomen's coach ever since. That's awesome. Now, you never had a desire to try. I don't know if you were good enough or not. To go into the Olympics or anything like that. It's actually so. The sport is called Dragonboat Racing. So it's interesting because it's a little bit different than crew or schooling. Or it's backwards like this. Sure. The sport of Dragonboat Racing is essentially like a sprint canoe. So it's like a high meal sprint canoe with multiple people in there. So it can be either 10 people votes or 20 people votes. Oh, wow. And with respect to that, the reason that they actually don't have the sport in the Olympics is due to the amount of competitors in each boat. So it's more of a logistical aspect of how they act physically run the Olympics. However, it is interesting that you bring that up because they actually had a trial run with it in the world games. 2008, they had the world games in Calshung Taiwan. And that is, I'm really excited to say that I was able to participate. Oh, wow. That's both a coach and as an athlete, competitor of at that time. So that's as close as it's gotten to the Olympics. So. But they have the curling in the Olympics, but they don't have like drag in the race. I'm a kind of, they are a trail. They exclude sports, put out of sports in. It's so political. It's crazy. But there is so much politics. And it is pretty much. So now you're still involved with the rowing, then you're still doing that on a regular basis? Yes. However, right now, in my trening, as I'm embarking in this professional stage career here, I am kind of taking a step back from that. Due to the fact that I want to keep symmetry in my musculature. Being that it is canoe style, it is typically on one side of the boat. And that can create muscular balances, which has been a huge, you know, not a rope, but challenge for me to, to butt up against and be able to bring that symmetry back in the suit. Oh, I would do photoshoot back in the day. And they be having me do the same arm. I'm like, I gotta do, I gotta do the other one, too. I'm like, I gotta even it at, I said. That's exactly right. So, and then you also have a degree you said in behavioral neuroscience. What's that about? Is that a master's degree? By all, is that an undergrad? That's a undergrad. So I have a bachelor's in my behavioral neuroscience with a specialty in systems and neuroplasticity. So that is all things brain related. How it trenslates into behavior and how our brains interact with the world and become, you know, or personalities. And all the different intricacies of how our bodies work. That's awesome. Now you ever had a desire to become like a psychologist or anything like that? Is that, well, is that something you're interested in? Early on, it was before I really had the trajectory of, you know, life and everything like that. I for a long time, I wanted to go to medical school and kinda go down that pathway. However, different doors have opened and I started my own business. I'm now a competitor and all these different doors have opened. It seems to be my niche, my area here. And so what I do is I really pull from that degree of behavioral neuroscience into the actual trenings and coachings that I do as a virtual coach and as a business owner because the muscles are run by, you know, the brain. So everything is really systematically connected. And I really bring that trening into my coaching platform as well as different practices, such as neurolinguistic programming, which is a fancy way of saying the way that we speak to ourselves and how it interacts with us on a cellular level. Yeah, I know a couple of competitors that should probably hire you because they're brain is not wired properly. They got the body. They got the physique, they don't have the mindset to be a champion. Yeah, that's right. You got a reprogram, that a little bit. Well, you know, I want to wish you, you know, number one, I want to congratulate you on the double win and the IFB Pro card. I'm sure next year you're going to take this industry by storm. You've got the mindset, you've got the determination, you definitely have a passion for it. And it's nice to hear that in the newer generation coming up that we're going to see some great new competitors on stage. I think you're going to go towards women's physique. That's my prediction. You know, I don't disagree with you. I was so in love with the experience. It was amazing to just get up there and flow and let it go. So I cannot wait to bring this even more amazing package to stage when IMake my pro debut. I'll tell you why I think you're going to do it. Because figure is very genetically predetermined. In other words, you only can do so much with your body. IMean, you could change a little bit. But you know, if you're not structurally the best person on the stage, you're not going to be misalipia. We're just women's physique. You couldn't kind of mold yourself into that form that they're looking for. I think there's a lot more plasticity in that. So I think that's going to interest you more. But we'll see if I'm right. I want to once again congratulate you and Victor Del Capo. Good friend of mine, who's your coach, great victories, congratulations, and check out Ashley's Instagram if you want to hire her to get your brain reprogramed. I think IMight give you a call, actually. For now, I'm a people love them. With another RX muscle spotlight. Thanks.

=== FILE: Wesley Vissers DIALED IN + INSANE Joe Mackey + Nathan De Asha AT WORK! [k3OjxGEnl6I].txt ===

We're gonna be launching the tasty pastry for the Lowcar Poptart. We've goT3 and four brands in that carps, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Friday, July 16, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's Friday and we're less than 24 hours away from kicking things off at the Portugal Pro. And that means that we are less than 24 hours away from seeing Wesley Vissers make his highly anticipated season debut. Over the last few weeks we've spotted a few names to watch, and the classic physique line up here. But when the official line-ups were released on Monday, whoever anyone was projecting is the potential winner immediately slid down as spotter two when we saw Wesley's name on the list. A few pre-used that we've gotten from his camp so far all have been right on the money. And if he nails it 100%, it's game set to match, as soon as he sets foot into the building. Believe it or not, this is actually the busiest week in the year so far in terms of how many shows are on the schedule. So make sure you tune in for our next recap Wednesday to check out what went down. But looking ahead to next weekend, everyone who's anyone is waiting to see what happens at the Chicago Pro, which means that there are going to be plenty of eyes on Joe Mackie. Joe's been working with Dennis James for the majority of his contest prep. And right now it's a pretty stage that to say that this is the best he's ever looked from a sizing conditions standpoint. I don't think Joe's ever been anywhere close to where he is right now. And I think it's the combination of these two things that has some people wondering if you can potentially challenge Puntil Abraata for a spot in the top two. Because of anyone in that top group leaves a sliver of daylight. I'm sure that Joe would be more than happy to take advantage of the opportunity. Body building is like most sports in this sense that timing is everything. If you peek a little too soon or you miss the mark and peek a little too late, your championship window can open and close before you even realize what happened. But with that being said, I know that in the Thalia Quaylo believes that this is her time to shine in women's physique. And if she's doing everything in her power to make it happen a few days ago in the Thalia release, her first trening clip since she started her Olympia prep where we saw this year's top title contender showcasing some of her talents. When you look at how this division has shaped up over the lasT3 years, the Thalia is the only athlete in the world. Not named Shini Kran, who can say that she's placed top three or better on the Olympia stage during that span. And since Shini Krodoffin to the sunset, that leaves the Thalia in a class all by herself. So if he just keeps improving, like she always has, she'll be right there giving a sour of a legus, oh, she can handle. Some of the ancient stoic philosophers believe that the two keys to happiness were focusing on what you can control and ignoring the essentials. And if being back on the Olympia stage for the first time in two years is what makes you happy, maybe moving out to oxygen-giv to tren like Nathan De Ashich could be a solid third option too. After being forced to quarantine for six days after he landed, Nathan's picking right back up where he left off and says that for now the plan is to keep chipping away day by day until it's time for him to make his season debut with the Europa Championships in Spain. And you take into account how many distractions that he's had over the last year, digging this sort of distraction-free environment might be the best thing for him, because if he can double down and focus on what he can control and ignore everything else, that's unessential, well, that might be all he needs to make things fall into place. And that does if you had another edition of Muscle in the morning on Day of the Lumberal Reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Why Is NO ONE Talking About William Bonac + Steve Kuclo Late Season Run？ [-KA7fOYyal8].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Road, there's 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pothart. It's goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, Muscle in the Morning. On the Palombo, and today is Friday, September 18th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Why get to when you can geT3? Those words came directly from raining and defending men's physique champ Redmond's. So in case you had any questions about where his mindset was heading into his first title defense, I think that statement should pretty much sum it all up. On this show, we've talked a lot about mindset and what it means to be a champion. And hearing that statement from Ray really encapsulates what we mean. Champions don't have a plan B. They don't think about losing. It's not in their vocabulary. And at the end of the day, that self-belief is the thing that separates them from the path. Now, on the flip side of that, when you're entering into a situation as a challenger trying to unseat the incumbent, you need to wake up every day with irrational confidence. Because if your mindset isn't completely focused on doing everything in your power to do it, no one else in the world believes is possible. You're ultimately going to come up short. So in this case, you can't blame Andre Ferguson for thinking that winning the title this year is already a done deal. Outside of Ray Edmunds, you can make a pretty convincing argument that Andre's been the most dominant athlete in this division for the better part of the last few years. And since he already has the championship mindset working in his favor, the only thing left to do now is win the Olympia. I take a lot of pride in being a man of my word. When I tell people I'm going to do something, I deliver. Because building trust and keeping my promise is something that I place a lot of personal emphasis on. So when I hear William Bowen-Axay that he promises to improve specific body parts, heading into this year's Olympia, my natural inclination is to take him at face value. With everything that's happened over the last six months, it almost is like William's managed to fly under the radar, which seems like it should be impossible considering that he's the second best body builder on the planet. But between COVID and Flex in the return of Phil, there's then essentially zero conversation about William being a serious title contenter this year. But then again, maybe that's how he wants it. And maybe he'll show up and do exactly what he said he was going to do. And maybe a new one and improved William Bowen-Axay will find himself as the last man standing when it's all set and done. I know Dallas Cowboys stands are still sick to their stomachs after watching that terrible week one performance against the Rams. But the good news is that your division sucks, and Steve Kukul is back in the mix, so at least you guys have that going for you. Earlier this week, Steve released a video from a shoulder workout where he saw him hoist up a pair of gigantic 160 pound dumbbells, and knocked out a few clen reps. By all accounts, Steve's treninGHas been spot on the last few months, and he's in a great place both mentally and physically. And just like we've seen so many times in the past, when Steve's completely dialed in, he's as good as anyone in bodybuilding, so I still wouldn't rule out possibly making another late season run. And that does it to get another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palabbo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: Why KAI GREENE Should Do 2018 Mr Olympia! Heavy Muscle Radio (7⧸2⧸18) [YJZ5bP529Hk].txt ===

10th and 9th You're my and I'm a Rory Queen There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can be Lomble Chris Asito Orangemuscle.com presents Every Muscle What are you? What's up? Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio on the Palombo and I'm joined as always by the technician Chris Asito On this July second 2018 evening in the Chris I'm trying to figure out how many times I've said that intro over the last since 2009 February 2,000 On it. Out of it today. How sad. How crazy is that? You did really. That's interesting. Yep. I thought of it because I thought we were doing the show at midnight Right. And I think we've been doing the show for like Since 2010 or I've been doing the show with you since 2010 I've 2009 2010 or And I've done it from Spain. I've done it from Dubai. I've done it from many times from Australia I've done it from Brazil. I've done it from Curacao. I've done it from Malta. I've done it from Italy. Yeah. I've done it from all over the place. It's crazy. Right. We're going with this is our 10th year. So figure, let's when we finish the 10th year that will be We do 52 shows a year because we never miss Right. Times 10 years. So that would be 520 shows. We will have to believe it. Which is crazy. Think about it. How many hours of our life? You know, they say you only have so many out. You know, they try to figure out like because you always think of that Till because you sleep half the day. You sleep half the day. We don't sleep half the day. Some people do it. The post do. It's the post of you. It's the post. That's a lot of you. A lot of intros we've done are this thing already. I think I'm damaging my brain from the lack of sleep. I'm serious too. I want to draw the time. I think I wonder if, you know, I got a really late. I get up really early. And then I, you know, I, I forced myself during the day to concentrate, which I'm good at. I can force it. But I think what damage am I doing long term? I think that's why I can't remember anything. I'm, because I think that I cannot solidify memories. You know, that's what you're doing. You sleep. Your body kind of like, it's kind of like, you know, you're downloading the hard drive when you're sleeping. Your brain is like, is learning all the stuff that you learned today. It's kind of making it putting it to permanent memory. It's replacing your trensmitters in the brain. Obviously, it's repairing muscle if you work out. We don't, you and I don't do that as much anymore. And it's doing all those little housekeeping features. And when you don't, when you only sleep a couple hours, you don't really get to do that stuff. And so I think that yeah, you start declining mentally a little bit. Either that or I'm actually becoming my dad, which I don't know if I told you about my father fell. He fell again. It was almost the one year anniversary of the, the last time he fell and he had to have the, the hip re done on the left side. He fell on the right side this time. And he broke the feet. Yeah. His femur in four places. My father broke his femur both. Yeah. Yeah. He never healed. Oh, he didn't, they didn't do surgery. They just surgery, but it didn't heal right. He didn't have therapy. You know, he wouldn't do the therapy to stop. Right. Wouldn't really get out to walk to strengthen it. So he's like confined to a wheelchair. Wow, I didn't realize it. Yeah. My father, the guy came in and he did the surgery in six hours. My dad was under. And he, he looks like if you saw the X-ray, he looks like seriously. He's like six million dollar a man. He's got like, they basically said, figured, we know what? His bone is not going to be shown. We'll just give him a metal bone, basically. They just put a plate, the whole infant was blown when he fired. And all together, they replaced the implants. And I was going to know, so now he's got basically two, he fell. He got two new implants now. And one on each side now. And it's all metal and screws and stuff like that. So the doctor even told me because there's no way he could break this again. It's impossible. He said he could break it. Other things, but he's not breaking this anymore. So I said, well, that's good. And the doctor was like really cool, like, like, you know, really cared about my dad. He was like, you know, I don't want, I don't want him over medicating your father. He shouldn't be, you know, drooling in the corner over there. I'm going to give him the weekend, though, because he seemed pretty, pretty, resonged by the surgery. But Monday, I'm pushinGHim hard. I said, do it because I want him walking. There's no reason why he should be sitting, you know, confined to a wheelchair. This guy's got a walk. He's strong, you know. He, you know, he may not have a memory left, but he should be moving around. I said, well, good. I'm in favor of that. Push him as hard as you want. I don't care. He won't remember anyway. I said, it's not like he can say all that fucking doctor. Like he would normally say, you know, ten years ago, five years ago. He doesn't remember. I'll get, I had a day go. I don't know. It was great. I said, I think good. And then the nurse is a bit like, oh, your father is cursing up his tongue. Meanwhile, he's been in a good mood because he's only been, he hasn't done anything yet, you know. They like, oh, you father. So pleasant. I'm like, good. You guys get him up for physical therapy. You won't be so pleasant anymore. Yeah. Occundation. But, yeah, the problem. You know what, he has the problem. My dad, you know, he, they come into his room to brinGHim to a meal. They're like, all right, sorry, you got to get up. We're going to the meal. I can't get up. And they got to geT3 people and they'd lift him up. No, I'm like that. You can't stand up. He's like, oh, no, I come two weeks. Then we'll leave. And they'll put him in the recline it, recline back. So they're like, he can't get up. On his own, they have a bed along there. And he fucking climbs into the chair. Somehow, and he's on the fucking floor. And breaks his leg. How the fuck did he get up? He couldn't get up. With three people helpinGHim. He climbed out of a recline on his own and fell on the floor. So. That's what he is. He's playing poss. Possum. He's not so injured as he'd let us, lead on to believe. That's the problem. Well. But he can't remember. I can't remember. All right. What, uh, I got a lot of silly things to talk about. This is, uh, this is coming weekend. We have a big weekend. We have two because we have two big shows. We have the Chicago Pro show. Obviously, Sergio, I'll leave a junior returning to his hometown to try to win the title there. Was there any, um, was there any, uh, reason that he did the show other than that? Because, you know, theoretically New York was probably a bigger show in terms of titles. You know, a lot of people would have thought, well, Sergio could have gone through the Arnold or something bigger than that. Why do Chicago? Well, you have to backtrack to New York first. The first one was New York, why New York? No, that's New York. That's New York. The, well, the New York was Sergio and the nationals. And I went backstage just, you know, congratulate whatever. And, uh, he saw Steve Weinberger and, uh, he promised Steve out, I'm going to do your show first. Right. And, uh, so that's why you ended up in New York. And then Chicago was the natural trensition from, you know, back to his hometown. I think that's part of it. Got it, too. His, uh, you know, he grew up in Chicago. Uh, you know, he has his roots in Chicago, although he moved out to, you know, Goldson Venice and Los Angeles area. It just, uh, you know, it's, it's in the cards. It seems from. And how is he looking? He looks good. He looks, uh, I'd say he's, you know, bigger than he's been. And I think his condition is pretty much spot on to where it should be, you know, a few days out. Mm-hmm. And, uh, you know, he's put in the work. He's done the giant sats with me, Los. He did hit work with me, Los. Uh, the jet. Okay. Yeah. And I think that men, the captain. Um, and, uh, isn't me, listen, in San Diego, that? Yeah, but Sergio would drive down. Wow. That's a short drive. No, he wouldn't do it that day late. You know, I think you do it. He's trened with him, like, uh, you know, he'd do one back workout his way. And then he goes, you know, he goes, me, Los. Which is probably smarter because he trened like, He'd do two, two, two body parts. He'd do back like twice by himself. And then go see me, Los. Just twice, then go see me, Los. You know, legs twice by himself. Then go see me, Los. So every third workout would be, with me, Los. I feel almost positive. That's smart because then, at least he's not all being overtrened by me, Los. You know, that's very good. Then, Wilson, like, all you need to do the insulin routine. Yeah. This is just a good way to shock his body, I guess, right? Yeah. Yeah. You know, it gives him a different, yeah, tracks his body, gives his body different perspective. IMean, he trened with a lot of volume anyway. Well, his with his genetics, you know, and I'm sure his dad trened like that, too. We'd see him work. Yeah, he's probably tons of volume. I only know that because I once trened some people, who, who, who, who, well, good friends with Sergio, this couple who are this business couple, this is like 25 years ago. And they were close with Sergio and, and, and they said he did crazy amounts of volume and ate a lot of donuts. I really, yeah. He would eat like three or four donuts before he trened his obsesies and then they just trened set up to set up to set up to set up. So that was his pre-workup, but they before they had pre-workout, you know, drinks or something Sergio, seeing it would, you know, according to them would have two, three, four donuts, obsesies and then go tren. Well, you're into the muffins. We should make a performance pre-workout muffin or something. I always took a picture of a muffin in Walmart. The other day, and posted up my Instagram, and they said, I love that. That would be. They love when you talk about muffins, they think you're good. Yeah. So, you know, you got to pop some deep-out with him to make a mark. Right. And some of these guys would probably put some marijuana on it. So, you know, it's funny that Chicago Pro show is another one of these wings of strength sponsored shows. And they're having, it's interesting. They're doing something unique that they've never done. I don't even have a got clearance to do this, but I'm sure Germanian clear it, because probably no one cares about women's bodybuilding anymore. So they're having an amateur women's bodybuilders anywhere from anywhere in the world can come to this. The second annual wings of strength miss international classic. I have to be proly qualifier. So in those of you win this. I don't, let's say the how many words is that? A lot of words. A lot of words. Wings of strength. Mizz international. Classic I have to be professional league pro qualifier. So that's like five lines. Yeah. If your women's bodybuilder, if you want to be in women's bodybuilding, and you compete in the show and you win. Okay. You're in basically. So a class win will award you. So not even just, not even just the overall, but the day. If you win your class, you win and I have to be professionally pro-card. And this, this will take place on Friday. And then on Saturday, you can actually compete in the I. F. E. B. Pro League women's bodybuilding event. The pro women's bodybuilding event. And if you actually win that, you will qualify for the wings of strength. Rising Phoenix World Championship, which is basically replaced in a Olympia, which takes place on September 8th and Phoenix Arizona. So, big weekend for women's bodybuilding. If there are any out there, I, I tell all the women's physique competitors that I help, or that I advise, do the bodybuilding. Get your freaking pro-card, that way. It's freaking easier. No one does bodybuilding anymore. You might as well, if you have a decent amount of muscle, you know, you can, you know, basically edge that line or walk that fine line. You probably can't sneak in and get a pro-card because I think I'm seeing a lot of these women's bodybuilders are big, but they're just not in shape a lot of them. And they're doing, they're getting pro-card because they're just not enough women competing. And, look, no one knows how you're going to get a pro-card. Who cares? Get your pro-card and then do women's physique. You know what IMean? You don't have to do the women's bodybuilding. But I will say one thing for these wings of strength guys. They're giving out a lot of money. Yeah, we still. They always come through. Thank God, IMean Tim Gardner wouldn't be able to hold all these shows. He's holding without the wings of strength. And what the business model is, but it's good for bodybuilding. I love when people get back, you know, obviously they have money and they don't not afraid to use it and hand it out. And they're certainly not getting it back. Okay. So they're doing it out of generosity. It's kind of like a billgates type of thing. You know, it's the women's bodybuildinGHas like benefit. There's, you know, that's the other. That's always had benefit. Yeah, that's true, you're right. You're right. Always had people on the, not on the fringe, but people who have nothing to do with working out or very little to do with working out. Who love the sport. It's weird. Right. And there's always been those people around who would, you know, bankroll certain athletes. You know, and sometimes people think, oh, there's something funny going on there. And a lot of times it's not. No, you're right. Very, very odd. There's always been, you know, who is a huge female bodybuilding fan is David Lee Roth? I didn't know that. Oh, you loved it. Really? Yeah. Because he had that T.T. can lie in a. Yeah, he did your own part. So she introduced him to, I don't know, all the other female bodybuilders. He loved it. Interesting. See, he gave me some trivia that I didn't know about. Deesh kniter's in the bodybuilding. I know that he had a gym in Long Island for many. Oh, really? Yeah. Many, many. He had a gym there. He snidered from the, twisted sister. Yeah, twisted sister. Yeah, he works out pretty regularly. He's still back there. I think he's still over there on Long Island to be honest with you. I don't think he doesn't know. The gym anymore, but he still, he still lives there. Because my friend has an auto body shop. He brings his cars in there all the time. He's like a regular, he's like a regular dude. I like that. You know, he could be a star when he's in Hollywood and when he has to go to these events and then every day he's just like a regular guy, you know, put on a sunglasses, fucking thighs is hair back and his pony tail. God bless the guy. He's got a full head of hair still. It's unbelievable. Is it his hair? Is it? I think it's his hair. Well, to see the speaking of the fake hair. Did you see the latest, uh, Ky Green, beta bedipost? I did a big one. I don't know. Was that something? That I didn't see if I heard about it. Yeah. Beta bedipost was insinuating that, uh, in 11 weeks, uh, him and Ky Green had come in through the sandow, which implied basically that Ky was going to win this, do the Olympia, win the sandow and that he was going to somehow be involved. Then it can happen. But go ahead. Yeah. So I, I just did a, and a response, a video to the, to the post that Beta had put on Instagram. Which, you know, basically made a lot of waves. Is people want to see Ky Green do the show? Of course he do. I don't think it's a bad idea if Ky did the show. But I know that the polish, calling Ky would demolish the popularity content. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. Not long. Because then I give you, you know, I found out more information about it. It does matter now because if it, if it counts or something. Doesn't count for anything. Well, I found out what's, what, at least, I think Flex Magazine, Clare, fight it on their website. Number one, all the voting is only for the people who are in attendance to take it holders. There's nothing to do with people at home. So the social media crowd is not going to have any input on this at all. So it's a, it's a way to sell more tickets. Which is good. Give the ticket holders to vote. Secondly, it will, it'll basically crown a people's champion of people watching the show. And the audience, which is fine, you know, we'll have no bearing on the play things. I can guarantee you that. But once again, it's a good, I think that whoever came up with the idea, I don't know if it was Robin or someone else. It's a good idea. I'm not, what did the people in attendance vote? I don't know how they can secure that or make that happen. How do you know if the people are actually in the audience, they're going to have little things on the seats to push. The vote was actually to show that the audience should have, that was on the match, the dating game, right? I don't know. I remember. He was in another, he was a former client of my name. He stood for Chuck Willary. Oh, right. He was from, he used to tren at the Gold Venice I remember seeing them. Yeah, I decided he was a, I used to do nutrition plan for him. That's funny. He was very, he looked very vain to me. Was he very vain? No, no. He's very down there. No, IMean, when I say vain, very into his looks and how his presentation and, No, really, no, IMean, I was looking at him. I was always well groomed and stuff like that. Yeah, a lot more wrinkles in real life. How's that for a guy who made money just for him running a dating game? Yeah, but they would, if you remember, they would, that was like high tech then. The audience got a chance to tap you. Yeah. And who they wanted to go out with, you know, the guy of the girl. Right, but there's no way the Olympia people are rigging up every freaking chair in that place. There's like 10,000 chairs in that place. Yeah. And they're all like fold out chairs. I don't know, there's no way, I don't know. I'd love to know how they do. I got a contact someone who knows how to do this thing. But the point is, kind of when the open Olympia, IMean, without not the people's or where he can have the, the get the votes of the judges, even when the, well, the best prep for a guy would be a shotgun prep. Right, don't over die. I don't overthink it just don't overthink it. Because six weeks. He did more than enough. Yeah. Because you know, you just nailed the dates. Well, how many times I haven't said that on this show for a long time, you're always right. But, Kai in a six time, seven, 42 week prep. Listen, Cody Montgomery, you had a seven week offseason after three years and he, honestly, he prep eight weeks offseason pre-condest got ready for show. Kai looks great to old. He's looking at him. He's looking at him. He's looking at him. He's looking at him. He's looking at him. He's looking at him. He's looking at him. He's looking at him. He's looking at him. He's looking at him. Because he's already big. Right. If Kai Green calls you up at Siddae, Chris, would you work with me? What's the answer? It's a guy. Well, you know what? I would know. Of course I would. Oh, you would. Okay. Okay. Because it'd be fun. Yeah, that's true. It's not that hard. Sure. I'd probably just tell him just continue to do it. You know, that's it. Exactly. Don't change it. Kai, don't change anything. He had probably sent me pictures and I'd say you look like he went today. IMean, he's what he's been. Chris, IMean, three muffins a day. Yeah, keep it. Just don't. Don't change anything. I'll be even fried chicken. You know, fried fish or, you know, hamburgers. Go to go to San Diego and do a giant set with mellows for the next 5-3 weeks. No cardio. He probably could go with mellows. tren three hours a day. Eat like there's no tomorrow. Be wrapped. Right. Yeah. Before entering or after the workout with mellows. Oh, my God. I'd love to look. I'd love to see him in the, I don't think he'll do it. Because, you know, you know, I know someone who told me that they offered him a hundred grand to do the show and they're, I'm sure they're, I'm sure they're a lot of money. Not, I didn't want to run some sport. I'm saying, you like, sponsors that it, it's all from a hundred. Yeah, you show a hundred grand and they wouldn't do it. Yeah, they, you know, they should, they should pony up 200. You know what, data is not like a liar, though. He's, there's always some truth to everything that he hints about. So maybe the, maybe they're planning something. Who knows? He has thEQuestion. Would they give, IMean, they'd be crazy not to, but would they give Kai an invite to the Olympic? Because he has not qualified. Well, yes, I would. You think they would. Yes. IMean, they'd be crazy not to. IMean, they'd be not so million tickets. I think they'd be the biggest, the matter, what, you know what? There's a saying called that by guns, because I got it. Yeah. And no matter how personally hurt Kai has been or the Olympia people have been, you know what? In three year, you know, the clock is ticking and there's going to be a point where it just, it's an impossibility. Because it's not just this kind of thing. Because it's a bit too old. Yeah. Or as ways will go get too wide or as he'll lose something, you know, is tear something. So, to him to be in the Olympia would be a grand slam in terms of emotional ability. That's what I thought. To the Olympia. Big of that. It's still early enough and it's not like that, I don't even know if the Olympia deadline has passed. Where they have to sign the contracts. So, IMean, if you, you can make the rules, you know, someone is your show. You can make it. It's like someone goes like this, you know, when a company says, well, we have a budget. You know, budget is a may to be broken. And rules are made to be broken. What if they said, we are exceptions to rules. And, you know, some people deserve to get special invites. What if they said, okay, you can do the Olympia, but you got to qualify. This is a couple shows, they'll come and write for the list. Oh, they can't even imagine that. That's the Jeff, that's the pull on Jeff King, isn't it? Well, IMean, no, Jeff, yeah, but Jeff. Tell everyone the Jeff King, sir. We should do a separate video on the Jeff King issue. Jeff King was a freak. Everyone knows him as the guy with the biggest neck. And, you know, he was a freak before his time. He came around around the time, He was, you know, just coming out and everyone was, I wasn't everyone buildinGHim in the hand. He is like, it'll be the next big battle up on stage. Yeah, yeah, that next big battle. So, what happened? Hackamete didn't get a pro car. There was a whole controversial thing about the day. Didn't they start the USA championships with him in mind? Is it a big thing they wanted to make him the first champion? Well, I don't know. You know, all the details and some of those conjecture and speculation, because I don't know the facts. All of them. But I do know that 83, he wins the Mr. America. And, which is an AAU show. And, Hany wins the, was it 83, 81? And then, two, eight, eight, eight, eight, zero. First, the first NPC, National Day, just started the NPC. They had broken the AAU. Did you get what the American 83? I'm not showing Jeff on it. Okay, so he either won an 82 or 83, but at that time, the Mr. America was still a big deal with Jeff wanted. It really was a big deal. Right. Beautiful title, Mr. America. Sure. In it. IMean, at the time, it was for quite a while. But so, just the odd part is, Joe got wind of Jeff. Joe, yes, of course, the wind crazy of him. You know, and essentially, you know, promised him the world. And then wanted him to get into the Olympia. Sure. That's why I was on the wanted of the Olympia. And, you know, I think, you know, whoever was running the IFB at the time, said, fine, do the Olympia, but you got to qualify. Jeff was kind of, you know, of the idea that, you know, I'm like the best in the United States. Right. But there's an asterisk next to it, right? Because at that time, yeah. Yeah. And you couldn't say you're the best in the United States, because you didn't beat, you know, the people just want the nationals. Right. But you know what the weird thing was? Because I'll stop you, and then you can finish story. They gave pro cards to other people, and other argument to who won the Mr. Universe, and something like that. Yeah, they did. And it was just a united states thing. Yeah. They did. So, you know, the, the, the, the weird part simply was that, Joe wanted just Jeff in the Olympia. They just invited him. Right. I think Joe was like, you know, it's my Olympia. I can give him the special invite. Right. No, they didn't want to even worry about the pro card. They were going to give him the pro card and give him the invite to the Olympia. Yeah. But there was pushback, you know, and they thought it, maybe it was a, they thought maybe more keyword maybe that was a bad precedence, you know, that you just, the sky wasn't Mr. Marick, and you, you're bringing them right into the Olympia. Which would have been great because, IMean, talk about excitement. Sure. And I thought I, I think he would have done some, you know, extremely well, because like I said on the previous show, you know, his career came to halt to the car accident, not to, you know, anything. Really. So, you know, that's that. So, so, so what, so they wanted to get him in, but didn't they, I, the story I heard, and you know, better because I know Bob Grushkin was helpinGHim. The story I heard was that they, they were going to, they wanted him to do the USA. And Bob was going to, said, I think they were going to do the USA, but they wanted him to qualify to do the USA. And that's where they said they didn't want to do it. Is that, is that true or is that, and IMake a sense of, I don't know. I don't know. That's what I heard. It wasn't that they, maybe you're right, because you probably know better than I do. I thought that he was willing to do the USA to win the pro-card and then do the Olympic obviously, with a special invite, but that they wanted him to qualify to even do the USA. And it wasn't that the year they made the USA, because the, the nationals weren't 82 the first one, but I think the first USA was 83, right? E, and that's the first year they made the USA pro-card? Right. I don't know if they even had it before that. I don't remember. It was before my time. So, maybe they, they created the USA in 83 or something like that. Or maybe it was 82, maybe they gave, like you said, the pro-card in 83. And Jeff was supposed to be the first champion to get the pro-card. Who became the first one, David Hawker, something like that? Yeah, maybe it was. Got you over tremendous memory. Yeah, I think it was David Hawker. Yeah. There was a guy who won the four of that, but I don't think he got the pro-card for that. Was that Phil, I don't remember that? Williams? Was it Phil Williams? I don't think it was, I don't know, I could be making that up. But it's interestinGHow these things happened. And obviously we never got to see the Jeff King Lehanie showdown, which would have been great. Well, you think Jeff could have been Haney? Because Haney wasn't that big when he first started, you know? That's what IMean. What he went 94 years ago in Olympia? Yeah, I put it right. Jeff was a better bodybuilder when Jeff won the America than when Haney won the National Smyat Canyon. It's two years later, I think it was Haney's second Olympia. He made the big jump. Right. So Haney really got a lot thicker. The first Olympia, he looked good. I think he placed third. But it was the second Olympia, the one that he won, that he made a big jump in size. But Jeff had already had this Jeff was already like that big, because Bigus Haney in the 80s. Sure. So I get Jeff King's record by pulled up here. In 82, he won the Collegiate Mr. America, overall. He also won the Eastern USA Championships, believe you're not funny. He won the overall, and the Mr. Universe, and the Nav and Mr. Universe, he won the overall too. 183. So that was his year. That must have been the year they wanted to get him in the Olympia. Yeah, I think you're right. The following year, 184 won the World Championships in Nav, a 12-class. And then in 85, he must have had the car accident. Because 85, he was second of the World Championships in Nav, and Waba. Yeah, that's what he here. I think 84, he had the car accident. He's so competed up to 88. A lot of guys in the Nud that I didn't know that. He wasn't doing as well though. He was doing terrible. So crazy. Yeah, it's... But it just goes to show you, Mr. Opportunities. What a clash that would have been. You know what? It's funny, missed opportunities, Dave. But I'm the worst one people say, should I do this? I say yes. You know what IMean? You're well, because I always say, you know what? You're going to be... How old are you Dave? 50. You're going to be 50, and you know what? You're not going to be 31, and you're going to be 50, and you're going to say, I should have. Right. No, yeah. I don't live my life like that. I always do things, too. But it's going to take the energy of your youth, more than anything. Well, a lot of people thought Cody was crazy to do the Cody McCormick. He was crazy to the USA. You know, the first show after his teen national wins, and the guy won the free game show. I don't want people to talk people honestly. You know, people are like thinking, well, you know, if he breaks top 10 this year, and you know, I was... She's top 10. I remember sending pictures to Jose, and, and Tossi said, this guy's got a good chance to win. That was like, you know, some six weeks out, some weeks out. And you know, he couldn't have done the show the year after, and he might have not won. Right? Because, IMean, he had to beat the right place the right time, some time. He had to have to be in the right place at the right time. He had to be in the right place at the right time. Kai's the... Kai is the old worst at doing that. I don't... You haven't noticed, Pan. He's always at the worst. He's always at the wrong place the wrong time. I actually said you're probably the worst at that. But Kai always shows up at the Olympia all off a little bit. He's never timed it perfectly where to win that Olympia. And he certainly had the physique to win the Olympia. IMean, it was face. Well, well, part of it, maybe, goes back to six week preparation. Six week preparation versus like a 12 to 15 week preparation. Because once you're in shape and you have time left, it's all down and they'll come there. If you're in shape, right? And it's five weeks out, it's all down. Hill from there. Yeah, you're right. I think who knows Kai can come back and be as best because, you know, he had... Rest. Think of that. Sometimes, rest is good for a physique. He's been traveling. You can tell he hasn't stopped trening. You can tell that he's still eating well. He's in good shape. He's got a little muscle. Maybe he needed the rest. Maybe he'll come back and he'll be great. You know, I don't know. But... You know what Dave, IMust just stop there because he might end up sending you a season just his daughter. Like Jeremy went to his lawyer. Oh, I guess. So I get this FedEx from Jeremy Pointier. It's a lawyer. Who's upset? And that that Boston Lloyd had set on the TV show that he sold Jeremy Benzia drugs back in the day when they used to compete together. And they lived in the same town, which was true because Boston's got the text messages and everything was approved. But they want me to, you know, take the videos down and everything went down. But which IMight have done. But the second stipulation was that I can never ever say anything to Sparaging against Jeremy with the idea. Which obviously we'd be open to their interpretation with the Sparaging is right? Imagine that. We saw, can never say it work. You never say like, Jeremy with the idea can come and throw a fucking dead fish through my window. And I can never say Jeremy's a fucking scumbag to doing that because I saw a sign that they wanted to sign something. Michael Jackson's lawyer used to send out threatening letters to people in the media who didn't refer to him as the King of Pop comma Michael Jackson. That's very- That's crazy. Blackman used to send blackman was notorious for sending out letters. I'll tell you you could start by blackman. When I worked there at the time, one of our main competitors at M.D. was bodybuilding.com. He's bodybuilding.com covered bodybuilding back then, you know. And so, oh, what the average a website called bodybuilding covering bodybuilding. So blackman had exclusivity on all these athletes. You know, you've paying everyone, right? This is when he actually paid. If we had Victor and this one under. And somehow bodybuilding.com was been boozelling these guys into getting doing videos like trening videos on their website and under the guys that it was like for their supplement company that they were representing. Like Victor was M.H.P. But it was really nothing to do with M.H.P. It was a trening video. I said, see, they're violatinGHis contract. And they're trickinGHim with doing this. You got to, he's a guy who sent the deceased in the sister letter. So he had to let us sent the alphabet of that. Three-light days ago, no one responds. I said, see, they're not responding. You got to take further action. This video is still up. It's getting a lot of hits. You have exclusivity. You got to enforce it. Yeah, let's say he wouldn't ever do it. So they were all idle threats, basically. He'd have, you know, because he didn't want to spend the money to go forward with the legal action. Yeah, well, that's a typical lawyer's deal. But he would send that to me, all the time and everyone would just throw him in the garbage. So when I left, you know, when he fired me and I was, he sent me a few sentences because I was usinGHis pair of pen alpics, like on my arms muscle that they had taken of me, my own pictures. My pictures that he took of me. I put a couple of up or whatever. I'm editing, so I just, I don't want to give him a way of doing this. I just, I don't remember who is getting all worried about. I said, are you kidding me? I know he's never good at anything of Advers. I said, I fucking pissed on him through him in the garbage. I said, because I know I knew his whole sticker at it. You know, he's setting new season to sit there. I see, I watch him send out 400 of them and never enforce any of them. You know? So who knows? There's no way I'll sign that. There's no way I'll agree to the terms because obviously, no one's just leaving it up and let his lawyer who's, you know, he's sending you his, you know, cancer letters. Monthly lawyer will be handling it too, but that's not here now there. First of all, I'm not the one who sent it. I said anything. He can go after Boston, the light if he wants to. But Boston, the problem is when Boston posts up the text messages of him saying that he's the, the Jeremy asking for what steroids he wanted. Then that's probably going to like make the situation worse. When do you think? What's Boston up? Did he have his actual text messages? Yeah, or text emails. I don't know. So it's, it's not. He should have probably just let it die, you know, because no matter what what crap is out there, like, no matter what anyone says about you or posted about you could be a murder. After like six months, no one remembers anyway, you know what IMean? People don't even remember like three days with some of your mates. Oh, damn. The funny thing is that I reached out to before I even had Boston white on the show. I reached out to Jeremy. I wanted to get him on it to clarify. And I even told him to be a text, a, a, a, a, a, a Instagram messenger, which I never used by the way, because that's the only way to get in touch with my said Jeremy, get on. I think people are misrepresenting what you said. I actually was takinGHis side. You know, even when we talked about it on the, on the radio show, you were pretty vehement about the fact that it was, it was just, like, and I'm like, well, maybe I was trying to play to double that thing. And I said, you know, maybe he was just misquoted. You know, basically he didn't really mean it in the malicious sense. So here I am defending the guy and getting, up, getting a letter from his lawyer, you know, telling me, I can never, I can never, I can't even say like the guy is fucking shoelaces. If I can tie and wrong, you know, we were insulted by that comment that they pull him home made about Jeremy's shoelaces. Well, maybe maybe maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, should have fun. I want fun. That, that, tell, tell was lawyer that you reject the season decision. But I don't, you can. But instead, you give him voice to be able to clarify his comments and respond to Boston Lloyd. Yeah. IMean, haven't, if, if it's, if it's untrue, if it is not true, then who better to defend himself than himself? Yeah. No, right, great. Come on and say, you know, Boston stop lying. Right. But you know what the truth is? I'm not the, who cares? Everyone knows that all the people in our entry use some kind of, you know, and all the stuff. IMean, it's not, it's not like, it's not like, it's not like, even, neither do the baseball players with all players with hockey players. So worst thing you could ever do, the worst thing you could ever do is like, find them, get Boston Lloyd pissed off of you because he knows he will take anything. Yeah, he'll tell everything in the guys. He's like, Nasser, he's got like a fucking photograph. I think I was just going to say that. I'm just going to say he's got that, that Nasser photographic memory, you know, you remember every detail of everything? Yeah. You know, he can tell you what, you know, the third Neil of the, the, the contricosts show that he did, you know, on the Wednesday night, what he ate and what he drank with it. And he can probably tell you like the, what Jeremy Payton and how much change he gave him. What? What, you know, what color shirt he was wearing and where they met? Right. Right. Unbelievable. He. He. He. He. Oh, damn Chris, we can't make the stuff up. That these guys hand me, if they hand me material, it's unbelievable. All right. So we get the wings of strength. We get surgery. Who else is doing this show? I know Justin Rodriguez is going to be a wonderful artist. Arguing with each other. You know, Sergio. Rosen one week. IMean, one weekend. Yeah, but I think split it up because they got the, the Vancouver pro show is, they got a classic physique of the, classic mentally. Did they have open to up there? They have open up there. Yeah, they have classic. They have open. They have Chicago has two, 12. Right. Chicago has open. I wonder why they decide to do them both on the same weekend. You know, as they have too many shows, that's what it is. But nothing was taking place this past weekend. I don't know why they didn't hold it this weekend. One of them should have been this past weekend. I got to get Michelle crack on the show because Michelle crack is promoting me. Vancouver show. I got to reach out to her. I told her to get her on the show. We actually have believe it. And we have a photographer there to show. I don't cover shows, but you know, this guy has been, you know, doing some stuff for us and you often to give us the pictures. So I think well, I'll take the pictures. So we're going to put up some pictures from Vancouver. I'll do a wrap. I'll do a wrap. Have you been to Vancouver? No, but I hear it's beautiful. I really would have liked to. Yeah, you're not all ridiculous. I still tell people I can't go there because I've committed to the felony over 10 years ago. I could definitely get in there. I know even Rick Collins told me that he can get me in there. They wanted me to actually do a seminar up there. Some kind of like seminar and cateted this year. And I can't travel. I get yelled if I go into the gym twice a week. You know, I can't travel. It's too difficult with the kids. We have started out trade. What with them? By the way, you see that today's. Yeah, what is that? What is going on with that trade war? Trump has put, I think, tariffs on steel milk and I don't. And they've retaliated with tariffs on soup, chocolate, and anyways. I think with this, like $13 billion worth of tariffs on goods and goods coming from Canada and in response to Canada is put $13 billion on, you know, the state's products coming in to there. I'll tell you, they already had that on there because every time I send my freaking species stuff, they, these poor guys have to pay and girls have to pay a fortune on import fees. Well, they don't. England's worth England's bad too. This must go back to the Boston Tea Party with fucking England with the taxation. I can't say, I feel terrible for these UK guys. I got to give them like rock bottom pricing because I feel so bad on them. But they got to pay and do a lot. Yeah, $400 for a Canada. Protein. Yeah. You sent them a jug of protein. They got to pay $50. They got to pay more than the protein cost. Yeah. Thank God I got to find and get it. It's distributor. A predator nutrition over there is selling it. So people can, and of course my friend, what's his name? Probably there. Brian Godder, BG Sports, Salism 2. So there is, I do have a representation now in the UK, but before we're still as terrible as all these stupid import fees on everything over there. We don't, we don't, we don't try to, we don't have to pay any duties. I don't think we pay duties on anything, do we? Do you have any of the pay duties on anything you important on the country? I don't important, but I'll probably do it in the future. That's true. I did bring in some snakes once. Some boa constrictors from Holland. It was a very minor amount of money. I had to pay just some handling fee. It wasn't really a tariff or anything. I don't know. I guess that's why it's great to live in the United States. Everyone is always complaining about Trump and this person and that person. But we have it, we have it really good here. We don't realize how good we have it here. I'll probably go abroad and see what they're dealing with over there. All of Bolsheid here doesn't seem so bad sometimes. Well, it depends on the way. Yeah, but I'm saying like, I think everyone thinks we're just an nation of complainers here because we have free speech and all this stuff. That's what we pride ourselves on. So everyone complains about everything. But the truth is we have a better than everyone else. We just have the ability to complain about the fact that if we don't like something. And we don't have to worry about anyone coming to our house and resting. Resting. Resting. So don't complain so much. You can voice you disapproval but understand that you've probably got it a lot better than most of these other people do. You know, I think they're, I think it's, is it's open to all athletes worldwide this saying it's free To the public, the health and the health expo they have? Which one? The Vancouver. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I love the fact that these these new I. B. Pro qualifiers now are all open to the world. You can even, and you can even go there for the United States and compete if you want. Can never do you remember? Can never have done that in the past. Yeah, right. I think it's great. I think with yet, which in many of them is tremendous. You know, it really opened up the ability to compete and you think about it. I, you and I, you could go to China and compete and a pro qualifier if you want. You know, now you might not do that. Well, I don't know, there could be some hometown and I'll feel the advantage over that. But you can do it. Now, you could never do that before. So we are how far we moved from the split between. Manion and Russia. What's been, I think this is the Olympia will be one year, right? Is something that right after the Olympia? And who's winning? I don't know. I think they're probably both winning because I think, I think, Jim Ann is the winner because I think that the prestige, the aspect of what's going on is in Jim Annians corner because the prestige, he's got the IPB pro league, which is the Mr. Olympia. I like, I guess I was talking about at the pro level because that would be the Olympus test. I don't think Raphael's losing any money if you're asking me that. That's probably he's probably making more money now that he's in control of his own decision. Well, who want, you know what, I never figured out who won the rep, I call it the Raphael Arnold Brazil. I don't know. Obviously, that tells you how important it was. Exactly. But I guess that's the answer. If it was a quote, man, you're on a Brazil, we'd know like, oh, you know, I'm not saying you know, K-1, but you know, he like, rolly one or, you know, Raphael's a top is a businessman. Yeah, he loves bodybuilding, but he's a businessman first and he likes to, he's a control freak. So, does he do a good job over there overseas? Yeah, of course he does, but that's his league. He doesn't want anyone telling you what to do. Jim Manion was in charge of the pro league. He didn't like that. And so he's doing now he's doinGHis own thing. He's probably making more money now because he's completely in control, both the pro and the amateur division. And he doesn't care about the prestige. Jim Manion cares about the whole prestige thing because that's, you know, yeah, he wants to make money too, of course. But the Mr. Olympia, he's leaving a legacy, you know, now he's running, you know, the amateur amperal league. And when he's no longer here, probably I'll live us all probably more than likely. But when he's no longer here, he's going to leave a legacy behind them. And I think that Joe Weater and Ben Weater would have been proud, you know, of what he's doing. So, it was tough to break with the I at the amateur league and and Rothyel. But it probably was for the best for the athlete at the end of the day. And I think probably, both of them will make more money. Because now you have two leagues competing, you know what IMean? So there's never a lack of people to pay money to compete. Look at the NPC team universe as past week, which was run by Steve Wyvern, over a thousand competitors, Chris. That's huge. Huge. And you can't, IMean, you can't say, hey, anything about that, that's just an enormous, enormous amount of money that is coming into the sport. And I want to like drop the H. Huge. Huge. You said huge, you play the take-back. Huge. Huge. Oh, my God. Yeah. I think you're a accent, way to say it, huge, or is it? You know, I always get made fun of, now that I'm in Florida. IMean, I was in my New York accent as being made. When you're in New York, no one makes funny in New York accent. When you go to Florida, everyone makes funny in New York accent. Actually, it's really my wife just making fun of my accent. The wax pronounced words. You know, we have our own little way of saying these. It's funny. I did a Skype consult with this guy the other day for an hour. And he told me he's from the same area that Nathan Deasher is. I said, how can I understand what the hell you're saying? I can't understand a word Nathan says to me when I interview him. He's like his Nathan has Americanized his British accent. I said, what does that mean? He says he, he hamps it up. He makes it worse. He makes the UK accent worse that it really is. He goes, it's not that bad for where he is. I said, I got to be honest, I don't know half the words I don't understand to come out of his mouth. I said, I have to fake it when I interview him. I laugh at stuff. I don't even know what I'm laughing at. Anyway, they give out a ton of pro cards this team universe is past weekend. It's amazing. The team universe has evolved into almost like the NASA's national. They have like over 35, over 40 winners. They got over 50, over 60. It's crazy how many people they got doing these shows. And these classes are stacked. It's funny how the master's body buildings competitions are loading with people. And on the amateur level, the level of, I guess you could say, the open divisions. You have a diminishing number. So I guess the old guys is still sticking with body building. The young guys are going on a classic because they get the only thing I could make of. That's the tren. That's the tren. You just nailed it. Right? Yeah. But I think I think people get older though. They're going to move into the open. They're going to be a lot of all. No, I don't think I think the classic guys will do open body building. Yeah, I think they will. A lot of them will. I actually heard a rumor that Flex Lewis was doing this was going to be his last year in two to a while. I heard that too. I, but I, but I, but I talked and we texted each other. But I think I heard from you so that that doesn't mean I heard it. I don't think I told you that. Okay, then. It was from someone else here. It's going around. So you better not, you better get it right because suddenly you're a season to this. No, I just flexed and I actually like you. Flex actually, it dexed me about something else. And I asked him about that. He was laughing. He's like, don't believe everything you hear. Yeah, but it's fun to because it gives us up the top of course. That's what he knows that. That's what he looks. Flex Lewis is dying. And I know he's probably listening. He listens everything. He's dying to come and be interviewed by me and do all the, every show we have he'll come on. He'll come on iron debate. He's, he's dying. He's got like a gag order on him because he's, he's got this, AMI contract, which, you know, obviously is good for his reputation. Everything like that and they're representinGHim and then he's the Mr. Lipier. They won't let him do anything. You know, with pretty much what they, you know, the funny thing is these, exclusivity contracts that they have are really close to them. They only, they only, they just, they just, they only, they just, they just made an investment. But the funny thing is that they don't even, they don't do anything with these athletes. It's like, it's not like they're using Flex like every week. They do an interview with them and they have a given us on talk show. At least use the fracking. I let the guy promote himself, you know. Well, he don't care if he's getting a check. If he's a decent check. Yeah, no, I don't blame him. I would take the check too. But the point is, he likes to talk and he's like, he has very strong opinions on everything. He's dying to come on the show. Why they wouldn't put a Flex T shirt on him and let him come on the show and talk and promote the Flex magazine and the investment thing is, I don't know, or am I? Whatever, put Mr. Lipier on the show. We could plug the Mr. Lipier contest every time it comes on. People want to hear his opinions, you know. A lot of the, like, Jane, Jay would have been a terrible interview while he was Mr. Lipier because he was too politically correct. But Flex comes from like that, you know. He's from Wales, you know. He's got the, where it was he from Scotland or Wales and I don't remember. But he's from, I think he's Wales, Welsh as Welsh. He's on Boko on now. He's all about that. Yeah, he's on Boko on time. But I can get him to come to my studio. That's how close he is. So, IMean, he's, he's that afraid that he says what's on his mind. IMean, he's like a kind of a aggregate kind of guy, you know. So, he would be a great interview, you know. He's, and he's not afraid to say, hey, I wasn't my best this year. He's, he's got like no ego. He's really, really open about the, you know, the way he's, but you never hear from him because he's not a lot the same thing and talk to anyone, you know. Well, well, that's, that's, that's, uh. It's funny when I read, when I read the list of, of these body builders and the team universe who did, you know, all these. Yeah, you know him all from back there. Yeah, it's got competed with all of these guys. It's all going to be two or three that I would record guys. I'm looking for some, some names. I know a lot of these who's, I help like, I got to go to the 50 and I would look for the people that we competed with right now. Now we're not 50, class, right? Yeah, a bit kill us. Remember George the three bolt? No. You always have one small like I remember that. I competed with him. Um, let's see, let's go over 60. Let's see the thing where we know our 60. The mass is natural is bad because most of those guys wait for the mass is natural. They do the same thing. It's the same crew every year. Mm-hmm. And then I don't think you would know anyone in this list. I'm looking for it. I know a lot of the guys because I work with a lot of these guys, but I'm trying to see if there's anyone. I think a lot of the guys do wait for the mass. I think the team universe is a really good opportunity because a lot of guys don't do it. Thinking that they're going to do the mass just nationals, but you'd be crazy. That's true. Our good friend Ali Sanjaro Savi was in the show. He was fifth and the 40 men's over 40. He's the guy I went to Italy with. Yeah, when I was working with Yamamoto and got me in there. He's a date's rose at him or talking at good friends. Love those guys. They're the good people. There's a lot of good people in the sport. There's a lot of shitty people. Lots of good people. Well, even some of the shitty people actually put decent people. Yeah, I don't want to know what they're saying. I said the people said me seasoned to cis lettuce. Well, some people just have issues. True. True. I can't believe how many classes they got this crazy. 35 and over. Why would they have 35 and 40 and over? What a what a what a racket. 35 35 and 35 is pretty damn young. Right. For a masses of them. Yeah, I don't consider 35 masters. That's why these guys have a tremendous opportunity. I feel like what's that? These guys, it's a tremendous opportunity for these guys in the 30s to get Pro cards. People's a lot of times don't want to do it. I wanted to get the open screw that. Get your Pro card. And then worry about it. It's hard enough to get a Pro card as it is taken anyway. They'll give it to you. So you think? Yeah, I agree. Yeah. I agree there. Hmm. I know. I don't know. I agree. I'm looking at all the I can't believe how many people were in the show. Crazy. It's like. This is the women really. It's funny. If you would have thought back in the 1990 that there would be more women competing than men, people would have laughed at you, right? Well, well, you wish class you. None of those. But there was only women's bodybuilding back then. Yeah, I know. So which class? Saying, if you want to say, you know what? In 20 years or now, 30 years or now, there'll be more women competing in the sport than men. Much more. People would say you're ready to fuck your mind because it was all men's bodybuilding. You had women bodybuilders, but there wasn't a million of them. Who would have ever anticipated they would have created other classes and bikini and figure? They wouldn't tell you a nought if you would have suggested that. People thought they would it was crazy when they started fitness. Remember? Yeah. Fitness was supposed to be the answer. It was supposed to be bodybuilding and fitness. Fitness was going to be the tone down version of bodybuilding and routine. So it gives them something athletically to do. Well, it was all true. Yeah. But of course, not a lot of these women that had great physics had no skill to do these routines. And that's why they created figure. And then that wasn't enough because the girls didn't want to get that big and so they had a great bikini. That's what bikini came from. So. And then they had a reboot women's bodybuilding so they started women's physique. All during this time, the member, like, can you give us one more freaking class? You gave the women 14 classes. Why can't we get one of those? Oh, because that's a pro-carriage of the junior national. Yeah. Why can't you give us a pro-carriage of the junior nationals exact? You can come back to that old argument. I can't even read all the names. There's too many names. No, I know. I was going to read names and I'm like, I came to this to make it. No, if you read like 10 people are going to email you and say how dare you not get me. I was back into my class too. That's right. The piano's a pro show is this past weekend. San Jose, California. They had a men's physique event, Cairo on Holden. Wins that. Anthony Woods in second place and long woo from China. That's a long trip. He took place there. Congratulations. Women's physique. Antoinette Downey from Barbados. We like her. Good physique. She wins. She'll be able to be Olympia. Evelyn Roka from Brazil in the second position. Eleanor Dobr Nina from Canada in the third position. Congratulations to those ladies. Who was fourth? Christ had done him as fourth. Fifth place, Robin Mays. And my client Kim Jones. Six place. Congratulations Kim. I wanted to mention your name. So I listed off all six. What else was that? There was another show this past weekend too. I got to go back and see that. Which shows it were. You take this on to see the Incredibles yet? No. My kid can't sit through anything. My son can sit through home videos on his phone. That's what he sits through. How was it? That is good as far as. No. In fact, we went to the movies. And then the very next day we watched the Incredibles. And it's so odd that I was doing dishes. And I've seen that movie so many times. I know like every line in the movie. I haven't seen a movie in like eight years. Have you seen it so many times because your kids watched it? Yeah, we watched it together. One of my favorite movies of all time. I like it. It's even if you're an adult, it's a good movie. Oh, yeah. Of course. Every time I watch the movie now, well, I think about his Andy Hammond because he's Andy Hammond. He's a little bit more incredible than I thought. That's my brain. That's my brain. I was saying every time I see it, I said that's Andy Hammond. He's a little too movie. He does. He does. He's got the same hair done. He has a, that's spiked up hair done. I love it. I tell Andy, I'm saying I'm so jealous. Him and Jay call. I'm so jealous of their hair. Don't you wish you had a hair? Are you doing a hair like this? I'm jealous of your hair too. Oh. You don't have to have a hair too. Don't have to have a hair like this. Did you lose your hair when you did the interferent treatment? Yeah, it's not a follow. You put it in a dinner and it's like, my, my hairline got, uh, tired. Oh, I receded it. Like, you know, when people put, yeah, it started to recede, it started recede, decent amount, but it came back. That's, that's called the aesthetics. I felt like I would have just, like, got plugged in anyway. I would have just, no way. Is that funny how, some people have great hair genetics? Yeah, my father's getting corroborated. You can look at Jay. Jay's got great hair. IMean, nothing caused him to lose any hair. It's amazing. I'm always amazed that some people just that they will not lose hair. That's why everything is genetics. Really. IMean, is this, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, we think that we have control of everything we do, and we really don't. We're, we're at the mercy of our genetics. Yeah, we can, we can influence it and stuff like that. And we can change it to some degree by environmental cues. But we really are slaves to our genetics. It's, it's, it's, it's a fact that he'd say it. Well, you know what's so funny? What genetics? I, I took my, my kids to see my, uh, my first cousin, my cousin today. And he lives on a farm. And they, and, uh, I, he actually raises, uh, grass fed, beat. That's a sign job. I love it. Yeah. I, I, I, I told him I said, if you want a lot of customers, I could get you tons of customers, tons. Anyways, he comes out of the house, and he's, he's, he was always big and muscular. He did, he never competed, but he was a bodybuilder. And I always not he had great genetics. And he comes out of the house. And my kids haven't seen him in years. And if I got huge. And I said, what he've been doing, he's doing, uh, testosterone replacement. Yeah. But you want to talk genetics. Yeah. No trening. But he got, but he got his muscle back from, got it from just to his test level. One up. Just from getting this, the, the cows, the, the grass, the, the grass, the, the grass. IMean, I guess he's, you know, moving some hay or whatever. Lift your hair, you know, taking care of the animals. But he got, he got really big. He's really wide. And he got really big. And I was, we, we were just talking about genetics today. Yeah. You were saying, you know, he was saying it's all genetics. Yeah. Jimmy Memphis and I were talking about the genetics too. Jimmy Memphis was like, uh, is it hot by you too? Because Jimmy's in like the book area, I think. I thought, Lord, though, I said, it was fucking stifling today down here. He said, uh, I went outside to try to do some like gardening. He was like, lasted five minutes in my back inside. I said, me too. He mentioned, he mentioned we had a survive. I thought you had to, he had to like take care of crops and stuff like that. Did the pair of bills. Oh, wow. Fucking too much for it. Come on, yeah. Yeah. I actually was outside. I actually have them. I bought, I haven't got him yet. I'm setting up. I'm getting three tortoises. Three solcaut tortoises. They live like 150 years. I got to have to will them to someone like to my kids or something like that. the world to their kids, that's how long they live. But they're little, you know, they grow huge these things. So that's my newest project. And so, you know, it's someone dropped, I don't remember if I told you not, someone gave me one of Amanda's friends a, he wanted to get rid of it. I really wasn't into it at first, but now I kind of like it, it's a, a chameleon. Have you seen these chameleons? I told you, I told you, I told you, I found a store I had one. Oh, did I, did I talk about this last week because I can't remember anything anymore? I don't remember. Did we talk about the, did it chameleon? Yeah, we did. Because I, for example, forget I'd done having a, a senior moment as my dad would say. Anyways. What did you say about farms with having the chameleon? I remember. The beautiful one. Beautiful, beautiful. Like he's his only pictures would be like, you know, one minute would be like green yellow purple gray horn, you know, the sex, you know, ten minutes later be like, you know, whatever, ten different other colors. That's exactly right. So I, you know, most people feed these chameleons, crickets. Now coming from New York to me, a cricket is a, is a roach, right? Is like a cockroach. That's what they look like to me. So I'm not, I don't have it. I don't scheme them right there, but I don't want cockroaches getting out with that, I don't want crickets getting out all over the place. And then they make the cricketing sound. So you can feed the, the chameleon with the, call super worms. These, these big worms. You know, they eventually turn the beetles, you know, but it's the larval form of the worms. But they do as you bought. You get them. And because I have a guy at the liver's, mice and rodents for my snake collections that he brings me these soup worms. And you put them in like a cat litter box with like a bunch of wheat germ and some like a creating. And you throw produce in there. You basically can throw anything in there. I would have a crap leftover stuff. You got lettuce and broccoli and carrots and stuff like that. And whatever you feed them, actually they eat and then just and so it actually, you can make them more vitamin rich. They call it gut loaning. And then when you feed those worms to the, to the chameleon, you're, they're getting the nutrition from the worms, right? I'm gonna tell you something. There's gotta be like a couple hundred of these things in this little set up piece, he gave to me. And I threw like two pieces of broccoli like some kale in there and like three carrots. I'm like, you know, I hope this doesn't get all gucky and it's gonna stink and everything like that. I threw it in there. I left the room. The next day I came back and I went to look at it because I'm like, you know, I'm gonna pull out any stuff that's like, you know, future-flying that. There wasn't a trace. When I say a trace, I'm saying there was not a trace that was ever a vegetable thrown into that container. That's how completely they can assume this stuff. That's crazy. Oh, yes. Did the greatest garden of garbage disposes of all time? I don't know how that. Yeah, IMean, in my town is raising our regular article, chocolate covered crickets. Trouble. You know what, they probably taste good. Like a little snack snack. Well, you know, I told you there was, they were cricket protein. It's so, it's so, it approached me, they wanted me to sell cricket protein. You know, like, you know, your species, you should have a cricket protein. It's a, it fits right in with the MMO. I see, yeah, the only problem is no one wants to eat cockroaches. I said, it could taste amazing. I said, the cricket, but no one will eat it because people do not like eating insects. I said, we have a phobia against insects in this world. Although, Chris, you do have a very good crop of bed bug protein. Probably we can imagine that bed bug protein concentrated. Yep, we have the, did I send you the de-ante of the guy calling me to this week and he wanted the apartment. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. What did say he had had, it has to have a bathroom. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know where to get. I didn't, I almost didn't catch a head of listen to it twice. Yeah, because I didn't get it. He's like, I'm looking for a apartment, you know, old guys. Absolutely has to have a bathroom. I'm taking a, you know. I'm taking a one. What did you do? Chris just sent me a text much of Jeff Bezos through the M owner of Amazon. With that comment, who was sitting at a desk in 1989 with like a little like batter on the wall, because I wanted to hand-roat it saying Amazon.com. Is that true? Is that true photo? I don't know. I don't know. You know, I heard that Amazon finally turned to profit for the first time this year. Yeah, I told you that if they, yeah, they don't want it. It's amazinGHow successful they were, given they, they were losing money up until now. Well, IMean, it's okay if you lose the money. You, you know, you're, if, if you lose the money and you, you're selling tons of stock. That's what it's like. Well, if you, if you increase the sales every quarter, exponentially, even if you still lose the money at some time, people expect you to like, try and profit. Yeah. All right, I got a quarter of the week. Everyone's complaints. I don't do enough courts of the week. I'm going to show it to the court of the week. Here it is. I don't know who said it. I just liked it. I saw it. Everyone thinks they're right. So thEQuestion is, and who's right or wrong? ThEQuestion is, who is the most, who is the most in alignment with their source? And who is the most allowing and whose life is really going the best most of the time? Right, oh, my head, this week. Okay. Everyone thinks they're right. But thEQuestion isn't who is right or wrong? ThEQuestion is, who is the most in alignment with their source of their, you know, of who they really are? And who's the most allowing of everything that happens and like, and who's life is really going the best most of the time? So being right or wrong doesn't matter. Is your life going good or is it going to shit? And if it's going to shit, it's probably because you're just not in alignment with who you really are. And what you should be doing. So that's really the being right or wrong doesn't mean that the hill of beans. If your life sucks, right? It's nothing wrong with the game wrong. So long as you know you're wrong. It doesn't matter, right or wrong at all, it just means you enjoy your life. If you enjoy your life and you like to do, then then guess what? You're doing what you're supposed to be doing. That's thEQuestion because it's not to face it. When you're dead, who cares? You might as well enjoy life while you're here. So do what you like, connect with who you really are. I was tellinGHim about this guy that the Skype console with, who was to get the British accent from when he's from where Nathan Deesh was raised. And he was telling, he had a lot of issues with nerve pain. He has spinal problems and he stopped working. He retired early because of it. And only does it think about the stupid, you know, that's all he has time to do is think about his problems. But the guy was a great talker and we were talking for an hour straight and the consult on Skype. And he's like, I don't know what to do with myself because you're so positive. Yeah, I said, I said, it's obvious what you should do. So fucking YouTube generation, go, go, start a YouTube channel and talk about all your problems on there. All your medical issues and how you've worked around solutions to them and what you've had done and all the experimental procedures. Yeah, that's the biggest thing nowadays. I don't, that's mainstream. You know, people live in pain, people, you got to find what you're good at doing. This guy is good at talking. He's got problems. He's looking for solutions. And you know what, that's what people go on YouTube to basically search out. They want answers. My wife is on their mic, because my son has like a breakout on his leg. It's like it's all scalli, it's like a little exima. And there's a, there's a pediatrician as a YouTube channel and he diagnosis all these things. People want information and if people are depressed or suicidal or they have, they live in pain, they're going to search out people who will like them and see what they do. So you could always do what you want to do, okay, especially in this generation of YouTube and social media because you don't have to ever leave your house if you don't want to. And people will actually listen to what you're saying and you could actually make money from it because you could monetize it on YouTube. It's crazy. Do you think about it? Right? Now I see Instagram is doing a, is allowing videos that are over a minute long. Do you see that? It gets to that. I'm sure they'll probably start monetizing those pretty soon too. Okay, well, which is great. It's good for good for people who don't want to really have to go out and swing a hammer anymore. I have nothing to do with him. He takes the, they use heavy machinery all day long and I can't gain any weight. He's like, how do I gain weight? I'm working eight hours a day, you know, hard labor. This guy's not a young guy. I said, I'm not. So I can't figure out. I said, you're going to have to drink shakes hold it. So I would do. You know, when I used to bounce, I would drink four protein shakes throughout the whole night. I'd be the eight hours. I drink four shakes. Wait, what? What? What? Can't put me two hours every shake? No, I was, I was bouncing. So I would just get go to the bartender and begin the night. I'd give my shakes. I'd say, right here, this is what I need made. I'm going to come over to you every two hours. Have one of these things ready. I'm going to go up it down in three seconds and I'm going to go back to my post. You must have loved being a boxer. I hated it. I hated it because I was so fucking boring. You know what I used to do? I used to practice my post and I was saying, you know, they were saying you should practice the Stan relax, standing relaxed post. You know, who everyone tells you? A standard front of the TV for 20 minutes straight and do it, right? Who the hell has to do that? No one tells it. You know, except the ultra neurotic, maybe a meal of a dozen. I, uh, so when I would bounce, I would try to, I would see how long it can stand in the standing relaxed post, you know, like up here with my, a lats flare, legs, tense, because it's dark. No one sees what you're doing out there. And I'm just standing around twiddling my thumbs for freaking whatever else. Just kick it together into the gym. Yeah, I just did it because I needed money, but I hated bounces. I really didn't like the fight and I felt bad for people. And most most of the people are drunk in their young kids and I'm like, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to beat people off or anything. That's, some of these guys loved it. There's a lot of bounces that are fucking psychotic lunatics that like fucking fighting, you know, of course, I didn't want to get hurt. I remember I had a bounce this day wouldn't let me off work. I got Arthur Scott, Peksterja, I'm my shoulder one year. And I was back bouncing like two days later and I'm like, I can't use the shoulder. I'm gonna fuck it up and there was fights and I was going there with like one arm and pushing people and playing the kid. I'm like, don't get hurt, whatever you do. And at some point eventually I started making up money. I stopped bouncing. I was like, fuck, this is crazy. I'm gonna wind up getting stabbed or something like that. I was a boxer. Hmm. What was your pay as a boxer? About a hundred bucks a night, which was good. I think back then, when you first started out and you're like, you know, in your early 20s, a hundred bucks for the day is fucking phenomenal. This was back in the 90s, you know. Bounce, I would bounce two nights a week. I had making extra $200. I was trening people at valleys. I was probably making abouT3, 400 bucks there a week. I was a trening million people. So I was making 600 bucks a week, you know, which was good. That was paying my bills. I was living, IMoved back with my dad. And you know, that's how I started for about two years. I did that. And like I said, I was able to really, you know, live the body building lifestyle. So to speak like that. And I was hard work. I would do anything to make money. You know, I was like a hustler. That's what. And I would eat tuna and rice every meal. I would try, yeah, you do the poverty meal. So as my dad would say it. I call it white tuna or the brown tuna. No, I couldn't stay. I couldn't stomach the chunk lighter. And I would get the, I would get the albokora. I'd spend the few extra bucks. They would have these sales at the supermarket where it would be like 99 cents a can. And literally I would go in there and I would buy everything they had. I'd buy 100 cans. And to be at. I'd get 100 cans. And I was eating like like five of them a day, you know, sometimes, you know. The body bills even eat tuna anymore. But I don't know, but tuna because of the college because it costs nothing. Yeah, it's cheap. Do you probably did the chunk lighter if I know you? Yeah, I cheap, cheap Delta the chunk lighter tuna. But I have a recipe, I have a recipe to kill. And you put a little sweet and low in his end, bug rush. Well, I used to, I used to take the chunk lighter tuna. Right. And I used to, I used to mix it in with, uh, puffed wheat cereal and thong pepper and egg whites. So that make a like a giant, make a giant low carb patty out of it. Oh my god, that's for, it's, it probably tastes good, I think. Yeah, or I'd make like, uh, I'd add, uh, Mrs. Dash. Right. So I saw, um, an egg white and like a tablespoon of pancake mix and termed and grilled it into like a burger. Wow, that's, it's very creative. You know, it's funny because, um, you could always tell when someone's using Mrs. Dash because there's so much garlic in there because there's no salt, right? You can smell them a while away. Oh, you're right. Oh, I don't like the steak. I can't. I can't, I'm not laughing at garlic. I'm not laughing at the house anymore. If I eat garlic, I'm not, sometimes IMake a mistake. I don't even know this garlic and something. And then, oh, I, I get yelled at because I smell it garlic. Because, but you can use, you can use strawberries and just doubt that. No, you know what, he has the problem. I am, I have a, I'm like a big, port greasy Italian by nature. So Italians, not just Italians, but Greeks, like the Stibba, the greasy, uh, the greasy Italians, and Greeks, we released all the toxins through our pores. So when you eat like garlic or onions, right, you just think it's just comes out of you. It emanates from your soul almost, you know, there's no hiding it. You can't, you can't cover it up, you can shower, you can perfume it. It's not, it doesn't go away until it comes out. I remember once in high school, right before I graduated, like crazy from like a pop, it talked me to go into this party, you know, with all the jocks. And we, we had, they had a drinking contest there. I don't know how I got into it. My, my friend Scott Warden and I got into this drink contest with two football players. We never drank. We didn't drink. But I had this ability to swallow, you know, enormous amounts of fluid. I still didn't. I used to swallow my protein cheese. I just go off in that. And I had literally 24 beers. We outdranked the, I outdranked the football team. Okay. I was no Tories after that. It was one time. But I was, I went home. I had to have someone drive me home. So I was that drunk. And I went to bed. I put me in the bed. I don't remember that being putting me in bed. I woke up the next morning, 12 hours later. I was still drunk. I would never hang over. I was still drunk. And I thought I was that. I thought I had done something very serious to my wife. I obviously had drank so much alcohol that I couldn't even metabolize it in 12 hours. Well, so I, I'm like dad, I fucked up. You know, I'm like I feel terrible. I'm still drunk. I think I killed myself. So my dad being the alcohol that he was, you know, not really alcohol. But the drinker that he was, he knew the symptoms. I think, all right, don't, you got to sweat it out. I said, sweat it out. I said, that sounds like some kind of old cock. IMean, we do. He's like, Italians could sweat, can sweat anything out and tell me. So listen, like, this is my, my dad was very with it. He, he may be drinking like an alcohol cell because the obviously I was done this, I had done this himself before. He had to be drinking alcohol, so which definitely settled my stomach. And then he had me go outside and we went in front of my house. And he had me doing sprints up and down his block, up and back. He said, one more. Well, I never see my dad ever be like a test mess like that. He's doing another one. Back and forth, I'll time you. And I was sweating my ass off because it was so hot outside. And sure enough, within probably like 20 minutes, I completely felt normal. And I was fine. I said, how did you know that would work? He's like, I've unfortunately, I've done it myself a few times. He's like, don't, fuck, it'd be stupid anymore. He's like, I could have killed myself. But luckily in my body, just the Columbus can sweat out alcohol just like we could sweat out. I don't know. Unions. Well, I never remember my father having a cold or being sick. You know why? Whenever he would get the the beginning of like a flu ever. He would drink. No, he'd go to the why. Wait, better. He'd take a bottle of wine, go drink. And then he'd go sit in the sauna at the why for like hours. So funny. But it's the old Italian way of doing it. You know what? The funny thing was, when I would drink the very few times I ever had. I wasn't a big drinker. My, especially when I was a body, but I very, really drink. But when I would drink, it was like, my, any acne that IMight have on my skin would disappear. I think the alcohol would come out of my pores at such high concentrations that would kill everything. It was like a disinfect. It was like an internal disinfectant almost in my body. It was like completely clen me out. My skin would be like crystal clear. People would say, why? You look good. You skin looks good. Take me on. Like yeah, yeah, I drink too much last night. I'm not endorsing that. Don't go out drinking if your body was terrible for muscle building, but once in a while you can let loose. All right, Chris, there's a lot of, I thought we had nothing to talk about. I could probably do a lot of chatting today. There was some interesting videos that I do this past week. I did a video on preventinGHair loss. You might want to check that out on the site. That's not her fresh, and you might. Did you take up? I did a video on that new. I don't, I did. Have you seen that, White House chef, Andre Rush, this guy, he's 1224 jobs, Ben's press the 700 pounds. No, I've seen him. He was in the military. You go watch the video I did on him. He's in his 40s. He's 45 years old. He's huge. He claims he can bench press raw 700 pounds. I believe it. I believe it. Because it's not a boss and the audience. So many things. He says he's natural too, but that could be some of the news and loses White House job, but Trump wouldn't care anyway. No, of course not. But he served like four presidents, this is something like that. Wow. You should have a mother shell. I know. I got a regional comment. Right, you'll ask him a question about Dana Ballet. I won't. I believe he's like a Rani Coleman. The fuck guy probably is natural. He's not like he's ripped or anything like that. He's just just big. It's stocky. He's like a Mark Henry. Yeah. He's got like a physical his. Just think about Rani when Rani was natural. If Rani would have been like 30 pounds heavier, because Rani was ripped when he was natural. He was like fat, big. He would have looked enormous. People would have definitely thought he was on gear. Oh yeah. I thought people thought he was on gear. I self included when he was winning one of the world damage championships. If you look at those pictures, you would bet your life that he was on gear. That's how good he was. He wasn't. He wasn't. Because Rani is not afraid to tell the truth. IMean, he just wasn't taking anything. He didn't know about it. He didn't need it. Really, he's really what it amounts to. I also did a video on thyroid hormone. There's a lot of people always think that when you take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that you need to take thyroid hormone, and that's not true. So you might want to check that out. Yeah, I'll check that out. And of course, the chi green video. I did we talked about that a little earlier. And someone asked me a question on asked David's past week on why did Nasterie Diceo? I was talking about that a lot of times. I did a lot of rants this past week, because we didn't have that many guests on the show. People seemed to like the rants better. I was in a ranting mood. We'll see. We'll see what I feel this week. But Chris, that's it. We're out of time. Until next week, remember with heavy muscle radio that truth hurts. Good night, everyone.

=== FILE: Why Lee Priest Needs $100k [460_3latvsQ].txt ===

Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle special report news update on here with Lee Priest and Lee it seems like you have an uncanny ability to move the public in ways that can only be described as irritating I guess you could say. IMove them like your fiber lies day. That's right. Get a plug in if you're fiber lies. You heard I got I did you hear about my colonoscopy? Did you watch my video? I have a watch to it and I was going to ask about that. I'm clen. I got nothing. I got a clen one. Did they put you out? Did you say I don't want to go out? I want to feel it. I want to feel it. No, I see it. I was that right. Just get that chewed. The best part of the whole, the worst part of the procedure is drinking that stuff. You got to drink in the interview. Boopy braids. But that's what you can eat. No, that's the variance of that. The stuff is it's like basically you mix it with like gay to rate and it tastes like it basically tastes like gay to rate. I was just chugging it down. I didn't even everyone just had it to taste. I never tasted it. I just poured it down my throat. After a while, so it's making it pooped. After a while, the nothing comes out. You're just like a quarter coming out of here. I'm on the bringing into the room. You're going to go to sleep now. They start pushing the stuff. The pro-puffle, the Michael Jackson stuff. And within literally like 10 seconds, and it's great. I love the feeling, all I can remember is the feeling right before I went to sleep. I knew I was going to fall asleep instantly because I didn't have fast-set support. But she's like, all right, now we're going to put you to sleep. I said, I said, be gentle. I'm not even asking the last thing. I said, I'm out. And next thing I know, I woke up in the recovery room. So. You felt like one of you, it caused me to victims. They. What if the life was going to go? Could it be worse, as you do is an off-be-heat-heat voice? And I would die. Yeah. Yeah. We're going to get a chance to sleep. Yeah. See, as you fight on all the block. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I don't have to tell you story. I was when I was, I had just left medical school. I just dropped out. I still had my help insurance through the medical school. And I needed an orthoscopic shoulder surgery. So there was a doctor who worked with the medical school. They gave you like all kinds of like, you know, good deals. Like, if you have your health insurance through them. So it wasn't really costing me anything. So, but I was, I had it done at the same hospital that I had went to, I had got the medical school at. And so I'm, they're rolling me into the operating room. And all of a sudden, I see this kid who used to live with me. He was one of our roommates. He was the dumbest kid of all time. And I was like, what? I said, how? How has it? What are you doinGHere? By the way, he's a doctor now, too. What are you doinGHere? He's like, I'm assisting on the surgery. I said, oh, no, you're not. You guys now put me out with him in this room. IMade such a mistake. They had a big, they would live in. I said, all right, look, he was just more in the room. I don't want to make any of this, like, he's a jinx. I said, I, everything will go wrong. We'll make back out. Yeah, I was, I was not going in there with him assisting doing anything. Even though he probably was just watching. I said, I don't want him in the room. Do you like my walking, Phoenix hoodie? How is that, is that what that is? I look, look, come to it for built in mask. Look. Oh, yeah, so that on your Instagram, that is pretty freaking cool. Where do you get these things? Where do you buy these out? I walk around the shopping center like this, scaring little kids. Here they just think, here they just think it's the joke who sells out. They're going to be like, oh, fucking John Wayne Gacy's back. Why are you living a boy? Why are you running a lolly? Yeah, that's right. That's right. Lee, Lee being a clown again. Yes, I am. That's right. Now for you, it's, this is Sunday afternoon for me. It's like, you know, midnight on Saturday night. So people might be wondering why we're doing this video, but maybe they're not wondering. And so you started a go-funbie Santa. Well, I did. Yeah. Well, it's really same as fitness ID because whenever I got a lot. You always play a Sam. It's always Sam's fitness. Well, it was easy. I did because he said, look, because he asked me about doing a comeback and I said, well, I've really got nothing to prove. You know, you got nothing to prove. I competed everywhere. I've done this. I've done this. I've done that. I said, well, look, and plus to get ready for it. I'd still need the operation and then this stem cell. And then the contest, prep us a look. If the fans really wanted to see it, why don't they donate to it? And then I'll do it because I'm a figure. Well, fuck, if the fans donate, whoever it's a dollar or a hundred or whatever, now I feel the pressure like fuck that given money. I bet it getting fucking shapes. I don't have the things down. So that would be my motivation. You almost have that. It's actually, it's actually, and it's just how they funded it. So I just know what's the, what happens to go ahead. So we put that up and then you put it up and let me tell you day. Well, the comments I've never had so much fun in my life reading the comments. Let me tell you. You love this. Tell him that tell him the fuck off. You never give your kid with cancer and him for his and his flesh. You can give to a kid with cancer and not me. But don't just say it on there. I'd rather give do a family that needs it. Don't give do a family that needs it. Don't just talk shit on there. The thing is, it's go for me. Now once for you listen, Donald Trump's not taking five dollars out of your way to every weekend given to me. See, you can get mad and blame Donald Trump. I've seen things on go for me where the girl wants a new car, new lips, new boobies. Somebody wants a holiday and people give money to it. I look at that and go, how fucking stupid. But if someone wants to give money, give money. I didn't. I just scroll on by, but I don't comment on it. But on your page, Dave Nick Trigeli, there's a name we haven't heard for a long time. Yeah, what Nick really was our reason for this. Ah, like he's never fucking rip people off with doing shitty stuff. Ours fucking life. It's like then he puts on my stuff. You're a career failure. You're a career failure. Do you know what? When it comes to Nick, I don't know what failed worst. He's fucking career. I was in turn, all organs. What the fuck? It's like, I can't believe you're doing this. It's like, hey, now, once forcing you to fucking donate. Sell your fucking Maserite if you need money to fucking there. It's like, 100,000. It's like, there's 100,000. I know a doctor that could do it for free in a half. You know what you get for three and a half. You know what you get for three and a half. You're pretty crippled for the rest of your life, bro. Is it in a little room at the back of Costco, Dave? Just go out and see. That's the thing. The one I'm talking to is like a guy, but it's done in China. So he's like one of the best ones out there. And you got to figure, to get stem. When everyone was looking at it when I was in the state, say one and me to stay there for at least a month and a half. We do it properly doing Jack job. See how it goes and then every week or so do more. So you got to figure, they don't do stem cell here in a straight. Oh, you got me to carry a free. Thank you, be the neighbor. I didn't they give you the name of some guy in Mexico said he would do you stem cells for free? No, you haven't. I got a guy. Yeah. But the stem cell was caught in the market. There we go. Look, Donald trust and all that. The stem cell itself is closer to 40,000 American which here in a 100. Where's got a hundred thousand. You have to understand the hundred thousand Australian is only sixty nine thousand. You know, and thousand dollars American. So you know, with the exchange rate, that's what it is. So the thing over there is like 40,000, you think a month and a half accommodation. Then you got food, you got airline travel cominGHome. I go business. So my next not fucked up in a economy class. So it all adds up and then you want to come back. Well, you know, grow hormones going to cost me a lot of money. Yeah, I would do. You don't use GH so, but you're going to need it this time. I would've driven it that neck. You know, you're in a, here in Australia, 100 are you a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And you're going to have to get a full mind of cheap. You shouldn't get it for was probably six to $800. That's right. And it's probably not even real. Let me just tell us to these people something first because you know what? Look at these political candidates. They raised tons of money, right? To get it reelected. Then I using their own money. They get people to donate money. Okay. And they don't Donald Trump doesn't need money. And he's got no billions, right? So, but he gets these people to donate to the election campaign so that he can run ads. And he can, you know, do whatever he's got to do commercials to try to get elected. So, IMean, you're like a public figure. So, IMean, why should you fund your own comeback? So, if the fans want to see you, quote elected, you know, or, you know, exactly, stage, then they're going to fund their fund. If they don't want today won't fund it. Obviously, you know, I think you're up to, uh, you're up to almost 2, 100 bucks now. Oh, we've almost got the AFN. Yeah, you know, so, it's like, it's like, it's like I say the people. These people, I don't get it. You know, when I'm going to shopping center, you walk past someone, hey, can I ask you a question? Do you want to donate to the pain to me or whatever the fuck? They're everywhere. But people wanting money. How do you want to give the breast cancer? I just might be seeing no one move on. I don't go carry on about it. But somebody's fucking snowflake retard that a comment on Rx, God, I fucking love him. They did give me great joy. I've been going back and forth with Nick because Nick, like I said, whatever happened to that career, it never really started. But, you know, I was even watching somebody other videos. Well, because I figured out all of that, Nick really, when I looked at him on YouTube, I'm like, there's so many people doing videos about him that discourage him. I remember you did one of our, because he talked shit about you for once a day. And then there was other people called him out, then he's doing this. Even how Mike Greg do shit did a video of anyone who Nicholas complaining about how much he charged for trening people and then Greg Greg showed the text messages before that when Nick was saying we should collaborate and do some shows together. I think it would be awesome. There's a guy that, you know, when you talk about steroid body, I haven't taken steroids now for a while, I still got muscle pillage still getting the gym. I'm not sure if Nick trens or not, but how do fuck do you look like that? That's like he doesn't look at anymore. Yeah, no, I actually made peace with him. I have no problems with him. But he like, yeah, well, look, what he does is, like, with one of these guys do, is they take a, some kind of a topic that's going on in our body building world that has a polarizing effect. Obviously, you're the probably the most polarizing person I know. And then they'll do videos on it because they know they'll get hits on that. So traffic on there on their channel. I'm sure this is the only one. I'm sure this week, you'll have everyone on Nick's strength and power. You'll have, um, we're all like a shit. You'll have the whole crew doing that. The money they get, the money they get from the abuse and their advertisement, they can give it to the go family, because they just don't even get it. Yeah, that'll be 10% of what they make while for the commenting on you. We're really next. I look at next YouTube thing. And I think the most views one of these video had was a thousand people. Most of them are under 400. So we're not getting much, we're not getting much, we're not getting much from. But do you sat in those, I think, guys, you'll get money from. I want to just, I doubt the life that every person, how can he ask to money in a time like this when people are out of work and COVID? Well, if you haven't got money and you don't like me, then they don't. They don't. They don't. This is the whole thing. I'm not forcing anybody, I'm not forcing anyone's hand like they said. To give money, you can, I'll just, you just, what you do, you read what they've put up. All is going to go family page. Fuck him, you know what, he's something you're going to try. Scroll on by. Go to the next story. No, I've got to comment on this. Fuck him. I've read it all. I've read it all lately. That fuckinGHas been never was blah blah. And then I just got to click there. I got to click on the, I got to click on the profile picture. And I swear to God, whatever money I get, I got to give back to somebody's people because it came out for me, somebody's fuck is it gone through. It's worse than my fucking neck because the way they look, they couldn't look like that naturally. They got to have a little less of a wasting, less of a wasting disease. But it's been so funny. I've been laughing my hair off at the comments and then I stir him up. I go in and put L.O.L or if I can get them gone. What's L.O.L mean? You know, you're big, begging for money. I guess, I see one of the comments was you're abusing the, the, the, the go-fun me. Oh, no, it's over down that before. Yeah. I'm sure go find me really. I'm sure they're thrilled that you're, you're, you're doing a go-fun me. Because even what they make in percentage, something. I don't even know how it works. It's not even linked to my bank accounts. I wouldn't even know. But this is what a topic was. It's just even stir them up more. Because I know how a lot of people hate the police. I said, if I don't get enough money for the operation and stuff, what do you get? I'm going to give half the veterans and the other half the police, you know, police, you know, police, families of four-way officers. So those ones are saying, I hate the fucking cops. Right. That's what that's where I have to be. You're making down. Well, you know, you should, I think we should have done this. I can leave it there. I know you can leave it there. And if in 90 days, if you don't touch the money, within 90 days, they tell me, or think, tell me, in 90 days, if we don't take it out, it gets all, gets to refund the daughter people who gave. I think what you should, you should have done, as you should have told people, hey, look, I'm getting a sex change. I decided, Bruce Jenner and I, excuse me, Caitlin Jenner and I had a conversation. And you know what I think it's a good idea. You know how I like to do crazy things, I like to get tattoos. I think I'm going to try the sex change thing now. But I just didn't expect some operation. I want to see if the fans want to fund it. And what you couldn't do is you have to collect all the money. I'm going to buy bodies. And because of my bodies, that's your feet now. I think I'll fit better than the female classes. Yeah, you can get a breast implants and you can get like, you know, the voice thing that, but what could it happen is after you raised all the money, you could have said, you know what, I change my mind. I think I'm going to compete. Is anyone mind if I use the money for compete? That's how you should have angle. Oh no. I instead of getting the operation, I decide to buy it new Bentley because the seats are so count. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. Yeah, the truth is that yeah, and I don't know. I don't know. I'm just speculatinGHere, but might might might might, my intuition is telling me that you really could give a shit if you ever competed again. But if enough people were interested in you competing and wanted it raise the money, I think you would do it. I would. Just for that reason. And then like I said, and once they've paid with us, to me, it doesn't matter if someone's workinGHard and in order to go, let this a dollar to donate to me. Right. I would tren just as hard for that guy to donate one dollar. And then if someone had paid the someone that donated a thousand dollars, because he's given what he can. And if that's what it means, it's like, like I said, I'd have all that pressure. But all these people have donated and they want to see me come back. I'd have to get in shape where I said, if I want to do it for me, you know how you do that up and down. Yeah, I'm going to do the show next week. Can't be bothered next week. You're going to do it next week. You can't. There you go. You're like, fuck, you've got to come out and show these people who stood behind you and give them money. So yeah, but all these people going on, I fucking love it. There you go. I know you love it. You have a, we like, like, with the fake weeds we talked about last week. You love that too. I know you did. I, Nick, Nick put something up again the other day. I did see it. Come back and go. Why would lead to this? He said it was real and stuff. I'm going to tell you why, okay. Let's just say I had a news story, right? Fucking great news story. Where am I going to go? I'm going to go to KT, 2GB, Illinois, July wet or whatever. I'm fucking some bum fuck Illinois news station or I'm going to fucking take the news. Sorry, I'm going to fucking take the news story to fucking Foxy and end of that. You're going to go to the main one that gets the main views. And as I said, okay, Nick, I played a little trick and you could have done your homework. You would have seen all the other videos that were still on scenes. I'm using the fake weights. Like I said, there's one video there. I got the red one, which is meant to be 25 and another one and a 10. And I'm doing reverse curls going into fucking military press. It's far bill curls. That would have been what? 50, 100 kilos. 110 kilos. Doing reverse curls in the military press. I don't know if I'm going to go to the public or because no one called on that they were fake then. The fucking videos went in and I weren't hidden. Hey, Kenny, Kenny, KL, crack the case. So let's see. You got to get him credit. If he was on the Iran when Jack the Ripper was in the car. Yeah, he was in the car. You want to see the C-mail. I got to send you the C-mail that I think, who, I'm not sure it was the guy that cracked it for Kenny. He wrote these big email to some of this. IMean, it's a fucking, it's one of these. Oh, really? Who wrote that? I think if I still got all four to two here, but then he wrote back again and then again, you're irrelevant, Lee, and he keeps going on in this and that and you do this and now I've got to take some drugs and this and that my depression and it's going on. I would say that one of the people who emails me on a regular. I have at least like 10 people that always email me and like to put me down and say all these hard and I love it. I think it's hysterical funny. But don't you love it. It's the ones even like on the RX where you posted this go funny. The ones who say on the most, he's irrelevant. Why do you watch you for? They write the most shit. Why you even comment, you've only relevant and IMean nothing to you. Yeah. As I said, fucking just go down, scroll down to the next story. Whatever Dave's got up there all. You know, you have so many fans. You have to have hundreds of thousands of fans. I imagine if like if one out of every 10 gave like five bucks, which is like lunch money, you would raise that money really quickly. I suspect you probably will. The funny thing is I want I would I would I'm going to donate just because I want to see if you if you actually compete. Oh, Dave. You might not make in the comeback. You're going to be my fucking guru. There you go. Oh, I'll do it. You know, I'll do it. You know, I'll do it. You know, I'll do it. You know, I'll do it. You know, I'll do it. You know, I'll do it. You know, I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. You know, it that'll be my contribution. I'll do it for free. Exactly. That's the plane. That's going to be the guru. One last shot for Dave. Wow. We pre-stay public. It sounds like like a like a vice president presidential ticket. It does. Yeah. That's what you think. I've seen make some posters. Yes, some posters. We're black movement sponsors. Oh, my. I want to sign you to one last contract. I believe in the company. Maybe he'll donate some money to this. You know, I saw a donate 300 bucks already. Right. One person. Yeah. Yeah. You got a 200. You have a 200 all donation too. I noticed. Was that from my mother? Yeah. I think they didn't like get a flying stopster and people off. Yeah. I think the Nick was the best one. He just kept going on. I think you should donate. Yeah. IMean, you just give gift 10 bucks. Let me have that body building career again that you never had. That's all. That's right. And the thing is Nick's Nick's Nick said he's actually going to do a podcast on it. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was the plug to get the hits on the. Yeah. Did you see the thing is so not many people knew who Nick trilogy trilogy trilogy or whatever. It's like a Nick trilogy. No one. No one ever knew who he what? Like the demand or the amount of like interaction he's had in that. One Fred that you posted. He never had that much interaction. His whole body building career. That's the most fucking interaction he's had with things. His whole fucking life. That's incredible. Nick, you're welcome for your life. Thank you very much. There you go. So IMake people. IMake not I'm already famous still people go who is this guy because they say who is he. I then I get the. What's he going to do with the money by some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone so he can be bigger than five fooT4 to tattooed face. Oh, that's right. He had the tattoo taken off. He had to put back on and I've never heard the hide on the tattoo. People. I see that I see my friend Armand de Dibi was about rage. So he was posting like his average. Who's that? He's a valuable material. He's a he's a he's a. Someone on there that sells steak some steak man to here's that. What did he say? What's he doing this for? Began for money. I should give the kids with cancer or something. I think I see my friend Steve Baron wrote a big thing don't get me sent he needs to get a job and earn his money. I don't they know you actually make money. You just don't want to spend your money on this comeback. And you want to spend it. That's called being a business man. I have a job. I have a look at your job. Back in the day back in the day black. But we're to finance the comeback. He wouldn't give you a. You're a. Contract there's no magazine contracts. You got to go. You got to go. You got to go. You got to hustle mate always hustling. That's right. It's a she's all she's all my life. Look, if it'll make people happy. Leave will donate a pair of is used underwear. If you spot if you spot if you don't have $200 or more, you'll. Well, if you don't have $200 or more, you'll. You're a big. You're a Nick or Nick said I should do that. Nick said he used to sell his own posing trunks. That's what's funny. Nick my I told Nick that my body building career was that good. I'd never had to do that. So I don't know what it's like to be at that end of the field where you got to sell your posing. So you're posing trunks or. I think you can. I can drug money. I look, I think that you should offer up at least a pair of your underwear for $250 bucks or more. I'll be. You got to give these guys. We're now. We're now in Nick or buy them. Oh, that's what it means. You know what will happen. There'll be some entrepreneur. He'll be he'll be buying your. You'll be donated to 200 bucks to get your underwear. And then they'll be sellinGHim on eBay for 500 bucks. He'll be sellinGHim on Elon Musk might donate. Test. Yeah. That's right. But, you know, Nick, Nick, if you want my posing trunks, I'll give them to you for free. I'll give you the page that I wore at the Olympia de Arna Classic. Whatever show you're never in. When that's all of them. I'll give you a pair of trunks from every show I was in that you never did. Well, it's hard. So it's it is just to authenticate people. This is a legitimate you posted this. This is definitely something that you're behind. It's not someone playing a joke on you. So this is if people want to donate your series of you if they donate and you raise the money, you're going to do the comeback. Because that's the idea. Yeah. Yeah. Like I said, that would give me motivation. Does it have to be 100 grand? Or what's the what's the what's what do you need? What's the threshold we have to cross here. Do you do the show? Well, you have to remember a hundred grand. That's a Australian, but you need at least. Because that was including the comeback. I got a drugs and that as well. Right. That's just how we got the operation, just the neck operation. Right. And the stem cell and just covering the time overseas doing that. You'd need a in a Australian dollars. You'd still need. What would be roughly 60,000. American for that. I said that would still be. I think this is in I think this is in US dollars. No, it looks like it is. I don't know. Maybe I'm wrong. Yeah, that 100 to 1000 is a Australian dollar. Because that would be roughly. Well, how much how much US dollars you won with will 50,000. Cut it. Yeah, 50, 50 would. Because that's your almost there. You got 40, 47 more. You're not far now. Then you're only been up for how many days, two days, three days. People remember you say give to the kids with cancer. There's no saving. They're me, then Jesus can't help him. Give to me. I'll do it for them. God will. God will help me win. And through God. I shall win the show. I'll give you a little angel to heaven where he needs little angels. Think of the entertainment aspect of this. If we actually does the come back, come on guys. Think of the entertainment. I'm excited. I want to see it happen now. Now I want to see it happen. Think of the entertainment if I do it in failed. They can all go. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I'll put it up. Yes. Let me go. Okay. I can the car. You have a wonder how I hit these scars. I don't know. I hear it is. If you guys, uh, oh, I'm going to pull it up again just to annoy you. Yeah, just to annoy you. There it is. We praise that operation. Stem cell. He wants, uh, he needs money. Donate. And we might see Lee back on stage if we can get to that threshold. 50,000 mark. Look at me. I'm like a bacon. People go, what's he paying for? He needs this silly stuff. What is he doing? Who took that picture? Yes, it is. That's David Paul in the big warehouse downtown. Just before the police come along. Yeah. Yeah, that was always the case. I don't think there was aromasingle time that he didn't get almost the rest of the time to shut the key. Keep out. No entry. He resting. He's too. Cross the good. Another guy. I still think of his place. I still loved the living that place. He had that old church. Oh, I know. He did up there. I don't know. I wonder if his brother got it. Peter. I wonder who's in there now. I don't know. That's beautiful. Wasn't it? Yeah. The ceiling is the floor. Yeah. He read it a whole church. That was great. And he turned it into like a tavern and old looking tavern, old authentic. He did all the woodwork and himself. He built all the furniture in there himself. Pretty cool. Pretty talented guy. Can you imagine maybe living in an old church? Yeah, you go. He preached in the church. Maybe you should go. Maybe you should go. Maybe you should move to Vermont and take over the. Well, I think it'll maybe I'm an old dying minister. Maybe I should start a church. Tests for money, cheating. The government out of his taxes. There's we again try to get a free ride. And then we can't do it. I'm with engine to get blow jobs. He had a boy come behind the pulpit. Put on my. You just blew what you people already don't eat. You just blew it again. You always have to blow it. Right at the end. Why? Why you got to say the word blew it when IMentioned blow. Boy yeah. All right. I'm going to stop because you're going to lose all your funding right now. I'm trying to keep you politically correct. So you can get your funding for your operation. something for your operation that you come back. All right, if you want to donate to Lee, you go to that go-fund me page. You can look them up, I leave. I want to hide this one. Nick, the hide this one. Love you all. Don't eat, look. Everyone out there was watching this condo in eight five bucks. It's like lunch money. Come on. Let's see what we can raise for this guy. I don't think that Lee will squander. I think he will use it to get his next fix and to get himself back. I think you really do want to keep you. I know you make jokes about it, but I really think that deep down, you have the desire to get back on stage. Well, I would fit a thing because like I said, when I did the universe, I took 4, 2014 off just to promote and have it in 2015, I was going to do the world's one. The accident happened. So it was almost like, yes, I could say I'm happy now and retiring and stuff. But it's almost like when you finish, you like to go out on your terms, not because of an accident or because of something forced you out. So. Yeah. Keep putting that up, Dave. That fucking annoys the hell. Yeah, I know. There's something up there. All right, guys. Look, we're going to. For money. I got to wrap this up because it's late. My kids are up in their, their, their screaming. So Lee, good luck on the, on the campaign trail. No, probably screaming. Don't give him any money. Dad, that's a money dad. Give him money. Like in my son's, they'll give you, give you some play though, donate to the cause. You know, so he can make me a whole doll. If he makes me a whole doll or a play, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll. I'll. All right, guys, that, that's going to be it for today. This is day, Palauma with Lee, priest for another RX muscle news update. Thank you. Good. Thanks, Luke. All right, that shouldn't annoy the fuck out of the house. Oh, it's gonna really.

=== FILE: Will We See FLEX LEWIS At The '21 Olympia？ [1y4UewWWXWs].txt ===

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, so it's 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car pop tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Monday, June 7th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Now that the Arnold Classic is back in business, we've already seen a few athletes go on the record to say that they're planning to bring their talents to Columbus Ohio. And just last week, the reigning and defending New York pro-classic physique champ Danny Union became one of the latest people to add his name to the list. Even if we take what he did in New York out of the equation, historically Danny's always done well in the biggest moments. And I don't see any reason why that would change here. In a lot of ways, I think Danny's name gets left out of the conversation when people talk about the best five or six athletes in the division, which is a mistake, because there's no question that he belongs right there in that group. So if you could leave Ohio with a win, that alone could be a game changer in the sense that it elevates his status as a serious top three Olympia threat. Here's a fun fact for you. Did you guys know that Mark Twain is the person who came up with a quote, dance like nobody is watching. I would have sworn that was from a movie like dirty dancing or something, so it kind of blew my mind when I read this this morning. But that quote being tied to Mark Twain still somehow feels like it's less surprising than seeing the improvements than Andre Lincoln's made this offseason for all intent and purposes. Andre took all the momentum he had from his top six Olympia finish last December and ran full speed with it right into this year without even breaking a stride. I know there's been a lot of talk about Brandon Hendrickson going for his third overall title and Ray Edmunds trying to get himself back on top. And even the rise of guys like Aaron Banks, but people shouldn't sleep on Andre. He's got the tools and the opportunity is there and he can step up and seize the moment. I've said it on the record that I'm excited to see what happens in the two 12 division this year. There's a lot of moving parts, big names and new faces that make this whole division feel like it can be a wild west. But you might see a shootout on any given night and I'll tell you what, if Lucas Quaylo ends up being as good as advertised, he could be the last man standing after some of those battles. Now if you're staring at these pictures trying to figure out who the heck he is and why you haven't heard of him. It's because he only competed once as a pro and that was back in 2019. My sources down in Brazil tell me that he's basically spent the last two years gettinGHimself ready to be a viable contender in this division. And six weeks from now he's planning to show everyone how viable he is when he flies out to the Chicago pro. And considering that we've already seen guys like Tony O' Burton and Nathan Eplor shake things up in this division already. Having Lucas come in and do the same thing feels like part of the course at this point in time. And finally, I want to end today's show with a somewhat of a philosophical question for you guys about Flex Fluis. And whether or not you think we'll see him on stage in the open division at the Olympia this year. We have heard reports from Flex's camp that he's treninGHard in trying to get himself back into his old championship form. But there are also reports floating around out there that he's still about 25 pounds from back when he was dealing with a few injuries, which is not an insignificant amount of muscle weight on a guy his size. Yes, he's a seven-time Olympia champ and he's one of the most genetically gifted athletes of his era. But the open division is a different thing and it's not the place to be if you're trying to play catch up. That being said, we're still 18 or 19 weeks out. So I don't want to put the cart before the horse, which is why I'm asking you, do you think Flex Lewis can compete at the Olympia this year? Let us know in the comments below. And that does it the yet another addition of muscle in the morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: William Bonac & Akim Williams 6 WEEKS OUT! + Patrick Moore UPDATE! [gtDFgRl0oQg].txt ===

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've goT3 and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Monday, August 16th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back ladies and gentlemen, it's Monday and we're back and better than ever and ready to bring you another week. Fill with great content, starting with this brand new update from 25 year old rookie, Vlad Sucaruco. Vlad placed fourth in his debut at the Portugal Pro a few weeks ago and now the goal heading into Spain is to showcase the work he did between now and then with the hope of it being good enough to land him a spot in the top three. At the moment the line up in Spain looks like it's going to be pretty solid on paper, especially at the top end of the men's open. But if he comes in as good as they say he will, being able to slide into thaT3 through number five range might be Justin's wheelhouse. As of this week I think that makes us six weeks out now from the Arnold Classic and just in case you were wondering whether or not William Bonac will be ready to defend his title allow me to make this real simple for you. The answer is yes. A few days ago William's team released a photo that they said was three weeks old and even in that one small window you can see how he's really starting to hit his stride. The William was starting to see now looks like the guy who went out and dominated in last year's win and that guy is in anyone else in this year's lineup who couldn't get a handle on. And in the last few years when he's been competing at the Arnold and the Olympia he never really had much of an offseason that led his body rest and make improvements. So you have to wonder now that he was able to get that rest and that he can trening grow into both shows like we're seeing now. Well, is that sort of schedule work to his benefit because if it does he's going to be a hard man to come in and become October. As the old saying goes, the devil is in the details and as luck would have it sweating the details just so happens to be one of Patrick Moore's strengths at the moment. Over the last week or so Patrick released two or three new updates detailing some of the work he's done to get better from the back durinGHis latest phase of his Olympia prep which he says is in part his strategy to help him showcase his strengths when he's on stage. If you go back and look at the package he brought into win the Cal Pro earlier this year and compare that to where he is now. You can get a pretty clear sense of how strategic his approach really is. He goes into every show looking to execute a plan and when it all goes right the results speak for themselves and if that's the way it plays out over the next eight or nine weeks I'll put himself in a great position to compete for a top 10 slot. When you live in our world being able to say that you outgrow your clothes is almost like a badge of honor but being able to say you're outgrowing the machines in the gym the way a king Williams has can't even be considered a badge of honor because if you're doing that it means you're on a level beyond any sort of bad recognition. A king six weeks out from makinGHis second appearance of the season at the Arnold Classic and everything that we've heard from his camp so far leads you to think that he'll be even better there than he was when he won the Puerto Rico pro earlier this year which is saying something considering the fact that Puerto Rico was the best that he's ever looked no matter how you look at it a king is at the point now where he's universally considered to be one of the top six body builders on a planet and when you're already operating on an elite level like that any small improvement that you make could be enough to put you into title contention. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

=== FILE: ＂GET HADI CHOOPAN TO THE OLYMPIA＂ - Dave Palumbo [fFbx76du0bA].txt ===

Day for Lumber with another RX Muscle Rank brought to you by RedCon1, visit RedCon1.com. Alright, today's topic is how do you shoot and why isn't it going to be if the Mr. Olivia competition this year? One of the most talented new competitors in our 212 division, he proved himself last year, really pushing flex lowest to the limit in Korea. A lot of people thought he should have won there. IMean, but this year, if you look at Heidi Schouppen, he just competed at the IFB Portugal Pro, he dominated that competition, he easily won it, even though Nick was fully pushed him a little bit. He brought probably the best look we've ever seen from him ever in his career. He's got more muscle for square in any other 212 guy up there. He's got some classic poses, he's got the vacuum pose, he's got probably the biggest legs in the division, he knows how to raise the weight of the biggest legs in the division for many, many years. This guy is huge. He's got all the wild fact, he kind of reminds me of a Momo Benzese from years past. And this is a guy that has all the workings of tremendous excitement in this division. He has the ability to raise up to 212 to another level. He's a guy that we didn't see coming because he was competing and I ran for many, many years as an amateur. Now we finally want to see him up there on that Olympia stage at his best, next to Flex Lewis and guess why? He can't do it. Why? Because he can't get a freaking visa to come to the United States. Look. I'm all for keeping bad people out of this country. I don't want terrorists in this country as much as the next guy does. But when you talk about the elite level athlete, okay, that is a political as far as I'm concerned, athletes don't give a crap about what's going on politically. They want to compete for this, because that's what their passion is, that's what they love to do. This guy has worked his entire life for this moment to be able to stand on that Olympia stage against the best in the world in the 2012 division and he can't even get a freaking ticket to the United States. It's a sad sentiment and it's a sad statement about where we're at politically in this country that we can't allow someone to piss caliber, okay, athlete to come into this country. Look, I know, look, when I do radio shows and I do these rants, everyone from every walk of life out there who watches these rants. If there's anyone who has any political pole or any way to get visas for people or anyone who knows anyone in immigration or anyone out there who can help this freaking guy get to the Olympia. Please reach out to me. I'll find the way to get in touch with this guy and make it happen. This guy got to be someone out there who can go to back to get this guy and the Olympia lineup. If you look at him at the Portugal pro when he's posing down and getting to Nicholas Voliatti, there's another terrific talent. This kid's gonna all snap. These two guys are gonna be the future of the 2012 class. You can watch them in the video that we have up there posing down against each other. Look at the excitement level in Portugal. We're seeing from these two guys. You can't believe what you're watching. Don't you want to see this on the Olympia stage? Look at these guys. They're just their little monsters. This is the future of our division. Unfortunately, one of the best will never be able to come to the Olympia and compete. That's a sad statement. I don't know if it's got to be on Shwastonaga that does it or it's got to be someone with a little more clout than the average Joe on the street. Someone's got to be able to get this guy at these at the country. I'm challenging you guys out there. I know there's plenty of body going fans that probably have connections with you. You wires, immigration people, something. Get Heidi Shwopen in the 2018 Olympia. For God's sake, this is the last year Flex Lewis is doing it. I want to see a hotie-suped Flex Lewis show down in Vegas, come September. That's what the fans want. That's what Heidi Shwopen wants. And I know Flex Lewis, he wants the best to the best to go out on top saying, I beat them all. And so someone out there can make it happen. I know you're watching right now, contact me, contact Shahadi. Whatever we got to do to make this thinGHappen, because bodybuilding's about the best of the best. That's what the Mr. Olympia is all about. That's what Joe we'd have created the Mr. Olympia about. We want to see hotie-suped against Flex Lewis. I want to see it. ThEQuestion is who will win? Will we ever know? I don't know. For now, let's see if anyone steps up to the plate and makes it happen. One day, pull them both with another, or X muscle ran. See you next time.

=== FILE: ＂MAINTENANCE CYCLES＂ OR HRT？ [zSBDMF_uuMg].txt ===

Day Palomo here with a very special Ask Dave Special Addendum. This is two extra questions that we didn't get to during the Ask Dave TV show this past week because my producer left early on vacation. So I'm going to give you guys an extra little video, I guess with these two questions. They asked these come from the day Palomo experience, which is the day Palomo experience app that you can subscribe to on iTunes or Android store. It's $29 a month. You get access to all my videos that I've ever done, all my writings that I've ever done. You do a Q&A video every week exclusively for the app and I answer all your questions on the app in a public forum. So you see everyone's questions and everyone's answers. It's a good learning tool. We also put up a workout every single week. So if you want to vary up your workouts, you can kind of pick one of those workouts and do them every week. If it's kind of like having your own little personal day Palomo coach in your pocket. So I think a lot of people really have enjoyed it. We have a very good membership. It's always growing and I think for most people who maybe can't afford coaching and even the people who do coaching with me or with other people they subscribe to the app for the information. If you want to continually increase your education, your knowledge and the sport, this is a great app for you. So let's get to thesEQuestions. These are two questions that we're asked on the app. I'm an answer of here. Hey, day 42 years old now and noticing that the last I eat, the better I look, is this common? Well, I think we all want to be, you know, in our, the back of our heads like Mr. Olympia, like bodybuilders when we get out there, we want to put on as much muscle as possible. And a lot of times, a lot of us just eat too much food. I had mentioned this in a previous Q&AI did for the app. And the problem with that is that if you're 100, you know, when I was 300 pounds or 250 pounds, I needed, you know, 350, 400 grams of protein a day. And if I ate that today, probably I couldn't even get it all down. But if I did, I probably wouldn't be that. Even though I have a fast metabolism, I would put on some muscle sure, but I would probably be very bloated. Maybe my, my kidney function would be high because I'm just overwhelming my body with too much protein. I wouldn't feel good. And that's because I don't need that much protein anymore, because I only weigh 1,850, 90 pounds. So you have to understand, you have to cater your diet for what your goals are and who you are right now, not what you are when you were 22 years old. So you're 42 now. You probably just don't need as much food. And when you're trying to force all this extra food on your body, it's just, it's laying down extra body fat or it's making you feel bloated or you're just not comfortable. You've cut back your food. And now your, you're, you're, your body is obviously eating up stored body fat for fuel. The problem and the risk that you run here, and I've seen this happening, it's happened to me. Sometimes I get a little too carried away, is you start losing too much muscle. If that's not the goal and you, and you don't want to, you know, too much smaller, but you just want to get leaner, then you have to make sure you have a certain amount of protein. You can't just keep cutting back your food indefinitely because eventually what will happen is you're going to get to a point where you're just, you're not looking any better. You're just looking more caquette, you know, more, more, but kind of just, I guess you could say burnt out. So to speak, your, your body will look flat, your muscles won't be popping. Yeah, you'll be losing weight, but you won't be looking better. And you don't want that. Goal is to look better, to feel better, so don't overdo it. You know, if you're 42 years old and let's say you weigh 100, you know, 200 pounds, then you probably should be getting at least 200 grams of protein a day if you want to maintain, you know, even if you did 180 not so bad, but if you're going down in food and you're eating two times a day and you're goinGHuge gaps, six hours without eating, you're going to just like cannibalizing muscle tissue. There's no way around it. Even if you didn't work out because think about it, your body needs protein for hair, nails, skin, the internal lining of your stomach, and then digestive organs. All these things are constantly in a state of turnover and your body needs protein to replace them enzymes hormones, all these things. So don't overdo it. That's the key. You got to find balance. Dave, if someone were trying to maintain one's physique and only looking to add sporadic cycles, I guess, to gear cycles throughout the year, does testosterone need to be run into 1,000 milligrams per week. Can it be lower to around 400 milligrams per week? Also what antibodies would be best to throw in the mix and it would amounts, again, I'm just trying to stay as lean and healthy as possible while maintaining what I already have. Well, if you're trying to say as lean and as healthy, leanness comes from diet. Okay, so you have to have a good diet. If you need cardio, you got to put the cardio and has nothing to do with the antibody cycles you're on. Why? Because it's steroid, don't burn fat. They build muscle and they repair muscle. So with that, having said that, we got to get that out of the way. In terms of beinGHealthy, well, if you're doing full-blown cycles, obviously, well, it might not be necessarily detrimental to you out. It's certainly not making it help better. So if you're just looking to maintain what you have and stay lean, diet, do some cardio and take it to hormone replacement dose of 200 milligrams per week, there's no reason why you can't maintain what you have on that. Assuming you're eating correctly, you're trening and you're resting enough. If you're not looking to get bigger, that's the way to go. I get it for 10 years. After I stopped competing, and I held onto a lot of times, it was like 250 for probably eight of those years, until I started to really want to start it down size. But it's easy to hold onto your weight if you're eating properly and you're just taking a hormone replacement dose to 200 milligrams, I get news for you. You're not losing anything on that. I know guys that are on 200 milligrams a week and they try to lose muscle and they can't figure out why they won't lose any. Because it's startinGHard. You've got to cut back your food. You might even want to go back to 100 milligrams a week of testosterone. That's enough. If you're talking about health, you don't want to be too encyclos and putting tren alone in equipoies and DACA, not that they're that terrible if you're doing them in a controlled manner. But there's no reason for it because you're not trying to get any bigger. You're trying to maintain. So think about what your goals are. And this is, I guess, the theme of this little S-dave segment. What are your goals? Once you write down your goals, then you figure out a strategy of how to get there. Don't go by bro science, don't go by height and what you think might work. Realistically say, what are my goals? I want to get leaner and then I got to diet and do cardio. I want to maintain muscle mass. I got to do HRT. I want to grow. I got to do cycles. It's not that hard. You have to define your goals first. Okay, Dave Pellumbo here. Hoping you guys are going to have a great weekend. This is a little extra due-dap just to throw into your educational videos that you're watching on how to use your body to achieve the look that you're looking for. If you guys like this little video and you want to have your questions answered on a regular basis and you want to have some more knowledge that you disposal. Check out my Dave Pellumbo Experience app at your iTunes store or Android store. I'm Dave Pellumbo, we'll see you next time.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-02-08T09:03:30.074812Z ===
