This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 NPC Junior Nationals here with our men's heavyweight champion, Matt Lden. Congratulations. You beat a very tough class out there. Yeah, I was pretty surprised myself. Raphael Har Miller really pushed you to the limit. He was a little bigger, maybe a little bit more shapely, but you you nailed your conditioning. you probably were the hardest guy in the entire show. Um, I think that clinched a few. Yeah, thanks. Yeah, that's who I've been watching all day looking at the forums and all that and that was looks like that was was my main concern. Now, how how many weeks have you been dying number one and and how hard was the diet? Uh, the diet's kind of miserable, but it's not been terribly long. Maybe 10 weeks or so by now. You have a fast metabolism. I do. Plus, I've also been planning more towards the USA, and this is kind of my warmup. Kind of helped me get ready for that. Yeah. We talked to you in the hotel room a couple days before and you seemed very confident. You look great then and uh I knew if it came down to conditioning that no one was going to beat you. Right honor. Thanks. I appreciate it. You're a testament or a living testament to the fact that you know conditioning does win shows. I mean obviously you got the muscle to go with it as well. Um what can you do better at this point going into the USA? Oh boy. I got to make sure I don't lose any more back. That's for sure. Um I mean you going to eat up a little bit because you do have about five or six weeks. Yeah. I got to figure out some way to be able to There's more I can load on. I can I think I can probably weigh in heavier and come in fuller. What did you Because you weighed in as as a smaller head. I was 206 a couple week maybe 5 days prior 205. So, all right. So, maybe you can come in somewhere in the middle. Yeah, there's some play room there. Good luck in the overall. I think you have a very good shot of possibly winning this and hopefully we'll be talking to you again in the winter circle. Right on. Thank you. your favorite poster polls, please. All right, I'm here with Matt Lden. After the overall is over and is said and done and you have emerged victorious, you beat Dusty Handshaw. Very close competition. What do you think edged it in your favor? I have I have no idea. Smury possibly because he's definitely got me on mass and he is not a fat super heavyweight. He came in pretty dialed in. So you don't you're you're you don't know. I was pretty shocked. Okay. Well, you know, look, there were there's probably an equal amount of people in the in the fans in the crowd that wanted to see you and and him and I'm sure his people were disappointed and and your people are ecstatic. Um just got a different different quality physique completely. It's We talked about conditioning level. Okay. I'd have to say the only thing that I can see that was significantly impossibly difference was the level of dryness that your physique possessed. Yeah. Now, is it true? Is it true? I I I heard that that you beat him in the Emerald Cup in 2006 as well. Oh, I didn't know he competed in that. Yes, you won. You won. I knew him from Okay. I've been trying to place his face for the longest time. I must be the bane of his existence now. There we go. Yeah. Well, yeah. Stan African was also in that competition. Was he really? Yeah. And uh you emerged victorious there, right? Yeah. Yeah. That was that was a good show for me. You must have an overall look that the judges seem to like cuz you tend to win those overalls pretty easily. I don't know about easy, but well, I mean, you know what it is? I won a lot of weight class wins in my time, and I used to have trouble winning the overall a lot of times because of my shape. Do you think your symmetry, your great symmetry and conditioning push you over the top? That's got to be it. I mean, cuz it's not my mass. And I can tell you're stunned cuz I I know you don't know what to say right now. Yeah, I I don't I know I'll never be one of the big guys, so conditioning is what I try to focus on the most. I know I can control that. With this level of conditioning you have now, what do you do for the next six weeks until the USA? Uh, maintain. Eat a little bit more. You going to eat a little more? Yeah. Who helps you with your contest, bro? Just me. You do it all yourself. I do. I don't trust anybody else. Well, you did a great job. Congratulations, man. You're You should You're a deserved winner here tonight. Dave Palumbo with a very happy Matt Lowden. rxmuscle.com.