Higher higher. What's up, guys? This is IFBB Pro Kevin Jordan, the protein poppy here. I'm just want to give a big congratulations shout out to my man Dave Palumbo and Johnny Styles at RX Muscle for their thousandth episode of Muscle in the Morning. That is amazing, guys. Keep up the good work. Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Wednesday, December 21st, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If anyone's taking bets on who the next Olympian to step up and have a breakout season is, I'm throwing a few stacks in Brandon Curry's direction. Coming off a secretly fantastic season that saw him compete in nine contests on four separate continents, the pride of Music City recently made his way out to the bodybuilding's newest freak factory, the Middle East Mecca. New training footage surface of Curry absolutely destroying his legs at Beter Badai's world famous Oxygen Gym where Curry set up shop for the next few weeks in preparation for the upcoming 2017 season. Despite six top 10 finishes on the books for the year, it still feels like Curry has a lot left in the tank. And now that he's got some of that Darth Ba magical oxygen gym in his veins, he looks poised to make his return to the winter circle. If squatting 400 makes you a beast and 500 makes you a savage, I'm not quite sure what they're calling it these days when someone breaks into the rarified air of the 600-lb club. But that's exactly where you can find standout rookie pro Charles Griffin these days. Earlier in the week, footage surfaced of a fierce looking Griffin stamping his official passport to the 600 pound club for the first time as he continues to barrel his way towards what's shaping up to be a super second season. Griffin showed us flashes of greatness during his pro debut at the Frigno Legacy Classic a few weeks back, and he looks to have really been putting in some serious work since then. If he can keep adding size in key areas and start to balance out his look, this guy's a sleeper to do some late season damage next year. Keeping with our running theme of torturous leg sessions, Mr. Mountain Dog Intensity of himself, John Meadows doesn't look like he's backing off the gas at all these days. Recently, Meadows was spotted in the gym hammering out another grueling leg session full of his signature twists and tweaks as he gears up to lay it all on the table again in year three on the pro circuit. This year on stage, we saw Meadows return to his trademark grain train level of conditioning along with a couple of added details that help push him into the top 10 on the Arnold stage. Whether or not he's planning to continue to suck down and try to make things happen in the 212 class is still anyone's guess. But I can tell you that no matter where he competes or what he comes in weighing, when John Meadows sets foot on stage, you can be certain that you're getting 100% of everything he has to offer. In my opinion, you can't have a legitimate conversation about the future of the classic physique division right now without mentioning the name Terren Ruffen. This 23-year-old rookie phenom came out and set the stage on fire from day one in 2016, collecting two huge wins and a hotly debated ninth place Olympia finish on his way to solidifying his place as one of the most exciting young talents in the sport. This week, some new training footage surfaced of Ruffin crushing his latest back session as he continues to add new dimensions to his physique. Poundfor-pound, Ruffin may be one of the most complete athletes in the entire classic physique division. And if he can add enough quality muscle to put him on par with some of the bigger athletes he shares the stage with, I don't know if there's anyone out there who can stop this guy anytime soon. For some people, the holidays are a time to kick your feet back and enjoy a little bit of muchneeded RNR. And for others, they're a time for kicking ass and taking names while the rest of the competition is busy slacking off. And I'll give you one guess which category rising bikini star Camille Perry falls into. Well, fresh off a career year that saw her collect two wins, eight straight top 10 finishes, and her first ever Olympia bid, the third-year pro still looks like she could step right out onto stage today and throw down at a moment's notice. Over the last two seasons, Period has quietly turned into one of the more promising new talents in the bikini division. And when you look at the sort of work she's put in so far this offseason, it isn't hard to see why. If she can keep the momentum rolling and pick her spots right, it's entirely possible we see her win streak continue into next season. For more on these stories, log on to rxmuscle.com and make sure to follow us on all our social medias. I'm Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX muscle is number one. Woo.