 I went full during Yates mindset, and just stayed off the internet, I really didn't post a thing, I didn't even watch anything bodybuilding related, I just worked out, came back home, ate my meals, went to bed, and you know, while everyone else is fussing about everybody else, I'm gonna come out of the woodworks and do what I do best. You need someone to hate, for you to work hard, and prove people wrong. That's right, yeah, no, I kinda like getting my back against the corner, you know. I came from a different background than a lot of these guys, my original background is competitive sports, so I like to have an enemy, I like to have a reason why I'm chasing something down, and I like to have a reason to win the title more than just money or the title, I like to have a little gumption behind it. I'm here to whoop asses, and that's why. So you have a lot of confidence, much more so than I think you've ever had. If you whoop asses, it's more than confidence, so it's good. It is. So you're convinced you're gonna win this show? It's 24 hours, so we just have to wait and see. I thought, I wanted to see some confidence. It's 24 hours. 24 hours. Stay tuned. Yes, sir. Created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. All right, I'm here with one of the dark horses in this event, MoFoda. A lot of people talking about you. These pictures you've been posting are pretty off the charts. I love that. They underdog me, and that's fine. I love this environment. Is it true that you gained almost 10 pounds of muscle? Yeah. Actually, I improved my back. I came back with a new MoFoda. I improved my back. I improved my hamstring, my glutes. A new person. You will see guys tomorrow night. Someone different from the guy who competed in Dubai or in Olympia or in Chicago. This is nothing comparing to what I have tomorrow. You look physically a lot bigger. I remember the last time we saw each other. Yeah, I'm happier because, of course, at this moment, I did the work, and tomorrow is the time that I will finally show people how I look like. Everyone, when we're doing these predictions, everyone's got their usual guys, and everyone's like, I don't know, MoFoda might be spoiling this apple cart and breaking into this top group. I'm happy. I'm happy because nobody actually mentioned me, and I see all the groups. You talk about Nick, Martin, whoever, but I know that I will be tomorrow in this top three, top four. You want to give us a little sneak of something? How about abs? You want to hit your legs? Let's see some eggs. Let's see some legs. But I will show you a small video from today. All right. You can show me off camera. No. This is probably. You want to show it to the camera? All right. Let's see. Let's see. That's pretty wacky, I got to tell you. You know, your legs look good. Even though you always had good legs, your legs came up, too. This actually was out, Bambu, without nothing. This is when I just woke up. All right. Expect big things from Mo. Come Saturday night. I'll see you, man. All right. All right. I'm here with the biggest mutant in the place. I used to be that guy, but not anymore. This is the mutant. I saw. I don't want to say who's showing me. Someone showed me some pictures of you. I've never seen you this lean and this crazy looking. Yeah. That's one reason why I chose not to post anything. I chose to just stay locked in. I went full during Yates' mindset and just stayed off the internet. I really didn't post a thing. I didn't even watch anything bodybuilding related. I just worked out, came back home, ate my meals, went to bed. And, you know, while everyone else is fussing about everybody else, I'm going to come out of the woodworks and do what I do best. This person who showed me, which I will remain nameless, said that he's never seen, and he's a neurotic lunatic because I've worked with him before. He said he's never seen anyone more neurotic and OCD about their food, their water intake, and everything that they do than you are. No, he would say, like, you are the biggest pain in my ass. But he's like, but I can't get mad because I get it. I was the same way. And this is, you are who you are. This is why you're one of the best. So it's cool when you're, you know, you're sharing this experience with somebody that, you know, truly understands it. Good luck, man. I don't want to take up your time. Big things I'm predicting from this guy. I think I'm changing my predictions. All right. I'm here with Martin, who hates the press, but I'm going to talk to you anyway. I don't hate you. You didn't call me out yet. I don't hate you. I like Dave and I like Nick's strength and power. That's about it. Thank you. You know what? I always say that I think that you're like the Michael Jordan of bodybuilding because you need someone to hate for you to work hard and prove people wrong. That's right. Yeah, no, I kind of like getting my back against the corner. You know, I came from a different background than a lot of these guys. My original background is competitive sports. So I like to have an enemy. I like to have a reason why I'm chasing something down. And I like to have a reason to win the title more than just money or the title. I like to have a little gumption behind it. Well, you need motivation. And I think motivation is the most important factor in anything that you try to accomplish in life. That's exactly right. And for me, that's the competitive nature in me. So if I know I'm competing against somebody, if I'm thinking about somebody doing more work than me, it lights a little fire a little harder. But that's why I tell these guys, even the press guys, I'm like, stop being such pussies. And stop being so, oh, he insulted me. I'm like, who cares? Yeah, I mean, honestly, man, that's the thing with the media right now is it's a little bit soft. You know, I want to see us. I love bodybuilding, and I want to see us become like NFL, right? Yeah, of course. And if we're going to do that, we've got to treat media like ESPN does. So that's the kind of attitude that I would love to see guys take. And no media guy on ESPN is like, he said he didn't like me. He hurt my feelings. No, they're on there, and they do their job, and they commentate how they're supposed to. That's what I want to see, and that's what I see from guys like you, from Nick's Strength and Power. There is some good bodybuilding media. When I made a grand statement like that, the people that get feelings got hurt are maybe the ones that make shitty media. Well, you know, I've done a lot of prediction shows on other channels as well as my own, and I think the consensus is that you're probably one of the most dangerous guys coming up because you just keep improving every time. You get bigger, you get better, you come in leaner, you're more polished, and so you're dangerous because of that. Yeah, honestly, I think it's that, and I also think that the one thing that I've done consistently over these past couple years as a pro is I like to hide going into the show. You do. You guys really don't know what I look like, and that gets you excited, but it also brings a lot of questions marks, right? But the thing that it does is when I get on stage, it gives you guys that wow factor of, he really improved, this really came up, he did what he said he was going to do. I mean, I really like that. So, yeah, I do hide. Yeah, you didn't get any full updates, or you saw my quads, which are always good, so it's okay. You're going to get to see that they look how they're supposed to. But that's kind of the fun of it, and that's coming up in bodybuilding. My favorite bodybuilder is Phil, and that's the era that I really got to watch. And you never saw Phil leading into the show for six months. Same thing with Flex Lewis. The two guys that I really saw be champions most of my younger career were guys that hid, and then when they walked out, it's like a haymaker from Tyson, and I really like that factor. So I think that that's part of it, too. People know I'm dangerous, but you don't know what's coming. All right, you've got to show us your most dangerous bike part. You always give me a little look. Give me those legs. I tell people in person there's nothing more impressive than a Martin quad. I don't have underwear. Yeah, we don't want to see that. That quad, I've never seen teardrops that develop so low. They go below your knee. It's crazy. The one thing about it, Dave, is I've been obsessed with squatting since I was 13 years old. It's obvious that you squat. I always wanted big legs. I never wanted to be the opposite Johnny Bravo. If anything, I was going to be the bottom-heavy wellness guy, I guess. I tell people, you want big legs? He just gave you the answer. Squat. That's damn right. Good luck, man. Good seat. I'm standing here with the biggest guy in the lineup, Andrew Jack, third place at the Olympia. You look like you gained another 10 pounds from the Olympia. Yeah, not actually gains. We just did something better. You have a better look. You've been posting pictures and videos, which I never saw you do in the past. Why? Yeah, yeah, of course, because I'm here to whoop asses, and that's why. So you have a lot of confidence, much more so than I think you've ever had. If you whoop asses, it's more than confidence, so it's good. It is. You're convinced you're going to win this show? It's 24 hours, so we just have to wait and see. I wanted to see some confidence. It's 24 hours. 24 hours. Stay tuned. Yes, sir. Kamal. Yes, boss. Best we've seen him? Well, I'm not going to say much, but you're going to see something tomorrow maybe you've never seen. You've never seen, yes. I like to see things that I've never seen, and this is definitely a mutant from another planet. Best of luck up there. Thanks a lot. Thanks a lot, bro. Appreciate it. Thanks. All right, I'm here with Mr. Olympia, Brandon Curry, that title they can never take away from you. That's right. And you've won the Arnold Classic a couple times, too. Yeah, exactly, man. You're good, man. Yeah, you're battle. I've been around the block a few times, but you know what? All the predictions, shows that I've done, whether on other people's channels or mine, Brandon Curry's name keeps coming up because you shocked a lot of people at the Olympia with that look you brought, which is the best of your career, maybe. Hey, well, if you think so, you think so. You know, the goal is to improve. You know, they make fun of the old man, but you know, I'm still enjoying what I'm doing, and hopefully it's showing. I don't know if it's easy, you know? You're one of these guys in like a t-shirt, you still look big at a show, and a lot of guys, they look all shriveled up because you're so broad, you're so wide. You know, in this lineup, you make a lot of people look bad. That's your gift. Hey, that's my goal, you know, catch a slipping. And, you know, I'm jumping right over you, you know what I'm saying? Hey, I think Dexter used to say that, right? Yeah. How do you still have the desire to do this at the highest levels? I mean, because you've been doing this a long time now. Man, it's the challenge, man. The challenge doesn't change. Also, you know, just being able to go into the gym, troubleshoot, be creative, figure out new ways to kind of make this body do what you want it to do, and work around, you know, the kinks are getting older, you know, it's just still fun. And the new prize money is not too bad either. Hey, you know what, I think about that every once in a while. Good luck, man. Thank you, bro. Brandon Curry. I know you're going to be here all night. I know you're all. I was like, literally, take a few seconds. No. Guy will come in. I'm sorry. Take you out of here. Come on, we got a call. I saw the pictures. He was like, fuck it. He showed you? None. I would. I always forget how tall you are, Wesley. Well, I know now for sure a 6'3". Yeah, yeah. Yeah, well, it seems like some other guys had problems with their height, too. Mike Sommerfeld out? Yes. I have two opinions about it. I'd like to hear it, yeah. So, at first, I think it sucks that he doesn't compete, because he did bring a very good challenge to the Classic Z-Class. Like, it would have been more exciting if he did compete. But, on the other hand, I commend the Arnold Classic for being very fair. Me, too. Because, ultimately, we have to move into this direction. Because I went in there as well. They already had my height, but they were like, oh, let's just check it again. So, I was like, okay, I hope I'm going to make it again. I'm going to check it again. But, at least they check it again. Well, they shouldn't check it at all. Once you're highted in, I thought that's the height now, that they're accepting it as your height forever. That's true, that's true. But, because I didn't do the Olympia, they didn't do that. Oh, right, right, right. You never got your height checked. Yeah. But, why would Mike come in here thinking that he's going to be taller at this show than he was at the Olympia? I mean, that's a huge mistake on his part. Yeah. I think some people think that they can adjust their height by doing some chiropractic work, for example. But, they told him at the Olympia, this is your height forever. They made a statement. If they made that statement, then I don't really understand the decision either, because then you know, okay, this is my weight. Let's go in stress-free. He wasn't even close. He was seven pounds over. Yeah. Then, I can't find the logic behind it either. I know you want to beat the best in the world. Yeah. But, you do have an angel on your shoulders. He's out. Zacharelli's out with an injury. I remember you saying about him that he looked amazing as well. He did. It really sucks about the injury. It stoned here one day, and then he messed it up. Well, you're the guy to beat now. Does that feel, do you feel more pressure, or do you feel, like, you know, confident, since you've won this before? I feel very confident, to be honest. The way I look right now, I'm not just saying this. It actually is different. You look bigger to me. Yeah, thank you. And the proportions will be different than what everybody's always talking about. But, you know, I'm not going to give away too much, like I'm always doing with the teaser. No, don't make too much. No. So, we'll see tomorrow what it really will look like, and then we'll see what the judges say. That's the luck. Yeah, thank you very much. All right. Appreciate it. We got Palumbo himself. The greatest. I'd say in the flesh, but in the leather. In the leather. Very nice. Thank you. I'm trying to impress you. Oh. No. Do we have a line? It's 30 seconds. 30 seconds. 30 seconds. They've been waiting for you. I know. 30 seconds. The greatest self-made success story in the lineup. Sam Sulek. Give me a message to your fans. Like I tell you something, you guys got to start doing your cardio. You don't know how many hours I've done over these last six months. Like, it's been days. A week straight, easily. Hour in the morning, hour in the morning.