 BUN, testosteron, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. between him and Hadi. We came here as a team, as a Iranian team, so there is no division between these guys. They've been together the last three days, they've been hanging out in my gym the last three days, helping each other out. I'm your gym. Cold Fitness in Las Vegas, Nevada. And I gotta tell you, you get the best hair and beard I've ever seen. Thank you, I appreciate it man. Hey, Mackle, good luck. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Sanio, Brett, Wilkin, you are ready for your first Olympia? I'm ready for the first Olympia. What was that qualification? 13 months ago? So I've been waiting man, I've been waiting. So you know I missed the Olympia in the 23 for qualification. So I said I'd do back and that's exactly what we did and then I'm excited to be here brother. Is that a long wait for you? It was a long wait for me. How heavy do you get in the offseason? You look pretty big, I saw you. I get up to 285, 282, 285 in the offseason. That's pretty impressive. Yeah, that's 251 this morning. Nice, nice. And how old are you? 5'9". Well, after this week of all these people saying they're 5'9", I'm actually 5'9". You're really 5'9". Him and I are about the same age. Yeah, this is a real 5'9". So no controversies here. You know, what's your expectations going to your first Olympia? I want a chance man. I want to chance this is, as you can tell, this is a super deep line-up, which is awesome. I'm so excited everybody made it this year mainly, especially Baroos and getting in stuff. So it makes it very competitive. But I keep saying, just give me a chance, you know, let me at least pose and go get those guys to get to that top 10. And that's the goal for this year. You got the death face, so I know you're in shape. Don't worry, I'll be in shape. You know that. You want to give us a little peek of anything? No peeks yet. We're still filling up. Good luck on that stage, man. Yes, sir. I'll push it for you. Thank you. Here we're Brandon Curry, Mr. Olympia. How are you doing, brother? Good. You look good. It's good to see you, man. You're still doing this, man. You're doing this, man. I can head, I can go forever this way. You're unbelievable. I don't know how you do it here after year, man. I remember interviewing you when you won the USA. I don't even know how many years ago that was. Hey, man, it's been a while ago. Yeah, it's 2008. So that's crazy, right? Yeah. It's great, man. It's ready to still be here. It's ready to still be having fun. You know what I mean? These guys can't get rid of you. You know, that's the fun thing about it. You know, I remember thinking to get rid of you and then you wind up still back in there. Yeah, you know, you got to you got to change things up when stuff's not working. And that's what we did. You know, did it for the Arnold. So your body's still responding though at this age. It's unbelievable. What about my SS? How old are you? I'm AI'll be 43 this year. Unbelievable. Well, Sean Rodin won the Olympia 43. So yeah, yeah, that's how you from from from from the Arnold to now. This guy keeps responding in his age. I don't know, man, he does everything work this time. The Arnold we were we were rush to eat, you know, we only had like 12 weeks and we really had to grind them down. What happened this time is he was thinking about doing master's Olympia. So we started diving early. I was gonna wonder what made you decide not to do it. They don't want to pay for you. Oh, you know, just one of my best. They probably wouldn't give him any money. I look, I would have thrown money at you because that would have made that show a lot better. Man. Well, you know, it's after thought now. Maybe when it comes back to the United States, you'll do it two years from now. Maybe. Yeah, maybe it's always a possibility. You know, you know, it's a show with a title and money. It's money. If it's good enough money, you know, definitely it'll be beneficial. Olympia and the Arnold is some really good money. So I know that that's definitely worth doing it for you. What keeps you motivated to constantly come back year after year now? You know, I love the sport. I'm still making improvements. I still like exploring when you go to the gym. You have that you enjoy it. You like pushing your body still. Yeah, yeah, because, you know, it's always something to learn. It's always something to, you know, recreate. It's always something that, you know, you didn't identify before that could contribute to some some benefits. Then you have to work around you get smarter in the gym as well. So you learn, you know, how to be more efficient. And, you know, you know, it's also you have to redefine kind of how you train as your body kind of changes. I just enjoy that process, you know, the consistency, which is very impressive because a lot of guys get burnt out and they just, they don't want to do it anymore. They don't have that same drive when they were younger. It seems like you saw that enthusiasm. I mean, the gym, you know, I would have, I would have been in the gym to now whether I'm bodybuilding or not. Right. You know, fortunately, I found bodybuilding in the gym when I was training. So, you know, training aspect is always something I would have been doing. Now I just have a focus. We didn't see any of your kids bodybuilding the future, you know, I don't, I don't say never say never, but their focus is what my focus was at their age. Not everybody brought it. So once they maybe full circle, they want to come and explore. They know where I am. They know, you know, they know where it goes. But for now, I'll have to be free and, you know, do the thing of Excel where they are right now. Good luck, man. Thank you. Good senior. And maybe you'll be Mr. Olympia again. You never know, man. You know, this is a nice shock. A lot of people here. You look very freaking big. I hope you did your job, man. This guy looks incredible. Alongside Matt, Gregor, Matt, why aren't more people talking about you as a title favor in this day-cated classic physique Olympia? I think it's because I did Detroit and Arnold, they were the first shows of the year. I was very blessed to be a very, very good Wesley at Detroit. I think that really put me on the map. But, you know, for me, it's not about predictions or any of that. It's about bringing my best come game day. So I don't really worry about where people see me. I know where my body is. And with me and Chris together, I know we're going to bring something as I think competitive to possibly win the Olympia. You know, we talk about your evolution going from men's physique and then the progression you've made in this classic physique division. We've seen the size and that we saw your conditioning at Detroit. But right now, I'm looking at your face. Oh, yeah. I have never seen your cheeks this soft. And you seem to be on another level mission right now. Yeah. Yeah. This is, I told you before we started this, that this has been the hardest prep of my career. And I never get, I have a fat Italian face. So I'm like a fat Italian puffy face. So when I have cheekbones, you know, I went to a different place of suffering. So what has been the secret of this prep, you and Aceto? I think he pushed me harder than ever. And he saw that I had the density to my muscle now. So he knew I could push to a new level. And I just embraced it. I never complained. You know, I never said, Oh, you know, Chris, I'm tired. I said, Chris, whatever you have to do to get me that, you know, title shot, I'll do it. He goes, well, I was gonna do it anyway. Look, we saw the size at the Arnold Classic. Saw sort of a combination of the size and conditioning in Detroit. What kind of a look can we expect to see Saturday morning? I think it's gonna be my most like gritty, refined, polished, definitely as you said, with the cheekbones condition look. And I had, we had a taric at the gym. Yeah. And he's like, how are you feeling, Mac Rego? I go, I'm feeling very good. He goes, I can see you in the top six. I go, can I show you something? And I hit my back double. He goes, holy crap, Mac Rego, where'd his back come from? You had a bad back. Now it's a good back. So I think when I hit my back double now, it's going to show that I have a balanced physique from every angle. That was my kind of thing that I was missing. But now that I built my backup, I think I'm in a really good spot to be a complete package. What gives you the best shot competitive advantage in your opinion against the likes of a Mike Sommerfeld and Logan Franklin? I think that my front shots are among the best for sure. That's not just me talking to my ass. So that's what the judges actually told me my front lap, my front double, I haven't died pretty much are up there with the best. And like I said, it was just a matter of kind of balancing on my physique now. And I think I can, from the front, I can stand toe to toe with anyone. And from the side now, that is probably the shot that's going to be the most wow factor because I have this new density of depth ish to my side leg. So I think from all angles, I'm going to be right up there. We talk about you. We talk about the mama mentality. The spirit of Kobe. How does that work in your prep? How does that work for your preparation for this Olympia? It's the same thing. The job is not done. And we don't rest in the middle. We rest when it's done at the end. So that's something I live by. It's my mantra. And Kobe, somebody that I just everything about him, you know, he was like a mysterious person too. And I feel like I'm kind of a mystery even more mysterious now after his death. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So I always embrace that mama mentality and never resting in the middle. Never. I'm here standing here with the BK Beast, Akeem Williams, who's looking very beastly. You're looking the biggest I've ever seen you. Yeah, yeah. Well, definitely added some muscle for coming into this Mr. Olympia. What did you weigh last year? I think I was like about 255. Give or take. And what are you now in the 260s? To a high 260s. Yeah. We got to watch out for this guy, man. What do you think you added all that muscle to? Well, since I had my shoulder surgery, I'm able to lift a lot heavy and stuff like that. So, you know, I had muscles like pretty much in my my shoulders, triceps and stuff like that. What did you have done to your shoulder? My labor was torn and my bicep tendon was partially torn. Awesome. Welcome to the club. You'll be arthritic like I will probably about 10, 15 years. You'll need a shoulder replacement, but enjoy it right now. Listen, I'm trying my best to not get down that road, but it's been a great journey. You could be the dark horse here that no one's talking about, Akeem. We could see this man in the top six battling it out with the top guys. Thank you, Dave. I've been I've been top six before. No, I know. Quite accounting me out. Well, no, I just think that people forgot about it. Yeah, I know. That's dangerous when they begin about you. Exactly. You're seven, eight pounds bigger. Exactly. I'm here with a living legend. Paul DeLennon. You're still tall. I think I'm taller now than I've ever been. I think you look tall because you're not as big as you used to be. Neither one of us are. Hey, you were 300 pounds. I was 300 pounds. We're probably half of that now. Oh my God. I think I'm about 200 pounds. Oh, you really? Yeah. And I was bullshitting everyone said I was six one, but I'm more like six foot three. You're six three at least. Yeah. I feel like a midget combat. Yeah, I'm like, I'm like, now I see all the guys and I'm like, why do I feel so much fucking taller now? It's funny because Sean Ray got shorter, but you got taller. I thought I thought as much weight holding you down. That's yeah, man. I'm like, what the hell is going on with me? Look at you, man. I'm happy to see you. Thank you. Thank you. What do you got winning the Olympia? I like the kid that won it last year. Samson, you like Samson? I like Samson. I like Samson. Is that because he's tall? One, because he's tall and two, based on what we said, body don't supposed to be. Wide shoulders, clarin thighs, small calves, huge, you know, I think he has everything. I keep saying I picked him last year. I pick him again this year. I just think he stopped trying to get bigger. When you see these guys out there and you know what you look like back in the day, you will convene with some heavy hitters back then. You say these stuff. If I was competing now, I'd be Mr. Olympia. I think you would. Hey, listen, you know what? I have a lot of respect for these guys. I think they all look incredible. You know, I think I'm going to say our era was the best era, but I have so much respect and admiration for all these guys. I think they're incredible. I wish we could turn back the time and bring us in, you know, but I think there's no time machines yet. I think they judge differently today, you know, great city as well. New York, New Jersey, Charlotte, Korea. What up, people? What are you waiting? Waiting this morning, officially 186 when he closed. You look, you look good. 10 pounds up from last year. You look lean now. You look so chubby. I've worked with this guy, John Jewitt. So you got me. I don't know what John went, but he's somewhere. Oh, I didn't see him. I thought he was back. No, no, no. So what are you going to bring to the stage this year? You got a tough guy to go up against. Kian Pearson. Yeah, he's going to be tough. He's two time champ, but don't forget I'm also two time champ. I know you are. He's beating me. I've beaten him last year. You know, I wasn't my best this year. I'm working with John Jewitt. I'm at my absolute best mentally and physically. It's going to be a dog fight no matter what. You think you could beat him at your best? I think my best is going to be hard to beat.  you heard it, I trust this guy, he knows what he's talking about, I know when he was only 101 pounds, now he's 201 pounds, good luck then. I'm here with one of the most dangerous 2-12 competitors on the scene for many years, he's been one of the most dangerous, Carith Badgeau, you're here to do some damage huh? Absolutely, fifth time at the Olympia, I'm back with my original coach, this guy turned me pro. How long ago? Oh yeah, we're on the same wavelength man. It's been that long, but this is the man responsible for this man becoming a success in bodybuilding, so thank you Dave, and I think we're ready this time, I think we put in the legwork and can't wait to get up on stage. This might be the most competitive 2-12 Olympia of all time, and I know you're a fierce competitor so you want to go against the best of the best. Absolutely, I mean we got Keon, repeating champ, we got Sean, a returning champ, and myself who's been in top 4 for the past 2 years now, and I believe we achieved my best look yet. Yeah, let's take the governor off and see what happens. This guy just gets better and better, he's a genetic wonder really, I can't even explain it any other than that, and he's got the work ethic of second to none. From your mouth to God's ears Dave, I swear to you, I just got to say thank you first of all, but as far as just being a genetic wonder, hey listen, all I know is hard work, you know, mama taught me that, papa taught me that, and also I had a great coach that taught me anything is possible. Good luck man, watch out for this guy on the 2-12 Olympia stage. 2-1 too baby, so let's go. Cool, thanks man. To be for rookie Dave Palumbo here from the 2025, meet the Olympians, what a day it's been, you saw the press conference earlier today, and now perhaps the most efficient job we have had, collecting all the big boy interviews, what was your big takeaway, Nick Walker, Martin, Hadi, Beruz, practically the top half of the open class lineup. Martin freaked me out with his leg in camp, I gotta be honest with you, no one showed me anything else, but Martin, it looks like a freak show. I think he's gonna be very dangerous, but Hadi seems very, very confident that he's gonna win this show, and I don't know if I've ever seen that from Hadi, so I have to believe that he's bringing something very special. I'll say this, you look at that top echelon of the open class, you spoke to Samson, you spoke to Derrick, you spoke to Nick, what stood out the most? Look, I think Samson as Mr. Olympia has gotta be the guy to beat, I mean as much as I want to see Derrick when I really love Derrick as a person, I think Derrick's got the mental fortitude to go through all three shows this year and take it, but Samson's Mr. Olympia, and they're gonna have to knock him off to beat him, and I think it's gonna be pretty tough, he looks huge. Not only huge, but you just interviewed him, you were up in clothes, have you ever seen his face that sucked in before? No, he looks pretty lean, you know, until he takes his clothes off we're not gonna know, but he's gonna be dangerous, and he's gonna be one of the biggest guys up there, and that counts for something, it is a bodybuilding show after all, and when the biggest guy with great shape is in the best shape of his life, it's hard to beat. Now we don't know if he's in the best shape of his life, he's telling us he is, but we'll find out tomorrow night. I wanted to get a quick thought of you from the press conference earlier today, obviously you had a conversation with Ali Balak, the big story for me was Nick Walker. Now when we talk about Olympia press conferences, we talk about the guy who takes over, back in the day it was Cedric, at times it was Rami, at times it was Phil, today clearly it was a Nick Walker show. Well, Nick Walker predicted that he's winning the Olympia, so he's usually right when he makes these predictions, but we got fans coming up, come over here, get over here, hey, what's up man, you're looking great, good luck. Michael, Michael, come here, come here, look at you on camera, how much weight did you have to lose in a span of two hours? Six pounds. And you did it, how? Well, first I tried to stretch because it's only 0.4 centimeters, it's less than an inch, so I just tried to stretch, I called Kira Praktari, he came, he stretched me out, I came back, I went out 0.1, it wasn't enough, so I had the other choice, which is I had to lose six pounds. I went to the sauna, stayed an hour, left with a yellow face, came back, came back, and I made the way. I have to add, the cheekbones are sticking out, I, I, I, I drank like six liters, and I'm not pissing yet. I'm not pissing yet. It's like I feel a bar morning, I get to do this video. Without naming names, initially, I think there were 10 competitors that didn't make weight, do you know often how many are disqualified from the show? I think there was four with me, who was doing sauna, so I think those who tried, because it was, there was all, no, all of them made it, all of them made it. So all 10 that didn't make weight, they're all in? I'm not sure, I know about four for sure, but the other five, I don't know. But me and the, Kim Angel and Niall, those three, I know for sure we were there and we made it. There's the fourth guys, I don't know his name, so those, the guys that struggled and made the weight. Mike Somerfeld didn't want to talk about the weigh-in. He had, obviously had a drop weight. His height was not the same as it was last year. A lot of guys weren't, but at the end of the day, I'm assuming everything was done copa aesthetically and we're going to have a very competitive, classic physique, Olympia lineup. Good luck, Mike. And I think it's going to be one of the most competitive, even though Chris Bumstead's not there. Well, look, it's a vacated title. It's the post-Chris Bumstead era. And right now you'd have to say, obviously Mike Somerfeld comes in as a prohibitive favorite. You have the likes of Logan Franklin who pushed him at the Arnold Classic and then Romon Dino. And for a guy that we spoke to a little earlier, Matt Grego, to me is the wild card. There are a lot of reasons for excitement heading into Saturday morning. Yeah. I mean, the whole, the whole Olympia is just off the charts. And I think that between the excitement from the open class, the 212 with Key on Pearson, yeah. I mean, and then of course, classic physique. And then the, all the controversy is going down with men's physique with Ali Vellal and the whole lineup. I can't wait to watch it. I'm really that excited. Well, it all goes down. Tomorrow morning, 212 is going to be the second division in the pre-judging. We are going to have a live reaction show. So about 15 minutes before the 212 class goes on stage, we're going to have Jason Arntz and Amon Kumar, very young Amon Kumar are going to be anchoring the coverage. And then as soon as pre-judging wraps, we're going to do our pre-judging wrap up. And then of course, everything for the night show. Dave Palumbo and Michael DeBull. I'm Sadee Khurugi. Thank you for watching.