Jesus. This Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Halloween, October 31st, 2016. Let's find out what's going on in that world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you're a bodybuilding fan in the Bluegrass State, this was your lucky weekend because there was plenty of action to be had out in Louisville, Kentucky at the 15th annual Kentucky Muscle Contest. In the men's physique division, the incredible 2016 campaign for rookie standout Brian Barthuli just got a little bit sweeter as he managed to remain the last man standing in what turned out to be a surprisingly deep lineup. In the classic physique division, fellow rookie phenom Terrence Ruffin continued to set the world on fire by locking up his second win of the season by edging out a strong push from this year's USA champion Valentino Harris in his pro debut and putting an emphatic stamp on her rookie season in the figure division was a sensational version of Tama Harris who scored her first Olympia qualification with a hardcore win. Out on the left coast, we also had one of the most exciting events of the season go down at the second annual Furrigno Legacy Classic, where for the second time this season, the prophecy remained true as rookie standout Nathan Dasha came in and scored the biggest victory of his young career, holding off a strong push from second place finisher Justin Compton. Over in the classic physique division, the incredible run from fellow rookie Robert Tims continued as he came in to claim his second pro win of the year. And in the bikini division, Cory Baker added another impressive chapter to what's already been a career year by earning her second win of the season. This past weekend, our old friend Mel Chansy strapped on his promoter's cap and put on a fantastic event down in Florida at the inaugural Port Charlotte Classic, where rookie bikini pro Paulina Tran had a night she won't soon forget. Just a few weeks removed from making her pro debut at the Fort Lauderdale Cup, the best version of Tran that we've seen yet came in and dominated a surprisingly strong lineup of bikini competitors. In the classic physique division, we had what may have been the biggest upset of the entire weekend with rookie Robert Galva coming in to defeat heavy pre-show favorite Darren Charles in impressive fashion. The New Jersey native was flatout spectacular in his pro debut and looks like he has all the tools to be a solid pro for a very long time. To check out all the action from this weekend's events down in Charlotte, be sure to head over to npcnewonline.com. Now that his incredible 2016 contest season is officially in the books, it looks like men's physique superstar George Brown isn't wasting any time hopping right back on the horse and getting back to work. This past weekend, some new training footage surfaced of a much bigger and fullerl looking Brown putting himself through the paces of another intense back training session as he kicks the first phase of his offseason program into high gear. With three wins, a second place finish at the Arnold, and a top six at the Olympia this year, Brown really solidified himself as one of the premier talents in the men's physique division. And now that he's got his efforts focused on coming back even better in 2017, I think he's poised to come in and run the table in what could turn out to be a truly historic season. It's been said that Heavy is the head who wears the crown. But a few weeks after ascending to the bikini Olympia throne and after dominating her Olympia performance, newly crowned bikini champ Courtney King seems to be getting along just fine. Over the weekend, King released some new training footage that shows the baddest woman in bikini getting in the gym and training with the same sort of championship drive and intensity that we saw take her to the pinnacle of the sport. Over the past few seasons, King has done an amazing job of being able to continuously make slow, subtle improvements that have really taken her physique to an entirely new level. And now that she's finally got her hands on the most prestigious title in the sport, I wouldn't expect her to start doing anything differently. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.