I ran into my good friend Mel Chansy here at the uh new breed booth. And I see there's a lot of protein being sold, amino acids being sampled here. Now, we have all the new products, all this uh all the stuff, the myoblast is all new, the chocolate, the the peanut butter. So, this is just the first time that people are seeing it. You're in more shows now than I am. I know. My god, it's crazy. It's like we've switched. Yes. So, now between me working for Jim and the industry and everything, I'm at the morning shows, all the prejudging, and then now I'm at the booth as usual cuz I've been with I've never seen you hang out at a show as long as you did this morning. God, bro, is that tough for you? It's exhausting. How do you do it? Oh, no. It's the Brazilian special. Special K. What's going on? Oh, you like the shirt? My favorite color is black. It is. How about the orange? What's up? 187. Look it. Hold on. Wait. Killing all doubt. Killing all. Is this Is this a clothing line? What is this? That's the new clothing line. It's like the the new uh word for never give up. I have to get one of these. I I did get a camel crew shirt. I don't know if you got one of those. Yeah, I did get one, too. I've come collecting special shirts today. Camel crew maybe 187. I'll get to some of the classic shirts. I would tell everybody how far I would tell everybody how far we go back, but I'm not giving our age. No, no, no, no, no, no, no way. Now, let me How do you like Seriously, you're at the shows, you're working with Jim Manion, obviously in uh some capacity. You're you're supervising. You're you're you're at the shows. You have your hands on everything that's going on. Is that something that you enjoy? I do enjoy it. It is strenuous like we said it and I remember when I was with you at RX, you know, I would stand there for a little bit and I'd always run out or do something or go eat. Johnny Styles is saying yeses. He's back there. But now it's different. So now I'm at all I was at all the prejudging this morning. I'm here for 2 hours. I'm at the night show tonight. So, you know, I tell everybody I waited till I was 48 years old to get a real job. You do have a job now. Would you Are you going to put a real suit on tonight? Uh, no. So, you're exempt from that? I'm exempt from the suit. Wow. You're the only person who is and that's per Mrs. Manning. Really? She doesn't want you in a suit. She said, "No, we hell in a suit. I wear the button downs." You know, the the hot button downs. Shout out the hot bodies. They always take care of me and Dave on the button down, Johnny. So, um, so I put them on and they're they're all happy with it, you know. Now, a lot of fans have been asking me cuz I kind of teased them a little while ago that the Final Verdict TV show is coming back. Yes. Um, now it's going to be a TV show. Yeah, it's going to be a TV show now. before it was a radio show, but um we're going to be launching that in about 3 weeks. So, I want to just let the fans out there know Mel will be actually driving to our studios, which is only 20 minutes from this house, but I I said let's start every two weeks because Mel Mel every week it might be a little too. And I think that people will be able to call in live or I at least tweet and uh post on Instagram and and Facebook their questions live to you. The great thing now we were talking about now you live so close to me it's live. You know before we used to do it as everybody remembers and it was calling and Skype and stuff but now we're doing it live from the studio. So that makes it much more exciting for me because when we always did it live in New York that's when we had the crowd calling in and stuff. I think I want to make a special backdrop for your TV show too, Mel. Maybe we could put like some of this stuff on it or uh we could have like a brick wall and we could put some graffiti artwork in. That would be great. That would be great. You could have Karina painted for us. Yes. Making a special appearance from the diva fit. That's right. Yes. And you have your own TV show too on on Facebook. Right. Right. Is it is it popular? It's getting there. Yeah. Well, you know, I mean, anything that I get that you get started in, it's going to get some rating. You enjoy it? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, maybe we can get Karina as a special guest on the on the final verdict. I think we probably could. All right. Driving over. She's not too far from us. Two hours. A couple hours. Two hours. Not a big deal. You like to go on road trips and you'll like it cuz the final verdict is off the wall stuff, you know, like with them. That's right. All right. Well, we're here at New Breed Nutrition. Mel Chansy Bronto. I'm Dave Palumbo. RXMuscle.com.