standing here with Mr. Physique Olympia champ Mark Anthony. We're here at the AllMax Nutrition booth and I see a lot of women are uh are wanting to take pictures with you. Yeah, it seems like uh this year it's a bigger female following. It's it's not a bad thing. I'm you know I always had guys wanting to take pictures of me. You got all the girls. Yeah, that's that's what it looks like now. But uh and I welcome all all my supporters and followers. That's always fun though. Yeah, it's fun. It's good to be here at the Arnold. And since you've won the Olympia, do you think you're way more recognizable now to most people who are uh in the fan department? You know, um because the Master League division has grown so much in the NPC and the IFBB Pro League. Uh I think a lot more people are paying attention and um yeah, so because of the growth of the of our division, I feel now I'm getting a little bit more attention. I mean, you know, my my friendship with Jay Cutler is, you know, very documented as well, so people know you from that. Yeah. Now, um there's no men's physique division here at the Arnold Classic. I mean, it's possible that next year, uh they might have one. Uh if they did implement one, would you consider possibly jumping in kind of like the way Flex Lewis did in the 212? Um you know, to be part of this this contest, the Arnold would be a great honor. Um it's something that I would potentially like to do. You know, just I talked to my coach George Farah and my manager JM Annion and if they want me to do it, then that's what I'll do. Yeah. Cuz I mean, it's great to be the Olympia champ obviously, but everyone wants to meet Arnold. Absolutely. Absolutely. One-on-one at least. Yeah. I mean, I'm really happy to be the uh first ever Olympic champion and it's uh my priority right now is just to, you know, represent the IFBB Pro League with integrity and uh lead by example for all the guys coming up. What's uh what do you got here at the Almax Nutrition booth? I know they got a lot of great products here. They got great protein powders. What's your what's your favorite product here if you had to recommend one? My favorite product is the uh definitely the aminoore. You know, I just try to supplement as much aminos as I can. It tastes really good. It has a full breakdown of of all the products in it. And you know, I I like to How many times a day do you use it? I I take four servings a day. You do? Yeah. I take it with my cardio in the morning and I take it uh pre-workout, post-workout, and before bed. All right. Yeah. Good luck all weekend long. It's going to be a busy weekend for you. Thank you so much, Dave. Pleasure. Dave Palumbo with Mark Anthony rxmuscle.com. Woo. Hi guys. What's going on? It's Massive Joe's raw review and I'm coming to you from massive joe's.com. Awesome raw review for the viewers at home today. It's on an all new reformulated preworkout supplement in the house from one of the world's premier supplement brands and by far one of the world's hardest working dudes in the industry. It is, of course, Ronnie Common's signature series, Myoblitz XS. There's a bunch of ingredients in this here, Myoblitz XS, that I ain't never seen before. So, I actually had to do some research on these ingredients, which I'll be honest with you does excite me. Let it rain. Let it rain. In terms of the effects, I'm going to tell you about my first experience with my Blitz XS. Woo! First time I took this here, Myoblitz, man. I took it, drank it, kind of waited a little bit. Next minute, started warming up, started training. I started training some shoulders, man. Started training some shoulders. Next minute, workout over. So, I thought, cool, that's good. Can't remember my workout. Don't really care about not remembering my workout cuz my energy levels are pretty low. So, so long as I got it done, I'm happy. Next night, train myself some arms, man. Once again, took the Myob Blitz success, waited for it to kick in, started working once again. Workout over. Neck day, biceps, triceps, sorus. Took it the third time, which was last night. Train myself some back my blitz access. One scoop. One scoop of test genetics are one of the best workouts I have ever had. Blitz, you can hear colors. You can taste sounds. This is on a different level. Preworkout mental focus has to be the best preworkout mental focus supplement we have seen thus far. Thus far. Thus far.