People always ask me, is Metformin a drug that I should be taking when I use growth hormone or all the time? I'm going to tell you why I don't like it. Stay tuned. I created species nutrition. With one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever is on your mind, be it bodybuilding or non-bodybuilding, this is your forum to ask Dave. Anything from diet, training, supplementation, anything and everything going on in and outside the bodybuilding world. We go right into the questions. the first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, how would you go about the last day pre-ompetition and competition day with water and salt manipulation without using diuretics taking into consideration that the person is in good shape? >> I'm assuming that means no herbal diuretics either because they kind of said no diuretics. Um because if I'm going to use herbal diuretics that would be different, but I guess I can I can say both. I will say this, I'm going to go on the record right now is I I got I've been traveling since yesterday. So I left India, I don't even know what time. So I've been probably about 20 hours of traveling. So if I if I if I contradict myself or or I sound like I'm insane, it's it's possible from not sleeping properly. But getting to the question, you know, I don't ever cut sodium in the diet. Matter of fact, I keep sodium pretty high if I think that people are not eating enough to stay hydrated and become desensitized to sodium. And I've said this before. There's a hormone in the body called aldoststerone. It's produced from your adrenal glands. Aldoststerone's job is to is to reabsorb sodium and water. The water comes and follows the sodium. The only reason why you would have high aldoststerone in your body, okay, assuming you don't have a disease, would be because you're not eating enough salt. So if you don't consume enough sodium in your diet, your body says, we need more. Because remember, sodium is what holds fluid in the body. It enables it keeps the balance between potassium and sodium. That's what creates me membrane potentials. It helps with muscle contraction. It does a million different things. You have to have enough sodium in your body. And as you know, when you're sodium deficient, you sometimes are really flat, too. So that balance of water inside and outside the muscle is dependent on sodium. So if you don't have enough sodium in your body, what your body does is it releases eldoststerone. And aldoststerone then makes you retain everything every little morsel of sodium that you consume along with water. If your eldoststerone is low because you eat a lot of sodium on a regular basis, okay? Because then there would be no reason to have eldoststerone present because your body has more than enough coming in. Then when you actually if you decide to cut sodium or you decide to try to get rid of excess water that you might be holding, um it it goes away real easy. Um, but if you're fighting aldost, high aldoststerone, okay, it's going to make it a lot harder. That's why people who don't eat salt their whole diet sometime at the end have trouble losing water. So, it was a long way of saying don't cut sodium. So, I keep sodium in. I keep water levels normal. I saw a great real on Instagram. I should have saved it and played it for you guys, but it was by a doctor who says that people drink too much water. I love it. He goes, "I hate seeing these people carrying around that jug of water thinking that they're burning fat, you know, with water. Too much water is no good." And I and I've been saying this for a long time because when you drink too much water, you water down your electrolytes, meaning you water down the potassium and sodium in the body. Okay? So, it makes you flush all that out and that's and that creates the same scenario. You raise eldoststerone levels again. So, don't overdrink when you're dieting. Drink when you're thirsty. Now, if you're you happen to be a person who forgets to drink all day long, that's a different story. But I see bodybuilders force drinking. You don't have to force drink. You should not do that. In fact, once again, because you mess your electrolytes up. So, don't overdrink. Continue to keep drinking the same. Keep sodium the same. The last day before the show, depending on how you look, if you're dry and you're hard, I don't cut sodium at all that last day. If however I feel like you're holding some water, I might cut back the the sodium that you're putting on your food. Um especially if you're not going to use a diuretic. If you're not going to use a diuretic, it's probably a good idea to at least cut sodium in half. If you need it more than that, then you do it more than that. Uh it really is going to depend on how dry you are. Uh carbing up doesn't make you hold water necessarily. Uh but the propensity is there. In other words, if your eldoststerone is high and you're carving up at the same time, you're going to hold more water. If eldsterone is is low because you're eating sodium on a regular basis and you haven't, you know, alerted your body as to what you're doing, then just cutting sodium that last day, you know, that Friday before a Saturday morning show should be enough to flush out the all the um all the sodium you have in your body and and the excess water. And then what you do is, you know, probably around 6 pm I would say, which is a little earlier than normal, but since you're not using a diuretic, go at 6 PM, I would stop drinking and I would just go to sips and and take that through the night into the next morning. That's how I would do it. If you can use if you can use an herbal diuretic, you can take, you know, 800 milligrams of ursers herb with every meal on Friday. But that's and that's taking a diuretic essentially. So without the diuretic, just cut some sodium and stop drinking a little earlier than we normally would. And that usually solves the problem right there. >> Second question, again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. What can I do to mitigate the water retention while on HA so that my knees don't hurt so bad? >> Yeah, I don't I don't think the first of all, these two questions are from the Day Palmo Experience app, which is an app you can download from your Android store or the iTunes store. It's $29 a month. You get Dave Palumbo me as your coach in your back pocket. You get access to all my writings, all my videos I've done over the years, and we do a Q&A uh in an open forum of every person on the app. So, all app members can ask me questions. I'll answer them in an open forum so everyone sees all the questions and the answers. Good learning experience. I also do a Q&A video separate from Ask Dave exclusively for the app members every single week. So, you get an extra Q&A video. Uh you have all my cycles and diets in the app. It's it's it's a tremendous tremendous library of information that's continuously growing on on a weekly basis. So, I want to thank everyone for supporting it. Check it out. It's a great gift to get for someone if you're trying to think of a nice little gift if you can't afford coaching. It's also another way to get all your questions answered by me. Uh getting back to the question, what was the question? Oh, water retention from GH. >> Yeah. Yeah. While HGH, >> I don't believe that the joint pain you some people get from GH is from water retention. Um, unless it's like, you know, sometimes people in the lower leg that they'll get that [\h__\h] right around their shin, they'll get that like that like really tight feeling. Sometimes it almost feels like they're being electrocuted. That that that's from fluid retention. But like if your knee is hurting or your elbow joint or your your shoulder, that is not from GH. If anything, GH is going to make your joints feel better. It's not going to make it feel worse. Um, it's sometimes people get like growing pains like sometimes their wisdom teeth will move around because GH does that. or sometimes maybe knees might might be a little painful, but that's from the growth horses, not from the fluid retention. Whenever I hear people tell me about uh side effects they get from GH, whether it be some pain in joints or um like tingling fingers or toes that are going numb all the time, it's usually because you started with too much GH initially. Dr. Todd Lee and I discussed this as well. Uh what you should do is cut back your GH. So if you're using, let's say you decided, I'm going to just start out at five IUs or six IUs of GH. It's a lot and it it might cause too much fluid retention right away. So cut it back. Maybe go off the GH for two or three days. The pain will probably go away. That that that tingling, then start up to two IUs per day. Do that for maybe four or five days and then go to four, you know, and and gradually increase it. And usually you don't get as many problems as that. If you do hit a point where there's a threshold amount that hey, if you hit five IUs, you get the tingling in your fingers or you get too much fluid retention in your lower leg, then you just don't go there. You stop at four. And you know, that's your body telling you you don't eat anymore. So, uh, usually the fluid retention is worse in the offseason because you're eating a lot more carbs. >> But before we go to the rest of the question, uh, Dave, our friends at Titan Medical Center have a therapy of the week if you want to tell the fans more about it. Yeah, the IGF-1 R3 is the therapy of the week. It's funny, I was in, as you guys might have known or maybe not know, I was in India for the last five days in uh Delhi, which I kind of missed the first appearance because uh there was a delay going into Newark airport. Imagine that. Holy mackerel, that airport's a real nightmare. I got stuck in in Raleigh, North Carolina for seven hours in their airport. Unfortunately, uh I finally did make it to India. Uh I got to go to uh Hyereabad the next day and that's where we did the um the the second seminar we did there. Promotion for species nutrition. If you guys are Indian or you're in the Indian area and you want to order species nutrition products, you have a legal way to get the real stuff and you don't have to worry about it being fake because in India they fake a lot of products. These are legit coming from the United States. It's only available at alpha alphaleiteups.com. That's alphaleapsups.com. You check it out. They're available now for purchase. So you finally a lot of people have been driving me crazy. When are we going to get some supplements from Species Nutrition in India? Well, they're there. They're there. And uh we had a great time and I'll talk about that on another show. Getting back to the original question about well not question but promotion on long arthrit. was talking to one of the um the bodys who was there with another company and we were talking about that and I told him back in the day 1995 I think I might have been I think I might have been the first person in the United States at least to use long R3 IGF-1 I gained 20 pounds in 20 days and the key I think with with IGF-1 is not taking too much in one shot because if you take too much uh it stops working right away you'll still get the insulin- like effect you'll still feel pumped on the stuff but you're not going to get the muscle building effects So, I like to and I know that the the probably what they recommend at Titan Medical probably will be higher than what I'm recommending, but I'm telling you less is better. 10 to 20 micrograms post-workout um on a 30-day on, two week off, 30-day on, two week off cycling program like that. I find it works absolutely the best that way. When you start doing too much of it, more is not better. And then what happens is you do more you get that you get the pump from it because you because insulin like growth factor can bind to insulin receptors. When it does that it actually has an insulin like effect. It causes pushes nutrients into the cells. So you get pumped from that. But that's not the muscle building effect. The muscle building effect is when IGF-1 binds to IGF-1 receptors on the muscle cells. That's when it initiates and turns stem cells into mature muscle fibers. That's the effect we want. So, by you taking more and more and more of of this long R3, all you're doing is giving yourself more of an insulin-like effect, you're not getting the insulin like growth hormone effect or growth factor effect, which is going to build muscle. So, less is better. Check it out at titanmedicalcenter.com. Tell them Dave Palumbo, RXMuscle sent you, you'll get a great discount. That is the therapy of the week. So like I mentioned Dave Palumbo, RXMuscle, Titanmedicalenter.com. They also have now an online portal for you to order blood work, blood work panels, the whole deal that is now available to order online. So a total game changer there. And again, use RX Muscle Dave Palumbo um online for that service and you will get royally hooked up. We go to the rest of the questions. We take questions from our Instagram page as well as our YouTube community page. We've really been doubling down on that over the course of the last few months and we're very appreciative of the reception. Obviously, we love the interaction and we love the quality of the questions that we're getting from that source as well. Thoughts on metformin? Pros, cons? Would you recommend clients to use it or is it quote unquote outdated? I'll tell you as AI'll talk to you first as a bodybuilder, then I'll talk to you as Dave, the uh the guy who recommends things for health and and that kind of and longevity. As the bodybuilder, you couldn't get me to take metformin in a million years because metformin inhibits IGF-1 release from the liver. That means when you take growth hormone or even when you don't take growth hormone you release your own growth hormone uh your liver will not produce any or at least it will be severely inhibited from producing IGF-1 which is which is the muscle building hormone. So here you are taking all this growth hormone and and you're taking metformin you're not going to even get the IGF-1 release from it. So you don't want to do that. That that's a no no. The reason why IGF they say increases longevity, okay, makes you live longer is because and and why it's good for people who have cancer is because it inhibits IGF-1 because IGF-1 if you had tumors in your body would make them ostensibly grow faster, right? And high IGF-1 levels uh are associated with with you know with dying younger I guess you know they people who have zero IGF-1 and have very low testosterone seem to live the longest women right? Okay. So uh but as a as a bodybuilder or someone who wants to put muscle on and look good, I would not use metformin for that very reason. But the but the real reason most doctors will prescribe metformin is not for longevity. Most people are taking it because they have high fasting blood sugars, right? And they do that to control those bl fast fasting blood sugars. The problem is what metformin does is it just inhibits the liver from releasing glucose. So, you're not really take you're not really helping out uh the pancreas in any way to absorb this glucose in the bloodstream. You're just telling the liver to stop producing or releasing so much into into the bloodstream. So, it's kind of like putting a band-aid on a on a gate on a bleeding wound rather than, you know, suturing the wound up and and and and doing it the right way. The right way, and I've told this before, I'm not gonna go into a whole spiel now, but the right way, if you're not producing enough insulin to to lower your blood sugars properly, is to take a long acting insulin. That's going to help take the burden off the pancreas to have to produce more and more insulin that it can't keep up and can't keep doing. And and and this way it won't burn itself out. So, metformin is not really solving the problem. Plus, like we said, it's not good for bodys because it inhibits IGF-1 release. Even if it didn't do that, that's not the proper solution. Uh the proper solution is to take long insulin. >> Uh question about preworkout supplementation. Do they have a direct impact on your training as far as ingredient XY helps the body or are they really more of a placebo thing? If they do serve an actual benefit, what are the key ingredients one should look for when getting a preworkout supplement? >> Yeah, preworkouts are one of what I call luxury items. You know, they don't really they're not necessary. They don't really do anything in the sense of of building muscle or in the m muscle building process. However, a good preworkout, you know, by the way, I might as well give us a shameless plug. The uh stimulize max, the new formula is coming out. A lot of people have been asking about it. Probably next month or so, we'll have that. But, um, a good preworkout will have three components to it. One is going to, you know, increase the pump. Usually, people use a nice high dose of citrine that increases blood flow. So it dilates the vessels, you get a better pump. So I mean, theoretically, if you have a better pump in the gym and you have better you have a better delivery of blood to the muscles, you know, you're going to get a better workout. I mean, how much better? It's not really quantifiable, but you know, you might you might get a few extra reps out, a few extra pounds. Uh, the second component of a good pre-workout is the endurance component of it. And that is pretty much all, you know, everyone uses beta-alanine or some form of beta-alanine. What beta-alanine does is it re it neutralizes the acidity inside the muscle cell. So you know when you work out you produce lactic acid. Well as that acid builds up. It what does it create? A burning sensation because that's what acid does. It burns the tissue. And what the beta-alanine does is it neutralizes that. beta-alanine gets converted to um carnosine. Not carnitine carnosine. And carnosine helps neutralize acidity in the cells. So it allows you to train harder and longer. So you get that endurance effect. And then the third component of a good pre-workout is is mental focus. And that doesn't mean just put, you know, 800 milligrams of caffeine in there because that's just going to, you know, that's going to wreak havoc on your body and create tremendous cortisol release. It's to put a little caffeine in there like we do with the stimulized product. Uh but then combine it with some neutropics that are going to make you feel good, put you in a good mood, make you want to train and go to the gym. So in that sense, if th if you address those three components, endurance, pump, and mental focus, you're going to get a better workout more than likely. Okay? And better workouts yield, you know, theoretically better, you know, muscular results, assuming you're eating properly and you're doing everything else right. So, while it's not necessary a pre-workout, it definitely helps. The problem is that people buy preworkouts before they do get the ingredients that are necessary like a good multivitamin multi-mineral or a good essential fatty acid supplement or a good fiber supplement. Those are the first three you should use. That's why when people ask me what which products of yours Dave do you recommend? I always say be mineralized, Omegalyze, fiberized. After that everything is a luxury add then you see what you got money for. You want to buy a pre-workout you get a pre-workout. You want to buy a good protein powder because you don't want to cook all day look you get a protein powder. But everything after those three products is a luxury item as far as I'm concerned. So get those three first and then think about what you want to use. But once again, the preworkout definitely helps. Uh and I find that if you use it sparingly, it works better. I know guys that use the pre-workout every day, even when they don't work out, because they like the mental focus aspect. They like the stimulant part of it. But that's a mistake because your body gets used to it. So, I would recommend saving the pre-workout just for your tough tough workouts. Probably back, legs, uh, you know, maybe chest, I don't know, just whatever you find to be the most challenging workouts, use it on those days and maybe save it, you know, only for those days. I think you'll see the effectiveness be a lot more. >> Um, when does the anti-estrogenic effects of EQ kick in? If I do a high dose of test with EQ, will the EQ saturation still be 8 to 12 weeks long? And will the AI effects be immediate or when it's fully saturated? I know blood work is essential to know, but have you seen from your personal and client anecdotes? >> I I have to tell you guys, I don't see I don't think EQ is an aromatase inhibitor. It's not an estrogen blocker. Never seen it. I know that there's some anecdotal evidence to suggest that and I've seen some people talk about it. Master we know blocks estrogen receptors. It's not an aromatase inhibitor. It doesn't inhibit the conversion of testosterone to estrogen. Master actually blocks the estrogen receptors very similar to the way Novadex does. And that's why it gives a nice hardening effect at the end. I don't think EQ does that at all. I didn't notice it. I don't notice that when when I used to take EQ with testosterone, I didn't notice that my estrogen levels were any lower than if I didn't take EQ. So, um I'm just not buying that. So I I'm I'm not going to I'm not going to go along with that little old lifestyle at all. >> Uh question about Esclean. I guess your your direct thoughts on Esclean, your knowledge on Jay me uh Jay Cutler mentioned on his podcast that he used four amps in his biceps at the 2000 2003 Iron Man. So your thoughts on >> I I had a really I had really good access to it back in the 90s when it was available. They stopped making it at some point and I had I had a lot of it. I know at one point I I find that it works better on guys who already have good arms if that makes sense because what it does it causes a little bit of swelling and it just makes the muscle look a little fuller. Guys use nottle now and that's it has a very similar effect. The problem is if you don't have muscle in if you don't have enough muscle in your arms it's not going to make the muscle there look bigger. It's just going to enhance what you have. So, I'm more I like sight injecting. Whether you use an oil, a sight injection oil, or you use actually the gear you're using, I prefer that for guys that need more arm size. Whereas guys that like you I don't want to say names because I don't know if these people used it or not, but I guess Flex Wheeler admitted to using back in in this day. He used a lot of it, too. His muscles were so round that when he put the into the muscle, it made them look rounder and and and more freaky. Uh, but guys that just don't have good arms, when I would see them do, it would look worse because they would get swelled up. They would lose some of the the the the hardness in the muscle sometimes and it didn't make the arms look any bigger. So, I just and I I noticed the same thing. I didn't notice that it did anything for me whatsoever. I found that like synthol worked a lot better for me, like just to volumize the muscle more. Uh, so you got to kind of know what your genetics are. It's not available anymore anyway. Um, but if it were, I I would say that the genetically gifted should use it and the guys that are not so genetically gifted might want to do the stick with sight injections. >> So, a second question that refers to something about Jay Cutler. How early is it to be or how early is too early, I guess, to be in contest shape? I've heard stories from Chris Aceto stating that Jay would be ready eight weeks out and if he could hold the look until show day. And those iconic black and white photos of Dorine were from eight weeks out and he looked like he could compete the next day. >> Yeah, I don't think Dorian was in uh was in shape to compete at in those pictures, but he was close. I mean, but uh I I like to get people in shape early because and then feed them. I have a couple I have a female client of mine that was ready probably six weeks out and I was giving her h burgers and fries like almost every day and she only got she just got better and better because a lot of times when you're in contest shape there's two there's two there's two ways you can go. You're in contest shape and then you keep dieting thinking you're going to get better and better and you wind up losing muscle and looking terrible. But if you have a coach who identifies, hey, you're pretty much in contest shape now. I'm going to feed you more. In those situations, a lot of times you add muscle because you're training hard, you know, you're doing your a little bit of cardio and then you you're eating and you're getting these these these cheat meals almost every day or every other day. You actually wind up putting on some size a lot of times for in that situation. So I would much rather as a coach have my person in shape early rather than you know the last minute. The last minute just creates a lot of stress. Now having said that if they are in shape early you have to identify that and then change the protocol. You can't have them doing an hour and a half of cardio if they're in shape already, you know, for the next six weeks because that you're they're going to lose muscle. Likewise, you have to feed them. You have to know when to feed them, you know, if their weight starts dropping too much because you don't want them to lose muscle as well. So, identify and then use it to your advantage. >> Uh, let me see here. I don't want to ask this one. This one might be a bit ethnicity. Does ethnicity matter when it comes to bodybuilding diet? And I remember we used to talk about this when Big Ramy was on top. Um I remember we used to have a conversation about like cooking techniques, oils and stuff like that. You know, stuff like George Farah would always bring up. Do ethnicity do some ethnicities benefit from a highfat lower carb diet versus a high carb lowfat? I mean I guess the example that I'll bring up is you know we talk about hottie and you know we often hear about like I guess the relevance of Persian food right with chicken and rice I mean that's essentially the staple diet for them staple diet for bodybuilders. So do you feel as if or in your exper you work with a lot of Indian clients as an example uh does ethnicity play any role as far as a bodybuilding diet is concerned >> um yes and no. I mean, I what I try to do is I try to identify with the bodybuilder I'm working with what how what foods they burn best. In other words, are they are they more of a fat burner or are they more of a carb burner? Some guys are very carbohydrate sensitive. You can tell right from I and I've worked with, you know, Indian people that were carb sensitive and I worked with Indian people that were not carb sensitive that you can feed a ton of food to. I work with Middle Eastern guys that are carb sensitive that you can't give many carbs and then guys that you can you have to feed a million grams of carbs to. So, everyone's a little different and that's what makes a good coach identifying who you're working with. And I don't see it. In other words, within the same populations like Italian guys for instance, they don't all respond the same just like Middle Eastern guys don't all respond the same and and Indian guys don't respond the same and Asian guys don't. Everyone's a little different. Every family has their own genetic history. Some people are better, you know, more insulin sensitive. Some people are really insulin resistant. And those are the people you do not want to feed a lot of carbs to. And Chris and I talk about this all the time. Take a Williams. If you you got to feed the guy like he's a bikini competitor or he'll never lose any weight. So, everyone's body is is completely different. And and the key is to identify, you know, what it is. If I were to make a generalized statement, however, I would say that most people do better on low carbs than on higher carbs. Um, are there people that can lose weight on higher carbs? Absolutely. But as a whole, if I was going to make a, like I said, a generalized statement on what diets work the best, low carb or and or keto diets work the best and most effectively, and most people need it. And I would say 99% of women need it. Uh, women do way better on on no carb diets. But having said that, there are you have to identify who you're working with because if the person is is a is a great carb burner and they have a super metabolism, to not give them carbs is stupid. I mean, there's no reason to to do that to them. So, you got to identify who the person is you're working with. Take a couple more questions. This one, I'm glad this was asked because there's been a lot more discussion about CPAP machines and their applications in bodybuilding. This question is specific to um the user saying that well he's asking if is it worth getting a CPAP despite his sleep apnea test at home not showing enough apneas but he does have um a deviated septum says he's frequently tired during the course of the week. I've seen some bodybuilders fairly recently talking about you know CPAP machines and the kind of impact it's had on not only their quality of sleep but their overall recovery. So, I don't know if that's something that you've really looked into, but your thoughts on uh CPAP machines and their applications for bodybuilders. >> Uh I know guys that that are the most horrendous snorers of all time and who have tremendous apnea and those people do well on those machines because they're not sleeping at all. What I found at least with me is if I if I sleep just on my back a lot of times I I I'll wake up gasping sometimes. I assume means I have you know I get some episodes of apnea. But I when I I have a chiropractic pillow and it's it's a pillow that basically has like a dip here with a neck support and then on the sides of your head it's like stiff. So if you turn on your side and you lay on the side piece it supports your head and keeps your it keeps your neck properly and your airway aligned. So if I sleep on my side which makes it very comfortable these these pillows to do that. Uh I I don't even snore. I don't ever snore. I don't have apron breathing. If I lay on my back, I'll wake up with the, you know, like occasionally. And I'm not even heavy. It used to happen more when I was obviously like, if you get one of these chiropractic pillows and you sleep on your side, you're going to notice that you don't really have apnea as much. You're going to breathe better. So, for people who've been diagnosed with they don't have enough apnea to get a machine, I think if you got a chiropractic pillow and you slept on your side, you probably would have no problems whatsoever. For the people who no matter how they sleep, they could be sitting in a chair, they could be laying on their side, on their back, on their stomach, they always snore and they can't breathe and they're always waking up gasping. Those people really need the apnea machines. Take one more question. Um, question about Ompic. Will ompic help regulate my insulin levels? My hemoglobin A1c was 5.7 in two uh 2023. It's now 5.3. I hear 5.7 is pre-diabetic. My morning glucose is over 100 to 118. It goes below 100 if I fast longer than 13 hours. I have a fast metabolism. I went down to in the 190s. I'm back up to 220 just from eating more frequently, which will raise my A1c again. I need to eat to maintain my muscle. What's wrong with my primary care doctor telling me my A1c has to be over 6.2 before he prescribes it? I do take eight mg of TRT weekly. Any advice on my A1c will be greatly appreciated. >> Yeah, the these doc the unfortunately these doctors are morons and they don't they have no understanding of blood sugar or insulin or anything like that. They're just they're like archaic. They're so behind the times. In 10 years they'll catch up. But right now they're not. And that's why I tell you guys all the times, you got to take your health into your own into your own hands. Um 6.2 is is horrendous. 5.7 is too high. Anything over five 56 is borderline. 5'7 is is you're too high. If you're waking up at one over at 118, you know, fasting, that's a problem. Okay? And the here's here's here's the issue. All right? Because I experienced this at first, too. If you have a fast metabolism, okay, and you're in this situation, you want to eat more food because you don't get fat. What? But yet, if you eat too much food, you can't keep your fasting sugars in the right range. So if you starve yourself, you can keep them in the right range. That's no way to live. Okay? There's no reason to have to starve yourself if you have a good metabolism. It's like here I am. I have this great metabolism. I can't even eat what I want, you know? I can't eat more food if I'm hungry, which is ridiculous. The problem is, and this is why I tell people this, and here, this guy is the perfect evidence for what I'm telling you. It's not an insulin resistance problem. It's not that his insulin rece that he doesn't have enough insulin receptors. He can't produce enough insulin. And it's perfect evidence. When he eats less food, he's fine. When he eats more food, his pancreas can't keep up and produce enough insulin. This is this is like I mean, how a doctor can't see this is so obvious. Bodybuilders eat a shitload of food. We eat even though we eat clean, we eat a lot more food than the average person does. Thus, the pancreas has a much greater demand on it to produce insulin. As we get older, it doesn't it lack it starts losing the ability to produce as much insulin. To force it to keep producing more when it can't is ludicrous because it's going to burn out and it's going to die and then you're going to have to be you'll be an insulin dependent diabetic for the rest of your life. So, in order to stop that, taking a long acting insulin will take the burden off the pancreas. It'll also allow you to eat more food. That's why I got a prescription. Luckily, I have a really progressive thinking doctor who wrote me a prescription for a long acting insulin 2J. You take it once a day and it allows me to eat more food and not have to wake up at with a with a with a, you know, a 98 or 100, you know, fasting blood sugar. I wake up at, you know, at 89 or 85, which is and then my A1c goes down. I'm in between 51 and 53. And that's what I want to do. Do I want to starve myself to keep it in that range? No. There's no reason to. There's no reason to. My body is telling me, "Hey, your pancreas can't our pancreas can't produce enough insulin. Help me out here. Take a little. you take some testosterone, so give me a little bit of insulin, too. And that's and that's why I say this. It's I challenge someone to come on and debate me on this because it's so obvious um as bodybuilders what's going on. Now, if we were not bodybuilders, we were couch potatoes and this would be happening. I would say it's lifestyle. The guy's overweight. He's insulin resistant because he doesn't work out. He doesn't eat right. But we eat perfectly. We train. Exercise is supposed to exercise is the most important thing to sensitize insulin receptors to make you really insulin receptive. Okay, we do everything that should make us insulin receptive not insulin resistant except growth hormone of course. Yet we don't produce we can't control blood sugars. Well, it has to be not enough insulin and that's the answer. And the only answer to fix that the right way is to take insulin. >> That's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave. reminder right now on the channel an all new day in the life of Dave Palumbo that is live uh we released it yesterday so go check that out you get a insight into the dayto-day of Dave between kids between running a business going to the gym and snakes everything in between so go check that out live on the channel as well as an all new episode of the after hours podcast minus Dave Dave was traveling back from India during that time uh we had a bit of a scare with Greg Valentino, but luckily he showed up as well about 20 minutes into the episode. A lot of fun. Uh, and then of course all new episode of Heavy Muscle Radio with Chris Aceto's son, Fared Aceto Muhammad, uh, Far Muhammad Aceto rather, winning his pro card. So, congratulations to him. Again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything that we have coming up on this show, any format, any video, and of course, loads of content coming up over the course of the next few weeks leading into the Olympia. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sad Farooqi. We'll see you next time.