 naringin. So, you wanna open a gym. But you need seed money. So you want to open a gym, but you need seed money. How about smuggling cigars out of Cuba to get it? We'll show you how. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we are back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by my compatriot in crime, John Romano. And we are back. We made a commitment after New Year's. Although we both don't believe in New Year's resolutions, we made a commitment. We said we're going to do the podcast again on a regular basis because people like our chemistry and they like to hear our ridiculous wit and humor and complaining and bitching, as they say. So we're back. We're doing it again. You actually have been telling me about your friend Scott for – I can't even tell you how many years you've been telling me about Scott. I mean, he's the guy who you had the gym with down in Mexico. And you've told me some crazy stories about cigar smuggling that he did. And I'm like, you know what? Let's just get him on the show already because it sounds like it's a great story. Now, he wrote a book, right? Yes. He wrote a book called Smoke. Oh, it's backwards on my phone. But Smoke. And it is basically, you know – look, smuggling cigars out of Cuba is a scratch in the iceberg that is Scott Anthony. Okay? This guy, he is the real deal. You want to talk about OGs, original gangsters? He's the original gangster. Remember the Dos Equis commercial with the most interesting man in the world? It's not him. It's Scott. You can't imagine. You cannot imagine. Not only the number of stories, but the severity of the inferences in his stories are insane. I mean, I'm talking about – Are they more insane than Larry? Larry's story? No, no, no. Larry's in kindergarten compared to this guy. Not even – I'm talking home invasions, ripping off hookers, ripping off drug dealers, running around the streets of Chicago. Cops under cover. I mean, you can't even imagine this shit. But the starting point, I would think, is the most outlandish is his experience smuggling cigars, Cuban cigars out of Cuba, through Mexico, into Chicago, into the hands of people like Michael Jordan. Okay? Wow. So this is an unbelievable tale filled with unbelievable tales. So – and they're all true. I can vouch for this guy. I've known him for 30 years. Everything is true. He is the real deal. So this is no fluff, man. This is the truth. Now, his name is Scott Anthony. He has no – is there any relation to Derek Anthony or no? No, because Anthony's not really his name. Well, Anthony wasn't Derek's name either. I mean, it's his name, but it's not his name. No, it wasn't Derek's name. That's true. It wasn't – right. Derek – right. There was Derek Anthony and Scott Anthony, but they're not related. They both have other Italian last names. That's right. Derek – except for Scott. All right. Let's bring him in because I'm dying to know what the big appeal is to Cuban cigars. I want to know about this guy. Oh, it's very important. Yeah. All right. Scott Anthony, welcome to the show. Hey, guys. How are you? Good. I want to correct John Romano on one thing. What? We can't hear you. I can hear him. You can't hear me. I can't hear him. I can't hear him. You do? I hear him fine. Yes. Why the hell can't I hear him? I don't know. You're deaf, maybe. I don't know. He's fine. No, I hear you. I hear you just fine. One, two, three. Hey, John. One, two, three. The fuck? Why wouldn't you be able to hear him? That's kind of weird. I don't know. I can hear you perfectly. It's always glitches. You heard him before we started the show. It's got to be something you're doing. Take me out and put me back in. Try that. All right. I'll kick him from the studio. More work for the editor. That's right. Well, we don't edit anything. We don't care. We like to show our flubs and our... I saw that in Jill Rogan's first podcast. He just did it off the cuff and everyone liked it. Well, you know what it is? I think it's more authentic. Because there is no such thing as perfection, Scott. You know that. And when people try to portray themselves as being perfect, I think that there's an air of phoniness that gets put out there. And I don't want anyone to ever accuse me of being a phony. That's like my father hated that. We would go to parties and we would go to places and he'd be like, that guy's a phony. I'm like, how do you know? He's like... Fantastic. Dave, you know, my mother's maiden name is Palumbo. Oh, I didn't know that. That's funny. Yeah. Yeah. So it sounds like my family. Your father was related to my family. Where are you guys from? What part of the... A town called Rigiliano. No, I mean, where in the United States did you guys go? Chicago. Chicago. Oh, yeah. There's a lot of plumbos. Let's see. We got John back here. Now we can't see him. John. You're back, John. I know Scott and I are related. Yeah. You are? Can you hear me, John? Now I can hear everybody. Okay. Scott's mother's maiden name is Palumbo. Did you know that? I did not know that. How did I not know that? Yeah. And Scott Anthony is my name. It's just my middle name. That's right. That's right. I think that was Derek's middle name, too. Yeah. The surname was stained and spotted, so I got rid of that along the way. Gotcha. Gotcha. Well, you can use the maiden name. Palumbo is all right. We're okay with that one. Yeah. John and I, we're related anyway. Somewhere down the road. I think that all Italians are related somewhere down the road. It's the Sicilian side that I think we're related on. Yes. Yes. Yeah. That's what we're talking about. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So, yeah, get back to it. So, let me give you a little background. Let me just give you a little background. Scott was telling me a story already. Oh, I didn't know. I was gone. Okay, good. Oh, no, no. We were just, again, start there, John. What do you say? Whatever you want. Well, I mean, I touched on it. I was talking about phonies. I was saying my father hated phonies. And I, because he was saying, well, we'll just edit this out. I said, but now we can't because we're so, John and I are too authentic. I said, because, you know, I hate people who, who like try to portray themselves as being perfect. I said, no one's perfect. And I said, you know, my father, this thing he had, we would go to stores and he'd be like, that guy's a phony. I'm like, how do you know? And, you know, so now I'm like, I'm always looking for people that like portray themselves as being too perfect. You know, you ever like go out to eat with a couple and they're holding hands and like they kiss each other before one goes to the bathroom. You know that that relationship sucks. It's just like. Everything looks perfect. Everything looks perfect. But it really. They're phonies. Right, right. Then three weeks later, they're divorced. I mean, you can understand that in the first month of them being together. We're together for 17 years and they're still doing it. That means that he's got some chick on the side and she's, you know, banging the trainer at the gym. And, you know. Oh, that doesn't ever happen. That never happens, Dave. I got to tell you guys an interesting story. I was at a trade show in China about four or six months ago. And the owners of one of the factories where I produce some of my products invited me to dinner. When I got to dinner, they had two other guys there, Europeans. One was from like Holland and the other one. Did I miss you guys? Are you guys still there? No, we're switching. Okay. We switched cameras. So these were sitting around this round table and they're strange looking Europeans. One guy is from Holland. The other guy is like from Switzerland. And they own gyms in Thailand. And their favorite podcast is RX Muscle. Really? Well, they got great taste. What can I say? They watch it religiously. And the guy could not accept that I knew you guys. I'm like, I know these guys. Well, they have gyms in Thailand. They're probably into trannies. That's why. It was kind of like a romance that they have with. He said, I go to sleep every night listening to RX Muscle. So congratulations to you guys. Thank you. We made a big time. I just can't imagine having a life that bad that you're going to sleep just in the bus. Chris Muscle was in cleaners with his kids. And the cleaners goes, holy, oh my God, Chris Muscle. And he's like, his son's looking at him like, how the fuck does this guy know you? He's like, I listen to Heavy Muscle Radio. You misstated something, John. You said that this story about the cigar smuggling, and you got to mention Confessions of a Cuban Cigar Smuggler, because that's like the key to finding it anywhere online. But anyway, you said that that's like the most outlandish, and that isn't completely accurate. That's what I did when I decided I wasn't going to break the law anymore. Right, right. The smuggling was the most legal thing you were doing, is what you're saying. Yes. Yes. It was the softest part of my criminal existence. Why are people so obsessed with Cuban cigars? Let's just say it was the least violent. Let's just say that. That's all right. First of all, why are people... We can say that. Why are people so obsessed with Cuban cigars? Is it because they're illegal, or are they really that much better than all the other ones? I think, well, it's kind of like we can look at a lot of restaurant chains and products out there. It's like the first one to hit hits the hardest. Cuba was the first place to produce cigars, and they were producing for Spain and England and all of these European countries. So it's probably, number one, because they were first. The allure, the allure is something. There's a romanticized thing about Cuban cigars, Fidel Castro, Che Guevara, you know, this kind of guerrilla warfare, military fatigues. And then add to it the fact that you can't get them. They're prohibited. Right. I think that adds a lot to it. Now, according to Cuban myth, and there's a lot of myth and hocus pocus out there with cigar critics and writers and writing them up and building the story, the flavors, the aroma, the smell. A cigar is a cigar. The only thing that really varies on flavor would be the size of the cigar because the girth or the length can give you more smoke, less smoke. A thinner cigar will burn hotter, et cetera. But, you know, you ask a Cuban person who's been smoking cigars for 70 years, and they'll tell you a cigar is a cigar. Oh, really? That's interesting. Purportedly, in Cuba, they have this red clade regions where the cigar, the tobacco is grown, and that's supposed to make it richer and add some spice to it. I don't know how true that is. And I think it would be really difficult to lay down a bunch of cigars on a table and have a cigar taster, like a wine taster, pick which is which. Really? So it's a lot of hype, then, is what you're saying? I think there is a lot of hype involved in it, yes. What is my opinion? I don't know. Actually, I don't know. Let me jump in there for a second. All right. A couple of the cigars I smoked that Scott gave me from Cuba. You and I went to Cuba together, John. I know. Wow. We did. But with respect to, you know, flavor and whatnot, I think there is a discernible difference in Cuban cigars versus the cheap, you know, Puerto Rican ones or whatever that you get. But you had a key word there, cheap. So let's compare them, and this taste test, not to the crappy $2 cigar, but a good quality cigar from anywhere in the world. I'm going to tell you why. Here's a way to seal this deal. When I was selling my cigars and smuggling my cigars, I met a group of guys out of Miami that were bringing in Honduran cigars and wrapping and packaging them as Cubans right inside of the U.S. No real risk, no real smuggling, and people were buying them up like candy. Wow. And nobody ever said this cigar is bad. Really? I guess that's how you prep it and everything like that, too. What would Michael Jordan pay for a Cuban cigar? Like, what are the boxes of cigars? Michael Jordan asked for the best of the best. So I got stuff from Michael Jordan that nobody else could get. Michael liked large cigars, you know, probably together with his stature and the size of his hands. And his go-to cigar was a Double Corona, which is a pretty good-sized cigar. And I would give him from one of the best rollers, Andrea. She was one of the best rollers in Cuba. She was actually at one time one of the confidant, one of the trusted rollers of Fidel Castro, his private cigars. She rolled me these really, really special cigars. And they were – do you know what a torpedo is? A Bellicoso. It's like – it starts at a point and goes out wider. Yeah. I haven't seen those yet. It's like a long cone. Gotcha. Well, it's – yeah, like a long cone. Kind of like a long cone. Less subtle, more subtle, but – But it's thinner in the mouth, is what you're saying. I would get those from Michael, and he would pay – at that time, now we're talking 1995, 96, he would pay $1,200 for a box of 25. Wow. Wow. Okay. And so would everybody else. I never charged anybody anything different because of their tax bracket. What was the cigar that Bill Clinton was shoving up Monica Lewinsky's? That was a double – that was a double corona also. She took the double. She took the double. All right. It wasn't a torpedo, though. She took the whole thing. No, it wasn't a torpedo. I think Hillary might have used the torpedo. Yeah, she probably did. Afterwards, she used it. Yeah, yeah. So now, what's the – what's the process of getting a box of Cubans into the United States? How are you doing it? Well, Dave, we've got to – And hold on. Why are they illegal, first of all? Because I think a lot of people don't know that. The trade embargo. Well, we've got to put a slash across a box. I never brought a box. I brought boxes. I brought 500, 600 boxes at a time. All right. That's a lot of money. What would you pay for a $1,200 box? Everyone always gets a – When I was buying them on the street, when I was getting street cigars, that's what most people do. Most of the guys who are smuggling cigars – now, I'm going to say 90 to 95 percent of the people who ever bring cigars from Cuba back to the U.S. are bringing street cigars. Are they as good? They could be, but sometimes. But it's a roll of the dice, and you have to really be in the know to be able to choose them from a supplier. So, in the beginning, I brought those, and those boxes cost approximately $20 a piece. Oh, my God. Big, big market. A lot depends on the roll, on how it's rolled. Well, because you have – depending on the thickness of the cigar, you have multi-layers of tobacco. So, you could have three, four, or five leaves that are involved in one cigar. Right. And the thicker would obviously have different and more leaves. And so, you have to know the process of rolling. It's just like rolling a homemade cigarette or a joint. But if you know how to roll, you can roll it correct. If you don't know how to roll, it won't pull, or it'll fall apart. And it'll burn crooked, et cetera. And a lot of the street people, they're not able to get all the materials needed. I see. What does Arnold smoke? What does he smoke? Does he smoke Cubans? Who? Arnold Schwarzenegger? Hey, here you go. Anybody who can and has the option, their go-to cigar is a Cuban. Hands down. All right. Well, Arnold's got the money, so I'm sure he's smoking. I knew somebody who was selling cigars to Arnold. He used to go to Shotzi's right down the street from Gold. Yes, I remember that. And he would sell them to Arnold. And Arnold went to the Partagas factory in Havana. So did Antonio Banderas, Melanie Griffith, Arnold. Arnold probably has him ship right to his house from there, yeah. You know, and I'm not going to mention any names, but there's a high, a well-known celebrity that would go to Canada to get them on his private jet. And he told me when he would land at the airport in the U.S., the customs would just, you know, he's at a private field. Customs agent would just come out and go, how you doing, you know, big shot celebrity, go, fine. And he would just poke his head in there like this, look around and leave. Oh, they could have brought anything. Yeah. Anything he wanted. Yeah. Yeah. I thought you were going to say he gave the guy a box of cigars. So what I think we ought to do first here is tie why we have Scott on the show to bodybuilding. What does Scott have to do with bodybuilding? Exactly. And very simply is Scott was the first Gold's Gym owner in Mexico. And he owned or he had the master franchisee for Gold. He was the master franchisee. For the development. Of Gold's Gym in Mexico. Yeah. I had the rights to the master franchisee to develop the entire country of Mexico. And you had what? Who gave that to you? Is that when Ed owned the gym? Yes. Well, I was friends with Ed, Pete, and Tim. Right. And I don't want to leave his name out, Rich Minzer. Right. Right. And so I was with all of them. Got along with them. I opened my first Gold's Gym as just a franchisee. And then as time was going on, I was maturing. I was learning more about business and I was getting more ambitious. I decided to approach Gold's for the master franchise. And they said to me, Scott, and this was Pete, this was Paul Gronkowski. Do you remember Paul? Yeah. Pete's brother. He passed away. Yeah. He passed away a few years. And he was a great guy. Paul. Great guy. Because I dealt with him when I bought my license. Right. And him and I talked about it all the time. How you had this, these plans and the entire, you did an entire market study and everything. Yep. And Paul said to me, Scott, this is perfect timing because my brother just dumped the franchise. He was paranoid about the economy. He thought everything was going down. And, you know, don't quote me on this. It's irrelevant either way. But I believe that Pete sold it for $42 million. That was what he sold it to. The next group who bought it, they sold it. Oh, no, Scott. So Ed, Pete, and Tim sold the whole thing for $42 million? Yeah, the whole thing for $42 million. But... I thought they got more than that, John. No? No. I thought so, too. They got $42 million. Okay. And then they sold it to this group, Brockway Moran, who they were an investment group. And they held it. And their plan in the beginning was to hold it for five years and develop as many gyms as they possibly could. And they did. I think they might have developed and opened corporate-owned gyms, maybe 30, because they started consuming some smaller franchisees and putting it under the corporate... I think some of the 24-hour fitnesses converted to golds. Right, right. And then they sold it. They flipped it five years later for $160 million to an investment group out of Dallas, Texas. Who put it out of business. Right. And they didn't do well with it. You know what they did, Dave? They hired a bunch of yuppies. And they got really hard-assed. And they lost their most faithful franchisees in the mix. Yeah. You had, what, 34 franchises and six of your own gyms? Yes, exactly. Well, I franchised 28 and then add my six to that. And so at the end of my period, they shot me in the forehead. The new guys that bought it. When you've got money men and yuppies, it's worse than in the streets. Believe me, I've been on both sides. You're safer in the hands of the street guys than you are with corporate sharks. Really? Really? They don't play by the game. I remember- Did you make money when you sold the gyms or did you lose? No, I didn't sell the gyms, Dave. And you and I have something in common. I had a divorce. Oh. It's hard to hear that. We've all had a divorce. We've all had that. At least one. I've had several. So the gyms were ripped out of my hands and my soul was ripped out through another part of my body. And it wasn't pretty. No, I can't imagine. If I didn't have the divorce, I would today, undoubtedly, I would own 100 of my own gyms. I was just starting a pilot program. I was going to open satellite gyms. I was going to dominate the whole city of Guadalajara because I also sell gym equipment. And it was my- Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Paul, he doesn't just sell gym equipment. He's got a billion square foot, enormous, giant warehouse stuffed with gym equipment from every gym in America that went out of business, shipped it down to Mexico. This enormous warehouse. And then he would sell gym packages to a lot of the gyms that were his and others. And he would, you know, powder coat them all the same color, refurbish them. And it was a huge operation. It's not just I sell gym equipment on this side. No. This was monstrous. I'm thinking of your garage sale like John. Yeah, no, no. How many square feet is your warehouse? 110,000. Wow. That's big. So I- I guess the question I should be asking is where did all the initial money come from to do all these businesses? Because it didn't come from cigars, right? Well, it didn't and it did. What happened is I was a very bad boy from the age of nine until about 30 when I started waking up and growing up. And then I was recruited into the United States penal system. I was a fugitive for five years. Five years? Oh, my God. Five years and a day. So- And that's what I needed. I needed five years to kind of save myself from a life sentence. Oh, really? And so they were putting me into the penal system in the United States. And once you're running on that track, you really do get a dose of reality. If you have an IQ above single digits, you can sit there and think, well, maybe I've messed up enough. Maybe I've disappointed enough people and maybe it's time that I put my game hat on and get my shit really together instead of going for the low hanging through. And that's when I came back. And I had a gym already at that time. And it was just a couple thousand square feet. And I was training people. And I already had hammer equipment and some really cool equipment. And the gym was doing okay because I was training people. I was selling supplements. That's another thing I wanted to laugh about. I used to smuggle supplements. So I would smuggle cigars north and then I would smuggle supplements south. You know what? I always found the humorous that you could buy anything you want in Mexico, but I can't send like species nutrition products to Mexico. It's the craziest thing of all time. You can't. You can't. Everybody does it, but it's all smuggled. Well, yeah, you got to send it to the border and then they got to bring it over. Yeah, it's the whole. There's ways of doing it. This is what you used to basically have to do. Send it to the border and 500 guys in a warehouse empty the powder out of the species jar. Oh, no way. And put it into a powdered milk box. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. And so when I was sitting in my study at the University of the United States government, I was in my private study and I had a lot of time to read and think. I said, no more. I am done. And I got out and I went back to Chicago to the streets and every one of my friends was on a roll. They were all taking advantage of the vacuum that was left behind when I left. And it was so tempting, but I just kept saying, no, no, no, no. And that's when a force greater than myself threw two boxes of cigars in my lap. And I said, what could I do with these? And one of my friends said, you know what? Those are getting really popular and really expensive. And I gave him a box and he sold them. And he said to me, he asked me for another box two weeks later. And I said, well, what did you do with the one I gave you? You smoked it? And he said, no, I sold them for $25 a piece. And that was like $625. Wow. You underestimated the market, yeah. And I almost ran at that moment to the airport to get back home. And long story short, that was the beginning of my Cuban cigar smuggling career. How were you making the money before that on the streets? Well, prior to my time at the University of the United States and all that stuff, I was, well, I'm trying to think of an eloquent way. I was a street guy. I was a well-rounded street guy. I was a drug dealer. I organized different kind of armed robberies and jobs. And our favorite one was robbing drug dealers. Wow. That was the favorite. Cocaine cowboys, yeah. Yeah. Well, a little bit deeper. Because I started in the streets. So I was in a street gang since I was nine. And I came up through the legal system, the juvenile detention centers and the Audi homes and the bad boy parochial reform schools. And I was in an orphanage from the age of 10 to 12. So I grew up a rough, underprivileged, difficult life. And I was building a resume that I would need when I really got off and running and became more experienced. So I had a five-year run that was a book in itself. That's actually my third book is that five-year run until the government quit my wings and I was on the run. So fugitive for five years. And that's the following book. That's my fourth book. What were you on the run for? What was the official charge? Well, I had cocaine trafficking in more than five kilograms. Wow. I had arms trafficking, counterfeit money, and an armored car robbery. Oh, my God. So where were you hiding for five years? It's the funny thing, Dave. When you're experienced and you know how to do these things, you can move. If you live in a city like New York, you can move to another neighborhood and never be found. Oh, you were in the United States? I.  cortviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia collect in person because when you get busted or you're on the run or anything or you're in jail, it's like you're dead. Yeah. No one's going to pay you. Right. No one's going to pay you. And, and they need that money to up the next product. Cause most of my, a big part of my business was on credit. I had 20 guys that I just fronted product to. And I drove around every day. And my favorite phrase was, you got my money. As soon as they answered, I was like, got my money. What if they didn't have it? Well, Dave, I'm going to leave that up to you because in my experience in life, Italians are the worst people to owe money to them. You know, you have that cliche and that, that old joke about the Jewish people. I think the Italians beat them. Did you run in the same circles as Mel Chansey back then or no? You know, I didn't. Mel Chansey, Mel Chansey was a biker and I did know some bikers and I guaranteed Mel and I know some of the same people. And my good, my good friend and brother at the university, John Romano is going to one day introduce me to Mel. Yeah. You guys definitely have to know the same people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You guys ran in the same, the same city. I mean, come on. I think Mel was from the South side of Chicago, which was, which was, you know, there was, it's, it's another world. We actually, people don't even like each other. We have two different baseball teams and, and the intellectuals will actually have fistfights over whose baseball team is more significant. So you go on the run for five years and I'm just, and how did you, did you have a lot of money stashed away? Is that how you supported yourself? Well, Dave, here comes the truth. When, when I came back and people weren't paying me, being a fugitive is probably the hardest thing I ever did in my life. It's a very, very difficult existence because at any minute you can just be nabbed and they're 24 hours a day. They're out there looking at you. So 26 hours a day, you're on the defensive. So I collected what I could, but I still had bad habits and those, well, I had good habits that were expensive. I liked fancy cars, hot women and an expensive lifestyle. So I was burning through all of my ill gotten gains really fast. And I, I, it took a while for me to, to, to settle down and say, wait, I better screw my head on. Right. And I was pretty much broke by that time. So, so I was a little angry, a little bitter. And I went on a tear and I, I, I, anybody who was dealing was in my sights and I, they were a target. And that's when you were robbing the dealers. No, that's when I came back robbing them with a vengeance before I was almost a nice guy. No, I was a little bitter and a little angry and I was going to get mine. And I knew that I was on a short, I had a short shelf life and I would have to eventually disappear for good. So I was going to, I was going to, you know, I was going to make that nest a little more secure. And I started, I started doing heavier, deeper, more organized and smarter stuff. And while I was on the run, I didn't get caught for anything except one of the guys that I decided to rob became a Chicago cop. And he became my nemesis. He hunted me like a caged animal and he let everybody know. And I was probably his inspiration to his ambition because he became, he became citywide narcotics detective squad. Wow. And those are the guys that can beat you and plant stuff on you and put you away for a long time. So, you know, I don't want to, I don't want to get too brash and bold, but if he didn't become a cop, there was nothing he could have done to me, even if I was standing in front of him. And, and, and so by being a cop, it, it, we, he, he equaled out that playing field and he surpassed me because I was just a scumbag ex-con and he had a big shiny badge. Wait, Scott recently did a podcast in Chicago. And one of the, one of the, one of the podcast hosts happened to have been years ago, one of Scott's victims. Oh no. And then there he is on a podcast being interviewed by the guy. You're, you're, you're making me blush, John. Well, actually, actually him and I, I didn't, we hashed that out before the podcast started because, uh, you know, it's years ago. He was only, he was only an employee at the business and I, I was a patron. I guess I have more rights than him. And, uh, me and another guy came in with ski masks and big revolvers. And, uh, the, the doorman, the guy who was supposed to be doing security, we caught him, uh, what you would call sleeping. And, uh, and, and we grabbed him. So I had him by the hair when I went to the office door and I knocked on the door and I said, you just smile. That's all you do. And, uh, and, and, and so they looked through the little, the little peak hole and they saw him and they opened the door and then we just rushed them all in the office. And, um, and then this guy said, who, you know, who was it that was pulling my hair? And, and, and I said, unfortunately that was me. And, um, and so we, we, uh, we took the safe, the entire safe and, uh, the manager had a Rolex on. Um, uh, so we couldn't pass that up because, you know, uh, John, I was with my friend Wacker. Yeah. And he didn't have a Rolex. I already had one. Oh. Uh, so I had to help Wacker get a Rolex. So not only did we do that, we went back in that place a week later and we went up to the bar, sat there drinking and everybody was looking at us. Everybody. Everybody, but they were probably thinking so bold and so brazen and Wacker was wearing the watch at the bar. Oh no. And the manager came up and he, he nonchalantly stood next to us trying to ID our voices to see if he could recognize us. And, um, the, the funny thing that, that this guy reminded me was that night when we went there, Wacker said, you know, there was a group of people. And he said, all the employees, everybody, we want your wallets. We want your jewelry. We want everything. And then I said, no, no, no, no, no. And I pulled him to the side and we had a powwow and we came back and we said, no, all the employees, you can keep everything. We're not taking your stuff. We're only here for the business. And, uh, and he told us, you guys were like heroes. And I always felt like Robin Hood. The truth is I always kind of felt like Robin Hood because I never did it to anybody that really didn't have it coming. And if you are in any type of black market or you're in the underground, it's every man for himself. It's sharky shark. Yep. Yep. There's no police force you can call. Well, one guy called the police once. Really? Yeah. Because they were desperate. They had no way to find me. So a drug dealer called the cops to report that you, that a robbery. Yeah. All right. You got to tell me that. And so the young aspiring criminals out there that are listening to us can learn something. I never took a photograph ever. There was no photograph at my high school, no yearbook, no wrestling team, no football team. Any, any time it was photo day, I was absent. Why is that? Because I was a criminal since an early age. And I know every, every track that you leave could be your downfall. So they got as far that they called the police and they reported it as just a home invasion, nothing to do with drugs, because they wanted, they had people inside the police like we all did probably. And they just wanted a lead. Who is the guy? So they followed me. They got as far as to my high school and they went in the office and they looked through all of the yearbooks. Oh, my God. Never ID. Oh, my God. That's funny. What was, what was the biggest score you ever made? Like single score? Like where you like either robbed someone or, or, or, you know. Well, you know, it, it, it, there's, there's, there's a couple that are significant. Let's just say for argument's sake, let's say 400 in, in 1984. 400 grand? Yeah. Wow. That's huge. That's like a million and a half bucks right now. I bought my first home at 19 and I paid $50,000 cash. Cash. Probably. Yeah. Well, let me ask this question. Do you think they're going to make a movie of your life? Yes. You know, Dave, I was, it's because of your partner and that, that ex-con sitting next to you that I ever even wrote this because he used to push me. And I would say, no, I don't, you know, there's, there's some pain. There's some embarrassment. I smile now because I'm an old man. And these are like dirty memories to me. It's kind of like. That old guy remembered his high school sweetheart. And, and, and John Romano kept pushing me. And he, where he messed up was, I was probably deep inside waiting. Well, when are you going to tell me you'll write it? Yeah. Why did you write the script? Yeah, exactly. Well, it's, it's, he had a right to, look, it's, it's, it's like, it's like you get one of those giant industrial barrels of chocolate chip cookies at, at safe, at Walmart. Okay. And the one you want has got an M&M in it. It's all the way at the bottom around the back. And so you got to either eat them all or get some way I get down into that. You got to write the, you got to give me, you got to give me the cookie before I can do it. You know, you can just tell chat GTP to turn into a script. It probably. Yeah. You can't do that. It's not, it's, it's not the same. It's not the same. So, so what I did is I wrote 150. So, so back to that answer before I switch, I have a tendency to do that. So, so I, I never thought about it. And I had two other friends that we were, we were elbow to elbow in the, in the trenches. And, and one of them was a very, very intense and extreme criminal. And he said, nobody is ever writing a book or telling a story while we're all here. And so we all agreed. Nobody's telling a story. Nobody's writing a book. And the two of those guys passed away about five years ago. So I, I, John's instigation, his inspiration, his, his persistence. He called me when he saw Sons of Anarchy. And he said to me, you know what, Scott, you got to write your story, man. You're, you're, you're going to miss the bus because, you know, you're going to get old and you're going to die. And nobody's going to know what kind of life you live. He said, I just saw Sons of Anarchy and your story is way better. And I was like, yeah, yeah, yeah. What else? Those bikers were like boy scouts compared to, I want to give you something. My father was a writer. My father, this is when my father was about 15 years ago, 20 years ago. My father was like still obviously coherent. He was alive. And there was a guy who I was friends with who had gotten out of jail and he was a wise guy. And they were in New York arrest. They were, they were doing what you do. They would rob drug dealers and they give the drug deal. If they didn't get paid, they would basically get rid of the guys. You know, they drop them with, with, with certain minority group and they would take care of it for them. But they were, they were making a ton of money and this guy got arrested. And luckily the guy who he supposedly pulled the trigger on or whatever, closed his, the witness closed his eyes because he didn't want to see it or something like that. So the guy got only did five years. So he gets out, he writes this whole treatise, this whole movie thing. And, you know, he's like, he's like, uh, and I was telling my father, you know, it was a writer and everything. Would your father read it? So I had my father read the thing. And he's like, you know what? The story is, is, is, is pretty good. But the main character is not, he's not, he's not a likable guy. He's, he's a bad dude. And this, it was the ending. You got to have some, there's got to be redemption at the end. He goes, or no one's, no one's going to want to watch this movie. He said. And so you kind of seem like you've kind of, you have redemption at some, at some point. I do. And multiple levels. So when I, when I started the cigars, it was because I refused to go back to that world. And there were, I had way more opportunity at that time because I'd lived in Mexico for five years and I had made contacts across the globe. And I had broker deals. Like I had people coming down from the U.S. And I would, I remember in one of these broker deals, I had a legitimate Colombian capo here. And I introduced him to this legitimate Mexican capo. And imagine that. This American from 5,000 miles away is putting these guys in the same room. And, and often when I was in a room with two people that were going to do an illegal business and I had nothing, no skin in the game, I removed myself from that table or that room. I want to be the guy that they say he didn't know anything. And sometimes even that backfires. But there's a lot of redemption on my part. I grew up, I matured. And in my defense, I didn't know what I was doing when I was young. I was running on instinct and, and I was just, it was the momentum taking me because of where I came from. I didn't think a lot of things. They weren't explained to me that they're really wrong. You, you, you don't, you're not going to get anything on your own. You got to go out and steal it. Now, was all the money, was all the money. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Kids, kids, don't, don't, don't listen. Don't listen. No, he's being sarcastic. But the point is, did you start that first gym with the money you made from the cigars? Is that where everything came from? No, I had a, I had a partner. I had this doctor. I had this doctor who was helping me. He believed in me because I was boxing and kickboxing. And I started giving a lot of classes and his gym started doing really well. So then he opened up another place for me and he believed in me. But we didn't have the money to grow where we wanted. So I approached, and it's in my book, I approached two different friends that were players in the game. And they both denied me because everybody's selfish. Everybody wants their own world. And I didn't take it. I wasn't offended. I said, you know what? I got to figure out a way to do this. And that's when the cigars landed in my lap. And I said to myself, okay, I promise no more crime. But is smuggling cigars really a crime? And my answer to myself was, not really. It's a gray line. It's not black and white because, you know. John, it's like peptides. It's like peptides. It's a gray area. You know what, Scott? Hold on. I'm stopping you. I'm stopping you. It's illegal. The problem is that what you were doing before was so terrible that compared to that, it's not so bad. And I have to correct you, Dave. I'm sorry when you said he's being sarcastic. I love sarcasm. But when I said if we wanted something, we had to go out and steal it, that was 100% our motto. I wasn't being sarcastic. No, I know it was your motto, but I don't think you were giving advice to other people. No, no, I'm not giving anybody advice. It's a terrible, sad existence. I have a childhood friend. Yeah, if you need something, I'd just go steal it. Yeah, yeah. My childhood friend called me the other day, and he saw that podcast I did a week ago, and he said, Scott, I never knew how bad your life was. I said, yeah, no kids know. You don't know that the kid next door, that his life is terrible. So I had a terrible life, and I learned a lot of bad things. And it took me to mature to actually stand back and go, oh, wait a minute. That's not cool. But, you know, it was exhilarating. Imagine the buildup, Dave. Me, you, and John were in your basement, and were scrubbing down and oiling up our firearms. We got on the table, we got ski masks, handcuffs. Back then, they were spare cuffs. The cops used their zip ties. They're just bigger. Always had some kind of tape. Certain clothes. Cleaned, ready, and spread it out like a SWAT team. And get in the car, and you are driving to a destination that you don't know what's beyond that door. Even though I did a lot of research. I don't know. I'm a nervous wreck just hearing about it. I don't think I could have done it. The anxiety was sometimes almost unbearable. Because when things happen like this, you don't have a time to think you react. But when you're planning for six weeks, two months, now there's anxiety. Because there's so many variables and things that you can't control. What if the cops just happened to be staking him out and watching? Now you are in a big mess. So we did a lot of stuff to prevent. And I can proudly say nobody ever got hurt on my watch. There was minimal violence. You know, violence, you know, a kick, a punch. It's not real violence. Hair pull. Hair pull. Yeah. No, we're talking about breaking canes over people's heads. I mean, he's produced a hair pull from earlier. It wasn't Rain Man. He pinched and squeezed my nose. It wasn't like that. And so then I wrote that 150,000 word manuscript for the book Smoke. I'll show it again. And I wrote it and I sent it to John Romano. And God bless him. He worked with me. It was about four months. He edited it. You read that whole thing, John? I didn't read it. I pieced it together. It was a mess, Dave. It was a complete embarrassment. That's why I could only send it to John. Is John your partner in this project now? No. He's not because John has a life of his own. He doesn't have time to babysit his 62-year-old friend who's writing his books. And it's kind of like I looked in the mirror one day and I said, listen, you fucking Jew, go spend a couple bucks. Find a real editor. You can pay three or 400 bucks for six months' work. Give him a box of cigars. That's all. Yeah. So that's when I found David Goggins' publishing company. I reached out to them. And I went through a couple editors that couldn't keep up with the heat. And then one day I had to look in the mirror and take account and responsibility and said, this manuscript is fucking terrible. A four-year-old could have written a better one. And I sat down for four days. I barely slept, barely ate, didn't train. And I put my nose to the grinder and I edited it myself. I first removed the fat. I started taking out stuff that just was overkill and too much. And then when I had a bare-bones script, I started making chapters and putting it in a chronological order. What I sent to John, I'm sorry, John. I didn't know because I didn't even want to look at it. No, no. You know what's funny? I'm like going through this thing. Now, you got 150,000 words is voluminous, okay? It's like a 700-page book. And I read it like 40 times while I was doing it. Because what would happen is I'm reading something and I edit it and I put it back and move this over here and put this over here so it's chronological. And then I'm going and going and going. There's more stuff happening. The stories in this book are insane. And then all of a sudden I'm reading it and I go, wait, that sounds familiar. Let me only go back. And then, oh, yeah, he said that already. But this is way better over here. So then I take the thing from the back and put it in the front. There's a lot of redundancy. And now there's a lot of redundancy. I didn't know the process. Now I have all my other manuscripts tight and in order because I learned at least my way of doing it, which is a much more controlled chaos than the first initial one. But to John's credit and because of John, he said to me, he would constantly repeat, just write a page a day. Write a page a day. That's all you need to do. So I went out and I bought the iPad and the keypad. And John told me, download the app pages. And I just started writing. And lo and behold, that was about four years ago. And now I have a published book. And I'm on my way to three more. And I did most of the editing myself. I put it in a manuscript that a skilled editor could finish promptly without a lot of guesswork because I still need editors. I'm not a magician. But now I have this new editor, Holly, and she is absolutely amazing because she's patient. She's working along with me. And I'm sneaking in. I took the manuscript and I made it bare bones. It was, let's call it, 75,000 words. So I fit into a different bracket for a manuscript. It's not complicated, easier. And then when I have these ideas and these brainstorms, I email them to her. And she doesn't tell me to go fuck off yet. The first editor after John did. John just would ghost me. So I know John's busy. I'm not going to bother him every five minutes. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. It wasn't that. It wasn't that at all. What are you doing now? You're doing the second book? Is that what? Wait, wait, wait. I got to address that. So the thing is this. When you're sitting in front of 150,000 words, you can't, I mean, and you're reading and you're writing, you're going over. And then all of a sudden you got something. That sounds familiar. Then you got to go back 100,000 words. And like, where was that? It was here somewhere. It was difficult. And you're busy. No, so that's what. You've got work. You've got a wife. But that's all besides the point. If that's why it took the time. It was because it was tedious. I mean, it was. And I'm impatient. And that too. That's a factor. I want him to say that chapter is great. Oh, man. Blackman's got some editors that need work, doesn't he? What? See, Blackman's got editors that need work. They're out of work. So now I'm not. Who was the editor over there? Was that Alan? What was it? No, not Alan. What was the editor? Alan Grohlick. I liked Alan. I got along well with Alan. Yeah. You did? Okay. So you should not. You know, Dave, the steak dinners at drostanolone with everybody sitting around. Yes, God's been there. Scott's been there. And a Bowdoin filet. Scott has gotten a shoulder massage. Yes, he has. Wow. And Dave, you were there one time. We all went to that steakhouse in Dallas. Oh, that's right. That's right. I remember. And then after dinner, we went down the street and we saw to see the two X's on the ground where Kennedy got shot. Yeah. That's right. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember one time I made a mistake and I didn't know Blackman's likes and dislikes. And he's like, we were very close to Arlington, Texas. And he said, steakhouse. And I said, yeah, I saw one right down the street. It was like a pumped up version of Sizzler. Oh, no. And you should have seen the look on Steve's face when he saw the guy at the door. We had a wine. We had a wine. Vito Viagra. Yeah. It was one of those restaurants where the wine comes out of a box. Yeah. It was kind of like Roadhouse. Maybe it was just a Roadhouse. He probably would have had a better time there, but the food wouldn't have been as good. Right. Right. All I need, Dave, I've been eating like this forever. I need a steak and a sweet potato with no butter, some green beans, and a glass of water. And I'm set. He needs a $600 steak. I get it. And a bottle of wine. But, you know, I love, that's one thing I'll never put them down for. The dinners with Blackman were the best. The best. The best. The best. But look. Almost all these same houses. Get back to your books. You got, hold on. So Smoke's out, and now you're working on the second one? Is that what's going on? I'm working on three more. So three more are with the publisher. But the second book, which I'm titling Street Raised, The Making of a Criminal, that one is in the final edit. So over the next three days, that one will be a closed manuscript and sent to QA for all of the next stages of editing. But I won't be able to add or subtract. Let me give you some suggestion before we wrap up, because I know John's got to go. I think you should do an audio book, because you have a good speaking voice. Yes. You're very dynamic. I would like to hear you read the book. I would, too. I would listen to it while I was driving and stuff like that. And I think that you're going to sell more copies of an audio book. Fuck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Because I've been so insecure about that. Now, do it. Have you ever tried to read to somebody? I can't read a sentence without making a mistake. You wrote it. You wrote it, though. You should be able to read it. I know, but I've got my brain works like, did you ever see that movie, The Brilliant Mind with Crow? Yeah. Russell Crowe. A beautiful mind with Russell Crowe. Yeah, my brain works like that. I'll share this guy something. But it's your story. Because I want to hear you tell me your story. I want to hear it. Here's a great example. Here's a great example of one of me. Real quick, like I said, there's 100 stories in that book. Just tell the story about when you got the Rolex stolen in Mexico City. All right. Then we'll wrap up. I went to the studio yesterday, and I did the acknowledgments. I did the dedication, and I did something else, like last word or something. And I did it, and it went well. And so my next three books, I want to do the audio book myself because there is a value in my voice because I can tell it with meaning. Right. Yeah, and you got the Chicago accent, and, you know, you sound like you, you know. What accent? What do you mean? Listen, the fact that you're still alive is a miracle. Miracle. Miracle. Miracle. Miracle. What do you mean I'm funny? Like I make you laugh? I amuse you? So peshy. You're a little clown. Dave, I appreciate you saying that because all of these suggestions and encouragement helped me finally pull the trigger and do it myself. Right. Because, you know. viaviaviavia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. Semetchvia. it turned it into like a one-man show and he would go around doing it and people loved it people loved it and they wanted to buy it from him uh the studios but they didn't want him to he said if i sell it was like a stallone story he goes if you buy it i gotta play sunny the the the the you know the the wise guy in the right and what a great movie what a great movie he wouldn't he wouldn't he you know he wouldn't he wouldn't sell it to him they offered him like a million bucks he wouldn't do it unless so finally de niro got a hold of of him he saw it him do the one-man show and he's like listen he goes you you can either do it with me or they're gonna buy it and hire me to do it anyway so they made a deal and then they did the movie together but boy that's the reason why the reason why people wanted the movie was because he went out there and was talking and performing it everywhere as a one-man show now there wasn't any podcast back then nowadays you got to take that story and start telling it so that people say these are great stories we we got to see a movie in this and then and then that's how you get a movie made you know right i got a question for you dave before before you guys tell me to go piss off mike um i have can i can i can i mention my handle here absolutely hell yeah uh it's scott anthony og and i'm i'm on all the social media and maybe the the wonderful girls from my office can send you guys a link to my my genie link for for amazon where to find the book yeah absolutely we'll put it in the description on my website www.scottanthonyog.com website's got all kinds of pictures videos podcasts pretty cool wow really cool yeah i appreciate you taking the time to talk to us and tell us these great stories and i can't you know i really want to read that book but i don't think i'm going to have the time so i think when the audio book comes out you let me know and i'm going to listen to the audio book while i drive well i'm just i'm the same way i'm hot but i've read my books like 500 times it gets to the point where i i i have to do this again john read the unabridged versions of your books so i'm telling you i i am so excited to read now the finished product because you don't never read it to a blurb on my next book so so you i wrote the forward on this one oh you did yeah i have no credit for it but i wrote the forward for it no i changed it up a little bit oh my god just just because the searches i was doing for prior drug uh for prior cigar smuggling cases i couldn't find them in mexico so once i was in the u.s i did these searches and found a lot more so i i mentioned a few of those in there good good all right well scott the book is the book is smoke scott anthony check out all his uh his social media scott anthony og i guess that's at scott anthony og for all the social medias you on tick tock too i'm on tick tock uh facebook that's really oh yeah uh x and my uh my my web page so all right i'm all over the place i got some young clever people helping me in the office that's great i love it and uh the gym and you still got the gyms down in mexico right i i have one huge health club and we're turning it into something special dave we're putting a podcast studio inside of drostanolone on the first floor we're putting furnished completely done suites so people who come for the podcast can stay and then they can go and work out in the gym at any time of the night and we're doing and we're doing an outdoor rooftop gym area 7 000 square feet outdoor in the town in mexico and we are gonna do dave palumbo john romano fitness camps come down here get a quick anabolic um explanation there's a pharmacy right across the street eat the meals and john can go in the kitchen and i accept everybody i accept i accept we're coming john and i can't just go for everybody i can't wait that's good we gotta figure out how to get species into mexico yeah well you seem to have that figured out already so i'll send your price list if you want and let's do it let's work on it all right there's a way thank you thank you well it seems like scott has figured out the way to pretty much do anything john so i'd be pretty close with one more time cars in here you can get the species into mexico yeah i've been riding john for about 18 years to get me on this podcast please don't wait 18 years more well it was only 17 years because we just turned 17 we're not 18 yeah but yeah but i started bothering him when he told me i'm leaving i'm leaving fort lauderdale and i'm going to build a studio that's right that's right that's right in new york 2009 i can't even believe how long it was 2009 yep it was yesterday yeah well i'm so proud and so happy that you got this book done and you got the other books on the way and i'm excited to read them and the support guys and come see you there all right guys that's going to take us to the end of another edition of the palumbo podcast i'm john romano for our good friends we have john romano with our good friend scott anthony i'm dave palumbo we'll see you next time bye guys these these Thank you.