Heat. Heat. Hey guys, this is Christina Voyage here for rxmuscle.com at the 2012 IFBB Chicago Pro Wings of Strength and I am here with a a very very favorite Women's Physique Pro. We have Michaela Sodto here and she just is coming off of the stage after her second place finish. I hate it when people ask you, "How do you feel?" But with you, I have to ask you, how does this feel after you kind of been struggling with with the physique pro division? So, how does it feel? I feel like a million bucks. I am like so excited. I'm very happy. Just just earlier this morning with the prejudging, just the first call out alone, I was I was ecstatic. I mean, that that alone was just enough for me. And to get top three and then get second place, it's like, you know, it's amazing. I'm very very happy. I can see some tears in your eyes. You're trying She's trying to really hold hold it back. Now, you know, you just did the Greater Golf States in in New Orleans and and you know, you didn't place too well, second from last. What got you through that in order to get on stage here in your hometown and say, you know what, I don't really care. I can do this no matter what. What was the motivation behind that? The motivation is that I don't give up. I keep pushing no matter what. So, I figured if I if I didn't do well, I'll just, you know, make a couple of um tweaks and change whatever it is that I need to change and keep pushing. I'm I'm not a quitter. I'm a little warrior and you know a warrior is never afraid to lose. So I'm always going to get on that stage and make um whatever I need to do to change to make it better and um you know I'm not I'm not I'm not a quitter. So I'm so glad I kept going cuz here I am you know. Well I know your your routine was a little bit different. Your you know your presentation I mean you came out and really wowed the crowd. You know it's a hometown of course. So other than you know changing maybe your presentation a little bit. What else did you do with your physique um this time than you did last time? Um I trimmed down the waist a little bit. I lost a um I shredded it a little bit, a little bit more cardio. Um toned it up. Um tightened the glutes. So just a couple of um things to, you know, make it tighter. Um just, you know, little tweaks here and there to just to get it right. You know, I'm still in a working process. So, you know, little by little hopefully I'll get it just right and, you know, get that first place. All right. So, we got a second place. What's next? I'm doing Tampa. So, I'm super excited. But, you know, I'm still, you know, again, tweaking a little bit and hopefully um, you know, top No, number one, hoping for a win in Tampa is what hoping for a win in Tampa is what she's saying. Well, congratulations, Michaela. We are so excited for you. We've, you know, you've been a guest on Muscle Girls, Inc. So, very much excited for you. Again, this is Christina Voyage here at the Chicago Pro, the IFBB Wings of Strength with second place finish, Women's Physique Pro, Michaela Sto. Christina Voyage here for rxmuscle.com.