The Mast NT from BSN available now. This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 IFBB Phoenix Pro show. I'm here in the hotel room one night before the men's prejudging here with Michael Liberator. Mike, this is your pro debut. I know we've been talking about this on the site for quite a while. Are you ready to do some battle tomorrow? I'm I'm ready. I think this is the best I've looked. I'm the heaviest I've been. Uh how heavy is that? Uh you know, uh accurately, without lying, probably uh low 220s, you know, 220 which is five or six pounds more than you were. Well, I think at the nationals I was like 209. So that's that's even a bigger jump. That's about 10 lbs. Uh fullness. I mean, you you looked at me and you saw definitely fuller and rounder. Uh made improvements where I need to make improvements. Uh, I know I need to make more. This is my first show. But I think, uh, you know, with this lineup, if I can, uh, catch a couple guys sleeping, you know, that are getting ready for the Arnold and not necessarily, you know, coming in 100% here, uh, that I should be able to place well. I mean, my goal is top five. I think that's respectable. Um, I mean, I'll say I don't think there's five other bodybuilders in the show that are better than me. Uh, there might be four, and if I take fifth, I'll be happy. And anything better than that will will be will be better. I mean, if I take a third place uh for some for some reason, that will that's wonderful. Then I owe you dinner, right? Then then you owe me that then you owe me dinner and uh then uh I'll I would do the owe them. But I mean that's that's that's a lot of speaking. There's some good competitors here. There's some good uh veterans. But uh I I think I could stand with stand with a lot of them. Give us a little sneak peek of those legs. I I saw some uh pretty interesting stuff when you were posing before and they were pretty freaky looking. I I I you know, you always had good legs, but I think they even got better this time around. They're all crossdriated full. Um, you think do you just attribute this to a little bit more muscle maturity and another year and a half of growth? Um, a little bit. I train differently. Um, you know, I I I had an MRI done and found out what was wrong with my back. Uh, I have a slight herniated disc or two, L4, L5 and L5S1, which is, I think, common I think he said for like 50 or 60% of the people that are out there. Yeah. So, um, you know, I did a lot of things differently. I did a lot of single leg training, single leg press, uh vertical single leg press to even out my leg strength. You know, I noticed that when I would squat or do things or even double leg press, you always lean to of course the easier Yeah. to your strong and I and I noticed that my right leg was a little bit better or a little better, a little bigger. And I didn't want that. I didn't want deficiencies. So, I did a lot of single leg stuff. I went back to lunging, you know, and uh dumbbell lunging, you know, I worked myself up from 60s to eventually to 100s or 110s uh for, I don't know, 20 to 24 steps. And I, you know, people always say it's just an etching exercise. And I'll tell you, my glutes and uh hams never hurt so bad. When you do a lot of weight, it's not an etching exercise. No, it's not. And you know, Kai Green said something that, you know, your glute is a huge muscle. And if you want your glutes to look good on stage, you need that muscle. And I think a lot of guys will lack that. you know, I I can't uh I can't squat um free weight anymore, so I have to do it in a Smith press so I can keep my back straight up. Uh but I do that last and you know, I'll still squat with four or five plates last and with a belt and I don't have any problem. So a genetic genetic freak. Yeah, I've I've I've definitely learned, you know, you learn what works for you and it's and and this year I had a lot of soulsearching to do as far as you know, sponsor wise and, you know, moving wise and a lot a lot of different things. So, you know, this this is what I want to do and I want to, you know, eventually get to the top and, you know, this is where it starts. You're on you've been on the rise for the last couple years and I don't think you've had a decline yet. You had a a stellar year two years ago. Uh, you won almost three shows on the national level. So, this is your pro debut. I think you're going to do well. Give us a little arm shot sneak preview here as we uh we count you out, so to speak. Michael Liberator, one day before the IFBB Phoenix Pro show. Catch him on stage. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.