 I trust, I trust his opinion, who do you got winning this Olympia this year? I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, dose for maximum results, dose for maximum results, dose for maximum results, and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. We're here at the Meet the Olympians. I'm here with Milo Sarsev, one of the most opinionated guys in our business. I trust his opinion. Who do you got winning this Olympia this year? Well, I said in my reviews on the old school podcast, Samson first, Paddy second, Rick Rooster, Andrew Jack fourth, Nick fifth. You don't have to get it? I don't. Really? Why? I mean, listen, this is how it is. If I tell you right now, Kevin LeBronik, Flex Wheeler, Sean Ray, Dorian Yates, not just somebody there, somebody has to be first and somebody has to be sixth. Right. It doesn't mean like, oh, it's a night and day difference. No, I know, I know. So my preference is what I said. Right. Can Derek win very well? I mean, Jake Cotler thinks that he's going to win hands down. Yeah, yeah. You know, there's many people. It's just like, is this like me being hated? No. If I'm a judge and what I look for, you know, I mean, he can sneak in there. Right. Look, it's anybody's show. Why do you have Samson winning? He's complete package. He has everything that bodybuilding is all about. Shape, aesthetics, thickness, width. Crazy, crazy, crazy poses. He is close to 300 pounds. And now he is, as you said, in the best shape of his life. All right. So you can never discount Hardy. I think that Hardy could have been four to five times Mr. Olympia already. Guy is missing nothing, always brings it. And even like last year, oh, he was off. Like, what do you mean he was off? He was a little off. His legs were down. He's off for higher conditioning. But still, he was like way better condition than Samson, for example. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right? So this is how you look. Derek was second, first year, which is unthinkable, right? Yeah. Won second year and he was third and now he beat Samson. He was on the end. You know, listen, so it's anybody's show. I heard that Andrew Jack is in the best shape of his life. I talked to him yesterday. He said, wait until you see it. I saw a picture of him. He's good. You did? Okay. I haven't seen it. And it's bigger than ever, right? So we always think Andrew has that structure that can even beat Samson because he's wider. And then he has those crazy abs. He has a front double, lat spread. He's missing some body parts, though. Yeah. But he has some stellar process. And then, you know, when I talk about Bercruz, of course, everybody thinks that I'm out of my mind. Nick Walker called me like, I don't know, I'll be fucking mine. Listen. He's dangerous, yeah. Bercruz has the prettiest body in IBB. Yeah. If anybody sees his body, you cannot not want to be like that. Right, right. So, and he's like 265 pounds on a five, nine and a half. It's funny. He doesn't look that big. It's like deceiving. Yeah. Do you see him compete ever? Not in person, no. Not in person. So, it's good that you do. Yeah. So, this is going to be your first time. He's going to surprise you. I just hope they're going to give him a chance. Listen, to break into the top five is almost... He should get a first call just for the fact that he made it to the United States. No, I mean, if he deserves it, right? To break into the top five is almost impossible. You know, when you're realistic, okay, can he take those guys? Probably not. But if they gave him shot by shot, right? I think he can work his way in. And I see him always possibly as high as third. Thank you. Yeah. Milo Scorch ever. Two-five Scorch ever. Three-four Scorch ever. Three-four Scorch ever. Three-four Scorch ever.