This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 IFBB New York Pro Bikini Championships with our women's winner here, Missy Kohl's. I've been predicting you for weeks to win the show and I keep I was wrong and wrong and wrong and finally I get one right. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. I'm so excited. It's beyond words. Now, you skipped Pittsburgh. Was there a reason? I did. Actually, I had 2 days before I was supposed to fly up, I had a tooth infection that I had to go and get surgery on and taken care of. So, that is why I unfortunately had to skip Pittsburgh. Yeah. So, it was good luck for you. Looks like it was. It was couple days off, got back to the gym and then came here. So, what do you think uh enabled you to move? I mean, you you were stuck in like that third position uh at the last show you did. Um what did you do different? Did you do anything different? Did you just come in with the same confidence in uh and gusto and go up there and give it all? I you know what with training and everything, I just kept training. It was just a couple weeks longer of training and then as far as my performance and everything, I think it was the first show jitters um for the first one and then I just gave it all. I love New York. This is my favorite place and I just get energy from it and I love the stage and it just went out and did it. Of all the bikini competitors, you happen to have very very good conditioning. That's why I think I like it cuz I'm a conditioning person. Do do you diet very hard for this? Um, I do, but it's it's actually I eat the same thing leading up to the day of the show. I don't water deplete anything. Um, just eating very clean and healthy. Well, because if you did that, you'd probably get too hard, I would think. Right. Yeah, definitely. Definitely. So, yeah. So, but I I find it actually easy. I like my diet and everything, which is kind of crazy, but yeah. What What are the kind of foods you eat on your diet? Um, anywhere. So, it's le of course lean proteins, um, moderate carbs. We I love my sweet potato. It's very sweet when you don't get any other sweets. Um, you don't eat a lot of it, right? No, I do about six meals a day. So, but good portions. And, um, yeah. And spread a couple hours out and it's all good. You're a bikini girl, but you're not chugging beers on the weekend. Yeah. No, none of that. None of that. doing like wet t-shirt contest on the side. Oh no, I left those in the old days. Don't do that anymore. Did you do that back in the day? Maybe. I don't know. She does have a lot of good moves on stage, I have to admit. That's my back dance background. Yeah, I'm not going there. It's your uh your uh Hooters background. No, no, no, no, no Hooters. No Hooters. Congratulations. Are you going to Is your next show the Olympia or we going to see you again? You know what? I am thinking about doing um the Tampa show. It's my hometown. That's right. You live there, so it's right there. So, I think I'm going to do Tampa and then the O. All right, Missy Cole is our fig bikini champion here in New York, New York. We'll see her next in Tampa. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.