This is IFBBB figure pro Heather D's and I love my Species ISO bag. If you want to be like me, go to speciesnutrition.com and order yours today. Over the top with this weight above my shoulder. Some say I went rock other say I got boulder bl I told you I'll no longer be stepped on back last real soldier bulletproof tap on me I back out white made the whole world turn [\h__\h] black I'm standing here at the monster clothing booth which is probably the most rocking booth here at the Europa. I got to be honest with you, it struck my eye. I had to stop. I don't know if it was the guy with the red with the red hair or if it was the clothing designs or it was the crazy music, but everyone's stopping at this booth. Well, you know, after a while, you got to bring something new to the table. And Monster Clothing, we trying to innovate a little bit. We brought our DJ and stuff. This guy's really, really, really good. Making big waves. Uh getting rocked all over the the the US into Europe and stuff. Uh with DJ Nelson and stuff. He's become synonymous with the Red Mohawk. So, he's been our beacon of light and sound. So, it's been a lot of fun hearing stuff. We try and bring something to let the spectators have something new. Make it a party atmosphere. I after a while, even if you're not buying things, you're coming around and dancing. I like to see that. Want people to associate Monster with having a good time. End of the day, we're slinging shirts, but we're having a good time at it. Started this in 2009. You're from the Florida area here, obviously. I when I walk by, I love these shirts. I got to I love this juice shirt. The juice tank top is great. And I love the uh the green Hulk. The green hulked out shirt is is phenomenal. Uh how many shirts you selling at these shows? Oh my gosh. Thousands. Really? That many? Oh gosh. We we bring more than we really expect to sell just to make sure for the masses cuz we have so many people who request and we say, "Look, we're not going to ever run out." So we over bring and we almost every time sell out. We carry over 600 products. And we know you had that many different SKs. Well, I mean after a while there's only so much real estate. You can only fit so much. So, we bring what we feel is most popular, which always pisses everybody off. What's the most popular shirts? Show me. Oh, well, which one? Which one's the best selling? I mean, right now, gosh, I mean, it's really hard. We have a new black on black series that we're actually premiering that uh is only online right now, and everybody's going every say on it. No, it's the Monster logo, but it's all black on black, like a flat black on a on a black shirt, so it only shows when light. The Hulk out shirt right now has been probably our best seller right now. It's been We brought twice as much and we're pretty much sold out already. That's the number one selling here right now. Hulk out's probably the one. What do the women like? What What are the favorite women's clothes? Oh, probably Muscles the new skinny is our muscles the new skin. Let me see that. Hold that up. Pretty much this is cool colors. Yeah. I mean, we try and gear toward our market and stuff and just looking at, you know, I work out, my partner works out, he's an NPC judge. Uh, so we've been in industry for a while. We know what the customers like and we really try and listen to them instead of trying to say pushing what we feel they'll like. I've revamped this line probably three or four times from every time I've listened to my customers cuz I don't care what I like. It's what they like. I want to sell these shirts. Yeah. All right. I'm I'm looking to buy I want I think I might go with the green Hulked out shirt. You got an extra large here. Well, you know what? Because I know you're obviously with species and stuff. So, the green actually makes it. So, I think we might have to do a little Yeah. Why don't you make us Can you make us like a like a special species shirt? Monster shirt. Well, you'd be surprised. I got a lot of supplement companies asking us to come design their stuff and kind of co-brand it. So, I tell you right on the record right now, I'd love to do that. All right. I got them on record. All right. Get me one of these uh Hulked out in the extra large. And we got to get Johnny Styles one, too. Johnny, what what do you like? What style you What are you looking for? You want the uh the orange one or the black one? You like the red one? You want juice? Oh, he likes the juice. No, because juice is good to the last drop. I mean, everyone has a different meanings about it, but hey, we decide. Don't call BS on it. We just call it on the table. All right. So, what what are you wearing? A double XX or an extra large? Extra large. All right. Johnny extra. We're here at Monster Clothing. It's M O NL.com. Check out the hottest styles on the net right now in the bodybuilding world. I I'm impressed as hell with this booth. And if you're in the Orlando area, stop by here all day. These guys are rocking here. Thanks, man. Thanks, Dave. Appreciate it. Thanks. Peace out, guys. Heat. Heat.