! I've created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RxMustl.com, this is Ask Dave, your weekly 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever is on your mind, be it bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation, this is your forum to Ask Dave, whatever it is on your mind. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. We had touched on this topic a couple of episodes ago, but we could delve further into it now. This is more about the future of bodybuilding as you see it with there being a perceived or realistic shortage right now of anabolic or legitimate anabolic right now in the market. I think that at least the fear of it is that the drugs are not coming in from China the way they were, the raw materials that is. That might be because of tighter regulations both in the United States and in China. I hear China now is not able to send over the raws like they were in the past. There's more restrictions on them. Obviously tariffs also affecting stuff like that, but I think that's actually good for the market. I'll explain why. It sounds like it isn't, but it actually is good because I don't trust a lot of that stuff coming from China anyway. I don't think it's that pure. I don't think a lot of it is what they say it is. I think a lot of people pull the switcheroo on a lot of this stuff. I think guys are using pretty crappy anabox nowadays. There's never been a period in time when people need to access drugs, whether it be anabolic steroids or recreational drugs. There's always someone who's going to fill the need for it. I don't know if it's going to be starting to be made here maybe or maybe another country that does things a little better than China, possibly India or something like that. Or maybe like I said, maybe there'll be labs that open here that start making these raw materials. Whatever fills the marketplace or maybe there'll just be less restrictions on rejuvenation clinics and prescribing stuff. That to me is going to help the marketplace. It's going to help the body. It's going to help the body. I would not want to be competing in today's day and age because you don't know what you're using if it's real or not. Obviously, there are people who have good hookups with rejuvenation clinics that will prescribe reasonable amounts of anabox, but not everyone has access to that. Most people are using stuff that's made in people's basement essentially or in their bathroom. I don't like it. It's scary to me. I think that that's why guys are using the dosages that they're using today because I just think that the stuff is not as potent as the real stuff was maybe 10, 15 years ago. Second question again, these first two from the Day of Palumbo Experience app. This question about lab evaluations and again, when you're dealing with anabolics, you're dealing with the sport, competing in the sport, there are certain health markers that you have to be very particular about. When I do an ester dial test, what are the healthy ranges from doing an ultrasensitive test on lab sheets? I've noticed that the ranges are different if you're doing an ultrasensitive test versus just a normal ester dial test. From the way I understand this, the stuff I've read in the regular ester dial test, there's different forms of estrogen. Ester dial is esterones, but ester dial is the predominant ester. That's what we usually test. You can get a total estrogen test too, but most of the estrogen and the total estrogen test is coming from ester dial. Regular ester dial tests are very accurate for women. Evidently for men, the ultrasensitive ester dial test is more accurate. From what I've seen, some people can go for a regular ester dial test, which is obviously probably cheaper and more available. A lot of times, they'll say their levels are high and then they go for this ultrasensitive ester dial test and they're actually in range. I think that the regular ester dial is not necessarily accurate. I can attest to that because sometimes my levels come back really high and I have no estrogen side effects, estrogenic side effects. Sometimes if I do take an anti-estrogen, I immediately lose my sex drive. I only take 80 milligrams a week of testosterone in place. I know I really don't need an estrogen blocker. I think the ultrasensitive ester dial is better for men. For women, it doesn't matter which one you use. They're both accurate and that's probably the best way to go about it. If you're a guy and you can get the ultrasensitive, get the ultrasensitive. These two questions come from the Dave Pullamo Experience app. I know it's coming up on Christmas. People are looking for stocking stuffers. $29 a month, you can download the app from your iTunes story, Android story, you get Dave Pullamo in your back pocket as your coach. You have access to all my writings, all my videos I've done in an organized place. You can find everything. I have all my protocols in there, diets, keto diet, cyclical diet, off-season diet. I have all my cycles for beginners, advanced men and women detoxification programs. I work out, we put up every week. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum. You see everyone's questions and everyone's answers. A really good learning experience. Then, of course, I do a Q&A video exclusively for the app members every single week so you get an extra-asked Dave in the app. It's a learning experience. If you're a coach, if you're someone who just wants to learn about your body, this is a great tool to have. It's great continuing education. It's constantly being updated and evolving. It's constantly got new information on there. Like I said, for 29 bucks a month, you can't go wrong. Guess what? I want to thank you guys out there because you guys have been supporting it the last several years and it's grown every single month since then. That's why I keep doing it. Thanks a lot. Before we go to the rest of our questions, our friends at Titan Medical Center have a deal. Access to BPC with TV and KPV all in the same bottle. Also, they have Sildenafil 51MG, Tidalafil 15MG and Apple Morphing 2MG Rapid Dissolve at Titan Medical Center. Yeah, they finally combined the three drugs I wanted all together. The three supplements I should say, the TV 500 and BPC and the copper peptide. It's all together. These are the three main healing modalities that you want. You know what? It's a pain in the neck to have to buy separate bottles of everything. I do it because I like all three of them. But the truth of the matter is on a regular basis, I probably use BPC because I'm just too lazy to take all those shots. Now it's all in one bottle. In one formula, you get a lot more bang for your buck. And it's just more convenient. You don't have to take one shot. So I highly recommend you check it out. I don't know. It's wall supplies last. They just got it in. And I would call them up now, tell them Dave Palumbo Rx must have sent you for a discount and start healing. I tell people this all the time. I haven't used growth hormone for years and years and years. Even before I had my thyroid issue, but once I had my thyroid removed because of cancer, I got nervous. I said, I'll never use GH even if I have a surgery and I want to heal. I'll never do it because I don't want to risk if I have a couple rogue cells floating around. And I'll tell you something. Since I've been using the BPC and some of these healing peptides, I almost think I actually do think that they work better on a healing perspective than GH ever did. Obviously not going to build muscle like GH does, but for sure, their healing properties are much better. So if you have any pain, chronic pain, any injuries, check it out at TitanMedicalCenter.com. TitanMedicalCenter.com. Again, if you mentioned Rx muscle or Dave Palumbo, they will give you the Royal Treatment. Let's go to the rest of our questions from our YouTube community page. How many omega lies daily if I'm avoiding dietary fat completely? Well, the recommended replacement dose, in other words, the essential fatty acid amounts that your body requires is the three pills twice a day with food. Okay, so that's going to give you three grams of fish oil. It's going to give you 2.6 grams of evening primrose oil, which is going to give you your omega three and sixes. Those are the essential fatty acids. Okay, now, do your body need other fats to be healthy? Sure, but these are the ones your body can't synthesize and has sometimes a tough time getting them from food unless you're eating like wild corn salmon, the evening primrose oil, which is the GLA is almost impossible to get from your diet. So my recommendation is always take an essential fatty acid supplement. Now, some people just don't get enough mono and saturated fats from their diet. Like they don't eat avocados and they're not eating, you know, they're not taking an extra virgin olive oil or macadamia nuts. So for that purpose, you know, the macadamia nut oil that we make from species nutrition makes it very convenient, but those are not essential fats, but those are actually good, burning, heart healthy fats, you know, the mono and saturated fats. So once again, if you're not someone who eats any fat in your diet, I recommend the Omega-Li's, but then supplementing with the mac oil to maybe putting a tablespoon into the shake, you know, maybe you can get two, three tablespoons in a day, that's going to give your body the fat that it needs. Now, if you're eating fat in your diet, like avocados and like whole eggs and stuff like that, then you don't might not need to supplement, you know, with the macadamia nut oil. I still think it's a great convenience and it gives you some good, good fats in there and you can cook with it because it doesn't burn. But the Omega-Li's is something everyone should take every single day because those are the ones that you absolutely need. And the funny thing is you can take in enough fat, you could take in enough calories, and you might still not lose weight because if you don't take in the essential fatty essence in the right amount, what happens is your body thinks it's, it thinks it's being deprived of something and it tends to hoard fat and women, if you don't take enough essential fats, they hoard it, the fat in their butt and their thighs. And then if you don't take in enough essential fats, your body forwards it in your lower back around the waist. So if you're having stubborn areas that are not letting go of the fat and you're not taking in essential fatty essence of the triomegalized, it'll be, it's like magic. All of a sudden your body starts letting go of stuff that it wouldn't, was holding on for dear life, you know, before. Dave, before we go actually to the rest of our questions, we'd be remiss if we did not address the big addition of the species nutrition lineup, two big additions. One, the return of the legend himself, Lee Priest, rejoining species nutrition. We made the big grand announcement yesterday and obviously, you know how beloved Lee is around the world as it relates to bodybuilding fans. So it was quite a resounding, you know, feedback from the bodybuilding community. But then also, a product that we've been working on for quite some time and a product that you're very, very high on right now is a new addition to the lineup. Stimulize Max, reformulated version of Stimulize. Why is this the best pre-workout right now on the market? First of all, I thought you were going to ask me, you know, the most proud new signing for species. I thought you were talking about my white-headed cockatiel that we had just signed on for a seed endorsement. But I guess you surprisingly, that was not on my, no one is a poor part of my mind. It certainly wasn't the Teddy Bear Hamster that we also signed concurrently. I guess Lee is a bigger star than both of those. But yes, Lee Priest has rejoined us. Lee never wanted to leave. It came to a point when I was working with him because I'm his friend, where someone offered him an obscene amount of money, which when someone does that to you, it usually means that there's something attached to it. And I said, Lee, go take the money. Don't worry about it. You're always welcome back here. So he went and got it. And then he had a fall out with the person because they obviously were not, you know, giving him what he promised, but they promised him. And now we got him back. So I'm so happy to have Lee back in our species nutrition. He uses the products and he loves them. And I know we have a great friendship. So I'm so glad to have him back. But yes, Stimulize has come back. You know, it's funny, we took like almost a two-year hiatus on Stimulize because what happened was the other one worked really well. And it was a problem. It was getting hard. Like there's certain ingredients in there that can become caked up. And so I had to reformulate it. Plus I wanted to reformulate it anyway. So once I started, you know, Meeks said, once I get into doing something, I can't just change one ingredient and put it out again. I'm like, you know, I got to make it better. And once I started adding more citrulline and more data, we have like the most of the entire industry, which is going to obviously increase pumps. It's going to increase your endurance. And then I started tweaking the natropic formula so that you can get a better feeling and a real good feel, good feeling when you take it without having to jack the caffeine through the roof. And then I got all that tweaked and then all of a sudden I had to start make, I had to try to make it taste good. When you start adding all those ingredients, it doesn't taste good. So then I got my flavor guys on it and I was driving them crazy. And then I wanted two flavors instead of one flavor. So a year and a half later, we finally got, look, you know what, it's worth the wait. Because I'd rather put out something that tastes great and works amazing than put out a mediocre product that just because for the sake of putting it out. So the new Stimulize Max, both flavors are absolutely, there's nothing better on the market than it. You know, I don't know if it's what the price is compared to other peoples. It's probably price pretty comparable. But I'm telling you, when you try it, you'll tell me I'll never use another pre-workout. I don't care what the hype is on all these other ones out there. Quality wise, pumps, endurance, mental folk, you're going to feel like you're on an antidepressant. I've said it a million times, I'm going to continue saying you feel so good on this product that you're not going to want to take it every single day. And the great thing is it tastes good. Hiding the taste of some of these, these supplements that are in that product is really, really tough. I got to give, you know, congratulations to our flavor guys. They did an awesome job with this product and it's available now at speciesnutrition.com. Check it out. It's it's going to knock you socks off. So again, check it out. Brand new, stimuli. Plus, plus we also have pumpkin spice back in stock. I want to mention that holiday flavor, only for the holidays. We did a limited run once they're done. They're done. I promise you, if you order it, it's the best tasting flavor we have. If you like pumpkin spice, everyone swears to me it's got a ton of sugar in it. It must have sugar. That's how good it tastes. It has zero carbs in it. It's, it's spectacular. 28 grams of protein per serving, the highest in the entire industry. No one uses a better way. I slip and I do. I know that because when I talk to the manufacturer, they say no one buys the highest grade isolate. You're the only one. So you know what? If you want a great tasting product for the holidays, only check out the pumpkin spice. And of course, if that flavor once it's gone, it's gone. Perhaps it'll make a comeback in fall of 2026. We've proceeded the rest of our questions. This is a question that we do get fairly often as far as a general guideline. Must have supplements. Well, this one is a little bit more tilted on top. I mean, he said five to 10. Let's stick to maybe three to five. Top three to five supplements one should be taking daily if they're on gear. I mean, he did mention fish oil, et cetera, but specific to if they're enhanced. Yeah. The top three supplements will never change. Whether you're on gear, you're not on gear, you're a man, you're a woman, you're something else. The nutrition is nutrition. You need essential fatty acids. Okay. You need vitamins, minerals, trace metals, antioxidants, polyphenolics, because those run all the chemical reactions in the body. Okay. So if you don't take those in, in the right amounts with absorbable sources of ingredients, then you're cheating yourself. So you're training hard in the gym, you're eating enough protein, you're eating enough fat, eating enough carbs, and then you're not getting the right micronutrients to do the chemical reactions, which are protein synthesis, fat metabolism. I mean, it's insane not to address that. So they're necessary. And I made things very easy. And I'm not trying to make this a species nutrition promotional, you know, episode, but it's just so happy that that's the way the questions work out. I made the mineralized for the vitamins, minerals, trace metals, antioxidants, polyphenols. I made omega-lides for the essential fatty acids in the right doses. I did all the research. I did all the work for you. All you got to do is take them. Okay. And then of course, fiber-lides, which is something that a lot of people do not get enough of, an essential fiber supplement that has actually fiber that's potent. We use the highest swell rate cilium in fiber-lides. That's why it's the most potent fiber product on the market. It's also the best tasting. And guess what? With all the people nowadays doing GLP-1 agonists, like Redutruti, you know, Mandaro, Osepik, if you have to, it's not even a, maybe I should, you will have to take a fiber supplement twice a day if you do those drugs, because you will not poop. The way the drug works is it slows your digestive tract. When your digestive tract slows down, it makes you less hungry. Okay. Takes away your appetite. But what it also does is it leaves the food in the colon longer. What's the colon job? To extract fluid. It takes the moisture out of the waste. The longer it sits in the colon, the more fluid it takes out. And then what happens is you get impacted. You can't poop. You can't constipate it because it's not moving. When you take fiber-lides because it gels up your fecal matter, it just slides at you. So you actually have to take a fiber supplement if you're on a GLP-1. You should do it anyway, because it's healthy for your gut. It feeds the gut bacteria, because the gut bacteria ferment the soluble fiber, which makes them healthier and creates a more fortified barrier inside your colon, small intestine against leaky gut. But in the very least, if you're on a GLP-1, you better use fiber-lides. So those are the three supplements. V-mineralized, omega-lized, fiber-lides. Made it easy. Do you have to use mine? No. You can use other brands, but you're going to have to piecemeal it all together. I took the work out of it for you. And I'm telling you, if you try those three products only, that would be great. Now, if you're enhanced, obviously, there's some other aspects of what's going on. You're creating a little bit of liver toxicity, right? Because the liver breaks down all animal steroids. So I would recommend some kind of a milk-fissile, TUDCA product possibly. I sell a product from Bill Llewellyn called Liverstable at DavePolombo.com. It's a great, great product. You might want to just go on Amazon and Google TUDCA. And you can get that. It kind of helps free up. If you have a sludgy gallbladder, it'll kind of make that work a little better. But at the very least, you should use a product like Liverstable or some kind of milk-fissile, cilmarine product every single day. If you're on gear, especially at Orals, the long-acting antibiotics, they're not really that toxic to the liver. And keep control of your blood pressure, because high blood pressure damages the kidneys. So it's not the steroids that cause the kidney damage. It's the high blood pressure. So if your blood pressure is running high, consider taking an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin receptor blocker, like Ramapril or Lucinapril for the ACE inhibitors or Helm-a-Sartan, well-Sartan for the angiotensin receptor blockers. It's protection for your kidneys. No one told us that when I was competing back in the day. I wish they did. It's not going to inhibit your gains at all, but it will protect your kidneys. Question about Orals for Longevity. Are there any Orals or Longevity supplements that have been proven, I guess to quote unquote, add years to your lives, melatonin, Oral, glutathione, resveratrol, anything that you have taken or you would recommend? There's a million things out there nowadays for, it's supposed to be Longevity. Everyone has all their different cocktails. I use some AAD+, which I get from Titan Medical Center, which is good for cognitive function for mitochondrial refortification. I think that that's a smart supplement. You could only take glutathione injectively. It's not orally absorbable. You can take anesthetal cystine, which is a precursor to glutathione, but if you're going to take glutathione, you have to inject it. I take 200 milligrams, maybe five, six days a week. Once again, I get that from Titan Medical as well. I like those products because they're great for detoxification, antioxidants. They help your body process energy better. As we get all that, we lose some of that ability. I also take melatonin before bed. I take my somalize product, three pills before bed. It's three milligrams of melatonin. If I'm traveling overseas, I'm going to India next week for a week. I will use a, the somalize, but I will also add more melatonin, usually another five, sometimes even 10 milligrams prior to bed when I get to the country that I'm going to because I want to reset my biologic clock, my my bio rhythms in my body. My brain thinks, it's morning, it's actually nighttime in India. I have to reset that. I'll add that on top of the somalizer. That works really well. Melatonin, as we get old, as we know, the pineal gland kind of shrivels up a little bit. Taking some melatonin supplement is good. There was a study that someone sent me recently saying that people who take melatonin are more prone to getting heart failure or something like that. But they didn't really look at it as people with heart failure or heart problems have trouble sleeping at nights. So a lot of people don't want to doubt them going to sleep. So I don't believe that melatonin poses heart failure. If that's a question I'm going to get, I think that it was a, they come up with the stupidest data from extrapolating these studies. They just, they don't look at the obvious. They look at the not non-obvious just to point out, hey, look at all these people who think melatonin have heart failure. Well, look at all these people who have heart failure who don't sleep at night and how many prescriptions do they take for ambian and Xanax and all these other ones as well. So, but I think those supplements I mentioned, there are other people take that formin supposedly helps longevity, but metformin decreases IGF-1 release from the liver, which is not good for bodybuilding. I'm not a big fan of it. Some people take that rapamycin, which I couldn't take at all. I think it's very dangerous. And, you know, everyone's, you know, got this thing about telomere length, just the length of, you know, of the, of the DNA strands, you know, as the telomere is short and supposedly that means you're, you know, your lifespan is going down and down. I don't think there's a real cause and effect at this point. I don't think there's any supplements to prove that you could increase your telomere length. They're only doing stuff like this on studies on mice and stuff like that. So I don't buy into all the like hokey type supplements. I know it works and I seem to stick with that. And I'm not going to, like I said, take 400 different things because what's going to happen ultimately if you start doing that is you're going to get interactions between all these things and you're going to get some side effects and you're not going to know what the hell is causing them because you're taking too many things at the same time. So I don't recommend that. In all your years of obviously being in this sport, covering the sport of all the bodybuilders that you've met, who would you say is the absolute number one freakiest in person, male and female? I mean, it's not even close. I mean, Greg Kovacs was the freakiest because, you know, he might not have had the best physique, but he was the freakiest because I, you know, we're talking about a guy who was, you know, six, two, six, two and a half, 420 pounds. I mean, remember, I was a hunt, I was 320 at my biggest and people thought I was enormous. He was 420. That's 100 pounds bigger than they, you know, when we walked around together, no one even looked at me. You know, that's how big he was. No one freaky than he is. And because just to the sheer mass of size and he was like a monster almost, you know, so that was the most impressive I've seen in person as far as men, as far as women go. I don't know who the freakiest was, you know. A lot of the women that looked really good in clothes, they didn't look that big, but when they took that clothes off, they looked really good. I mean, Iris Kyle at her best was, I thought she had the greatest physique of all time, you know, I mean, just off the charts. I mean, like she was like Ronnie Coleman, you know, at her best. So I would say Iris, you know, but in clothes, you would never know Iris looked like that. Walking around in clothes, I can't walk off the top of my head and think of who was the most freakiest in terms of women goes. But I would say that Iris Kyle, it was the most impressive. Question about PCT. Is it necessary to do PCT two weeks of HDD, two weeks of Clomid, when you're over 60? Or since you've practically no natural testosterone, is it unnecessary and can you go directly to TRT? Once again, it kind of goes back to what your goals are. Like, if you're competing still at 60 years old, then I want you cleaning out. And it's not that I want you cleaning out because you because the drugs are toxic, I want you cleaning out because I want to get your receptors to start working again. So when you get off gear, okay, and when you go, you do two weeks of HDD, two weeks of Clomid, then you do four weeks off of everything. During that four week off period, where there's nothing in there, your body doesn't know that it doesn't have enough testosterone. All it knows is the angiogen receptors are not being stimulated. So when it, what the body does, and I've said this a million times, I'm going to repeat it because it's worth repeating, people keep asking the question, the body starts producing more angiogen receptors because it's not getting a response. And the reason it's not getting a response is there's no testosterone around or very little of it. The body doesn't know that it just thinks there's not enough receptors. So over that course of that four weeks, you're on nothing, your body's going to increase its receptor density, like, you know, and everyone, I guess it increases it differently, but significantly up regulate those receptors. Then when you go back on a cycle, even if you just go back on HRT, your body's going to respond really well. Okay. Now, if you never went on a full blown cycle, then you don't have to do that. Like if you're always on HRT, you're never really over stimulating the receptors and down regulating them. But if you do, you know, a cycle because you're competing, then you will down regulate those receptors and we want to get those receptors back. Now, if you're just, if you say, you know what, I did my last show, I'm 65, I'm done, I just want to be healthy and just feel good, then you can just go on HRT and stay on that forever. But, but if you're going to do another cycle, my suggestion is to definitely do the PCT clean out like I recommend and stay on my test alive, product the entire time, because that will keep estrogen DHT levels in check. So actually, I have a couple of multiple questions on this about macadamia nut oil. When it will come back and then one person act directly is the situation in South Africa, I'm not aware, maybe you can elaborate a little bit more about this is the whole situation in South Africa affecting sourcing from macadamia nut oil. Now, the macadamia nut trees are still producing nuts. We miscalculated. It's a good problem to have. We sold so much macadamia nut oil so fast, because I guess everyone now is finally catching on to how great it is, it tastes great, it's super healthy, it's great burning fat, it's good to add to your diet. And, you know, we sell on Amazon so much of it to like regular people now that we ran out. We just got caught with our pants down and then we ordered it and then there was a shipping, I guess it was a shipping problem, but because you know, it's coming from South Africa, they got to put it on a boat and I guess the boat, it missed the boat, I don't know what happened. So it was delayed by two weeks or three weeks. So it really what happened though is we ran out of it too fast, you know, because we kind of can predict how much, you know, you sell on a monthly basis. And so you know when to reorder it and we order it like 10,000 bottles at a time. We're ordering small batches and we just ran out too fast. So I mean, thank you guys for buying it. It will be back, I think, very shortly. I think within the next week or two we'll have it back and stop. Take one more question. This one about insulin dosage. I'm trying to dial in my insulin dosage, my fast and blue codes. ! But my cardiac CT scan with contrast came back at 9 and my triglycerides are low. Now, that doesn't mean in five years from now you might not start laying down, but I so you want to definitely follow up every like five years with it with the CT cardiac CT scan or even more frequently if you're a neurotic like I am. But yeah, I would not address it with a statin. Statins are really bad. Statins inhibit cholesterol production in the body. And remember cholesterol is what your brain uses to repair itself. So the all the neurons in your brain and all the neurons in your body use cholesterol to make the myelin sheets that, you know, conduct the nerve impulses. If you don't have any in that present or you don't have enough of that raw material present that cholesterol, you're not going to repair those myelin sheets and you're going to start getting dementia. So they've definitely shown a linkage between statin usage and early dementia. So I would never use a statin. Now the only time I might consider it is that I have a family history of high cholesterol and heart disease and early death and my cholesterol is high and I have blockages in my coronary arteries. Different story. So if you're in a desperate situation, you might have to do that. But if you don't have any blockages and your cardiac CT scan is clear, I personally, I'm not a doctor, you know, but I wouldn't use a statin in that situation. That's going to be for this episode of Ask Dave right now on the channel. And all in a very heavy episode of the After Hours podcast, Amin Alay, who self-reported yesterday for his prison sentence, appeared on the show and kind of gave his final thoughts before going into prison real life. And Amin, as real as it gets really for any YouTube or TV programming. So go check that out. So it's one of the real ones, one of the real episodes. One more thing I wanted to say. You know, on After Hours too, we reported that I had talked to Hayley McNeff's mother because as you know, he reported that she died of a cocktail of like fentanyl, heroin and cocaine. And you know, she had told me that she hadn't received any notification from the authorities on a nootopsy report or toxicology. So as far as she knew, there was none. So she didn't even know what the cause of death was. She reported to me today that they got back to her and somehow they leaked the information to TMZ. I don't know how they got it before the mother did and before her father got it, but they did and it is accurate. So that she did die with that drug cocktail. Unfortunately, it's pretty sad. You know, a lot of people are dying of fentanyl, not that the cocaine and the heroin was safe, but obviously when you add fentanyl to the mix, it's a deadly combination. And unfortunately, that's what killed her. So just to clarify. So again, all new episode of the After Hours podcast and then of course Sunday nights episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. I keep saying Sunday night. Heavy Muscle Radio is now a staple for Monday, early afternoon, US Eastern Standard Time. It was Dave, it was Chris, you know, it was Kamala Elgarni talking about Andrew Jack's big resounding win at the Romania Pro. Chris obviously his coach, but Kamala, who really has been the training partner for Andrew Jack pre-Olympia going into the Olympia and then of course for the Romania Pro. So some very interesting insights into Andrew. Many people see him now as a rising prospect for the 2026 Olympia titles to go check that out. And so subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss this or any other segments that we have on this channel for Dave Polumbo. I'm Sadee Furukyi. We'll see you next time.