Is Baldinone equipoise kidney toxic? That's what they're saying. Find out what I got to say about it next. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your 30 minute weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. all your questions. Be it bodybuilding, be it non- bodybuilding, be vit diet training, supplementation. If you have questions about pros contest, obviously this past weekend, the big Pittsburgh Pro, Dave and I, as well as Chris Cto were there on hand. Got some excellent content, which you have on the channel right now. We did prejudging and finals recaps with Dave, with Chris and seventime Mr. Olympia, Phil Heath. So, you do not want to miss that. He had a lot of gold Phil had a lot of golden things to say. um you know about Nick Walker, about Derek, about the decision and about just about everything else in and around the Pittsburgh Pro. Uh we have interviews, pre-show interviews with uh Derek Lensford, Martin Fitzwwater, and of course Nick Walker. So again, all that on the channel as well as new episodes of the after hours podcast and then Heavy Muscle Radio, Dave and Chris doing a full digest of the 2025 Pittsburgh Pro with the show expo, the whole show, an absolute success. It was a real real fun time to be there. So again, all the content from that on the channel. Let's go to the questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, how to bulk up if you have gird. You can't really eat much also small meals. This is a new thing I have to have struggled with. Any ideas would be helpful. Yeah, gird is a gastroosophageal syndrome. Essentially what happens is you get acid goes up into your esophagus and burns your esophagus. So obviously the more food in your stomach the more it could push up there. A lot of times it happens because we have what's called a hiatal hernia. So the esophagus is the food tube. So you swallow and then the esophagus is a long tube and it goes through your diaphragm which is a flat muscle. And when it goes through the diaphragm into the stomach, the problem is that the the esophagus is normally pinned between the diaphragm muscle. But a lot of times it could get herniated. And so what happens is instead of being glued here essentially, it moves. And when it moves and the diaphragm muscle contracts, it pushes the food back up into your throat and into the upper part of the esophagus where it shouldn't be because the stomach has acids in it. And those acids come back up. And it's it's not just acid indigestion. it's actually burning the esophagus and that could actually lead to to to esophageal cancer down the road. So, it's not a good thing. It's not it's not fun for people who have it. And uh what I recommend that people do is eat smaller, more frequent meals. So, um if you eat, you know, a small meal, but you eat it more frequently. So, let's say you need to eat, you know, 500 grams of protein for the day and you're like, I just can't do it with my with my gird. You know, you normally you would do that over six meals, but if you try to do it over eight or 10 small meals, and I know that's a pain in the ass, but look, if you have that as as a limitation on yourself, you have to figure out a way to get around it. If you don't, then you're just you might as well just give up bodybuilding, right? Because if you can't eat enough food, you number one, you're not going to grow. And number two, when you're dieting, you're not gonna you're not going to retain your muscle mass. So don't make medical conditions you have be a limitation on yourself. Find a way around it. And the the best way around it is small frequent meals. Second question, again, these two from the the Dave Palumbo Experience app. At six weeks out, I'm starting to decrease my carbs. I was doing 17 grabs 17 gram carbs per meal, seven meals. The way the way I do is taking away from the last meal top to bottom. I know you said it's better just to space it out equally, but I feel my body responds better like this. However, when I was doing carbs in my last meal, my glucose level were at 96 fasted since I decreased my last meal carbs. My sugar levels are 81. That means it's the best way to do it in my bulking season. If this is um what do you think? I mean, if you're controlling your blood sugars, you know, with not eating carbs at the last meal, then then do it. I mean, as long as you're getting the right amount of carbs for the day. So, you know, whether you spread it over five meals or six meals or seven meals, it doesn't really matter. I I'm just against putting it in two like some guys will eat all their carbs in two meals pre-workout and post-workout. That's ridiculous. If you if you're finding that you're having high fasting blood sugars in in the morning and you want to, you know, get rid of those and and you can, you know, limit carbs in the last meal, I have no problem with that. That's not going to affect your gain. So, I think that's perfect. These are very good questions, by the way. The first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. You know, I've been getting a lot of people telling me, "Dave, I love that app. It's such a good source of information. All your your protocols are on there. All your drug cycles are on there. All the articles you've written are on there. It's organized in a really, you know, easyto- read manner to find the stuff we want. We love that you answer everyone's questions in an open forum so that everyone gets to see everyone's questions and answers. It's a really big learning experience. Plus, they love the extra video. It's like they get an extra ask day of video every single week. I never miss although I owe to this this week. Um, but the point is it's a constant learning experience. And for $29 a month, you download it at your iTunes store or your Android app store and you get Dave Palumbo in your back pocket. You guys have been supporting the app for several years now we've been doing this. We have a lot of members. Thank you. You know, it it does make me a few extra bucks and that does inspire me to keep doing this thing. So, if you haven't subscribed already, try it. Try it for a month. No, there's no uh strings attached. I think you'll really love it and you'll continue doing it. And once again, that will encourage me to keep doing it as well. So, thank you. Before we go to the rest of our questions, our friends at Titan Medical, Dave, have a 10% off all their medical weight loss therapy. So, again, you have that fully displayed right there. And as always, if you call 727-389-3220 or get through them at titanmedicalcenter.com, mention Dave Palumbo Rxmuscle and of course, they will hook you up. Yeah, these uh these GLP-1 especially peptides, you know, the ones that like are ompic maro, the new, you know, retruchide, uh they're amazing. If you're a cheater on your diet and you like to, you know, snack in between meals because you're always hungry, these GLP-1 agonists are absolutely going to change your life. And I know a lot of women and a couple men that are like that. and they and it changed their life. If you're like like me, like a regimented lunatic where you never actually eat an extra morsel of food, you probably won't notice quite as much in terms of the fat loss. But for a lot of people, it's very hard, especially they have jobs, they're hungry all day, and they can't stick to the diet. These modalities are phenomenal. And I'm telling you, they're doing 10% off now. It's very hard to get from your doctor. They're out of stock a lot. They're expensive. Titan's got a great deal on them. normally normal price is a great deal. Now they're offering 10% off this week. So check it out. Tell them we sent you and uh get that great discount. Let's go to the rest of our questions. We take questions from our Instagram, our YouTube community page, our various social media outlets. Uh VIP Lakor, never heard this before, but I've been hearing this recently. Some of these influencers claim that Baldinone is directly kidney toxic. Is this true? I personally don't believe it. Yeah. All anabolic steroids are metabolized by the liver. all of them. There's not a single one. We there used to be this like uh old wives tale that that trenalone was was kidney toxic and it's not kidney toxic. But what trenalone does is it raises blood pressure. So it indirectly can damage the kidneys, not directly. So these there are drugs that are metabolized by the kidneys. You know ibuprofen and everything like that is kidney toxic. But anabolic steroids are broken down by the liver and all of them are broken down by the liver. The only like like I said the only thing that can cause kidney issues in bodybuilders who take anabolic starch is blood pressure increases which happen with a lot of anabolics. You know the more water that the anabolic makes you hold usually the higher your blood pressure will go. So always check your blood pressure and if you need to you take a mild ACE inhibitor like ramipril leinipril while you're on cycle just to keep that blood pressure normal so you don't damage those kidneys. But EQ, boldenote, whatever you want to call it, does not have direct li uh kidney toxic effects. That's not true. Let's go to uh big ant. What are the two biggest changes in nutrition and weight training you would have made when you were in prep now that you I if you go back to your career, some of the mistakes you may have made during prep that you would have corrected, you know, knowing what you know now. Yeah, I get this question a lot, you know, and and I and I I've thought about it, you know, the first half of my career, I didn't I didn't eat enough fat because I didn't know anything about fats. And so that was a that was a correction that happened more in the second half of my career and fiber. I didn't know anything about fiber. The last couple years I was using fiber, but I I was using Metamucil, which really was not a very, you know, good fiber. It was better than nothing, but that's why I made fiber because I needed something that was better. And I did a lot of research into fiber and I found out that there were different grades of psyllium and the high swell rate psyllium while the most expensive is the most potent. And that's why when everyone uses fiberized they're like wow it works better than all the other ones out there. Oh because we we put the best ingredients in it. You know I never claim to have the cheapest brand or the best deals. What I claim to have is the best products out there. And that's every product that we put out from Species Nutrition is the highest quality that that that money can buy. I don't care what the cost is because I I believe that bodybuilders and and and people who care about their health will spend a few extra dollars to have the best. And I'm not gonna get the Walmart crowd. I understand that. And that's fine. This that's my niche. My niche is to say I have the best stuff. And no one can say Dave doesn't have the best stuff. All they can say is, "Well, it's a little more expensive than everyone else's." I think once again that's fine because I spend more money on food products and and and any kind of products that I think are higher quality because I want the best stuff especially if I'm putting it into my body. I want the best stuff and that's why the the fiberiz is so potent. You know, I'm not I can certainly make a lot more money on it if I cheapen the the product, but I'm just not going to do that because I want to say I have the best. And so that that's really, you know, the mentality that you have to have in life or at least I need to have in life is to always put out the best quality stuff. Let's go to uh GB. Uh help explain the following blood uh blood lab results. Fasting glucose 96 mgdl fasting insulin 3.5 ulu ml 54 years old, 234 pounds, eating high protein, low carb, uh higher good fats on TRT and two IUs GH daily. Why is my fasting glucose high? Well, right off the bat, I mean, we can say it's we can blame growth hormone if we want to, but what he didn't tell us is what was his fasting blood sugar without the two IUs of GH a day. Remember, GH acts antagonistically to insulin, meaning it it kind of inhibits it. So, in order for your body to absorb, you know, blood sugars and the reason why the fasting sugars go up first and and the regular post-meal ones don't is because when you're sleeping right before you wake up, your body releases an enormous amount of glucose from the liver, okay, to get your body ready for waking up. Um, and if you're if you're not producing enough insulin, whether it be because the beta cells can't produce enough or they're producing as much as they can and GH is inhibiting some of that, doesn't matter what the cause is, you'll wake up with high fasting blood sugars over 90. You know, when you get to the high 90s and into the 100s, it starts getting to the dangerous level. Dangerous in the sense that long term you're going to start accumulating side effects. Okay? You might not notice it short term, but you'll notice it long term. That's why we we say to address it immediately. Now, if he wasn't taking the two eyes of GH, he might his natural insulin production might be enough that he might wake up in the night at 90, you know, or under 90, um, sometimes a little bit of GH can cause a lot of insulin resistance or a little, you know, antagonism to insulin. What's the what's the solution? Well, if you want to stay on GH and you're and you're in your 50s, because look, let's face it, when we I I hate to say this because it, you know, it seems like a very negative thing to say, but it's it's very true. when you hit like your late 40s and early 50s and then obviously late, you know, older than that, things just don't freaking work as well. I hate I hate to admit it. My brain's working pretty good, but my, you know, your body just doesn't recover as well. It doesn't heal itself as well. It doesn't produce as much insulin. And so, it doesn't surprise me that someone in their in their late 40s, mid-4s, early 50s is running high fasting sugars. I see it all the time. It's amazing. I see it in young people, too. And it's always in the young people who's has a family history of it. So I'll get a guy like, you know, 32 and he's like, I don't know why my fasting sugar is 105. And I'm like, you have any diabetes in your family? Oh, every my aunt has it. My mother has it. My grandmother has it. So they have a genetic predisposition for that. But there is a solution. And people think I look I've read some of the comments on on the video I did, you know, about telling saying that Dorian's wrong about taking insulin. People might think I'm crazy, but you know what? When I get older, I'm not going to have dementia and I'm not going to have side effects from high blood sugars. And you guys are. So, insulin replacement is going to be the new testosterone replacement in 10 years from now. So, I'm ahead of the curve. I've always been ahead of the curve. And you could agree with me or not agree with me. There's nothing wrong with taking a long acting insulin. What you're doing is you're taking the burden off your pancreas and you're lowering those fasting blood sugars and you're giving the body your ability to do it. Why starve yourself? Why? Why do I have to at zero percent body fat not eat any carbs in my diet so that I can keep my fasting blood sugars normal? I'm not doing it. I want to eat. I I can eat. I have a fast metabolism. I just don't produce enough insulin. So, I take a long acting insulin to compensate for that. This person in their 50s, if you want to take GH, knock yourself out, but you you have a 96 fasting blood sugar. You're going to eventually accumulate side effects. Take a long acting insulin with it and that will bring that sugar and it'll allow you to eat what you want. the question two questions ago, the guy had I can't eat carbs before bed. If I do, I wake up high. If I don't, it's normal. Well, take a long acting insulin. You can eat as many carbs as you want. You know, as long as you're not fat, who cares? The problem is that people are not efficiently absorbing their their their calories either. I have guys that come to me and they're not able to grow. They haven't grown for three years. You know, I see that fasting sugars are a 110. We put them on a long acting insulin and guess what? They start growing all of a sudden because now they're efficiently absorbing their food. So, there is a there is a method to the madness. so to speak, from a health perspective and from a bodybuilding perspective. You could deny it or not deny it. I'm giving you guys the the the the knowledge to do with what you want with it. Many doctors are not going to prescribe long acting insulin. They just don't they're not there yet. Just like they wouldn't prescribe testosterone replacement 20 years ago. Now it's like, you know, everyone's on it. So, you know, be ahead of the curve. That's what I told them. We have a question about trozepatide. I'm currently on a weekly dosage through my indoc indocctrinologist with tzepide zeppbound. Uh my trainer coach told me that I'm not gaining any muscles due to the fat through the weight loss drug even though I'm currently at 15% body fat. He said I need to stop it in order to gain real muscle. Any suggestions? Is this true regarding tepatide? Well, if you're on trizepatide, I'm assuming that you want to burn fat and get lean. So, it goes back to the old conundrum. You can't do both at the same time. It's very hard to build muscle and burn fat at the same time. You can build a little bit of muscle and burn and burn a little bit of fat, but you're going to sacrifice one or the other. So, that's why we do we cycle our training in our diets. When we are doing weight gaining or muscle gaining diets, we're eating more food. We're wanting the the food to move through our digestive tract quicker so we can absorb it faster and and and manipulate it. in which case you would not want to use a GLP, you know, agonist which slows down the digestive tract and takes away your hunger. And then when you do diet, okay, and you want to burn off the body fat and maximize that, that would be the time to takeide or ompic or or something like that to then, you know, maximize your fat burning, prevent yourself from cheating, take away your the appetite between meals. The those drugs do not affect muscle mass whatsoever. The reason people lose muscle on those drugs is because they don't eat enough protein and they and they they starve themselves all day and that's a problem. So, as bodybuilders or physique athletes, we really don't fall into that category because we still keep our structured eating program with the GLP-1 agonist. And when you do that, you get good benefits. You lose fat, you maintain muscle. So, these drugs themselves do not burn muscle. It's the lack of eating that burns muscle. When you're trying to grow, I wouldn't take these drugs because you're not gonna have enough of an appetite. Unless you're just one of these guys that are just get fat by looking at food and you just you need something to to temper you back a little bit, in which case that might be okay. But in most situations, I wouldn't recommend a GLP-1 in the offseason. Question from uh the blonde myth. Uh, is it plausible that doing four calorie deficit days plus three calorie surplus days per week could be as effective or more effective than say cutting for a few months than bulking for a few months? Aka, I guess quote unquote zigzag dieting. Once again, we're going back to the same situation I just addressed. They're people are trying to do two things at the same time. They're trying to grow and burn fat at the same time. And when you do that, you don't do either one very effectively. You'll get a little bit of fat burning and you'll get a little bit of muscle building, but you kind of look almost the same. And then people feel frustrated because when you zigzag, you're going up and down and up and down and up and down. So you're gaining a little bit, then you're losing it. You're gaining a little bit, you're losing a little bit. You're not So you're not really moving anywhere. It's like walking up and down a flight of steps. Like you walk up two steps, you walk back two steps, you walk up two steps. So you you're you're you're really in more of a maintenance phase when you're doing that. And so that's why I tell people in order to gain, you have to be in a a surplus, not a calorie surplus. You need to be in a macronutrient surplus, meaning you need extra protein, extra fats to build that muscle, enough carbs to fuel the process. When you're trying to diet and lose body fat, you need to be in a macro deficiency, meaning you need enough protein and fat to maintain muscle, but you need to be in a low enough amount of carbs so that you can burn fat and use the fat as fuel instead of the carbs. And that and it's that simple. It don't make it more complicated than that. You can certainly, you know, gain muscle without getting fat by not eating excessive amounts of carbs, but don't try to diet and and get big at the same time. You're going to be you're going to fail miserably. Um, I've been taking MK-677 as soon as I wake up on an empty stomach. 30 minutes later, eat my pre-workout meal. Post-workout, I take a 10 mcg shot of IGF-1 LR3. There's about 3 to 5 hours in between the pill and injection. Is this the most optimal way of taking both of these at once or would you do something differently? What was the pill he's taking? Uh MK-677 and then he's taking yeah a shot of IGF-1 LR3. I would probably take the um the MK-677 in the morning, believe it or not, with before breakfast because it kind of makes you hungry and your GH levels are naturally lowest in the morning. So post-workout, you're taking the the IGF, so it's going to do nothing then. Before bed, you release GH at night, so you don't need it then. But I would take it in the morning when your body naturally doesn't produce GH and make your body produce some growth hormone in that morning so that you can have change that catabolic morning into an anabolic morning. Uh I was literally on another page. Uh I'll save this one to the end. It's about All right. BCAAsbest time to take BCAAsand how effective are they for recovery? There seems to be some debate now as far as the overall benefits of taking BCAAs. Well, branch chain amino acids, you know, turn on mTor, which is the protein machinery that builds muscle, right? So, you definitely want to turn it on post-workout, but you know, sometimes, you know, if you're if you're having a post-workout shake, then you don't really need the BCAS then. Um, I in an offseason scenario, I like to drink branched chain amino acids, my essentials. I use my amino evolved while I'm training. So, I'll sip that while I'm training. So, you constantly have a nice influx of amino acids. When you're dieting, you don't want to do that because your body will use those branched chain amino acids and the essential amino acids for energy. Okay? So, but offseason, I'll drink it. I always have all my clients sip amino evolve while they're while they're training throughout the workout. Uh, I'll drink it when I'm just hanging out, you know, editing video or or answering emails. I drink it during the day just because maybe I might go a couple hours without eating and until my next meal. Those are the times you want to do it between meals. intra-workout seems to be the best times to do it. Um, you don't want to, like I said, do it post-workout because you're having a shake usually post-workout, you know, or or andor a meal. So, uh, it's really unnecessary. You know, sometimes if I was probably in today's world of like my trying to grow and stuff like that, I would probably have one of those branch chain amino drinks like amino evolved sitting by my nightstand and when I would wake up in the morning to go when I wake up during the night to go pee, I'd probably be drinking guzzling one of those down because that's a good time too at night. Throwing some amino acids into the mix to give your body some some raw materials to to help repair muscle can't hurt. and those things get absorbed real easy and it's not like they have to be digested or anything like that. So those would be the times that I'd use it at night intraworkout between meals. Question about I guess natural herbal alternative to steroids specifically for recovery. Are there any natural medicines, herbs, vitamins that have similar effects to any steroids? Something that maybe helps with recovery. Have you or anybody, you know, tried to do that during for any reason? And did it noticeably help with prep, recovery, training sessions, etc.? I'll give you a a Larry David answer if you guys are curiosity fans. No. No. All right. Simple. Short and simple. Uh, any validity or your thoughts rather on homebrewing your own TRT? I don't recommend it. I'll go on the record and say I don't recommend it. Don't make your own drugs. It's illegal and you go to jail for that. Plus, the problem is not making the drugs. It's buying the the raw materials from China and and having it shipped to yourself. Not a good idea. Look, I always tell people the money that you save making the drugs, you'll spend double that on lawyers when you get arrested. Okay? Even if you if even if you don't go to jail and you just get, you know, have to hire a lawyer because you got a package in the mail that that got confiscated. It's not worth it. Pay someone else to get. Believe me, let it let someone else make the money on you because you know what? They're the ones who are going to have to hire the lawyers. I always say if you got a good connection, buy it from someone else. You know, preferentially, if you can get it from a rejuvenation clinic, you're better off. I'd rather spend a hundred and something bucks on a bottle of testosterone from Titan Medical Center than have to go uh and try to find it from some guy in the gym and then have to test it to see if it's real. And then I'm not worried if I'm worried if it's if it's sterile. And then why bother? If you're on HRT, go go get it from a clinic. Uh question about protein intake. Um explain why your high protein keto diet doesn't pull us out of ketosis via glue uh gluconneogenesis from the high protein intake. Good question. Answer it before. I'll answer it again because it's a good question. The um the medical ketogenic diet is a highfat, moderate protein, low carb diet. The reason being is that people who are, you know, ostensibly have cancer and pe just regular people, so to speak, they don't work out. They don't break down a lot of muscle. They don't have an excessive need for protein. So, for them, a moderate protein amount is good. They're not utilizing enough protein. If you don't utilize the protein that you're eating, guess what happens? Your body turns it into other stuff. And it can very easily turn it into carbs when you're on a ketogenic diet. And then your body, your brain will use those carbs for fuel rather than go into ketosis. When you're working out hard and you're breaking down an enormous amount of muscle at bodybuilding diet for instance, your body's protein requirement is much higher because you not only need the protein that you normally eat for hair, nails, skin, internal internal environment like intestinal lining and hormones production, but you also have the excessive need now to repair all that damaged skeletal muscle from the gym training. Uh that's not doesn't occur in a normal person. So an a person who works out hard has a much higher protein requirement. They used to say I remember when in the 80s they used to say everyone needs the same amount of protein. You don't need any extra protein if you're an athlete which was which was the most ridiculous thing of all time. You're breaking down all this muscle but you don't need extra protein to repair it. So the bodybuilder needs a high protein moderate fat diet because you need to at least have moderate fats to use as fuel and then low carb if you want to be in ketosis. So you will not turn those amino acids from the protein that you're eating into glucose if you're using the protein as protein. I always say people always ask me how much protein is the most you can absorb. It used to be 30 grams is the most you can absorb. Then it went up to 40 grams is the most. You could you absorb every single gram of protein. So if you eat 180 grams of protein at one meal, you will absorb 180 grams. It's what your body does with the 180 grams once it's in the bloodstream. If you have a high need for for protein because you've broken down a lot of muscle, your body will use a lot of that. But 180 grams is way too much in one serving. And your body can't store protein. It doesn't have a facility to store it. It's not like fat can go into the fat cells. Glucose can go into glycogen storage in the muscles and the liver. Protein can't go anywhere. So, it's got to be turned into something else. The first thing the body turns it into is carbs. Then the carbs can go into fat. So, you don't want that to happen. And so we eat, we figure out how much protein we need per meal based on our number one body weight, right? Because more body weight, more muscle breakdown, higher requirement for protein. Less body weight, less muscle, less need for protein. That's why we base it on what you weigh usually. And if you figure out how much protein you need, if you eat excessive amounts of that, then your body can turn that into into glucose. That's why people I have these, you know, people on diets who don't, they say they don't cheat because they're sticking to the diet food, but what they're doing is they're eating extra protein. I'm telling them, eat five ounces. They're eating 10 ounces. And then what does their body do? It takes those 10 ounces and converts it into carbs and it stores as fat. And then they don't understand why they're losing they're not losing weight or they're gaining weight on the diet. Well, guess what? Yeah, you're not cheating on the diet in the sense that you're eating ice cream cake, but you're eating you're cheating in the sense that you're not sticking to the amounts of food that you have to have. And because of that, your body is utilizing that food for energy and or fat storage. So there's no free calories, but bodybuilders need a high protein diet. Whether you do ketogenic, low carb, or moderate carb, you still need to eat high protein. Um, I've been bodybuilding for two years consistently at age 30, 6 feet tall, 220 pounds lean. Is it too late for me? If not, any advice would help. on making very good progress still with a low to moderate dose of test and deca. If you have no injuries and you train hard and you eat right, you can grow at any age. What happens though as we get older is our bodies are not as resilient. So sometimes it it's hard to put on a lot of mass if you start at a later age. But look at Ron Ronnie Coleman got a late start and he you know he was phenomenal into his 40s. So, it all depends, like I said, whether you have injuries or not. Now, young people usually don't have any injuries. That's why they can blast the crap out of their body in the gym. They recover well, then they take anabolics on top of that. They grow. So, most guys have their best gains in their 20s. However, I have seen people make gains in their 30s and 40s. Once again, you know, it depends on whether you're injured or not and whether you can train with the intensity level and the fle have the flexibility to be able to get full range of motion at an older age that you did at a younger age. But I I say there's no limitations on what you can accomplish. Take one more question. We do get a lot of questions about you and you know like earlier in this show what some of the things that you you know now that you wish you could have applied during your own contest career some of the mistakes that you could have corrected knowing what you know now. Well, this question is about challenges. What are some of the biggest challenges you have faced in your bodybuilding journey and how have you overcome that? If you want to expand that between your competition career into everything that it is that you do now in business and obviously being a personality life happens. I say it all the time and there's nothing you can do to stop it. You're going to have things go wrong. You're going to get injured. You're going to need surgeries. You're going to have people die in your life. You're going to lose jobs. You know, you're going to get jobs that maybe have very high time requirements. You have to be adaptable. You have to be able to find a way to get it done. And over the years, you know, my throughout my bodybuilding career, you know, while I competed, my life had changed a lot. But I I con I didn't use it as an excuse to not get the job done. You cannot use it as an excuse not to eat your meals, not to get to the gym, not to get enough sleep. Because if you use it as an excuse, then you're going to fail. And so the best advice I can give you is find a way to get it done, which means you have to be very organized. If you have a full-time job, you have to organize your meals. I had a friend, my friend Dave Watson, he used to he worked at a at an auto mechanic shop all day long. The guy would pack his meals every every morning or the night before. He he was like a you never miss a meal this guy. He had protein shakes at his at his office, you know, at his job in case, you know, he needed to uh he didn't have time to make a meal. He never missed a meal and he worked full-time his whole life and competed and was was a big freaky guy and got a pro card. So it you can be done. Ronnie Coleman was a cop and he was he didn't miss meals and miss workouts. Look at how freaky he was. So, when I see these people complain, oh, I got to go to work. I don't have time to eat. They don't let me eat that. You know what? You could always go to the bathroom. When I used to be in med school and I would work in the hospital and doing rotations, they didn't let give you any breaks either. I Everyone can go to the bathroom. I would go to the bathroom. I'd duck into the locker room there. I'd open my locker. I'd have a meal. I'd gobble it down and I'd pee and I'd wash my hands and I'd go right back out and I'm like good for another two hours. So, you can get it done. You have to organize yourself and you have to be prepared. Otherwise, if you don't prepare, you're prepared to fail. I know it sounds like a trit saying, but it's 100% true. That's going to do it for this episode of Asie. Reminder right now on the channel, chalk full of Pittsburgh Pro content as well as this week's after hours as well as Heavy Muscle Radio as well as the all new episode of the Dave Palumbo podcast. D Palumbo and John Romano talking about ways to get the prize money up to a staggering $25 million. A whole conversation on different things that can be done uh to get the Olympia to that level of payout. Very interesting conversation. Check it out on our channel right now. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything that we have on this channel, all the segments, all the shows, as well as chalk full of content coverage, contest coverage rather, that we're going to have over the course of the next six to eight weeks. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadi Farooqi. We'll see you next time.