 The real pinnacle is the Mr. Olympia, open bodybuilding champion, right? There's only one. So you achieve that, and then you place third, your mind starts to say, is this it? If it wasn't for my faith, my faith in Jesus Christ, there's no way that my life would be the way that it is and the mindset that I have. Yeah, this was absolutely the most challenging year of my life, like big time. Forb похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож похож really good competition. I think those are the guys that I see as the one-two. If I was a betting man, I would go with... I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we are back for another installment of the Palumbo Podcast. I am joined by my compatriot and interviewee in crime, John Romano. And John, today is a big show. We have our two-time Mr. Olympia champ coming on the show. He is the first triple crown winner, winner of the Arnold, Olympia, and Pittsburgh Pro all in one year. Made over a million bucks this past year and couldn't be a nicer guy, Derek Munsford. So he's going to be joining us in a few seconds. Yeah, you left out the part where he won both the 2-12 and the Open. That's true. That's true. He did that too. He's broken all the records. Everyone, all the records. He's got more... Yeah, all he's got to do now is downsize and do men's physique and he'd be the triple. No, no, no, no. He's got to win... He just has to win eight more Olympias. Or no, six more... Seven more Olympias to hold the record. I don't know if he's going to do that. I think, to me, the distinction of owning two class wins as a Mr. Olympia is just... Right. I mean, no one, no one else has got that. No. So, I mean, that's just pretty amazing. And, you know, let's not forget, you know, that triple crown... I think the triple crown was the most impressive thing. I don't think we've ever seen a Mr. Olympia do three shows spaced out by months in the middle in one year. You know, you might see... And big shows. Not just, you know... Yeah, big shows. Yeah. So that's a pretty prestigious thing. And he had to endure social media. No other Mr. Olympia had to do that. I feel so bad. I wrote an article called Dog Pile on Derek. You know, it's like... Because it's just everywhere you turn, it's, you know, it's just... Everybody's trashing him. And it's like... It's not his fault. Well, it's not... You know what it is, John? It's not a lot of people. It's like a small percentage of the trolls that... But, you know what? When you're on social media, as opposed to the past, even though you have 25 million fans, you know, you have, you know, 25 guys that don't like you and go online as trolls. It messes with you. It has to. Of course. Yeah. Well, you know, therein lies the rub. I mean, you know, being a professional athlete today requires, you know, not only to have thick skin, but it also requires you to be able to navigate this bullshit online that athletes prior to this era never had to deal with. Yeah. You know, so it's an added layer of composure you have to create for yourself as a, you know, a sportsman. So, and, you know, to maintain the dignity of the office that you hold. In this case, two time, two different division, Mr. Olympia winners. So... And I think we need to throw in that he's probably been the first Mr. Olympia in a very long time who's actually promoted bodybuilding. Yes. You know, more mainstream. Like, he's been out there actually doing the work. A lot of these guys just kind of hide in the shadows, you know, until the next show comes around. And that really doesn't help our sport grow in that sense. No, not at all. And, and, and he, and he's a great ambassador for the sport to begin with. I mean, you know, so, I mean, to, to throw dirt on him is just, it's disrespect bodybuilding in general, you know, you know, you can, you can disagree with the outcome of the show. You can legitimately intellectually, you know, assess and analyze the result, but do it with respect. I mean, the guy's the best in the world, you know, and if he wasn't the best in the world, he'd be second best in the world. So, I mean, you're talking about, you know, the, the top of the top of the top, have some respect. Well, he was the, he was the MVP of the 2025 season. Let's bring him in Mr. Olympia, Derek Lunsford. Welcome to the show. Yo, what's up guys. Good to see you. Nice to catch up with you. Thanks for having me on today, man. You know, Derek, not only you were triple crown winner, you know, and I think you coined that. I kind of did too, but you kind of said it publicly first, I think. But not only a triple, but you are the triple, you are the triple, I guess you could say champion in the sense that you have that mind, body and spiritual merging of all that together. I think a lot of guys are not that well adjusted. And even though you get stressed out, like we all do, you seem to have found a way to put those three things together. And I think that's why you're so consistent. You know, I'm glad you mentioned that because I literally was just on the phone with Chris Asito, like right before this podcast here. And I was telling him, telling him that, you know, cause I've taken a few months where I put like my health first. I put my family first and then the business side of bodybuilding ahead of like the, the preparation for a competition. So I told him, I said, you know, it's been great. I feel healthy. I got a lot of these, you know, physical health tests done, blood work, heart scans, you, you name it. I've been, I've been doing it. And so I was like, I feel now like my mind, my body and my spirit are all coming in a line so that I can really take this offseason to the next level and ramp things up and then get ready for the Pittsburgh pro guest posing. You never had it offseason for the, for a better, you've been competing nonstop for the last year, at least, you know, you've got, I mean, listen, man, like, I think there's a time to push and pull back like bodybuilding and being in the gym is like as much my hobby as it is my career. Right. I'm just blessed that it is my career, but you can make money. Yeah. Competing is a whole nother thing where it takes everything in your life and says, Hey, I got to put the blinders on and focus on this one goal on this one day. And it's like a lot of things, you know, have to take the back burner. And unfortunately that's true, but you know, at this level to be the best bodybuilder in the world, that's, that's how you have to, to focus. You have to literally shut everything else out and just focus on, on being the best bodybuilder. So how do you stay balanced though? And I can understand the physical part of it. And I know you're mentally super tough. I mean that I can, that, that, that kind of comes, you know, with the territory, but you got that spiritual balance too, going on in your life, which is not a lot of other guys don't have, they're kind of like misbalanced in that, in that end. And that's why they do, it seems like they do very destructive things. You know, you seem to be able to kind of stay on the, on the, on the right course. Listen, man, I'm, I'm a human. And I know, I know whenever I was like an up and comer and I would look at the guys that came before me, whether it be like Jay Cutler, Ronnie Coleman, Phil Heath, these guys, I like put them on a pedestal. Like they were more than a human. And, and now being the Mr. Olympic champion, you know, I realized like, no, I'm just, we're just like everybody else. We go through the same emotions and feelings and, and life that everybody else does. And so, um, if it wasn't for my faith, my faith in Jesus Christ, I, there's no way that my life would be the way that it is. And the mindset that I have. And, and even now it's still challenging. Like, it's not like, you know, it, it, it does get easier in the sense you put in your faith and the Lord and you're straying to the Lord, but there's challenges all the time that, you know, that the enemy tries to come and distract me and, and, and put doubt in my mind. So don't think that I don't also experience similar things everybody else does, but I just know that he's going to come through. And I know, listen, we've been, we've been through a lot of hardship, a lot of challenges in the past, and I know he can get me through it. So that's a, that's where my confidence comes from. And that's why I'm so happy. You mentioned that it's the mind, the body and the spirit that have to be in line to be really great. Why do people, and John, I want you to tag in on this too, because I like your opinions on these things. Why do people actually, I find that people actually get at, like, they don't like the fact that you talk about your faith and like, they get mad about it. Like, it's like, you shouldn't do that or something like that. Or I don't like Derek's always talking about religion, Jesus Christ. I'm like, that's what the guy believes. And that's his, that's what his, where his strength comes from. I don't understand why people see that as a, as a weakness or that you shouldn't be doing that. I'll tell you why it's because bodybuilding, especially getting ready for the Mr. Olympia is probably the greatest expression of selfishness there is in the entire planet. Okay. So it's hard to hear, but it's the truth. I mean, that's just it. I mean, your wife, your kids, they all go through it with you, you know? So there's gotta be a grounding element that allows the man of the house to, to not ostracize, but put aside almost everything for that one thing that a lot of people will look at and say, it's kind of trivial in the long run, you know? So, but it does pay the bills and, you know, buys food. But the thing of it is, I mean, there's got, there's, you have to have something in your case, it's your faith. Obviously you have, you, why do people get mad at him? People get angry at him. It's not that it's that you have to foremost make the selfishness. Okay. In some way to get through it. And then, you know, all the other stuff, you know, falls. That's not answering my question. My question is people get aggravated because I think that they don't have that connection to spirit that he does. You can call it religion or spirit, same thing in my, my mind. And I think he's so powerful in that, in that direction that I think people get intimidated by that. What do you, what do you say to that there? Yeah. I mean, my faith will tell me, you know, the word will tell me like it's to be expected, you know, like this world is, it's like, it's, it's corrupted. It's, there's a lot of evil in this world and, and, and there's even good people that just, just, just choose not to believe that there is a God or they have no faith at all. They don't, they don't really want to believe in anything. Um, that to me, it's no, no surprise. It's, it's kind of like, it makes sense that there's people out there that, that feel so against that. But let me tell you what I'm trying to do when I share my faith. First of all, I feel that God's put me on earth to, to be a bodybuilder, to be outspoken, to share my testimony that Jesus is Lord. Right. And all I'm trying to do is be obedient to him and hope that more people that are struggling, that, that don't have faith in anything and, and don't know the Lord, that they will at least give him a chance, like give, give him a chance for yourself. Like, I want you to experience what, what I have. I want, I want you to know him too. And that that's it. It has nothing to do with me or holier than thou. I'm better than people. It has nothing. That's so far from the truth. It's more of just like, I care about people and I want, I want more people to come to Lord because I want them to, to when, when they come, they will, they will know, they, you know, they will, they will experience, um, the Holy spirit. Right. So I just want, I want it for people. I don't want it. I don't, I don't want it for recognition of myself. Uh, I just, I just want more people to, to have it for themselves. I think that what you just said was very, very applicable because I know a lot of bodybuilders that are very disgruntled. They have no direction. They know that they love bodybuilding, but they, they, they, they have no balance in their life. And I think that that gives you balance. And I think it's a great message because a lot of guys are searching for that balance. And unfortunately they, they go and they, they do drugs and they do other things to try to find that balance. And we know that that doesn't lead you to balance it. It leads you to more unbalanced, you know, in your life and usually causes a lot of bad things. It's actually harder to not believe in God or a higher power. You know, it's, it's like once you surrender and, and you know, you, you, you give up, I mean, you're, you're actually opening the door, you know? So what Pete, look, everybody's got to, you know, human nature fosters reactions to jealousy in a lot of different ways. If you, you can trace pretty much all of the hate back to jealousy. That's where it stems from. So when you have joy in your heart, because you have a belief that you, that grounds you and co makes your life and family cohesive spiritually, that is a beautiful expression that you read off of people. And if you don't have that, you're miserable. So you want to, you want to cast aspersions to the guy who's happy and content because you're jealous. And that's really what it comes down to. And I also, I also think that people sometimes can get scared because they think that if I, if I have this new faith and belief, I have to radically change who I am and I have to be this straight and narrow person and I'm better than people. It's like, no, like when you, when you experience, like you, you know, the Lord and you have the Holy Spirit inside of you, like you, you will want to be a better person. You will think differently. It's when you repent, they call it repentance. What repentance is, is the renewing of the mind. You become a new creation. You have a new way of thinking about life and the world. And again, it doesn't come without challenges. It doesn't make you a perfect person. It's a forever journey of becoming, you know, more aligned, but it's like, once you have that surrenderance and that faith and you've repented, now you have the Holy Spirit. Now you have salvation. Now you think differently and you want to live your life better. And, and for people, you care for people more. And, you know, some people may, may argue that, but, but like I said, just give it a, give it a chance, give it a try. And I think you'll, I think you'll see, I think you'll find out real quick. Well, it worked, it worked great for two other great Mr. Olympias, eight time Mr. Olympia, Ronnie Coleman and eight time Mr. Olympia Lee Haney. I mean, those are men of faith and look how successful they were. So that's a good role model that I want to take another gear. Now that we talked about faith, I have to mention my, my typical question I ask people that some people get annoyed with, but I think it's, it's relevant because you want a shitload of money this past year. A lot, a lot, as Trump would say, a lot, a lot, huge, bigly. And, um, you know, you're probably the first bodybuilder to ever win that much in one year. And because of that, you know, I know you've been, have a lot of projects on, on, on the, on the way now you just opened that great gym that I, I promise you, I am going to get up there. I know I've been promising you, I am going to get up there and see it and do a little interview with you up there, but talk to me a little bit about like, you know, your mindset in terms of investing for your future and what you've been using that, that money for. Cause I know you've been really launching a lot of new projects. Yeah. You know, so first of all, yeah, we, we are blessed to have this great gym here in Tampa, uh, champs Elysium. And so we just opened right before the Olympia. We had Ramon Dino, we had Eduardo and the wellness, and we had many other top five, top 10 and top 15 Olympians training in our gym leading up to the Olympia. So it was really incredible, really special time, uh, for us to have those great champions in our gym. And, and, you know, now, now, uh, we have capped membership. We just capped the members, uh, this past week because we promised everyone that this was a semi-private gym and that we wanted to have a good flow of, of people. Um, but it's great. It's, it's, it's something that I, we all take a lot of pride in and we're very proud to offer it to the community now because at first it was just private for me and a few people. And, um, it's been a, it's been a great place for a lot of people to network and, and to be able to, to, uh, do a lot of things with, like we, we had a seminar, uh, right after the Olympia for the hurricane pro we were able to thankfully able to sponsor the hurricane pro show. That's Tim Gardner show. Uh, we had that, uh, the big grand opening celebration where we had, Oh my God. Did you see who he had there? Who? That grand opening? No. He had everyone. He had Cutler. He got everyone to show. Really? Cutler, Ronnie flew in there. How did you get all those people to show? Two, two, two friends of mine who moved from here to Tampa train in your gym and they say it's fucking amazing. So. Oh, thanks. Yeah. I mean, like I said, we're really proud of it. We have the best equipment. New tech, uh, is a great partnership of ours and like, it's people love, I mean, I can't even take credit for that. That's new tech does a phenomenal job. Anybody who's tried it knows, but we just have great people. We have like a great culture and community that is being built inside the gym and it's just awesome, man. I love, you just never know who you're going to see come through the gym. Like we had Robert Irvine come by, uh, the other day and had, yeah, we just, we have a lot of different celebrities, professional athletes, big business people, big influencers all the time that are coming through the gym. And so, um, you know, even though we have cat memberships, we still allow like day passes and week passes because we want this to meet a place for people to come and, and build community. So really proud of that. You know, I have, um, I can't say who it is just yet, but I have a, a really big announcement coming with, uh, what we were going to get it out of you today. No, a new sponsorship. No, I listen, I believe me. I'm so excited. I'm so thrilled. How about you announce it? I'll hold the interview until you're ready to announce it. Dude, I'm telling you, like, I, I want to scream and yell and be like, this is it, but I can't, I can't. Does it involve you owning something or is it just involve you being sponsored by someone? Um, it's a, a little bit of both. Good. You might be having another kid. Oh, we are having another kid too. I heard that. Are you really? Yes, he is. He is. Congratulations. That's why I couldn't push back, back this, uh, podcast because next week we'll have the baby. Oh, wow. Oh, it's that soon. I didn't realize it was that soon. Holy shit. Six days. Wow. Wow. Boy or girl? Another girl. I'm really excited about it. Nice. All these, all these Mr. Olympias have girls. I did. Ronnie has eight girls. I know. I, I wonder if that has, you know, anything to do with, you know, yeah, it does. I think they say that the female sperm are, are, uh, are much stronger, which makes sense, right? Much more resilient. Taking it back and taking it easy. That's right. Eight girls for Ronnie Coleman, eight Sandals. Yeah. There you go. Two Sandals, two girls for me here. Well, yeah, I was gonna say every time you, you have, now you have to have another one just so you can win another Olympia. Exactly. We already won that one. You're, you're behind. Yeah, exactly. Other, you know, other than Flex Lewis, Dave, who, who, what other Mr. Olympia opened the gym while they were Mr. Olympia? I don't know. That's a tough, that's a tough one. I really don't think any. Haney had one during his reign, but I don't know if he was really running it himself. No, he had the, it was a cage or something like that. A jungle. Haney's animal kingdom or something. Yeah. That's true. He did, but that was, I don't know about, I don't know. We got to get him on the show. That was before social media that you have a lot, you had a lot less responsibility back then. But I mean, other than that, I mean, you would think that, you know, an enterprising Mr. Olympia would capitalize on his title and open a gym. I mean, that's like the most like no brainer in history. Yeah. But you know what? It's tough because you have to be at the business. You know, luckily Derek's there probably every day if I know him. Well, of course you got to live there, but I mean, it's still doable. I go there on most of my off days just because I like being there. Like the people are awesome. I just love the environment there. I just love showing up and being there. So most days I'm there, but no, we got a lot of great things in the works. We're going to expand on the gym and do like a full on recovery center so that we have everything from cardio, the equipment, supplements, food. We have massage therapy, chiropractic. Wow. We have saunas, cold plunge and showers and even tanning. I want to bring into the gym. So literally everything that you would want as a bodybuilder. Are you going to actually use the tanning bed? Cause you, you never have any color in the upstate. Yeah. You're the only guy who doesn't have a tan. I'm lazy. I don't want to go to the local tanning. Yeah. 10 whole minutes. It just ruins your day. You know what? The tanning beds are great. I'll tell you why, because you can get, like you said, for eight minutes in the bed, you can get, it would take an hour in the sun. I've been going light therapy is good for you. Really? I mean, the biggest myth was that tanning is not good for you. You see, you see those girls who wake up in the morning and you know, when the sun's coming up, they lay back and spread their legs and get their, their, uh, their, their area. It's got something to do with it. You know, stimulating vitamin D production, like right away, first thing in the morning when they need it the most. When did you read this? It was a clip on Facebook. This girl is like this ritual that she does. You know? Oh, that she does though. Yeah, she does. She airs out her vagina like in the morning. Actually, it's her peritoneum that she's concerned about. Oh, I guess. Yeah. I guess that's the landing strip that matters down there. That's where the most vitamin D is produced. I guess. I mean, there's some kind of loon. Look, people do all kinds of crazy shit, you know, but in the name of health, like how about the cold plunge? Craze. You into that, Derek? He just said he's opening it in his gym. Let me tell you something. People have been asking for it. It's a huge, there's a huge market for it. Yeah. Hey, people are, people want it. You know, we want to provide whatever. Me, I hate the cold. Oh, man. I moved from, I moved from Indiana to Florida for a reason. Derek, I have one in my, I have one in my gym in my house, a plunge tub. My wife uses it. She keeps saying, oh, you got to do it. And I, what's that? 47 degrees. I am not going in 47. You know what? I did it once. I'll tell you, this is my whole thing on the cold plunge. I think what it's good for is to kind of shock your body a little bit. You know, every once in a while you need to kind of make your brain up and stuff like that. I don't personally think doing it every day is good because I don't think, because it reduces inflammation in your body tremendously. So if you have like bad arthritis, it's great, but I don't think you want to reduce inflammation too much as a bodybuilder because some of that inflammation is good because it's like a stimulus for muscle growth. So I think if it's used therapeutically, it's really good. I don't like, I don't, I wouldn't do it every day though. It's not like one. It's like tanning. You don't tan every day. You tan like a couple of days. She does it every morning. It's like, well, because she has to get up. She works. She works. She's got to wake up. Hey, I have no science behind this, but just the times that I've done any type of cold therapies, or whatever, I always sleep way better that night. So if I do it like in the evening, then I go home and I'm like totally relaxed. The rest reduces inflammation. We, the old days before they had cold plunge tubs, Kenny Jones used to run the polar bear club. Remember John? In the middle of the winter, they would jump into the Manhattan Bay there at the 30 degree weather. Kenny Jones, they would chip a hole in the ice. Sometimes they had to do that. Kenny Jones was the head of the polar bear club. And he jumped in one year. He was dieting for a show and he almost drowned because he had like no body fat. And he was like shocked. He couldn't move. He was stiff. He had to pull back the water. That is what I, that's what I told my wife. And she's, you got to get in here. And I, I will have a heart attack. That's what'll happen. I will die. Right. In the tub. And then not only have to drain the tub to get me out of there, but you know, you know, what's big. Are you going to have red light therapy? That seems to be really big. Our last guest has that. Yes. Yeah. A lot of people are asking for it. I don't know. I that's, that's been something on the table, but I know for sure. Good. Yeah. For, for sure. What I mentioned is what we've been for sure talking about, you know, getting in next to our gym, you know, the unit next to our gym. So I think it's a great idea. Derek, I really do. It's just like, I know, listen, I'm, I'm a bodybuilder, obviously at heart. So like, I want everything I possibly could write all in one place. How about a sushi bar? You never have to leave. You could just sleep there. Yeah. It would be great. How about, how about a sushi bar? Yeah. Put one of those next door. That would be like, what is the ultimate bodybuilder food? Oh, I know you're right. She is like a hundred percent at the top of the list, you know? Yeah. Instead of having like a little cat, like a little cafeteria where they make chicken breasts and baked potatoes, have a sushi bar. I like it publics with the little booth and he just puts it in trays, you know, and you got to get an Asian guy. Don't put any Spanish guys. Cause a lot of Spanish people are in Florida. We got to get a real Asian guy back there. Even if he's not Japanese, at least make him look like he's Japanese. No one can tell. Although the real sushi chefs, you know, go to school for like what, like eight years or seven years. They have to, there's, there's one of them where there's, there's a fish that's got this deadly pouch of venom in it. You know, that you will puffer fish or something that you'll die instantly. If you, if you eat it in order to pass the test, they have to cut that fish up and they have to eat it. So if you die, you don't get certified. Yeah. Right. Isn't that like a delicacy people have or something? Yes. Why do they do that? I just give me, give me like chicken or rice or something. I'm good. Yeah. Because people want what they can't have. That's it's the old saying, you know, if it seems easy to get, no one wants it, but if it's hard to get, people will pay anything for it. You know, Cuban cigars, Cuban cigars, but $500 bottle of wines, right? Yeah, exactly. 500, thousands. Yeah. Crazy. I mean, Derek, what's your favorite, what's your favorite cheat meal or normal food, regular human food meal? Usually I would say sushi or burgers, but I've been eating a lot of these wings lately, these chicken wings. I have a couple of good local spots and man, I've been. What's a lot? Quantify a lot. We're just coming off football season here, you know? And so I've been, I've been eating a lot of wings. You know, what's a lot? Well, give me a number. Well, maybe not a lot, not a lot to you, but like 24. It's a lot of wings. I think it's supposed to be like three people, but yeah. Mel Chancey's favorite place. I was going to go. He was going to hook me up. He has a hook up there. Wings and rings or rings and wings or something like that. That's called something like that. There's a wings, et cetera, and a whiskey wings. That is really good here. Yeah. Popping up all over the Florida lately. Yeah. A lot of wing places. I like it. It's good. Change, you know, change. What I want to know is where are they getting all the, what are they doing with the rest of the chicken? Well, they got all these wings. Where's the rest of the chicken? We sell the breasts to bodybuilders. I mean, I guess. Yeah. Do you offer food in your gym right now? Megafit meals. We have the pre-made meals and then like the protein packs. So, you know, most people know that I'm sponsored by Megafit, but we have a, you know, a relationship with, with them for the gym. So that way we can offer it to the gym too. And it does no shit. Right. What do you recommend to bodybuilders out there nowadays that since a lot of guys are winning money and whoever wins the Arnold, I'm sure you're not loving this is they're going to win $750,000. Yeah. And what do you recommend people do with their money when they're winning major? I mean, they obviously got to pay taxes, but there's still, that's a lot of cash to, to, to have in the bank. A lot of guys go out and buy cars and Rolexes and stuff like that, which is obviously not a great investment, but what would you recommend? What have you been doing with your money? You know, like some people buy cars. I got like cars, not, not great. It's like one of those like last minute, like, do you need like a tax deduction or like, do you need a new car type thing? Like that wouldn't be a great investment, but it is a tax deductible thing, especially now with, uh, if they're over 5,000 pounds, you know, the new policy where you can do the, yeah. So, um, I would recommend if you don't have a house, buy a house, like you're going to, you're going to live in it. So like, even if it depreciates in value over the next couple of years and you're going to live in it, pay your mortgage, then eventually over time it's going to appreciate and, and you'll sell it. And you're not just giving money away to somebody else, like another landlord or for rent or whatever. You should actually buy the house, not a mortgage. Buy it. If you can buy it. Yeah. I mean, well, it depends. Do you have a good financial advisor? Are you good with your money? Do you have another, uh, business that you're trying to start up? There's other reasons to use that money. Um, so it just depends what like your interest rate will be, but definitely I would say immediately get in contact with a good financial advisor or a financial planner. Is that what you did? Yeah. Yeah. I've talked to a couple of different ones. Actually. Hey, shout out. Like I've not actually been working with him just yet, but, uh, Edmondson to Pawnee is actually a, a financial planner too. That's true. Yeah. He did that before. I believe even his bodybuilding was doing. So I, I, we had a call with him the other day, but, uh, we've been working with some other, um, financial advisors as well. So we haven't really decided which direction we want to go, but you know, if, if somebody wants to be close to bodybuilding and also have some financial advice, Evan is somebody that you can go to too. Evan's very smart. You know, the re the reason I say buy the house, buy it, no mortgage is because the career length of a bodybuilder is iffy. Okay. How many, how many guys who are like great bodybuilders in the eighties and the nineties are living in their car right now under a bridge, right? Right. So if you owned your house, you got roots, you got a home base, you got, that's nobody's going to take that away from you. You can always take a second mortgage or you can always take a first more. He locked first out on it. You know, if you had to, if it was an emergency, but if you had that locked up, especially younger guys in their thirties, you know, leave, you know, own your home. And then that way, all the other money you'll invest and do other shit with, but at least that way, when you're 60, you're not living under a park bench. Right. Right. You know, there's a lot of things you can do with your money. Like I said, but, but buying a house, I think is the first thing that you should. Yeah. Troy Zuccolato told us on the show last week that, you know, the, the, one of the best investments is, is either a car wash or a laundromat laundromat. Yeah. Especially if you can get the guy to, you know, to you're buying it from, to be the, the holder of the, of the, the loan. Yeah. Because, you know, you could put minimal money down and start earning money on your money, you know, and you're not even giving him any cash. So it's not a bad idea. You know, if it's for guys that are making, you know, big lump sums of money, you know, Jay always talked about, I asked you to ask this Jay and Jay said, you know, everything, every prize he won, he would always invest in real estate. Like he would just buy, buy units, buy this, buy that, you know, whatever he can do. He never, he never spent any of the money that he made prizes. You know, I think it's good to diversify though. You know, like, sure. For us, like having, having the gym is incredible. It's so great. For you, that's a great, that's a great. Yeah. And there's so many great things that can come from that as well, you know? So for us, that's, it's kind of a no brainer. It's fun. We enjoy it. We get to build a community and have great people and, and, you know, make a little money on that too. But I think, I think it's important to diversify. Like I said, get with a financial planner, financial advisor, and, and you can put your money away and other safe investments that can roll over five, 10, 15% without, you know, much risk at all. You know, preferably, you know, you could do like 20 or more 15, 20% interest, you know, would be, would be great. That's great. Phenomenal. If you can do that. But, but like, if you could think like, if somebody, let's say, let's say somebody wins a million dollars this year, right? Think about if you have a 10% interest on the, on that million dollars, you're, you're collecting a hundred thousand dollars a year, essentially. Right. That's interest. That's like a relatively safe investment. Not every year will be exactly a hundred thousand, but overall, I think, you know, uh, 10% on a million dollars a year is a hundred thousand dollars a year that you're making doing nothing. That's yes. That's a nice little link of the, the, come in passively. Yeah. Who do you think is going to, again, John? No, that's, I was just going to say that's, that's the best kind of income. Is passive income. You own a car wash. It's all automatic credit card, no cash. You got a manager lives on site to make sure there's soap in the machine. And people come in and, you know, their car and you don't, you don't have no employees. You have no lie. You have extremely low liability, low overhead. And it's, you wake up every morning and you go in there and you collect the money. I mean, you really have nothing to do, you know, and you can start one for like two 50. So, or, or, you know, take the owner takes back the note route, but any of those investments that you talk about that you, it's exactly right. You have to have this now. It's so easy, especially when you're young and all of this money is being shoveled at you to just go buy a bunch of bullshit that, that is just going to ruin you in the end. Because trust me, I've seen it. I've seen guys that I feel so sorry for wrestlers, especially that have won me pages. And I go, wasn't he like on, you know, WWE and now he's begging for money, you know, and it's like so sad, you know, that you see that. And it's, it could have been totally avoided. Right. Well, Troy, you said Troy, when he, Troy worked for the WBF, he made three 50 a year. He said he spent, he invested every cent that he made. So that was, I mean, even if look, even if you give yourself a little bit to play with, you can invest most of it. That's the best of the both worlds. I want to switch gears for a second, Derek, what, what the Arnold coming up and you sitting out this year's lineup, we got obviously Samson, excuse me. We got Andrew coming in hot off the third place at the Olympia hottie coming in off that second place. You know, he's not too happy about that. We know all about that. And you know, we have guys like Nick Walker looking to get some redemption from the Olympia and Martin Fitzwater. Who do you like in this lineup? What, if you had a, if you were a betting man, who would you put your money behind? Well, track record shows, you know, hottie has been the most consistent and he's been the most balanced bodybuilder among the group. It's challenging to say, because I know that Andrew is working with Chris and I work with Chris. So I know he does a great job. And so I see Andrew's momentum that people are really excited about him right now. And there's always somebody new, right? There's always that new guy. That's like, we want to see this guy do well. And then he either does or doesn't. And then if he does, then they want to see the next guy. If he doesn't, well, then they write him off. And it's another person that has hype. So we will see, I think Andrew is an hottie is going to be a really good competition. I think those are the guys that are, I see as like the one, two, if I was a betting man, I would, I would go with hottie because he's, his track record has been the most consistent. But like I said, you can't deny the momentum of, of Andrew and that, that he's going to, you know, bring something to the Arnold as well. So, so we'll see those are the two guys that I see top two, but actually I think equally as exciting as that is going to be, in my opinion, what three and four looks like is going to be Nick and Martin. And I think that's a, a rivalry that we've seen over the last couple of years, kind of go back and forth. And so I know that there's some definite feelings behind, you know, each of those guys placing ahead of each other. So I'm really excited to see those guys go, go head to head. And then also Andrew and hottie. Go ahead. But what do you, hold one second. Well, of those four guys who, who's, who scares you the most? I mean, I know you have Mr. Olympia, no one scares you, but who, who is the guy you, you know, think has the most potential to give you trouble? Yeah. Um, at our fullest potential now, I believe it's still a rivalry between me and hottie. Um, but as time goes on, you don't know what type of improvements Andrew would make. Andrew, you can't deny that that guy is, is, is great, you know, and it's getting better. So both of them are incredible bodybuilders. I would say right now, hottie, but over time, Andrew, if he continues on, um, you know, who knows? Yeah. Well, I got an issue with Nick Walker. So I think that this is an extremely important show for him because he pulled out of two Olympias, bombed on the third one. And now, you know, he had a lot of momentum going into those, you know, Olympias three and four years ago. And now all that's gone. So if he doesn't, my opinion is if he doesn't nail this show to the freaking wall, he's what, what's he going to do next? How important do you think it is that he showed up? He shows up and dominates. Well, you know, I think that I've said this before on other shows. I think that Nick is Nick and Nick should be Nick. He's a big freaky guy. Who's the most impressive guy in the gym. Okay. I'm sure Derek would agree. You know, Nick is, is more impressive than everyone in the gym because he's big, veiny, gnarly looking, but structurally he's not as good as, as hottie and Derek and Andrew. And that's where, and Martin, and that's where he has problems. So on stage, it exposes his weaknesses structurally, you know, in the gym, on Instagram, you know, when you see him standing around, if he's in a lineup, that's not that great. He, he, he just looks ridiculous. And I think that, that listen, you got to play to your strengths. You know, I didn't have the greatest structure, but I played to the fact that I was a big, freaky, hard guy. And the fans love me. And that's Nick will make a ton of money because of that. And I think that it's, it doesn't matter if he wins the Olympia or not, as long as he keeps showing up at his best, not trying to be something he's not. And I think that, that that's the case with all body bills. You know, you have to know, not everyone is going to be Mr. Olympian. Not everyone has Derek's beautiful shape and flow and structure. And that's just the way it goes. You know, that's, that's life, you know, there's a lot of mindset involved with this too. And so like, at the end of the day, it's a physique competition. So the physique, the best physique on stage is going to win. But I think a lot of this is like a mindset and how you carry yourself, how the aura that you, that you present and just being able to be mentally level-headed whenever you're getting the praise and the negativity, because it's, it's, it's both going to come the praise. So, so it's, it's hard to say, you know, hottie's hottie's been, a Mr. Olympia before, you know, he's been around for a long time. You know, you got like Andrew, who's, who's been on the come up for a while. And so he's never really experienced that. And we've seen some, you know, I don't know, some, some shakiness whenever some, some negativity kind of comes where it's kind of like, uh, okay. So with Nick and Martin and Andrew, it's like, it's going to come down in my opinion, not just the improvements that these guys make. I mean, their physiques are incredible. I already said that, uh, is there, everybody has weaknesses that they need to improve and everybody has their strengths. But I think with that group of guys, those three, it's going to come down to mindset. It's going to come down to like being able to kind of like reel it back in and, and not, not express too much of the ego that is truly from insecurity and just be able to be, to be calm, collected and, and truly confident, confident, knowing that your competition's amazing. And that there's a chance that if you don't show up and you slip those guys to take it, but confident enough to know, like, if I bring it, I'm going to be the champion, I'm going to beat these guys. So I think it's going to come down to the mindset with these guys. I think it's a good, but you make a very good point. And you know what? I'm going to contrast Nick versus Martin and exactly what you're saying. I think Nick lets people get to him and, and it can screw him up. Martin pulls the old Michael Jordan. Every, he's pissed at everyone. If you, if you saw recently, he's like, I hate all the press. They all suck because that's what motivates him to train harder and come back better. He uses that as fuel to, to, to, to, he has to almost create animosity and he has to create conflict so that he can make himself train harder. Whereas Nick uses, when he gets that happens, it actually works against him actually. And he starts actually believing what he's hearing on, on social media. I think it negatively can impact them. So, yeah, I think mindset is, is a big thing. And you make a, bring up a very good point. Yep. John question for you. I want, I want to know when you sit, out these shows and, and you see, you know, these guys that you're going to compete against in the Olympia, you know, duking it out on stage. Do you like, what would you start with your strategy? Then do you like, look at what they're doing? What, what do you, what do you do and feel when you're looking at these guys, you know, competing? Critical. Yeah. I said, I love that question because. A handful of years ago, I was competing against Kamal Elgarmi back in the two 12. And. He beat me in the 2019 Olympia. And I was really not happy about that. I'll be honest. And so. Coming back to the 2020 Olympia, I said, okay, like I got to get more ripped than ever. You know, I gotta, I gotta beat his conditioning. And, and then I just came back and I was like a shell of myself. I, I placed fourth. And so that was me trying to play somebody else's game and say, okay, I need to strategize to be able to beat what their best is. Instead of just saying like, I need to focus on myself and bring my best physique amongst the competition. And so is there, is there some strategy and game plan of what, what physique you're going to bring, you know, with the competitors that's going to be at the Olympia for sure. Right. I brought a different package to the Olympia than I did at the Arnold. And so each, each show I continue to, to progress and improve, but do you want to have a little bit more fuller look? Do you want to have a little bit more condition and streamline look? Like, like, what is it that is going to be your best look against the competition? And so is there a little bit of strategy that plays? Sure. But at the end of the day, you know, you can't sacrifice your strengths because somebody else has another strength or something that you're trying to match or beat. You just have to bring your best. So for me, I'm honestly, and in all honesty, really excited to go to the Arnold classic for the first time in a long time, just as a fan, like I'm the current reigning Arnold and Mr. Olympia champion, Pittsburgh champion, but I get to go with no obligations to be at any booths or to be there for any reason. I just get to go and watch the show as a fan and get to meet people. So I have no obligations to go to the Arnold besides the fact that I want to, I get to go watch the show and see these guys in person and, and give my comments and then also meet the fans, you know, and be among the fans at the expo. So I just, I get to be a fan again. Well, I mean, if you think about it, you, you kind of, you kind of walked away from your typical strategy after winning the Olympia the first time and you came in third. And then, you know, a lot of people thought up Derek's washed up. That's it. He's done. He's done. He's, you know, his career is over. And then you came back, you know, and dominated that Arnold classic, you know, working with Chris Asito. And that, that was that, was that one of the toughest, you know, falls that you had. And I mean, even though, you know, you had shows that weren't as important, I would think after winning the Olympia to lose and come in third, that had to probably be a pretty big low for you. That was, that was hard. It was, it was hard for a couple of reasons. One, you and bodybuilding. The pinnacle is the open Mr. Olympia. Yes. I was a two 12 champion, but the, the real pinnacle is the Mr. Olympia open bodybuilding champion, right? There's only one. Right. So I, you achieve that. And then you place third, your mind starts to say, is this it? Like I'm young. And I feel like I have a full, you know, career ahead of me. I'm many years ahead of me, but you know, history kind of shows that once you lose the Olympia, you, you really don't get it back. Like only one person has ever done that. That was Jay Cutler. And so that's the first thing that goes to your mind is like, is that it? Is that, is my, everything that I've done for all these years to get to this point over with, like, am I just tossed to the wind? And that's the first initial thought. And then the second thought was like, well, whether it is or isn't, I trust, I trust in God's plan. If he didn't want it for me, then I don't want it either because he's either protecting me or he's preparing me or both. Well, obviously he was protecting me and then prepared me for this year, which was the craziest year I could have ever imagined. Right. The whole comeback and the triple crown, everything like first Pittsburgh pro champion, all of that. Um, so he was definitely preparing me. Um, but in that moment, you're like, you have all these doubts and these questions and it's this like, man, just real blow to your, to your ego. And you just kick in the stomach. And then on top of that, you know, I felt like the whole world was crumbling in on me. I, you know, I'm, I'm like losing some relationships, like with my previous coach and, and sponsors. And then like even some friendships. And then I had a, um, uh, the worst thing was, uh, finding out that my grandma had a short time to live and all of this was happening all at one time. And so, yeah, this was absolutely the most challenging year of my life, like big time. So for me, the way I was able to cope with it at the time was to put the blinders on and say, screw it. I am just going to go all in. I'm going for something bigger than anybody could ever imagine. And I don't care if people say that it can't be done. Actually, you know what? I love it. That people say that it can't be done. Please tell me, you know? And so whenever I started hearing this, I said, this is awesome. I'm going to go so big and blow people's minds. If it happens now, if it doesn't happen, it doesn't matter. It was not supposed to happen. You already said it can't be done. So it doesn't even matter if it's right. Right. But if I do it, if I do, that matters, right? That matters. Right. So I was like, for me to cope with all the hardship and the challenges was like, all right, I got to get to work. I've got to put these blinders on, stay focused and just endure and get through. And so that's, that's what I did, man. And I think for me at that time, it was the healthiest thing for me to do over the last couple of months. I think it was the healthiest thing for me to take a step back and get the mind, body spirit back in line and not be so kind of head down focused. I got to kind of bring, you know, head up, breathe some fresh air and then go, okay, reset. Now we get to put the head down and focus again. What do you do for relief from all of this? You're like, and anything that you do outside of bodybuilding that fulfills you in a way that makes you feel accomplished or gratified or like, wow, I'm really proud of myself for doing that, you know, or is it all just centric centralized on the physicality of your life? Right. You ever heard of a Royal Caribbean? Yeah. Cruise helps. Yeah, definitely. I love cruises, man. I do a long cruise after. Wow. You like feel you can eat food, John. That's why, but he's got, he's building that gym. He's got a business. That's what he's in right now. Yeah. No, I mean, like, you know, outside, outside of the realm. I mean, do you have dogs? I mean, do you ride motorcycles? I mean, what do you, I mean, like what, what do you, what's, what's your life like not being a muscle head? What I would like it to be is a lot of what I used to be when I grew up in Indiana. I'm like at heart, I'm, I'm kind of a country boy. I know it. You may not think it. You're like, what? But I grew up out in the middle of nowhere, Indiana. And I loved it, man. I love the hunting, the fishing, the four wheel riding, all that getting dirty. I, I love it. I just don't really do it much right now because one, if I'm out there, you know, risking my health, like if that's my body is my career. Stay off of any bikes. Yeah. No, no motorbikes. Don't listen to anything. Don't listen to anything. You don't need any hobbies till you're done competing. Okay. But like we talked about earlier, man, like I'm, I'm, you know, about to have my second daughter and that's a hobby right there. Yeah. So I get to spend time with my, my first daughter now spend time with my wife, but also I have to give so much credit to my wife because she is the backbone to all of this. None of the gym or all this stuff would be happening if it wasn't for her. So she takes care of all so many things that people don't ever see. And, and I tell people, she's the one that's really running the gym. Like you can ask me, but you're lucky. You just gave her credit for that. You're very lucky. Yeah. Yeah. So, so we have, we have strong ambition to keep building businesses and, and do great things for our community. Like we're very community driven people. So right now, this year, our focus outside of, you know, what we're talking about bodybuilding, Mr. Olympia, our focus as a family is build community and build a team, you know, have, have the best team in each area of our, our business life. And, and even personal life and also build the best community around it that we can and just give back. So that's what we're passionate about. I would say. Yeah. That's great. That's great. Derek. And I want to thank you for joining us today. Number one, number two, best of luck next week with the birth of your daughter. It's a blessing. And I only wish you the best with that. And we're going to see Derek, the Arnold this year as a spectator. And then we're going to see you on stage as a guest poser in Pittsburgh. How'd that come about? Jim Mannion asked you. It's the Pittsburgh pro man. Like the first year that I did the Pittsburgh pro guest posing in 2022, whenever it was like, Oh, crazy. You need to go. That's when you look nuts. Yeah. Go to the open. Go to the open. Yeah. I always wanted to do it in the past, but I never got asked to do it. And I didn't really feel like I should reach out. But after winning the two 12 title, I was like, Hey, I'm here, you know, and he goes, you want to get on stage? I go, sure. I'll be there. I'll be on stage. But, you know, I got to tell you as a, as a fan, guest posing, you know, I got to tell you as a fan, as a spectator, when you're there at, at the Pittsburgh and you see the, almost the entire Olympia lineup, you know, in offseason shape, you know, on stage, it's really from a fan's perspective. It's really mind boggling. It's a really amazing, amazing experience. this year, you're going to see half of them in, in shape at the Pittsburgh pro competing for a hundred thousand dollars. So it's great. Looking amazing. That show I'm telling you, that's why I, as soon as they announced it, I said, this is a legacy show. I have to do it. Yeah. Yeah, no, you're right. You're right. Look, any show that gives away a hundred grand for first place, which was the biggest prize of all time. When we first started is, is still a great show to do because where else can you make a hundred thousand dollars in one day? Well, not just a hundred thousand, a hundred thousand on the first show on the first year. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. It's going to grow from there. Right. Thank God. That's because of sponsors like Seth Ferosi and some of the other sponsors that put up the new tech and all those, those companies that put up all that money. So it's a, it's a wonderful thing that we're seeing multiple shows now with a hundred plus thousand dollars. You have Dubai, you have Pittsburgh, you have New York pro inching up on that. You obviously got the Arnold at seven 50, the Olympic God knows where they're going to up their prize money to this year. So it's, it's a lot of cash on. It's overdue. It's long overdue. Yeah. Yeah, it is. Well, Derek, best of luck. I'll see you in Columbus and best of luck next week. Yeah. Thank you guys. Nice. All right, guys, that's going to take us to the end of this episode of the Palumbo podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo with John Romano and Mr. Olympia, Derek Lunsford. We'll see you next time.