Heat. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution RX television, rxmuscle.com. Sadique Farooqi here. We begin our 2025 iron road to the Olympia with something unique, something quite special. We are now 6 and a half weeks out to the 2025 Olympia. And not only are we joined by the reigning Mr. Olympia himself, but he has been so kind to take his time, his energy, but to also help out a man who hopes to be joining on that himself on that Olympia stage as well. And of course, we are talking about the man they call Beastwood Quinton Ara. He is. And now, are you upstairs in Samson's house or downstairs? Where is the proximity right now? >> I I'm two levels above right now. It's a big house. I'm in I'm in the office. >> You're in the office. All right. You're you're you're in the you're in the cave in the lion's den as they would call it. >> But gentlemen, thank you so much for joining us. I know Q, you are about what uh nine days out from the Italy Pro where you are hoping to land qualification for the Olympia. And Samson, you are now six and a half weeks out from your first Olympia title defense. So, let's get right into it. This is a unique circumstance right now. Now when we talk about Sam Sandatada, we talk about Quintonia, we are talking about very obvious similarities. You're both Nigerian. >> You're both tall. We both talk about, you know, sort of the the frame, the physique that you've had to fill out in order to bring your best physique. So Samson, I'll start with you. How did this conversation come about? Did you have did you reach out to Quinton? Did he reach out to you about training for the Italy Pro? Yeah, but basically you know I knew I met Quinton when we competed together our first show in Vancouver in 2019 and we kind of met up then and we kind of share interest because we sort of came from the same country and everything else and it was such a nice sort of a nice experience to sort of share that moment with him and as obviously time goes go on we've kind of progressed and I'm at this stage and I see how much he's progressed as well and you kind of know looking at his physique and I watch obviously the Texas and the Tampa Pro and I saw saw where he was at and I remember he kind of just kind of give me a memory of where I was at just a few years ago where it was just at that line just to cross over at that mark where you actually bring out your best physique and I sort of saw it and I saw the results of the two shows and I just thought you know what I know I sort of have a good idea from experience of where he's at and what he needs just to tip over into that stage and tip over to that point where he qualify for the Olympia. So I kind of just say, you know, I reach out to him. I said, "Bro, you know what? Look, I know where you're at. I think I can help. You know, if you're interested, you come down and stay at mine for three weeks and we can train together and we can touch base together. I can pass on as much knowledge as I can to you to try to get you just over that hurdle so you can actually be on our Olympia stage this year." And you know, props up to him and right when I said it, he jumped at the chance and he agreed to it. And you know, it just kind of came about. I mean, this came about literally straight out for the Texas. You know, I reached I reached out to him literally the next day and before you know that same week towards the end of that week, he was over here. So, he pretty much just dropped everything and ran off straight away. So, you know, props up for him for being able to sort of accept the idea that, you know, he has something that he wants to learn as he wants to be better and he's willing to do whatever it takes to reach that. And, you know, not many guys will quickly drop everything, come take up the opportunity, but you know, he saw the chance of him being better and improving. So, you know, he was he was up for for that. And, uh, he's been great ever since. Quinton, so I mean that that's great to hear that this happened really so suddenly after the Texas Pro where you finished third. Let's talk a little bit about, you know, the progression that it's been for you, right? we go back to last year, the New York Pro, and it was then after the show, you you came out and you kind of declared that from here on out, you know, at least for the foreseeable future, you were going to be self coached, that there was a lot that you learned about your physique over the course of your bodybuilding journey and you felt like you could do the best job in terms of your own physique. This year, placed second at Tampa, placed third at Texas. Now, for the first time in your professional career, you're going to be competing in three professional shows. Italy about 8 days away. When you get that message from Samson, what are the emotions? I mean, this is a day after you've placed third at Texas, you know, good solid, I mean, one of the biggest, if not the biggest lineups in the entire pro league calendar, but you know, you get that message from Sansson and obviously you've known Sans, you've seen his journey, you've seen his rise at the top. Were there any parallels that you saw for your own career that you saw, you know, in our current Mr. Olympia, you say to yourself like, I I cannot if I missed this opportunity, I'd be the dumbest person alive. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, I've always had a lot of respect for Samson. I've always admired his physique and like anytime I had to compete against him, I' i'd be stressed. I'm like, man, because I I got good shape, but he he always had good shape and he was bigger. So, it was uh seeing how he progressed over the years, it was just like a really cool opport and unique opportunity. Like, how often is the best bodybuilder in the world going to reach out to some guy like, "Hey, I think I can help you," you know? So, it was uh it was a very emotional experience for me, but I I I I jumped on it and I I I went for it, man. And it's been the best decision I ever made in my career. So not only you know because again my initial understanding and I and I want to clarify this for the audience if if they're thinking the same thing. My initial understanding was that you guys are training together but in fact you are living together. You're staying at Samson's house. He's very generous to do that. So now I mean you're getting the full gamut. You're seeing how not only does he train, not only does he how how he eats, how he preps his food, how he goes about sort of the daytoday, you know of a champion bodybuilder. What have you been able to absorb so far? Just getting to witness, you know, really the day-to-day of Simpson Data. >> Uh the the best way that I can put it is there's so many experts out there. There's so much information out there. Um there's so much stuff out there that isn't real. There's a lot of fluff. Like, man, I come here, it's just just the basics. It's the It's mastering the basics, you know, mastering intensity with training, you know, prioritizing recovery, >> prioritizing keeping stress as low as possible, and just being aware of how your body feels. And man, just like if you were to see like this, yeah, it's all the basics is what makes this guy great, you know, and to actually live here and see what he eats, see how he trains, see him do cardio, see him pose, it's next level, man. Like you it's it's like it's a different kind of it's a different kind of heart that you have to take it to that level. And I, you know, like I said, there's a lot of information out there and for a long period of time, I'd do this or I'd do that. You know, I worked with certain people and I was under the impression that this was the right approach. This is the way to go and it's just things were over complicated and like this what I see here, what I'm experiencing, what I'm living with the training, like this is real. Like this is real bodybuilding and it's intense. Samson. So when you take on someone like a Quinton Ria and again I I think when you look at him and his physique but then you also sort of see the progression of his career and I think you kind of draw the parallels you know of your past when I interviewed you in the past you've told you're very candid about the fact that at certain points you considered leaving bodybuilding altogether because you had setbacks and you you truly pondered the future of your career in bodybuilding. Well, when you bring in Quinton and you see his shape, you see the P word potential, which is a scary word in of itself because potential is what get coaches fired. >> What did you want us kind of mentally lay out as far as a path that you have, say 13 to 14 days with him? What are some of the things you really wanted to key in on to sort of not only as far as training the the food, but sort of the mental approach to prepping for a bodybuilding contest? you know, because I've been in that position before and I know what it feels like and it's, you know, as much as you can have people and coaches and family tell you, yeah, just hang in there, keep going, keep going. It it doesn't help. It doesn't it doesn't push you as much as it is, you know, it you try to hold on and after, you know, you you almost have this near misses time and time again, it starts to wear at you mentally and you start to self question yourself and question the ability of if you are really meant to do this because I know I did. And it's it's at that moment where you almost see where you're almost at that point where you can break you know it's that moment that defining moment okay would you just give one more go would you stick around another time and so seeing that and recognizing and knowing that okay that moment might come up very soon and when you see someone another individual that has that potential man's a big potential for bodybuilding you know he's he's you see his physique and you can just he just screams out okay hell he's he's going to be a top bodybuilder in no and you could see it and you almost don't want that to be wasted >> because you see it and I recognize it because I recognized it myself when I was coming up. I see it and I'm like, damn. You know, I know he's doing his thing and I know he's progressed so much already and I could just see that he's just right there. And you know, when you're just right there, you don't realize it and things are not going right and you can sort of either over analyze it or you can sort of catch a point where you get disheartened by it. And I just kind of thought, you know what, just for the idea of this to raise this port and raise him and get him there, if there's anything I can do to help, then why not? Why? I just can't I don't feel like I don't feel comfortable to see it and see someone so talented as at that spot. And I know for a fact when I was there, I would have killed to have someone reach out to me and say, "Hey, you know what? This is where you are. You know, you all you need is this." And to for it to come from someone who's been there and been in that exact position, it's um is real because then I can discuss it to you and I can talk to him because I call him R for Tampa. I mean, I ra for Texas and I know exactly where his man is going to be at after a show like that and what it does to you psychically. you know, it really is really a hit. And you know, as much as people could tell you, you know, yeah, man, I had your place in here or you could have, you know, you just need to be this and the other, it doesn't help. It doesn't help. So to know exactly what he needs at that moment and say, look, look, come on, man. Look, okay, scrub that off. This is what we need to do going forward. If you're willing to to take this on, look, you you're right there. So that sort of kind of be my thing where I just kind of reach out to him and say look and then you know have him come over here and knowing that he's right there and I can push him up just over that edge and just give him a little tap over it is um is something I just feel like you know what is sort of my position and you know something that I feel in my heart I should do. Well, let's talk specifically about let's talk about the training aspect because Samson when I spoke to you a few months back at the Detroit Pro uh at that time and it was a very stressful time for you because that's when you were constructing the gym right now is the the cave. Uh we're talking about the whole process that it was to get the equipment to find a manufacturer that was able to you know equip you in in a short period of time whereas the lead times are generally fairly long. You also talked about sort of the vision, right? Obviously, you needed your own training space, but >> that this would give you an opportunity to be able to take in someone like a Quinton and and kind of have that alone time with him. What are some of the fine points of training and and I guess if you want to expand beyond that, the the posing that you've worked on with with with Quinton? So basically, you know, one of the fan points is like I know that my approach that I've done for the last five years has shown progress and every time I get on the bodybuilding stage, people see how much my I progress and how much I'm able to put on and how much my look keeps improving from show to show. And I know that it works because I've done it with friends of mine. I've seen them progress using that same way. So, I know the technique works, but at the same time, you always kind of think, okay, right, if someone at this level or someone that is a top row body or has a potential to be a top row body does that same training style and live that same simple life and come back and master the basics, what would they happen with them? Would they be able to still have that same level of improvement like I do? So I was kind of curious and so when we created, you know, I create my my list my life around bodybuilding at home, the gym, everything is catered to make me the absolute ultimate environment for bodybuilding. Everything, all the surrounding, everything about me is to be we have around here is just to make you as best as you can be as bodybuilding. So I thought, okay, we've designed this whole facility and we've designed everything to cater to that. And now it's almost like a point of, okay, you know what, I want to test it I want to see if I can get somebody to come over and then push them through and see what the result be. So, it was also a double-edged opportunity for me to kind of say, "Okay, right, there he is. There's somebody right there as just ideal for this. So, let's see if I can get him over, get him to training, and get him to sort of take on the more approach of things because right now with bodybuilding, it's um it's to put it in a nicer word, man, it's being extremely complicated. >> People are they're making it extremely um more complicated than it needs to be. Bodybuilding is easy in theory, but it's hard in practice. And that's just it. It's mastering the little things. It's not the big complicated, oh, try to add this and try to do five other things and while you're standing on your head. That's not bodybuilding. Bobby is very simple, but it deserves extreme hard work and dedication, and that's where it's hard. So, we have a very simple approach. We've always had a very simple approach to what we do. So, it's kind of bringing someone over and saying, "Okay, right. I'm I'm not going to tell you exactly, okay, you need to do this and you need to do that because I'm not coach. >> I'm no coach. >> But instead, I'll bring you into my life and you can watch and see for yourself what we do and you can ask questions and you can take in what we what we doing and you can so absorb it and you can see it firsthand because it's one thing me sitting there and telling you, okay, I do this, I do this, I do that and you probably go in one year and come out the next. But if you can see it firsthand and see me in this stage of prep and see my physics transform while I'm doing the same thing you're watching. You're watching it firsthand happen, you can absorb that a lot better and you can actually go, okay, I want to try that. I want to I want to give this a go and you can see the result happening yourself. So having him over and going through the last, you know, the last what it's up to almost up to coming up two weeks now where he's been here and seeing the progress he's made because of that, I'm I'm I'm just proud of him, man. I'm I'm definitely like, "Okay, wow. This is this is what I was hoping for." >> So, Q, let's talk. I mean, he kind of laid it out. Samson laid it out as far as look, he's not bringing you in as, okay, he's your coach and okay, do this, do that. He's kind of taking you into, you know, his life into his style of training and it's his style of the the approach to a training session. What have you learned from the champ? Is there anything that just I mean again maybe watching him train or maybe some of the things that he's put you through where you say to yourself all right you know what this is something that I've already been doing it but now I feel as if I'm I'm going to be able to do a little better or is there something that you truly like holy crap like where has this been all my training life whatever that you're now able to incorporate you know not only now but going forward as you know again hopefully that you'll be progressing towards the Olympia in seven weeks. What would you say are the some of the finer points you've learned from being in the gym with a champ? >> Well, to very specifically with the training, the warm-up sets are working sets. >> The warm-up sets are like I remember the first workout, you do a set and you're like, "Okay." You do another set, you're like, "Okay, it's heavier." Like, you know, it was challenging. I needed fourth reps or I needed assistance towards the end. And then there's another set, it gets heavier, and then another one. Uh, so it's just like it's just a next level. It's a next kind. It's it's a different kind of push, you know, and I think it's it's very simple when you look at it. It's like, okay, we're doing a lot of supersets, high volume, going up and kind of pyramiding up. Sometimes we do like a a back off or some sort of intensifier, but it's just it's not what we're doing, it's how we're doing it, you know? And it's just the it's finding a way to create that stress with every workout. You push yourself to your absolute limit and beyond that every workout. And the thing is a lot of people think they're doing that. And I mean I built a good amount of muscle doing what I was doing. But there's a discrepancy between where I am and where he is, where he was five years ago, where he is now. I think the biggest thing is just like it's that next level. and you know I coming out here and getting a taste of what that's like now. I know what it feels. I know how it feels now. And that's something that I am going to replicate to a tea when I get back home. Now there's that, but also just seeing the way that life is being lived. It's different, man. It's different. Like a lot of bodybuilding people, it's just all about they're not concerned about how they actually feel inside, you know, and they're going to ignore a lot of like feedback, a lot of negative feedback that happens as a byproduct of, you know, pushing yourself in certain directions. So, it's just it's just different, man. like this approach is and seeing him. It's like you're you're you're giving your body everything all the basics that it needs. You're not throwing too much stuff at it so that you crash or you burn out or you lose a lot of tissue. So, it's just doing all the right things. All of it. Like you said, it's easy in theory, but it's hard in practice. And it's just doing the same thing over and over and not second guessing yourself. And it's been really cool because Marenia like she's man she's got such an incredible bodybuilding. I and I I don't think Samson and her get enough credit for how great they are with their understanding of bodybuilding. I mean he's Mr. Olympia for a reason, you know, and you see how he climbed up the ranks. Uh listen, it sounds like I'm gassing him up right now, but it's legit. It's the one like I've trained with a lot of different bodybuilders. I've had I've shared weeks. I've seen with other guys, you know, we've trained, we've done whatever. Like, this is next level. Like, it is different. >> You know, there was a a set of progress pictures you guys dropped a few days ago and, you know, somebody cropped out of pictures of Samson kind of looking like like the proud older brother, you know, smiling, looking at you. Talk about the look that you're going for in, you know, at the Italy Pro, what eight days from now. Um because when you look at the similarities between your physiques, right, I think Quinn, correct me if I'm wrong, you're about what, an inch taller than Samson, roughly >> somewhere around that. But you both have similar in terms of, you know, look, in a lineup, in a standard lineup, you are going to stand out, right? I mean, obviously because of the because of the height, because of the overall, whatever you want to call it, the halo, whatever. >> But with that comes an an added onus of having to fill out that frame, right? And that is something that Samson has, you know, had to deal with for, you know, the progression of his bodybuilding career. He's at a phase now where people are talking about, okay, well, you filled out the physique and now we need to see, you know, that that the graininess, the hard, the conditioning. With you, Sam, with you, Quinton, I feel like you're still at that point where, you know, we don't see the finished product yet. And I think we are excited by the potential. Now, we, you know, when you work with with Samson, we are only, you know, you 14 days essentially. What is realistically sort of like what are you going for here? Are you going for the size? Right. With Samson, it's biggest freakiest guy on stage. Are you going for the quote unquote masswood class? Like what is realistic and what were what was the approach heading into Italy? >> I honestly just keeping things simple, you know, I I knew I could have been leaner at the last one but the last two shows. So I've been working on getting leaner. The training intensity has been better. So what you're going to see and I could even I from the pictures that have been taken recently in the videos like the density is there. The density is better than it was before. And you know it just comes down to the training. I believe you know the food you know food could fluctuate here and there. You know I don't think food is making a drastic difference within two three weeks. The biggest difference is the training and also prioritizing low stress and getting enough sleep. But uh yeah, the goal is to be sharper and harder. >> Samson, when you think about I mean again, you're not his coach, but obviously you get your hands on him. You know, there are certain things where you say to yourself, "All right, look, if if you could do this, this that I could envision this kind of a look in under a scope of two weeks." >> I mean, we are now, you know, whatever, seven, eight days out. >> Yeah. What are the things that you feel like you really need to hone in on approaching the finish line? Is is the plan to torture? Is the plan training? Is the plan food? What do you envision over these next few days? >> No, basically it's a simple one, man, because where he was from, you know, especially compared to last year when he competed in Pro and you know, he shrank down a lot and we could see that from that shrinking now, he did have the detail. Everything's there. But because he lost so much size for it, it was a that became a much more smaller and flattened look and it didn't flatter his physique. Especially Quentin, he's a we're big guys. We're big muscular guys and we have to look round and bubbly to be impressive. Yeah. We're not going to have the dry, drainy, grainy skin just like that because every time we try to suck down for that, we end up looking like what he did back in New York where it's almost like you flatten and lose that pop. So the main thing when you kind of when I looked at him I was like okay he needs to just yeah he needs to come on tighter but at the same time doing that is not to lose muscle while he's doing it. So that's why the training we cooperate is basically so high intense and so impactful. So the body tends to retain the muscle when you put it in that state. But then when you're dieting down he's getting leaner. He's basically getting leaner without and showing that detail but holding on to the muscle at the same time. So now when we look at him he he hits a side chest pose. He's triation across his chest and his shoulders. Paws are feathered. You know, his his glutes and hamstrings have popped out. He's he's just razor sharp everywhere. But he hasn't lost the size to get that. And it was just basically the time we had was basically that's as much as you can get out of him is to get him to look much harder than he did, but don't lose any muscle in that process. So, and you know this kind of style of training because this is something I know I'm master at being able to suck down but yet go between offseason and prep and be like people don't even know the difference of how much size I've lost because you just look big all the time. So, he's trying to get that same feedback especially in such a short time where you can put on shitloads of muscle in the short time but you can make your body retain a lot of the muscle while you shrink down even more. Here's another challenge. And I mean, again, um, Quinton, you brought up Maranka, and you're right. Look, uh, over the course of the last 18 months, I mean, I think people are really, you know, getting to see, you know, the kind of eyes she has for bodybuilding and obviously the way that she's been able to help Samson rise to the literal top of the bodybuilder mountain. One thing I did want to ask both of you and as far as the posing you know the posing process and I say that because you know again with you having both having taller structures >> if the posing is not completely on point if the way that you display the muscle to display the physique is not completely on point it can look for lack of a better phrase doofy with your height and the you know space that you take up on that stage. How much of an emphasis have you guys put in on just not just okay obviously you're going to work on posing but what are some of the fine points that you've worked on in terms of displaying the muscle, displaying the physique and that you know artistry that again we've seen now Samson really take that posing to another level. How much of that have you worked on over the course of these last two weeks? Quinton, I'll start with you first. >> Uh every day. Every day after training we get in there. Uh, and also even outside of the training, he speaks to me about his philosophy with posing and just walks me through like what goes on in his mind when he's looking for posing routine. Man, we've had so many conversations that have been so like eye opening and helpful me. Uh, but when we get in the gym postworkout and we pose, like I don't want to say he picks me apart, but he just basically highlights my strengths and like, you know, gets me to try different things. Hey man, Marenia. So yeah, they they got a close eye on me. And also the cool thing is as we pose together basically every day and we're training, they're starting to learn my body. So they're picking up on certain trends. So it's it's been really helpful. But I think the the biggest thing with the posing is just like the mindset. It's it's the mindset. Doing mandatories, practicing mandatories is relatively I mean it's hard. It's hard, but it's that's extremely simple. But it's the mindset of knowing like, okay, we're going to war, you know, I'm not going to break. I'm going to go in there. I'm not going to break. I'm not going to show there's there can't be a single angle of me that looks bad from anywhere. Nobody can should be able to capture a picture anywhere in the crowd where I look off, you know? I got to look I got to be on at all times. And like having that in my mind and that's not how he says it. he says it a lot more sounds uh it's more inspirational more nice but um having that in my mind it like it fires me up and I also work with a posing coach so that's where I'm getting pushed on the rounds in the mornings and then post-workout we we run it >> you know Samson there is one thing that we have seen out of you over the course of the last two years and obviously we saw it at this past Olympia >> and and it's something that you know I feel like people used to say a lot about Shawn Rhoden until he won. And that is there is one thing to pose. There's another thing to display your physique. There's another thing to be on that stage and to announce yourself as the champion. And I feel like there's a level of comfort that you have on that stage now. The level of self-awareness that when you're on that stage that you know you're the best on, you know, on that stage. Where did that come from? Is that something that took time? And is that something that you you've kind of tried to share with Q >> from a mental perspective? >> Yeah, because you know what people underestimate the mentality you have to have when you get on that stage. They you know most people when they will decide to do a show they practice the man fees and then they go on stage and go okay I know how to hit front. I know how to hit front last and they don't think about anything else. They just think about okay I know how to hit a pose and that's it. We go a lot deeper than that. We go into okay from the moment you walk out onto those lights all eyes on you. Okay. The way you walk, the way you stand, the way you take a position, the way you go into the pose, the way you come out of pose, your breathing, your your your calmness, your demeanor, everything is highlighted in 4K. You have to be very very keen and very have a very awareness about it. So when you hit a front pose, okay, cool. You're going out to the side. You don't just put your arms down and breathe out and then turn to the side and hit another pose. The demeanor and the way you go from that pose to next has to be a lighter. You got to understand that you are giving people a show. And in that show, it's not Instagram. It's not this is how he looks in front double. This is how he looks in back double. No, no, no. The in between is where a lot of guys lose shots. It's not in the poses itself. And if you highlight that, if you look at um the 2018 Mr. Olympia, that was just a prime example. If you look shot by shark, you know, Phil Heath was winning those shots. But people that watched the show saw the in between, saw what happened in between and how, you know, that made a big difference. So the same mindset you're going to have with posing is, okay, I'm not just being watched when I'm in the pose. I'm being watched when I come out of it, when I go into it, when I walk this way, when I stand on the side waiting for the judges to call me out. All those points has to be something you're constantly thinking about and you're constantly saying, "Okay, right. How do I highlight my strengths whilst I'm here, while I'm standing there? How do I highlight my strengths and manipulate my weaknesses so it's not highlighted? So you have to constantly do that and you know trying to do that it takes a lot of not just a lot of mental power, it takes a lot of willpower and takes a lot of energy out of you as well because now there is a posing between a pose. So you have to okay my breathing the time I take a good breath in I have to hold that in my chest. I can't let my stomach hang out with that because I'm running I'm getting winded and I'm trying to take a big gulp of air in. I have to now practice the ability to have very shallow breath and catch my energy back just by breathing very shallowly with my chest. And you have to practice these things over and over and over. So we one of the things we incorporate is after a very intense workout and we're exhausted and we're like oh my god we you know d is killing us everything else. That's the moment you have to pose. That's the moment you have to practice your posing when you're not at your best when you feel absolutely like crap. That's the moment that you're going to have to practice the best of you. So, when you're on stage and you feel exhausted after you've gone round after round, that's a moment that you're already familiar with and you know exactly how to run through and you're not so tired that you're not thinking because most of the time is you guys get on stage and you know, first round they're great. Second round all of a sudden they start to let things go. They're not hitting the poses properly because now they're getting winded, they're getting tired and they're not thinking the same way. So we work a lot on those parts of things and saying okay right this is a moment where you have to be very switched on. You have to be very conscious of this this this and any weaknesses you have you have to be conscious on when it it shows and when to hide it. >> This has been absolutely phenomenal. I'm going to just ask you guys a couple of more questions and you've been so generous with your time with Quinton just around the corner from his hopefully Olympia qualification bid uh at the Italy Pro. But I mean Q just talk about from the perspective of you know again we're talking about you working with the reigning Mr. Olympia but the reigning Mr. Olympia who now is less than seven weeks out from his first Olympia title defense. So I I feel like you're getting a front row seat not only obviously working with Mr. Olympia, but you know, seeing him, you know, in some of the dog days, seeing him getting into that zone where eventually it's not going to be so, you know, lovey, hunky dory, it's going to be a little choppy waters. You know, from that perspective, you know, what have you, what additionally have you been able to take from just seeing how this man approaches the game of bodybuilding, the life that it is, the lifestyle that it is, bodybuilding, being at that phase out from the Olympia? Well, one of the most common things you hear about bodybuilding is that bodybuilding is a selfish sport. And you know, this guy's the best in the world. And he brought me in from another country to help me out while he's getting ready for the biggest show of his life. And you know, he's the best in the world, but it's like this is the first defense. So, it's like you got to make a statement. So, this is time is of the essence. You know, every day counts. So, the fact that while he's focused and he is focused and he's doing everything that he got to do to be the best again, like the fact that he has me here, it for me more than anything, it just shows me the kind of character that he has. But, uh, yeah, know I'm honored to be able to witness it. I'm happy to be a part of it. I'm happy to, you know, play my role and push him in the gym as well. And uh you if me being here sparks motivation for him as well, then I'm more than happy about that, too. But yeah, it's just been an honor, a privilege, and I I'm learning so much. >> Well, Sam, I'm going to close this out with you because again, the heat kind of led right into that. I mean, as far as you know, again, you generously taking your time and at a time when again really you would be shutting the doors off to the rest of the world in order to really lock in. And certainly we'll have this conversation uh later on down the road, but just as far as now where you are at less than seven weeks out from your first Olympia title defense, I mean, you know, just incredible to think of where you are right now in the annals of bodybuilding in the annals of bodybuilding history and the hierarchy of bodybuilding at this point in time as Mr. Olympia and you're now veering towards that period of prep where now you're going to be zero dark fully focused tunnel vision towards Vegas and your first Olympia title defense. Where do you feel like you're at right now? And if you can share sort of where you're at and what you envision in less than seven weeks on that Olympia stage physique-wise, perhaps something maybe even different than what we saw last year. What would it be? So basically you know us our goal is very simple man what the feedback the judges are giving us is the same same simple feedback man we just want to see you tighter and for me that for once is a very very simple goal to hit because it's different you know where now my physique has matured to the point where my muscle groups are more complete I don't I have that density now where I don't I don't fluctuate between you know being full or being flat I'm just constantly round and full all the time so I don't have to worry about losing muscle group if I overdrive or anything like that it's the point where this has taken me years to get this level of maturity. So now I'm in a position where I'm like I don't have to worry about anything. I don't have to worry about losing my legs or losing my back because I overdied it. So it makes it go very simple. Get absolutely freaking peeled. So right from the moment where the prep started was like, "Okay, go time." And since then, uh Mel has been pushing my ass and cutting my food and making sure that we absolutely peel ourselves inside out. And already even at this stage, I'm already way way ahead of where I was last year. And you know, and it's it's hurts. It hurts. You know, it's hard without a doubt. But at the same time, I know that this is what the goal has to be for me to show my best at this stage. And when that time comes, it's going to be something that is special that people haven't seen from me before. But it makes for a really, really simple goal. It just means that you have to suffer. And that I've done all my life. So suffering is um easy. Suffering is the part that I can do very, very well. So he's just okay suck down as hard as you can and hard as you've ever done and then just come in the way you are and that's it. So it makes my goal very simple. >> Well gentlemen, I mean this has been absolutely phenomenal and again this was such a cool thing to see the two of you working together before Q is going to try in 7 days to clinch his Olympia qualification. and Samson for you to not only open up your gym but really open up your house, your life, your preirst Olympia title defense to Quinton, someone that again, you know, so many people say, I mean, as far as the comparisons, is right up there with you that, you know, Dave Palumbo says throw another 10 pounds on this guy, quality muscle, he could be fighting amongst the best in the world. So, I just wanted to capture this moment. I think it's a really cool story. And, uh, Quinton, good luck. Hopefully you will qualify in 7 days time and we will certainly get you on later on in this course of the iron road to the Olympian. Of course, Samson champion as always, my friend. Thank you so much for the time and certainly we hope to speak to you soon down the road as we veer into Vegas. Thank you. Thank you both very much. >> Really appreciate it. Thank you. >> Pleasure.