I don't know if anyone's handing out trophies. for offseason awards, but if they are, Brandon Ray deserves consideration for some hardware. With a solid 2016 campaign officially in the rearview mirror, it looks like the enigmatic fourthyear pro has been putting in some serious work lately. As far as raw talent goes, Ray has all the tools and ability to turn into a potential Olympia caliber athlete. So, if he can focus on stepping in and taking care of business, I think he has a real shot to turn into something very special. With less than a month to go, we've officially entered into the home stretch for this year's Arnold Classic. And it looks like secondyear figure pro Stephanie Hammermeister is ready to play for keeps. After ending a monster rookie season with a commanding 11th place finish on the Olympia stage, Hammermeister is coming back in year two, ready to take a major leap forward. If she can find a way to strike the right balance of fullness and conditioning, I think she has a legitimate shot to be a top six finisher. It seems like the women's physique division has new stars popping out of the woodwork these days, and I think that Hannah Hullman is one of the next ones on deck. Hullman closed out the 2016 season what was arguably her best look of her career at the Ferraro Legacy Classic, giving her tons of momentum heading into the offseason. If she can add some quality muscle from the waist up to balance out her look, she has a chance to make some real waves before the year's end. With all the talk about whether or not Courtney King will be able to come into Columbus and hold serve, we haven't heard much talk about the woman who could arguably be the most dangerous athlete in the competition, last year's second place finisher, Justine Monroe. Late last week, the bikini bombshell released her last set of scintillating progress photos, showing off a little bit of her worldclass talent. When she's at her best, Justine Monroe is one of the most complete athletes we have in the division. And I definitely wouldn't put it past her to come in and pull off the upset. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!