This is the game. Triple H. You're watching Muscle in the Morning. Get all your bodybuilding news and all your facts and stuff right here. It's all about the game, but you can't take it. Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host, Be the Producer, here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. is January 9th, 2014 and on today's show, Ty Green visits DC Comics and Evotti update. India Paulino joins in on this week's episode of Muscle Girls Inc. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question, only on Muscle in the Morning. Kai Green recently took a trip over to DC Comics headquarters in New York City. Could he have some work planned with DC or is he just there on a tour? My prediction is we'll see Kai being used in some capacity with DC comics as his physique is a great example for comics to base their superheroes off of. We won't know exactly why he was there until more details come out. Stay tuned. Evan Satapani has changed up his ways this time around as he released a few new pictures of himself at 8 weeks out of the Arnold. Evan, usually known to go into hibernation mode between shows and very rarely showing off what he plans to bring to the stage, is looking as big as ever. But I'm going to assume his unexpected decision to release photos means he's expecting to bring a much different package come showtime. This week on Muscle Girls Inc., your host Dela Garcia and Stacy Alexander discuss the seven things that are giving us the most stress in our daily lifestyle. Joining him this week is India Paulino, who's here to discuss her contest prepender title at the 2014 Bikini International. Find this episode on the homepage of rxmuscle.com. Check it out now. Now for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, what two Olympia competitors had tested positive for banned diuretics in 2001, but had the disqualification later overturned? And the answer, Jay Cutler and Marcus Rule. Shout out to old trainer for the correct answer. Now for today's trivia question, who is the early age bodybuilder shown here. Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host, Pete the Producer. See you tomorrow, and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook. Heat.