It is Chuck Zto, the beast from the east, and you better be watching Muscle in the morning or Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host Peter Producer here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's March 27th, 2014. And on today's show, Juan Morell, five weeks out of Brazil, a branch warrant update, and tonight's live heavy muscle TV show. And as always, he answered yesterday's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. IFBB Pro Juan Morell is currently just over four weeks out of the Arnold Brazil, and as expected, is bigger, rounder, and fuller than we've seen him in the past. With a very close lineup of top pros, I'm predicting it's going to be a very close call for the top five as we'll see William Bonik, Lionel Baky, Steve Klo, and Jonathan Delar Roa. Branch Warren recently made an appearance at Bev Francis powerhouse gym with Ashley Cawwer and Rich Gaspari for a photo shoot with Gaspari Nutrition. Branch still working hard in and out of the gym with unfortunate placings at his last few shows has been counted out by many fans, but I don't think Branch is done for good. Let's see what he has in store next. Tonight, rxmuscle.com presents another live heavy muscle TV show hosted by Dave Palumbo. This week's special guests include eighttime Mr. Olympia Ronnie Coleman and IFBB Pro Ake Williams. Tune in tonight live at 7:30 p.m. right here on rxmuscle.com. Now, for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, name the two bodybuilders shown and what titles were won when these photos were taken? And the answer, the 1967 Nava Miss Universe contest. Bill Pearl won the professional title while Arnold Schwarzenegger was the amateur winner. This one goes to Ryan Wyinners again. Can anyone beat him? Now for today's trivia question. Name the contest and year this photo was taken. Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host, Peter Producer. See you tomorrow, and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook. Heat.