This is the game. Triple H. You're watching Muscle in the Morning. Get all your bodybuilding news and all your facts and stuff right here. It's all about the game. But you play it. Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Man Labs. I'm your host Peter Producer here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's January 8th, 2014, and on Today's Show, a massive 335 lb Big Romney has his eyes set on a New York Pro. Kevin Levrone is still composing music. And Gail Yates leaves the ISB to compete in Pro Diva Fitness. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question, only on Muscle in the Morning. It's been a while since we've heard any updates from one of the most massive and freakiest bodybuilders of our era. Since taking time off after his debut at the Arnold, Big Ramy has added a bit of weight and is at the 335 pound mark. Dennis James says this is what Ramy is currently looking like after a break and says with one more month to prepare for his contest diet, we shall see another surprise in New York. Kevin Levrone seems to do it all for being one of the most aesthetic bodybuilders to ever walk the planet. He's also known for making music when he released his full-blown album. While now preparing for his 2014 return, he's also began releasing singles to his upcoming album, Crying School. His most recent single, See the Light, can be found on his YouTube page. And it seems that if his main goal is music, he could possibly have a significant career in that field as well. Bodybuilding legend Dorian Yates wife, Gail Yates, who also is an IFBB pro, has made an unexpected change as she has decided to leave the IFBB to compete in another organization. With the IFBB being the elite competitive organization in the bodybuilding and fitness community, the decision to leave seems to be an odd one. Yale stated the following. I'd like to let you know I'm moving from the IFBB to WBFF and would like to thank everyone involved in the IFBB for all the help they have given me over the years. I've had a great career as an IFBB amateur and pro athlete, achieving world champion status, winning a pro show, and competing on the Olympia stage with the best athletes in the world. Things change in life and that's why I feel the time is now right to make the switch to WBFF Pro Diva Fitness. Now for the answer to the trivia question. The question was Tom Prince had held only one overall title in his competitive career. Which was this? And the answer 1997 NPC nationals. This is also where Tom won his pro card. Now for today's trivia question. Name the two Olympia competitors that in 2001 had tested positive for band diuretics but had the disqualification later overturned. Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host Pet the Producer. See you tomorrow and make sure you follow us on Twitter and Facebook.