Nobody laughing. Don't stop the party. Jesus. Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Wednesday, March 25th, 2015. Let's get to it. Coming off a career year that included four top three finishes and a debut Olympia appearance, it doesn't look like John Del Roza is playing any games as he heads into the 2015 contest season. Over the weekend, Del Roza released a video from his most recent chess training session where we see the upand cominging star manhandle 405 for reps on the bench. Since turning pro back in 2011, Del Roa has improved by leaps and bounds every single year. And with the New York Pro quickly approaching, the excitement is building as New Yorkers Del Rosa and Juan Morell look to face off for the prize money ring and title of New York Pro champion. While the East Coast was busy mired in the misery of the cold weather that just won't quit, the figure and physique world descended on sunny Southern California over the weekend when some of the IFBB's best took the stage to square off in the IFBB Governor's Cup. In the figure division, it was Maria Diaz who stole top honors and earned her first pro victory. The Masters Figure Pro was won by a very impressive Tamara Sedle. And in the men's physique division, we saw James Hurst narrowly edge out NPC Nationals overall champ Logan Franklin. And in Mast's physique, Robert Guile stole the show in victory. Congratulations to all the winners. Fresh off her ninth place finish at the Arnold Classic, Trish Warren isn't wasting any time getting back to work. Earlier in the week, Trish gave her fans a little inside access into some of her training secrets that she's used to turn herself into one of the top fitness competitors in the sport. Last year, Warren managed to crack the top 10 at both the Arnold and Olympia for the fourth consecutive year. And after crossing the Arnold off her list here in 2015, it looks like she'll be heading to Las Vegas later in September, looking to make it a cool five for five. Nina Ross looks like she's dialing in things quite nicely as she prepares to head into her sophomore season. Last year, Ross made history when she won the bikini overall at the British National Championships by becoming the first woman to ever win the overall in two separate divisions. And for an encore, Ross followed up her proqualifying win with a top 10 finish a few weeks later at the IFBB Korea Pro. As the former figure star continues to transition into the world of bikini, she's becoming increasingly dangerous to the competition. And it wouldn't be a surprise or stretch of the imagination to see Ross in the winner circle of a bikini pro event sometime in 2015. And finally, if you missed last night's episode of The Fitness View with hosts GG Moore and Nancy Norman and special guest Rosetta Mortati, the replay is now available exclusively at rxmuscle.com. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today, I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.