Heat. Heat. Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Tuesday, September 2nd, 2014, and on today's show, 50 Cent spotted in Venice Golds. Can Joseé Raymond win the 212 Olympia? Victor Martinez ready for battle. Robbie Robinson turning back the hands of time. And an impressive Jason Ganoff spotted at the Species Nutrition booth. All that and much, much more only on Muscle in the Morning. 50 Cent was spotted at Gold's Gym Venice last week. The rapper, actor, and media mogul is one of the many celebrity clients trained by the legendary Charles Glass, who's been busy helping Guy Sister Nino and Shawn Rooden prepare to take the Olympia stage in just under three weeks. Fit has been known to sport a pretty impressive physique over the years, but he has competition for the most muscular man in hip hop from rap legend Dr. Dre, who's trained by IFBB Pro Stan McQuay. But I'm not sure if either one of these lightweights can hold a candle to rapper and friend of RX Muscle Melly Mel when it comes to the shirtless showdown. Jose Raymond is looking ultra freaky three weeks out from the 212 Olympia showdown. The Boston Mass packs more muscle onto his frame per square inch than any other athlete in the 212 division, but he struggled to break the top three at the Olympia and move past perennial runner-up David Henry and defending champion Flex Lewis. Henry and Lewis may not have the girth, but they match up well pose for pose with Raymond while presenting a slightly more aesthetic look. If coach Chris Aceto can dial in Raymond's conditioning to perfection, he may be able to leapfrog past Henry and challenge Lewis for the title. Victor Martinez is back on a mission to prove once again he deserves to have his name mentioned among the top bodybuilders in the world. Martinez posted a photo hitting his signature most muscular and showing off the shape and structure that many have called among the greatest we've ever seen in the sport. Martinez earned his Olympia qualification by winning the IFBB Tampa Pro this past July. He displayed impressive size and conditioning and showed that he's finally corrected the size imbalance in his legs after tearing his patella tendon a few years ago. In order for Martinez to push to a top six slot, he'll have to come in 100% to be able to contend with the likes of Heath Green, Wolf, and Big Ramy, all who significantly outsize him. They say that father time remains undefeated. Well, somebody might want to let Robbie Robinson know that. At 68 years young, the Black Prince of Bodybuilding still looks like he could have walked onto the stage at the IFBB Pittsburgh Masters Pro, which took place this past weekend, and come home with the win. The bodybuilding hall of famer is living proof that hard training and smart nutrition can build the foundation for a physique that will last a lifetime. Jason Janov was spotted looking absolutely enormous at the IFBB North American Championships this past weekend working the Species Nutrition booth. The Pittsburgh native caught everyone's attention earlier this year when he won the overall at Jim Manion's NPC Pittsburgh championships. In a postcontest interview with RX Muscle, Janov said he planned to take the rest of the year off to pack on enough size to move up to the super heavyweight class at next year's North American Championships. keep an eye on this rising star to make some huge waves in 2015 in the upper echelons of the NPC. And finally, we would like to extend a special congratulations to Lorenzo Arasco, who earned his IFBB Pro card this past weekend at the North American Championships by winning the men's physique over 40 overall. It was a big weekend for the part-time Hollywood actor, and he was also announced as the newest athlete to join the Species Nutrition family. Congratulations. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. And for full quotes and muscle in the morning bonus features, join Muscle in the Morning's official Facebook page. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And remember to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.