This is the game. Triple H. You're watching Muscle in the Morning. Get all your bodybuilding news and all your facts and stuff right here. It's all about the game, but you can't take it. Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host, Pete, the producer, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's January 2nd, 2014. And on today's show, what's in store for ARC this year? I pro Kansas Keem on Muscle Girls Inc. And Jay Cutler gets attacked on Twitter. But was he the real target? Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. With the start of the new year, big things are to come for RX Muscle with events from around the world and new programming right here. To start things off, in just over a week, Arx Muscle will be headed to China for Bros versus Pros 19 for a bench press and curls for reps challenge this Saturday, the 11th. And then the following day will be Dave Palumbo's hardcore seminar. In addition, coming soon to RX Muscle's new video program, Behind the Muscle, where Dave Palumbo will sit down with some of the biggest names in the industry for a full one-on-one interview. Stay tuned for big things to come in 2014. Muscle Girls, Inc. is back with another episode this week as your host Adela Garcia and Stacy Alexander discuss the 2014 Arnold invite list and joining them is favorite IFBB pro FMG and Allmax athlete and current Miss Figure International Candace Keane. Candace shares what she's doing to prepare and defend her title as the Missfigure International. Find this episode now on the homepage of rxmuscle.com. To every bodybuilding fan, Jay Cutler is a household name, but type it in in Google quick and you might first see a Bears quarterback. Last week, Bears quarterback Jay Cutler had a huge upset, and Chicago fans have unfortunately taken it out on four-time Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler's Twitter page with some hateful words. After seeing all the messages, Jay responded publicly by saying, "I am not the quarterback from the Bears. Please don't hate here." Funny when a former Olympia can be confused as an NFL player. Now for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, name the bodybuilder who won his class at the 1980 Mr. Berlin and then at the 1987 Mr. America. And the answer, Vince Taylor. Now for today's trivia question. From 1989 to 1995, Vince Taylor had competed in four Mr. Olympians. During that time, there were only two competitors to hold that title. Who were they? Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host Pete the Producer. See you tomorrow and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.