This is IFBB pro Heather D and you're watching Muscle in the Morning. Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Tuesday, March 24th, 2015. Let's get to it. Congratulations are in order for the Ourum family. Last Sunday, Kevin and his wife Erica welcomed their precious new baby girl, Amara, into the world. Although she was two weeks ahead of schedule, it looks like baby Amara couldn't wait to join the Frey in the Ourum household, which looks like it's going to be pretty busy over the next few weeks as Kevin begins his contest prep for the 2015 season. That means low calories, less sleep, and absolutely zero bathroom time now that he's housing four girls under one roof. This has got to be a true challenge, even for the most hardcore of bodybuilders. Tricky Jackson looks to be coming along nicely 10 weeks out from making his 2015 debut. Late last week, photos surfaced of Jackson looking very impressive as he dials things in for the upcoming Omaha Pro 212. According to coach Trey Hodgej, quote, Tricky is currently sitting at around 216 pounds and is right on track to make things very interesting come showtime. Last year, Tricky managed to break into the top four on three separate occasions, but wasn't able to snag a win in 2014. But if he can continue to bring things in slowly and hit the stage at close to his all-time best, I certainly expect to see the trickster battling it out for a spot in the center of the first call out 10 weeks from today. Coming off an impressive 2014 season, it looks like women's physique pro Erica Blockman is ready to pick right back up where she left off last year. Blockman earned her IFBB Pro card back in 2013 at the NPC Junior Nationals and has slowly but surely added muscle in all the right places over the last few years. Last season, we saw Blockman break into the top five at both the IFBB Emerald Cup and Dallas Europa Pro. And after another strong offseason, it's looking like she may be a major threat to win her first pro show in 2015. Blockman announced that she'll be taking the stage for the first time this year at the IFBB Spartan Classic, which is set to take place just 7 weeks from today. With just a few weeks left to go until he begins his contest prep, Jonathan Ward is looking absolutely enormous. Last season, Ward narrowly missed out on his IFBB Pro card when he took second at the USA Championships, where he by far and away brought his all-time best look to the stage. Now, after another solid offseason that saw him tip the scales at nearly 300 lb, Ward looks like he's ready to make another run at the USA's this upcoming July, where he has to be considered the pre-show favorite to win the super heavyweight title and compete for the overall. Throughout his career, Ward's Achilles heel has been consistently nailing his conditioning. But if he can match last year's look to go along with his newly added size, he may not be competing as an amateur for very much longer. The Rich Piana 5% nutrition family just became a little bit more badass thanks to the signing of RX Muscle friend Armand Debi. For years, AdBi has not only been one of the top contest prep coaches in the business, but has also consistently among the best national level competitors in the NPC. Armon's old school work ethic and freak show vascularity should make him feel right at home alongside rich piano and company. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today, I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.