Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host, Pet Producer, here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's March 13th, 2014, and on today's show, the tragic death of I3 Pro Ameliano Deono's wife. A Fuad Aviat update and all the action on RXMuscle.com. Well, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. Very sad news to say that IFBB Pro Ameliano Delommo's wife Alina Kruzoic has been involved in a fatal car accident from Italy. Almelio had won his pro card at the 2013 Arnold Amateur and alongside him was his wife and biggest supporter. Very unfortunate news and my condolences go out to their friends and family. IFBB Pro Fuad Aviad is currently 9 weeks out of the Dallas Europa and recently some pictures have come up but most are not current photos. Here's what Abiad currently looks like and also says this is the best he's felt physically and mentally during his prep his entire career. He's currently working with Dennis James on his diet and John Meadows on his training. The Arnold Classic and Australian Pro are in the books, but the action doesn't stop there. Right here on RX Muscle, we still have new and original content for you. Come check out the video interviews from the Arnold Classic. Find out who stopped by the Species Nutrition booth and even full posing routines of Shawn Ronin from the Australian Pro. All right here on rxmuscle.com. Now for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, at what contest and what year did Mark Dougdale win his pro card? And the answer, the 2004 USA Championships. Shout out to old trainer for the correct answer. Now for today's trivia question, name the young bodybuilder shown here. Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host, Pete, the producer. See you tomorrow and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.