Attention bodybuilding fans. This coming weekend, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, rxmuscle.com will have its live coverage of the Mr. Olympia weekend. Thursday will be the official pregame show live featuring Dave Palumbo, myself, Sid Farooqi, Chris Aceto, Rich Piana, Tad the Diet Coach, all the girls from the Fitness View, and much, much more. You won't want to miss the pregame show for the Mr. Olympia weekend, plus a special edition of Iron Debate with Rich the Mutant Piana. That's right, that's Thursday, 700 p.m. Pacific Standard. And then Friday night, we will be doing the women's finals and men's prejudging playbyplay. Dave Palumbo, yours truly, Christo, Lonnie Teper will be there giving you our impressions of what's happening. Tune in live 700 p.m. Pacific Standard. Then on Saturday night, we will have the finals of the men and the figure finals. And we will be doing it once again. Dave Palumbo, Lonnie Teper, and Chris Aceto. Only like you wanted the truth. Exactly what's going on. Our impressions. Check it out live on rxmuscle.com. Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Tuesday, September 16th, 2014. And on today's show is Sister Nino, the dark horse of the Olympia, Zack Khan's new dance, which Kai Green will show up in Vegas, Jordan and Hudzik trash back, and Mark Anthony hungry like a wolf. All that and much, much more, only on Muscle in the Morning. The 212 Olympia Showdown is just days away and the stage is set for a historically deep lineup that could potentially feature epic battles for the top 10 slots. If we were to make a list of darkhorse candidates that could potentially surprise the oddsmakers in Vegas, Guy Sister Nino would certainly be on the short list. Sister Nino has made tremendous improvements in the last two years, and his victories at the Dallas Europa Super Show and Toronto Prove that when he's at his best, Sister Nino is a certifiable winner. Look for the hardest working bodybuilder in the 212 division to make his mark this coming Olympia weekend. Since he first burst onto the radar several years back, Zack King Khan has become one of the most popular bodybuilders on the planet. The massive mountain of British muscle earned his IFBB Pro card in 2009 at the British Championships, but since then, we've only seen Khan compete once at last year's Dallas Europa Super Show, where he finished seventh. Khan was noticeably absent from the competitive circuit following that procart earning victory due to a double quad rupture he suffered and several surgeries to repair and then correct the botched initial surgery. And I thought I was bad. But King Khan is back in the news with a newly released video showing off his newfound performance skills of rap and dance moves that the English language hasn't invented words to describe. Who knows, with a talent like this, maybe Khan is headed for Hollywood. I can't believe it. White girl. I want to see it. I want to see it. Girl after consecutive seconds place finishes in the last two Mr. Olympia contests. Kai Green has many fans wondering if he has what it takes to surpass reigning three-time Mr. Olympia Phil Heath. Two years ago, Green brought his best look ever to the stage for the finals, but he wasn't able to close the lead that Heath had amassed after prejudging. Both Green and Master Guru of all gurus, George Farah, are predicting that at this year's Olympia, they will shock the world with a magical formula for contest peaking they finally perfected. Farah has even gone as far as to make a Joe Nameoth prediction. And I quote, "I've never seen anyone this ripped. And if Kai is able to hold his current level of conditioning, a new Mr. Olympia will be crowned. The key phrase being if. Stay tuned to more Farah and green updates as they unfold. Kevin Jordan and Sadi Hodzik were recently spotted in the gym together training back as Hadzvic makes his final preparations for the upcoming men's physique Olympia. In the video, we see a ripped and ready Sadik going pound-for-pound with the 2013 NPC Nationals bodybuilding overall champ. Since winning his IFBB Pro card last fall, Jordan has been relatively quiet, taking the year off to pack on more size, refine his physique, and get ready for his pro debut in 2015. On the other hand, Hadzik has been busy competing and preparing to make his second appearance on the Olympia stage, where he hopes to improve on last year's fourth place finish. Be sure to stay tuned to Muscle in the Morning for all your latest updates on your favorite athletes as we approach the final days leading up to the 50th anniversary Olympia weekend. After capturing the title of men's physique Olympia champ at last year's inaugural event, Mark Flex Anthony is just days away from making his first title defense. We haven't seen much of the defending champ on stage in 2014, but he did manage to win the IFBB Pittsburgh Pro, narrowly defeating an everimproving Jason Poston. Anthony is going to have his work cut out for him, holding off the likes of Sadi Hodzik and the aforementioned Poston, who's had a tremendous 2014 contest season. However, like any true champion, Anthony has said that he plans on bringing his best condition look to date to the Olympia stage. And as Arnold once said, quote, "The wolf on the mountain knows where the food is." And I'm sure Mark Anthony will be feasting at this year's Olympia. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out iron magabs.com today. And for full quotes and muscle in the morning bonus features, join Muscle in the Morning's official Facebook page. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and remember to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.