This is Martinez Hagens, IFBB Pro. You are watching Muscle in the Morning. Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Thursday, July 31st, 2014. And on today's show, Pro Bodybuilding invades the Golden State, Jillian Rell's amazing comeback, Big AK goes to Sacramento, AA's newest physique creation, and ship goes in the Iron Asylum. All that and much, much more only on Muscle in the Morning. This coming Saturday, the first annual IFBB Golden State Pro Bodybuilding Championships will be taking place in Sacramento, California. The lineup for a firsttime show is both impressive and deep. Top names slated to compete include William Bonik, Tony Freeman, Mo Bonut, Jojo Nitaphorro, Akeem Williams, Johnny Jackson, and Issa Obiad. With only two contests prior to the Mr. Olympia in midepptember, the competition will be fierce as the competitors vy for the final Mr. O qualification spot. Stay tuned for results and updates on Monday's Muscle in the Morning. It's been a long journey for IFBB Women's Physique Pro Jillian Rell. In November 2013, she underwent a cardiac procedure to close a genetic hole in her heart that had been present her entire life. Following the surgery, it took several months for her to build up enough strength to finally go back to the gym and start training the way she needed to, the way she loves to. During the same time period, the always smiling top five women's physique Olympian also broke off her marriage. Something that hurt both emotionally and psychologically and it pushed her into a deep depression. According to Rell, quote, "The gym is where I found my solace, my focus, my escape from so many things. To have that taken away at a time when my personal life had fallen to pieces was heartbreaking. I had two choices. continue on the dark road where I felt myself slipping or put on my big girl panties and search for my inner strength that I had somehow lost. Through a lot of courage and perseverance, Rell pushed forward and got herself back in shape and is now looking forward to competing at this weekend's IFBB Golden State Championships. With the IFB Golden State Pro Championships in Sacramento only days away, Akeem Big AK Williams is throwing his hat into the ring, looking to improve on his fifth place performance at the Chicago Pro. Williams is one of the hardest training pro bodybuilders on the circuit. Routinely deadlifting 800, squatting 700, and benching close to 500. With his ever improving contest placings, Williams has gained momentum and increased confidence. When asked about the incredible changes to his physique, Williams confidently answers, quote, "There is only two options in life. Make progress or make excuses. I choose to make progress." Ava Cowan is probably known to the fitness industry as an elite level IFBB figure pro. She's placed as high as third at the 2011 Figure Olympia, and she's one of the most stunning and popular women on the pro circuit. But Cowan is also a woman who marches to her own beat. She loves to constantly recreate herself, changing hairstyles and coloring, increasing and decreasing muscle size, and brandishing new and original competition suit designs, all to evolve with the times. Never one to disappoint, Ken just recently announced her latest radical change, switching from figure to women's physique. That's right. At next weekend's IFBB Tampa Pro, we'll see Ava up on stage striking open-handed poses, showing us a completely different look at her structurally superior physique. Will she find a new home in the women's physique division? Stay tuned. Make sure to check out IFBB Pro bodybuilder Alana Ship as she goes in the Iron Asylum training back at Bev Francis powerhouse gym in Sioset, New York. Ship, who lives and trains in Israel, is currently in third place in the Olympia Points qualification standings after an impressive second place at the Toronto Super Show and respective fifth in Omaha. Ship, who's in her rookie year as a professional, is one of the best new talents to emerge in the women's bodybuilding division in some time. To check out the full Iron Asylum training video, log on to rxmuscle.com. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out iron magabs.com today. And for full quotes and muscle in the morning bonus features, join Muscle in the morning's official Facebook page. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And remember to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.