Hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo! Why cut back? White cut back. Woo. Welcome back to another episode of Iron Rage, the show where we let all our pent up frustrations fly free. Uh the show has garnered a very nice audience over the last several weeks that John Romano and I started it and now today we have add-ons. We have new people coming on. Today's topic, Steve Blackman in Muscular Development Magazine. Uh we saw a groundbreaking interview yesterday uh with David Bay, the former editor-inchief of Muscular Development, who revealed and confirmed the stories that John, myself, and Chris Aceto have been talking about over the last several months that Steve Blackman does indeed owe a tremendous amount of money out to many people who are staff writers, photographers, videographers, illustrators, and uh David Bay felt it in his heart to to tell the truth and to let the public be known that Steve doesn't pay his bills. Uh John, let's go to you first because uh you know you uh have been saying all along that this the ship is sinking. You called him the Titanic and they were well I forget the exact expression you you used but it was absolutely hysterical and very accurate. You know he is sinking. It's a sinking ship. And um you know we the we saw the writing on the wall you know years ago when this first started going downhill it was you know got to remember when we were there it was 560 pages that magazine. Now it's a 28page pamphlet. So, you know, there's definitely been a a a uh a dilitterious course of events that have, you know, brought that magazine down, which is really sad. And it's why, you know, we're reporting on it, you know, merely from a historical uh standpoint is that Muscular Development is the oldest running bodybuilding title left in existence. It's I think it was started in 1932 by Bob Hoffman of York York. So, you know, it's a historic it's a historic piece and to see it being run into the ground by you know, an inept uh you know, publishing, you know, self self-proclaimed magnet that um you know, it's it's sad. And I think on top of that, the the motus by which he's keeping this, you know, ailing, you know, dying fish afloat is that, you know, he's promising people god knows what to keep them working for free. And he's owed people over a year's salary. there's people that are owed over $100,000 who are not getting their money. So, you know, as a as a matter of as a matter of uh public service to our industry, you know, we owe it to everybody listening to to discuss, you know, the downfall of this magazine and what it means to the industry and how not to get caught in its web of deception. Well, you know, it's interesting that today happens to be the eighth anniversary of rxmuscle.com. Uh, I guess Steve likes to fire people pretty much on the same days of every year. Uh, because John and I left musc excuse me, I say should say muscular development in 2009. We started RX Muscle February 1st, 2009. This is eight years. We're still going strong and and and better than ever and we've been evolving in in what we've been doing. Obviously MD doesn't have the same uh I guess you could say good luck. They've been going downhill. You know, isn't Chris Ace? Let me bring you in. Isn't this Steve Blackman story kind of like a tragic uh Shakespearean play where you know that main character is tragically flawed and is going to eventually cause his own demise. I mean, we saw the writing on the wall over the last several years without a doubt. Well, the the tragic flaw was the uh the insightful constitution why cut back text that he fired off to me at 1 in the morning, which was uh dear Chris, you know, I hear Dave's not doing well. I feel so bad for him. Uh how would you like to work for me? Uh you know, I'm still publishing 12 issues out of the year. You know, so it's it's what comes around goes around. And it's ironic. The irony is that he's been so obsessed with seeing his rival, you John RX Muscle fail that here we are on the 8th anniversary and they are by all legitimate purposes a failed magazine and website right now. You know, and I want to point out that I don't buy this idea that people are owed money. people have had their money stolen from them because they already put in the services they put in the work. So when you put in the work and you you have an agreement to be paid and you are not paid, that's called in the real world stealing, theft. And there's a reason why people are owed money and and checks are not bounced because Lewis will tell you there's a big difference between bouncing a check on someone and owing them money legally. Your ass is grassing in the jail for bouncing a check on them. So he you know what? He's sharp enough to know that to cover his ass so that he doesn't send out checks and have them bounce. He just does the checks in the mail. You didn't get your check. You should have got your check. Oh, we'll we'll look for your check. Or yeah, we owe you money, but let's let's come up with a a different, you know, uh, agreement from here going forward. Or, I'm going to send you I owe you 30 grand. I'm going to send you six grand. Meanwhile, you owe 24 and you're still working. And he's digging himself deeper and deeper into the hole. Um, you know, Bernie Maidoff doesn't have much on him. Actually, you know, I I'm going to call the site from now on the Bernie M the Bernie Maidoff site or MB for maid off Blackman. You know, you know, the interesting thing about this whole scenario is that, you know, Ron Harris, who is now the editor-inchief over there online, obviously was made the editor-inchief because he's owed the most money. He actually put a post up on on their website. He said, "I'm not owed $100,000." It was close to that, but we're working on getting it paid down now. Like he tried 5,000. Yeah. He tried to downplay it like it wasn't a big deal. And that he's being paid off now. In other words, he's got a a a job now that pays better, but but but he's he'll never get the back pay. He doesn't understand it. He he just got bamboozled completely because of the fact that he felt that like oh I have to do damage controlling because I'm sure that Blackman had convened a a a special uh council after that David Bay interview and they had a a a meeting of the minds there where ah what are we going to do damage control damage control right got to strategize you know we have the point we have I want to just before we I want to introduce we have another uh guest on the the big sexy Lewis Uridel. Uh, I brought him in because he is a lawyer and he has legal knowledge and and uh, Lewis, what I want to know, we all want to know is what are the what what recourse do these athletes, photographers, videographers have to get this money from Steve Blackman because this is like grand lararseny. This is a lot of cashio owes out. Yeah, there's a lot of uh, especially you guys are using the term employees a lot. if they're actually employees of MD and that they were getting a a certain check every so often, there's a huge ramification that state and federally, if you withhold if you withhold people's pay, there's certain pay periods you get more money for. Uh there's a case out here where a hotel worker was withheld just two hours of pay for the whole year, a daylight savings. He actually worked an extra hour but didn't get paid for it and then worked an extra hour on the other one and didn't get paid for it. Uh, and it was two hours and he was given two whole pay periods on top of the two hours he wasn't paid for. So, you guys hear me? All right. That's peanuts compared to what Blackman owes. Blackman's 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 grand. So, we start that now. You start getting that your employees, you first thing you want to do is you either get a labor attorney or you can or you can contact uh the Department of Labor at your of your local state. That's probably the best way to go about it. You try and take him to a small claims court or which is only limited around510,000 dollars at most. Uh or sue him in state court, you're gonna be tough pressed because you have to get him served process. Unless you live in New York, it's going to be hard to get him like that. Like if I tried to sue him out in California, I'd have to wait till he came out here and actually serve and process him in state court. So best way to do that is I contact Department of Labor and if they make a determination that you are actually working him as an employee, you're protected by a lot of labor laws. And with that amount of money, I mean, you miss you miss one pay period. There's criminal there's there could be federal criminal charges involved. Yeah. But the majority of those people are not employees. They're independent contractors who you could make it I could make a good argument for someone like Dan Ray. He's an employee, dude. He's an employee. He's not exactly right. You can make a strong argument. People got got, you know, beat him in court under that same opus that he was even though he was a independent contractor, he was in technically an employee because he had a regular paycheck every month for years from you know and he's spending the most amount of his time or all of his time dedicated to that one job working for muscular development. You can you can pretend that he's not an employee so that you don't have to pay his payroll taxes or social security. He's a he's an employee. So what do they do? What do you do, Lewis, in those in those circumstances? Well, you would you would try if they're mislabeling him as a as a independent contractor to avoid paying the employment tax. Now, it's a whole whole another ball game. The the state labor department can make that determination. They'll look at it. Say someone like uh like someone shows up for you have to show up at a certain time. You have to do a certain job. You have to wear a certain clothes. They make the guys that do the interviews dress up. you have to do certain things. You can make a strong argument that all those are aspects of an employee rather than independent contractor where to me a contractor is I need you to paint the roof of my house. They show up and paint it between 10 and two. You know, I don't I don't I don't tell them how to paint. I don't tell them what to wear. They just come out and do it. You can make a strong argument that MD has a lot of control over the people what they do, how they get there, how they're reimbursed. They actually reimburse you in your payments. They reimburse you as income. They don't reimburse you as expenses. So I had to take every time I got reimbured, I had to make sure my account separated. So I had to pay taxes on my reimbursements. Wow. So they're not doing things by the book over there, which is a problem. Now, you know, this is the Lewis, what I find most people are don't like things that are complicated. So if you were giving legal advice to someone who like Dan Ray calls you up and say, "Hey Lewis, how can I get my $55,000 that Steve Blackman owes me?" What how would you advise him? what would be the steps that he should take to to get that money back? First thing I do is I contact my state uh labor department, secretary of labor in my state. In your current state you live in? Yeah, whatever. He's in he's in Missouri. Is he Missouri or Yeah, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Or Kansas. Wherever you at? Uh that's what I do is I contact them, explain the situation to them, and they go after they go after that pretty hard. that kind of [\h__\h] Yeah, absolutely. Because that's you're when you are labeling someone as independent contractor and employee and you're taking away employee benefits and not paying employees, they try to protect those people a lot because that's a lot of money they're losing and you're not paying right. Lewis, talk to me a little bit about the idea of not bouncing checks versus just not paying people because obviously the money is the money is not there. The money is not there. So check is a felony. Yeah. My point is, isn't it ironic that no checks have been bounced? People don't get bounce checks. They just don't get checks. Right. You see the point? The point being is that you're avoiding. It's a lot harder. It's a lot harder to go after someone for the money than to a bounce check to automat. You can automatically get them. It's there. That's why I compare him. That's one reason of many I compare him to Barry uh Bernie Maidoff. It's like white collar, sneaky, slick promises, and yet it's all a house of cards. And you know what, Gabe? It's all a house of cards. You know what's John? Remember when Clinton, Bill Clinton, one of your favorites, was being impeached? Yes. Yes. Or he he was with the chick and he sent out in a press conference the joints chief of staffs, Maline Albbright, John Podesta, and they all step forward and say he did not have relations with that lady. He did not have relations. Blackman does the same thing. Dave's been calling them on the carpet for 18 months of not paying people. And in turn, Shawn Ray is pedled out there. Bob Chickillo was pedled out there and saying, "Oh, Dave doesn't know what he's talking about." You know, you know, everything's fine. This is just business as usual. This is just a hiccup. Dave doesn't know the internals. What the irony? The irony that the guy who's celebrating his eighth year in business, who just put the torpedo on the sinking Titanic MD, that Dave would actually have all the accurate information. And now he parades out the whistleblower extraordinaire David Bay to back up everything that's been, you know, that's been on RX Muscle, whether it be on radio shows, TV shows, on the site for 18 months. The the the the sleaziness of it all is that instead of paying people, they're not paid. The sleaziness, the sneakiness is there's no bounce checks. And the sleaziness is Bob Chick and Shawn Ray are forced to go out there and take Steve's word that either all these people are lying or things are just perfect and we're just, you know, restructuring. Well, you know, back to their constitution. Dave, you got to read the why cut back text at some point during the show because it's just it is the tragic, you know, saliloquy that it should have never been sent. But now, you know, I I tried to ask David yesterday, and I think this is an issue that, you know, nobody's paying attention to is what is Blechman's plan? I mean, so right now he's he's flailing. He's, you know, treading water at a at a at a chaotic pace to try to stay above the g above the water line. He owes everybody money. I mean, we threw out the number yesterday, a million bucks, and David Bay didn't didn't even blink. So, um, you know, between all the people he owes money to over how over all the time he owes it, it's probably close to that, if not more. Okay. So, you know, what's the plan? What what what is the plan to climb out of this hole, pay these people back and get There is no plan. So, the the question then becomes, let's start the death pool. How much further can this draw out by Blechman just dancing around and you know extending you know production and and the the website and whatever you know 20 30 magazines he's selling you know that he has printed at what point does it just become it just fizzles out you know you know there's no plan to bring it back because there's there's he's not doing anything different so to expect any to expect a different outcome is is is lunacy If he had the ability to issue stock, it'd be issued today, right? You know, no, you just get investors money and just keep the whole thing going. It's I'm telling you, it's a burn but like it's like this Elise won't let his wife won't let him spend any of the fortune on you know his his glute obsession. So while while you know you you have you know hundred of a hundred people or or or you know 50 to 100 people who are owed tens of thousands of dollars across the span of the industry. You know you've got his wife posting you know pictures of them on their on their you know $50,000 cruise in the Caribbean on a on a yacht you know and which which which flies in the face of these people who are you know not being paid. So obviously there's no plan to fix this. It's going to be an ongoing, you know, mishmash of of bad ideas and bad deals to try to bamboozle advertisers to send in more money in so that, you know, Blechman can, you know, play another day. Well, you know what it's interesting, John, is that I we were looking up before Steve's house in Aspen. They have that great house next to Ivana Trump in Aspen and according to the records department, they sold the house for $10 million two years ago. You think that at that point when he was owing people money, he would have taken a little bit of that profit and would have just paid off everyone he owed and start from zero again. You know, that would have been the the the best thing to do. It would have gotten everyone off his back. No one would have said anything and then he could have restructured, you know, from ground zero. But now he he's never going to look good because he owes everyone money. The the the question is and I have this to to Lewis to to Chris and to John. Should there be sanctions taken after this guy? Should he be not allowed to get press passes for shows? Should he not be allowed into shows until he pays his debt to the bodybuilders? Look, Jark Lori ran the Mast's Olympia and didn't pay out the prize money she promised and a couple other things she didn't promise out. And you know what? They banned her. they wouldn't let her promote shows anymore. I believe that Steve Blackman should be sanctioned. I want to hear what your opinions are, Lewis. Yeah, I definitely think I definitely think there should be some serious sanctions against them from the IFBBN MPC. Should not be allowed any press passes. They shouldn't be allowed in to cover any shows until they do it. They always talk to the press about uh you know, let's have loyalty for the IFBBNC. We've always been loyal, Dave. We've always been loyal. We've always backed the IFBB up, the MPC up. We always stand up and speak for them. Now a lot of those people who stand up and speak up for the NPC like Dan Ray and all these other David Bay they always go to battle for them getting screwed on getting paid. So let's see let's see some you know reciprocity back towards us individuals people that have been screwed over by MD say listen guys you want to be honest part of this business pony up pay your people you owe and we'll let you back in and get your press passes then. John, it it's it's a reprehensible if if not duplicitous thing to do. You know, lure people into working. Plead somehow can con can con can con can con can con can con can con can con can con can con can connive people to work for you knowing you not only owe them money, but you're not going to pay them for the work that you're soliciting them to do right now. So, you know, as as a matter of course, he's feeding off the industry that surrounds bodybuilding. And that industry is controlled and and owned by the NPC and the and the IFBB. And you know as as the the the keepers of our goodwill among the the industry, this one guy is poisoning poisoning the entire industry because who knows who who is going to fall into his trap. Who is going to be what next photographer, videographer, writer, uh um um contest prep guy, uh social media guru, whatever. what next person is going to happen into the the the clutches of Steve Blackman and be subsequently drained of of their, you know, their service or their product and and not get paid. So I think as as as a as a safety net for the people who feed off our industry legitimately is that the IFBB and the NPC should sanction Blechman and warn any and make put make make a formal warning that they do not support you know what he's doing and that anybody seeking employment with muscular development beware because the guy doesn't pay and like Lewis said you know bar him from the shows you can't get press passes you can't participate in our industry unless you participate in the industry like everybody else and not rip off our constituents. Chris Ace. Well, I would just add that if Dave Plumbo owed 5,000 20,000 80,000 60,000 to people who would who already had provide services. They had already done the work for you. You know, Steve Blackman would be sending out the David Bays. Sorry, David. And you the Adas, the Sea, the Chickillows. He would tell all those people, "Isn't it terrible that Dave owes all these people and he would slim your name based on the fact that you owe money? So, we know that." And so, and he would bamboozle the people he he works with, you know, he would pressure them based on the fact that if they actually were being paid, if they actually were being paid, they'd probably be be motivated, you know, the guy pays me. All right, I'll go on the website and slander Dave and and and, you know, rub gasoline into the wound that he hasn't been paying people. So, the irony is that it's him who's not paying So he would have already he would have he would have already Dave he would have not involved the NPC and the IFBB if you weren't paying people he would have been involving the IRS you know labor people everyone in between and you know on the outside and inside. So should there be sanctions against him? Should he be banned from, you know, participating until he pays these valuable employees, videographers from the Lloyd Terry? If you stand, then you're encouraging to do more of it, right? If you don't, then you're putting your stamp of approval. If you show up at the damn USA Championships and your crew is there and that you look to the left and look to the right and you see other people all uh you know who we know are owed money and you know yeah for the USA he he pays a promoter to show up and and and cover that show you know shame that's just a shame on on on on everything that is legit and should be decent about business, bodybuilding, and just moral decency. So, yes, he should not have the, you know, it's a privilege to cover these shows. So, he should lose the privilege to cover these competitions because of the fact he's not, you know, playing ball with the rest of us. Look, everyone, when we go to these shows and we all sit in the press pit together, from JMet to Dan Ray to um what's his name? Jeff Bins to to our photographer Ralph Noble to to whoever Mike Sansro all these people. We're all in the same pit. We're all from different companies. We're all trying to make a living. We all making a living off the same exact sport. And then you got one guy who's trying to exclusively eliminate everyone else. Ah, I want to sign you for the weekend. Don't talk to these guys. He's the one creating all the chaos at the shows because of his exclusivity contracts. And he's not even paying anyone. These morons are not even getting paid for not talking to us. They're getting bamboozled by him. I think the organization should say, "Hey, you know what, Steve? This has gone too freaking far. Until you make good on your debts, you're not welcome at our shows anymore. He's he's he's feeding off the industry. He is feeding off them and he's taking advantage of them. and he's using his clout as a wealthy man because everybody knows he's rich to to to to instill a a belief or or or a a hope that you know these people are going to get paid because the guy's loaded. So, you know, John, John, I I think that is the what you just said is the whole summary of David Bay. Uh, not desire, but need to come on and do an interview with Dave and just spill the beans because he was at the point of enough is enough, right? Exactly. Enough is enough. and and and and and you know without David Bay coming on, right? Without David Bay coming on and just spending an hour and 40 minutes with Dave and going through points A through Z on everything that has go gone on to confirm everything that's Dave's been talking about for 18 months. If David Bay didn't come on, Blackman would set he will anyway, but he'd send out the he'd send out Shawn Ray and he'd send out Ron Harris and you know say, "No, it's just a restructure. You know, you don't understand. Nobody knows the internals. Dave doesn't hasn't seen the books." Yeah. Okay, whatever. You know, where's Adena in all this? Where the hell's Adena? She got axe before. You know, go through. It's a question. It's a simple question. Why do all these people owed money? If everything's great over there, why do all of these people Why are all of these people owed not just a couple of bucks, but like tens of thousands, in some cases over a hundred,000 dollars? If everything's okay, you know, as as per, you know, the the the Goon Squad is going to promote. Then why are all these people not paid? If everything's great, pay these people. What wasn't it acumen are are you following that that that is it that dictates that it's a good idea to keep you know 40 or 50 people in the rears when it comes to you know your failing fledgling company give me another business give me a Dave give me a business Lewis John give me a business where you can owe 40 people 40 vendors money and still actually show up to an office and not have either someone there who's a uh a bill collector ready to shut you down, the IRS ready to shut you down, someone or some someone wanted to punch you in the face. How do you stay in business? How do you stay how do you keep things going on? You don't pay anyone. That's how you stay in business. You know, you don't pay anyone. Look, the the bottom line is that what I want people out there to to understand is that if you're pissed off about this and if you realize how injust this is to the people who bust their ass to bring you guys, the fans, the coverage out there to these shows, then you know what? Email the MPC main office. Email the IFBB main office. Send JM a Facebook message, JM Magnet on online so he could tell his dad. Let these people know you're pissed off and you don't want this guy or his organization in your shows anymore because they belong to you, the fans. They're yours. They're not mine. They're not Steve Blackman's. These are your shows. You support the sport. Voice your opinion. Tell these guys you don't want this guy around until he pays his bills. If he pays his bills, fine. he could come back, but until everyone's paid in full, we don't want to hear from him. That's the bottom line, and that's what we're trying to put forth here today. You know, it's it's you need, John, you need you need to clear up this. You need to clear up this phony phony bogus idea, which is a small elephant in the room. Pleo and Romano were fired. They're just pissed at him. They got That's all. They're just They're just pissed at at Blackman. It's look, I I made this statement yesterday. This is not a matter of sour grapes. We are a news reporting agency. When the oldest running bodybuilding title in the history of the sport is facing its ultimate demise, that is news. It is incumbent upon us to report this news to the constituency. Beyond that, this is a very tightlyknit industry. We are all friends. Dan Ray is our buddy. You know, Charles Glass is our friend. We have we are friends with with just about all of the players. And you know, we've all been in this 2530 years. So, you know, we we go way back. We know each other for a long time. This is an industry of very closelyknit friendships. And when we see one of our bros, you know, being mistreated, owed tens of thousands of dollars or more, you know, when they're a good guy, a good hardworking guy that creates a good product at a fair price. And, you know, we see him being hurt by this guy. And then it's not only him, it's the next guy and the next guy and the next guy. And the next thing you know, we have a slew of our friends who are being, you know, hurt and and and and you know, undermined by this guy whose sole interest is in himself and and and man and m, you know, massaging his ginormous ego. So this is just an absolutely toxic situation that exists and as so far removed from sour grapes as it could possibly be. Our message is for the industry, like I said before, if you're a videographer, a photographer, a a prep coach, a a trainer, in any way, shape, or form, offer a service or a product that is valuable to Blackman, do approach his employee with caution. And if you're going to transact any business with him at all, you make sure you get your money up front because he owes too many people way too much money. And and that is really the impetus for our coverage on this is not only is it the fact that the oldest running bodybuilding title in history is being run into the ground by an inept CEO, but the fact that we have, you know, our friends being adversely affected by this and and owed serious amounts of money to the to the to the degree that it is hurting them. And so we want to make sure that no one else, you know, falls to, you know, susceptible to this situation. and and you know warn everybody. So you know it's it's news and at the time at the same time a public service announcement. We wrap up. I want to just go to Louisis Uidel real question quickly. Lewis I have one question for you. Are you owed any money because I know you were working for MD for a little while. No, I actually had to threaten them hard to get my money. And then the reason I ended up stopped working for them because I requested if I was going to do any more work for them, they'd have to pay me all my expenses prepaid up. Prepaid up like $250, $300 for my expenses ahead of time. Yeah. Because I was going three, four months out of my pocket for my parking at the airport, my food. Yeah. That's everything that So, I was like, I'm not that's that's I'm not going to spend money to work for you, you know? Right. Well, thank you for coming on and giving you us that little bit of legal advice, Lewis. Uh because it's always good to get a a professional to to tell people how to, you know, handle these situations because a lot of people don't really know what to do and they didn't know what to do. And it's good that you've told them to contact the labor department. Final, if they have any more questions, they can shoot me a message on Facebook or something like that and I can if they have a specific question or maybe they're tentative about approaching anyone, I can help point them in the right direction, maybe get things going for them. Okay. Thanks a lot. And uh I just want to say thank you for David Bay for coming on yesterday and being so forthright. I know he's been posting on the forums. The for RX Muscle forums have been on fire. If you guys uh want to talk and discuss some of these topics that we've been doing these past two days, go over register if you haven't. If you're not, if you're registered already, get over there and start posting. I know John's going to be there right after this show posting. Chris Ace will be on there later tonight. I'll be on there as well as well as Johnny Styles. I know Aaron Singerman's been on there. David Bass posting. So there's a lot of controversy there. Let's talk it out. Let's discuss it. Let's debate it. Uh the bottom line is we want to see sanctions against MD and Steve Blackman until people are paid. Uh it's our duty as the bodybuilding fans, as the bodybuilding community to make this happen. I'm Dave Palumbo with another episode of Iron Rage.