This is the game. Triple H. You're watching Muscle in the Morning. Get all your bodybuilding news and all your facts and stuff right here. It's all about the game, but you play it. Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host, Pete Producer, here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's January 31st, 2014. And on today's show, an Evans sent a potty update. What's the guy the size of Big Romney and Dorian Yates opens up on his view of steroid use. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. In just 4 weeks, the Arnold Classic will be here. And looking on point is IPv Pro Evan Centipani. Evan is clearly looking to redeem himself after a 13th place finish at the Olympia this year with some added size to his frame. Although he's not coming off the best showing at the O, he did place third right behind this year's heavy favorite Dennis Wolf at the 2012 Arnold. With a few more weeks to go, I think we're going to see Evan dial it in for showtime. With someone as messy as the freaky Big Ramy, everyone wants to know the same thing. What does a guy like this eat in a normal day? Currently, Ramy is not contest dieting, but getting back in the swing of things after a bit of rest. This is what the massive bodybuilder has stacked in his fridge. A lot of eggs, meat, beef, and actually fruit. And who knows, this might actually only be a day's worth for him. Bodybuilding legend Dorian Yates, known for changing the game in the bodybuilding world when he hit the scene, setting a new standard with his huge physique. Now at 50 years old, Dorian opens up on an interview about his steroid use and his view on these drugs. While a subject many bodybuilders are not willing to touch, Yates lets us in. As many fans appreciate him being real on the subject, many also feel opening up on the subject was not a very wise move. In other news, Dave Palumbo went on for his fourth surgery to repair his torn quad. Dave is now back home already starting rehab and looks to already be making progress. Hopefully, this is the last surgery and Dave will be back to 100% very soon. Feel better, Dave, and wishing you a speedy recovery. Now, for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, name this young bodybuilder shown here. And the answer, Chris Cormier. Shout out to LB Muscle for the correct answer. Now for today's trivia question. Chris Cormier placed eighth at his fourth Olympia contest the very same year he came off a pro win at what contest? Don't forget to tune in on Monday for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host, Pete the Producer. See you on Monday and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.