Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the I'm your host Dave Palumbo and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Thursday, January 8th, 2015. Let's get to it. With five top five placings, two wins, and one fourth place finish at the Olympia, it's safe to say that 2014 was quite a year for men's physique superstar Matt Actton. But with just nine weeks to go, it's the idea of making history by becoming the first men's physique Arnold Classic champion that's pushing Matt to even greater heights. Recently, Actton released a video of leg training session at Be Francis powerhouse gym where we see him attack the weights with a championship ferocity. If Actton can march into Columbus and notch the win, it could spark a tsunami of momentum that could potentially carry him all the way to the Olympia come September. After putting together three impressive performances to kick off his pro career, including a close second place finish at the Furo Legacy Classic, Brad Row has to be considered one of the top young talents in the sport. Over the weekend, Row was spotted in the gym training chest under the watchful eye of Charles Glass as he heads into 2015 looking to secure his first pro win. From the front and side, Ro has all the tools to hang with some of the best in the sport. But he still needs to add thickness and detail to his back this off seasonason. With some of the best legs in the sport and a never quit attitude, Brad Row is destined for greatness. Pedro Baron was seen in the gym alongside friend and training partner Hide Yamagishi earlier in the week. The man affectionately known as the pitbull looks to be attacking his offseason with badass intentions as he tries to pack on a bit of size before beginning his preparations for the upcoming contest season. Baron's stage appearances have been sporadic over the past few years, but last season's appearance at the Fargno Classic may have been his best to date. If he can manage to add a few pounds in the right places, he certainly has a chance to crack the top five in the right lineup. Whoever said men's physique athletes can't hang with the big boys apparently never told Sadik Hodzik. Last week, the men's physique Olympia runnerup was spotted in the gym training alongside two of the most monstrous men in the sport, Dennis James and Big Ramy. A video was released showing Sadique grinding out a set of cable crossovers as DJ inflicts the same torturous wizardry that he's used to transform Rammy into the biggest man in bodybuilding. With the Arnold just nine weeks away, perhaps a little bit of time in the torture chamber alongside two of the best athletes in the sport will give Hodzik the edge he needs to emerge victorious with the victory. As we draw closer by the day to entering the heart of the contest season, one man entering the year with something to prove is Shawn Rhoden. Despite bringing what many believed to be his best look to date to the stage in 2014, Flexatron found himself in the bridesmaid position on three separate occasions. Rhden is going to be 39 years old entering this contest season. And despite his incredible look in 2014, the question remains as to whether or not he'll ever be able to bring enough to vault past Kai Green and challenge Phil Heath for a shot at the Olympia title. Stay tuned. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out iron mag labs.com today. And for full quotes and muscle in the morning bonus features, join Muscle in the Morning's official Facebook page. I'm your host, Dave, reminding you to always be true to your passion. And remember to follow us on Facebook. Heat.