Heat. Heat. Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Wednesday, July 23rd, 2014, and on today's show, Big Ramy is really big. Alli Garcia goes in the Iron Asylum. More bikini bliss at the Masters Nationals, rode into the Olympia, and win a chance to train with Team Gad. All that and much, much more, only on Muscle in the Morning. New photos have emerged out of Team Menace featuring the Egyptian Phenom Big Ramy at 10 weeks out from the Mr. Olympia, weighing an incredible 323 lbs. With Dennis James in his corner, we know that Big Ramy will certainly show up in Vegas looking his best. The question on everyone's mind, however, is how much will he weigh? Will the two-time New York Pro champ become the first legitimate 300 lb inshape bodybuilder under 6 foot to grace the Olympia stage? Will he be able to knock off some of the season top six bodybuilders? We'll all know soon enough. Stay tuned to all your Big Ramy updates only on Muscle in the Morning. IFBB bikini pro Ally Garcia has gone in the Iron Asylum. Follow her through a hardcore leg workout and prep for her latest competition, the IFBB Prestige Crystal Cup. Garcia gives us a bird's eyee view of her diet, training, and posing that she utilizes while getting ready for competition. Let's not forget to mention that looking at her stunning, jaw-dropping physique is not so bad either. Make sure to check out the entire video exclusively at rxmuscle.com. A lot of dreams came true this past weekend at the NPC Masters Nationals, especially for bikini competitor Melissa Brrisik, a mother of three and an identical twin. Brisk won bikini class A in the 40 plus division and was ecstatic about her placing and future in the fitness industry. She had this to say to Muscle in the morning. Quote, "It feels amazing to have won. A reminder that no dream is ever too big. I would like to thank my coach Cameron Bodner for his endless support. my husband Jeff Brisik for allowing me to chase my dreams and my sponsors Tammy Marie Suits and AS Research for believing in me. In a new series brought to you by Flex Magazine and VPX, Shawn Rhoden shows us his road to the Olympia, or is it Rhoden to the Olympia through hardcore training and stacking quality supplements. The video features a monumental moment where Rhoden in the company of VPX founder Jack Ook signs his Olympia contract and gets the video series underway. Sidelined and forced to miss the Arnold Classic due to a broken foot, many insiders have him solidly pegged for top three at this 50th anniversary Olympia. For the complete video series, check out flexonline.com. Team Gad has just announced a very special contest. All you need to do is submit your best physique photo for a chance to train with the company's best superstar athletes. By snapping a couple shots and heading over to facebook.com/gatsupplements, you can enter to win a chance to train and travel with Big Ramy, Dennis James, and the rest of GAT family. The workout session will take place October 2014, a month after the Mr. O. So theoretically, you might actually be be training with the newly crowned Mr. Olympia. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out Iron Magabs.com today. And for full quotes and muscle in the morning bonus features, join Muscle in the Morning's official Facebook page. I'm your host Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And remember to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.