Heat. Heat. Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Wednesday, September 24th, 2014. And on today's show, Juan Morell back in the gym, Flagnar fail Porsche Tour, Dorian Haywood's growth spurt, David meets Goliath, and Dennis James daughter enters her first competition. All that and much, much more, only on Muscle in the Morning. Juan Morell isn't wasting any time getting back into the gym after what has to be considered a tremendously successful Olympia debut. Morell finished 10th on bodybuilding's biggest stage, placing higher than many had projected. Morell brought his signature ripped dry conditioning to the stage, and the impressive size that he's packed on over this past year is a true testament to his incredible work ethic. If Morell's 10th place at this year's Olympia is any foreshadowing of what's to come, the man they call Diesel has a very bright future. Although she wasn't able to retain her Miss Physique Olympia crown, the bodybuilding world's female rock star Dana Lin Bailey doesn't appear to be letting the loss drag her down. The always enigmatic DLB has shaken off the tough defeat and hit the road traveling around the country on the Flag Norfail Porsche Tour. Belly's first stop will be Arizona, where she plans to meet up with Big Ramy and Dennis James for what looks to be an interesting mix of characters. For more information on where DLB will appear next, be sure to check out Flagnorfale website and stay tuned to Muscle in the Morning for all the latest updates on the happenings in the wild world of the Bailey's. NPC Junior National Overall Bodybuilding Champion Dorian Haywood has announced that he's officially started his prep for the 2014 NPC National Championships, which are set to be held in Miami, Florida, in just over 8 weeks. Haywood's had a busy year thus far, competing at the Junior Nationals and then stepping on stage at his first Proqualifying event, the USA Championships, where he took a respectable seventh. Haywood has had these last few weeks to make gains and allow his body to grow into the contest prep before hitting the gas full throttle into his prep for Miami Beach. Look for Haywood to be a serious contender for the heavyweight title when the show kicks off this November 8th weekend. Two of the most muscular pound-for-pound athletes in the sport caught up with each other recently, and it made for quite the photo op. IFBB pro Derek Farnsworth recently posted a photo trading poses with the most massive bodybuilder on the planet, Big Ramy. At a towering 5 foot2 tall, Farnsworth is used to being outsized. But the photo of him standing next to the absolutely massive Rammy who outweighs him by over 100 lb had to seem like an extraterrestrial encounter. However, as the old saying goes, it's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog. Although Big Ramy might not have finished quite as high as they might have liked, it wasn't all bad news for Camp Menace this past weekend. As previously reported by Muscle in the Morning, Dennis James daughter Anna James competed in the Flex Bikini model search that took place on the Olympia Expo stage. In a moment that I'm sure made her father proud, Anna stepped on stage for the first time and carried herself with poise and confidence of a Polish veteran on her way to an impressive second place finish. In fact, when Dennis introduced his newest star pupil to me at the Olympia Expo, I was thoroughly impressed and I had no idea it was his daughter. Great jeans are a wonderful thing. And finally, the bodybuilding world is known to attract its fair share of oddities, questionable characters, and people who may be in serious need of psychiatric evaluation. But even we haven't seen anything quite like this before. A Florida woman has undergone plastic surgery to add a third breast. That's right, a third boob. In an effort to become more unattractive to men, the woman apparently has never heard of the internet. Because if she did, this meant a candidate would realize that posting shirtless photos of her half- naked, three- breasted self online for the world to see is the fastest way to attract the sickest, strangest, saddest weirdos on the planet. When asked for words of encouragement to offer our youth, this modern-day Susan B. Anthony fighting for rich girls everywhere to make asinine lifealtering decisions without weighing the consequences said and I quote, "Don't be afraid to be different. That's what makes you beautiful." And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out iron maglabs.com today. And for full quotes and Muscle in the Morning bonus features, join Muscle in the Morning's official Facebook page. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And remember to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.