This is the game. Triple H. You're watching Muscle in the Morning. Get all your bodybuilding news and all your facts and stuff right here. It's all about the game, but you play [music] it. Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host, Peter, producer, here to bring you all the latest news in the world [music] of bodybuilding and fitness. It's March 14, 2014. And on today's show, Dana Lynn Bailey no longer with MHP. [music] José Reman, the best we've seen him, and Iv pro Candace Lewis on Muscle Girls, [music] Inc. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to the SA's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. IFBB Miss Physique Olympia Dana Lyn Bailey recently parted ways with MHP with the goal to focus on expanding her already extremely popular brand, Flag Nor Fail. She says it has come to a mutual agreement between herself and MHP to part ways. With the amount of traveling and appearances set for Dana and Rob Bailey, I think we're going to see big things from Flagor fail this weekend as the IFBB New Zealand pro and looking on point is Jose Raymond. Looking extremely shredded and freaky for the Arnold. He currently was able to bring in even more detailed separation in lines that will have him looking quite possibly the best we've seen him conditioningwise. This week on Muscle Girls Inc., Adela Garcia brings on bikini's Jennifer Dawn as guest co-host. And joining the two is special guest IFBB Pro Candace Lewis, who shares her training style and how she continues to mold her physique to be a top contender at the Fitness Olympian September. Check out this episode on the homepage of rxmuscle.com. Now for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, [music] name the young bodybuilder shown here. And the answer, Phil Heath. Shout out the team bodybuilder [music] 18 for the correct answer. Now for today's trivia question. At what national level MPC contest did Phil Heath [music] win the overall where Jose Raymond placed first in the welterweight class? Don't forget to tune in Monday [music] for the answers. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host Pete the producer. See you on Monday and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook. [music]