It is Chuck Zto, the beast from the east, and you better be watching Muscle in the morning or else Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host, Pet Producer, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. is January 1st, 2013. And on today's show, we'll discuss the men's 212 division of the upcoming Aro Classic. A full early predictions and the Arnold Strongman. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. With the 212 division being added to the 2014 Arnold Classic, we're in for an exciting event. With the stacked lineup once again, I think the top five will be very tough. But my prediction without question is that number one spot will go to 212 Olympian Flex Lewis. Not much needs to be said here as I think Flex's physique and track record speak for itself. Taking second place, my prediction will have to be that same one and two we've seen as David Henry's impressive physique will solidify him the top two. And then comes the real interesting placing in third as season competitor Jose Raymond looks to have an advantage. But new wild card in the mix is Aaron Clark, who has taken the year off to focus on this show. And with the amount of improvements he's been able to make while staying near contest shape, I'd have to say he's a major threat to Jose to crack top three. In the strongman world, we'll also see the annual Arnold Strongman, which will be dedicated to the great Mike Jenkins of Harrisburg, PA, winner of the 2012 Arnold Strongman Classic, who passed away suddenly on Thursday, November 28th, 2013 at the age of 31. Two more competitors will be announced after the LA Fit Expo's Metric Strength Classic on January 25th and 6th. But as of now, competitors set to compete include Hathaor Bureson, Mike Burke, Brian Shaw, winner of the 2011 Arnold Strongman Classic, Male Klov, Vitois Lawless, Kristoff Randowski, and Zadruna Savagus, winner of the Arnold Strongman Classic from 2003 to 2008, and Mikuel Shikliov, winner of the 2013 Arnold Amateur Strongman World Championships. Now for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, out of the top three bodybuilders of the 93 Olympia, which first competed in 1983, but did not hold a first place title until 1989? And the answer, Flex Wheeler, at the 1989 NPC Mr. California. Now, for today's trivia question, name the bodybuilder who won his class at the 1983 Mr. Berlin and then at the 1987 Mr. America. Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host Pet the Producer. See you tomorrow and make sure follow us on Twitter and Facebook.