Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. I'm your host Dave Palumbo and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Thursday, August 13th, 2014 and on today's show, the tank gears up for the 212 Olympia, Dana Lynn's wet veiny update, Jay Cutler in Maine, the best little guy in the IFBB, and I'm not really sure what this last one is. All that and much much more only on Muscle in the Morning released today. With all the latest hype and hooplas surrounding Heday Yamagishi's big win at the IFBB Tampa Pro 212, let's not forget about Charles Dixon, the man who beat Heday in Chicago. Dixon has been busting his butt, adding muscle, and dialing in his best conditioning to date in preparation for the upcoming 212 Olympia. The Greenville, South Carolina native is a veteran of the sport and certainly knows a thing or two about hard work and being realistic, but he's confident that he can crack the top three in Vegas. According to Dixon, quote, "I'm 6 weeks out from the O. I'm sitting at 224 before the Chicago Pro. I said I was going to come into this show looking like a mutant for the Olympia. I'm going to come in looking like a comic book character." Stay tuned to all your Charles Dixon updates only on Muscle in the Morning. We never when Dana Lin Bailey puts out a photo claiming to be wet, veiny with lots of bumps, you can be sure that photo is going to get a ton of likes. The reigning Miz Physique Olympia is in contest prep mode and is rapidly regaining her winning form from last year. Bailey will certainly have her work cut out for her this year with several multiple procontest winners out there who are gutting for her title. But the flag nor fail beauty continues to sign on to new projects, make regular appearances, and get super ripped and conditioned in the process. Stay tuned to future DLB updates only on MIM. Another date has been added to Jay Cutler's New England meet and greet tour. As reported yesterday, Cutler will be in Danver, Massachusetts on Saturday, August 16th. He'll then appear in Portland, Maine on Sunday, August 17th at Portland Nutrition Store from 12:00 noon to 2:00 p.m. If you're in the Portland, Maine area, hey Chris Aceto, get your butt down there. Make sure to stop in and get your photo taken with the fourtime Mr. Olympia and tell him RX Muscle sent you. Marvin Ward, one of the best small men in professional bodybuilding, shocked the bodybuilding world when he overcame serious injuries from a nearly fatal car accident to finish second at last weekend's IFBB Tampa Pro 212. The 4'11, 165-lb Ward was so good this past Friday night, he nearly defeated eventual winner Hide Yamagishi, a man who outweighed him by more than 45 pounds. In fact, many who were in attendance screamed their disapproval at Ward's second place announcement. For a full bird's eyee look at Marvin Ward, complete with posing footage, check out his interview with yours truly exclusively at rxmuscle.com. We've all been at contests where there's one person that clearly doesn't belong on stage. Typically, we cover our eyes, make small talk with our friends, and just not try to laugh. It's actually a very uncomfortable experience, even from an audience perspective. Normally, we at Muscle in the Morning wouldn't bother to waste the time showing you a clip like this one. Well, maybe we would, but Muscle in the Morning writer and factfinder Christian Duke ran out of material and included this as today's unequivocal penultimate video clip. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. And for full quotes and muscle in the morning bonus features, join Muscle in the morning's official Facebook page. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And remember to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.