This is the game. Triple H. You're watching Muscle in the Morning. Get all your bodybuilding news and all your facts and stuff right here. It's all about the game, but you play it. Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host, Pete, the producer, here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's February 5th, 2014. And on today's show, Big Romney, 339 lbs. Brandon Curry, no longer with BSN, and Bros versus Pros 20. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question, only on Muscle in the Morning. Here it is, an update from the mass of Big Ramy. Currently, the monster is 339 lbs, about to start his prep for the New York Pro. Shown here, he's making fellow competitor look like a child. And that's Filipino bodybuilder Ariel Guang. Not a small guy by any means. Coach Dennis James says Rammy is looking crazy. He needed more time. And as you can see, the goal is to deliver something special. IFBB Pro Brandon Curry is officially no longer a BSN athlete. This comes as a bit of a surprise this close to the Arnold. BSN's official statement on the matter was, "Brandon Curry burst onto the bodybuilding scene at the 2007 USA Championships, taking second place, but grabbing the attention of the industry. One year later, he came back claiming a win and thus earning his IFBB Pro card in 2008. The prodigy has been a BSN athlete since 2007 and during that time has represented the Finnish first ideal like a true champion. Most recently by winning his first ever Arnold Classic Brazil in April 2013. Brandon's association with our brand has come to an end and we wish him all the best as he pursues continued success. Get ready everyone as RX Muscle's Bros versus Pros 20 is coming to you a week from Saturday brought to you by Natural Vitamins. That's February 15th in Brooklyn, New York at Autumn Gym. The event will be the bench press and deadlifts rep challenge with IFBB pros Anthony Champagne and returning max deadlift champ IFBB Pro Ake Williams. With a total of $3,000 in cash prizes and free admission to everyone, make sure to come down. Now, for the answer to yesterday's trivia question, the question was, name this young bodybuilder early in his career. And the answer, IB pro Justin Thompson. That was actually only from 2008. He's made a huge transformation since then. Now for today's trivia question. Name the major pro bodybuilding contest and the year that solidified bodybuilding as a legitimate competition. Hint, there were only three competitors, all weighing under 220 lbs. Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host, Pete's producer. See you tomorrow. And make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.