Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Tuesday, March 31st, 2015, and let's get to it. The men's physique crowd gets a bad rap sometimes for being a bit soft in the gym, but apparently no one told Jason Poston. Aside from being one of the top athletes in the sport and a legitimate Olympia title threat, he's also mastered the art of going beast mode in the gym. Over the weekend, Poston released a video from a recent back training session where the men's physique superstar showed off some impressive strength as he cranked out 495 lbs on the deadlift for six easy reps. With his second place finish at the Arnold Classic, firmly securing his spot as one of the top three athletes in the division. It'll be interesting to see what sort of improvements Poston can make between now and the Olympia as he tries to bring in the right combination of size and conditioning to inch his way closer to the title. A few weeks removed from an impressive sixth place finish at the Arnold Classic, women's physique pro Sabrina Taylor is still looking sharp. Last year, Taylor really came into her own as a competitor, racking up two wins and a fifth place finish at the Olympia on her way to establishing herself as one of the real upand cominging stars in the division. Over the last few weeks, the former fitness pro managed to make dramatic improvements to her physique and appears to be refining her formula for success with each and every showing. If Taylor can manage to keep her pendulum swinging in the right direction, we could very well see her open up some eyes and break into the top three come Olympia time. Oh, and by the way, everyone here at RX Muscle would like to wish Sabrina Taylor a very happy birthday. The bodybuilding world flocked to Texas this past weekend to take place in the NPC Phil Heath Classic. And while the show showcased a staggering number of highquality competitors, the talk of the weekend was dominated by the guest posing of the four-time Mr. Olympia. Heath took the stage in front of a packed house full of rockus fans and dropped the collective jaws of everyone in attendance as he rolled out a physique that was absolutely bursting at the seams with explosive muscle. It's moments like these that reminds us exactly why Phil is nipping on the heels of history with his growing collection of sandals. And as long as he continues to remain injuryfree, it's difficult to imagine anyone standing in his way of ringing up a few more titles and challenging Haney and Coleman's record eight victories. Armando Amad looks like he's been putting his off seasonason to good use. The 2012 NPC Junior Nationals champion has been slowly but surely working his way up the NPC ladder, bringing in what was clearly his all-time best at last year's NPC Nationals, where he took third place in a very competitive welterweight class. If Aman can manage to add a bit more thickness to his upper body and bring a tighter, drier look to the stage, he could very easily find himself competing as an amateur for the last time here in 2015. Luis Santa looks like he's ready to hit the ground running and make his mark on the contest season. Over the weekend, the former NPC USA champ was spotted in the gym hammering out a few sets of legs on the vertical leg press as he gears up to begin his 2015 preparations. Last year, we saw Santa take the stage twice at the Tampa Pro and Phoenix Europa, but he just didn't have enough muscle to be a real threat in the super competitive 212 division. Although he won't be out musling anyone on stage, Santa certainly has mastered the art of showing up shredded. And if he was able to pack on a solid 5 to 10 pounds of stage weight this offseason, he has a real shot of cracking the top five in the right lineup later this year. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.