It is Chuck Zto, the beast from the east, and you better be watching Muscle in the morning or Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host Pet the Producer here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's January 30th, 2014. And on today's show, IFB bikini pro Ashley Carwer joins Gaspari Nutrition. Nick Tragilli back training after dropping out of the nationals. And RX Muscle welcomes ninetime IFBB Pro bikini champ Amanda on Muscle Girls Inc. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. Gaspari Nutrition has already taken on another IFBB pro to the team after signing Branch Warren this month as they now welcome IFBB bikini Olympia Ashley Cotwer. Ashley had a very successful 2013 contest season as she placed top two in every show leading up to the O where she grabbed first place. A great addition to team Gaspari. Congratulations to Ashley. National NPC competitor Nick Tragilli is back in the gym after 10 weeks off due to the injury he suffered before the nationals. If you remember, Nick was a heavy favorite going in with a rivalry with fellow competitor Kevin Jordan, who went on to win his pro card. Believe it or not, the trash talking continues as it seems they're looking to face off in the pro ranks as soon as Nick can grab a pro card. He has his eyes set on doing the USA's in July where he last took second to Max Charles who won his pro card at that show. If he can stay healthy, a pro card is sure to be in his future. Muscle Girls Inc. is back for another episode once again this week with Adela Garcia and Stacy Alexander. They welcome special guest ninetime IFBB Pro bikini champ Amanda Latona. This is another can'tmiss episode and we have it available for you right now on rxmuscle.com. Now for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, what was the first bodybuilding title held by Steve Reeds? And the answer is Mr. Pacific Coast 1947. Shout out to Locks and Vox for the correct answer. Now for today's trivia question, we have another early age pro photo. Guess which young IV Pro bodybuilder is seen here. Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host, Peter Producer. See you tomorrow and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.