This is the game. Triple H. You're watching Muscle in the Morning. Get all your bodybuilding news and all your facts and stuff right here. It's all about the game, but you play it. Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host, Pet the Producer, here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's April 7th, 2014, and on today's show, the IFBB Orlando Europa predictions and new entries. And as always, the answer to Friday's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. This coming weekend, April 11th and 12th, will be the 2014 Orlando Europa Games, Get Fit, and Sports Expo. This event will feature not only NPC and IFBB bodybuilding, but the $10,000 muscle farm obstacle course, cheer and dance national competition, the Europa throwdown, grappling games, taekwond do judo arm wrestling, powerlifting, Megatron World Wrestling, and Orlando's Kids Fun. That's all coming to you this weekend at Ed and Betty Pariso's Europa Games. Although an official competitors list is still to be released for this show, fan favorite for the Orlando Europa has to be IFBB Pro Justin Compton, who took fifth last year in his pro debut at the Wings of Strength in an impressive lineup. In addition, a lastminute decision from IFBB Pro Jonathan Del Rosa to jump in the contest and now poses a threat to anyone who's entered. Delar Roa coming in the best we've seen him is sure to make an impact at the show looking the way he does, even if it's just a warm-up for the upcoming Arnold Brazil. In addition to these two, we have other competitors throwing their hat in the mix that many fans might not be aware of, such as IFBB Pro Ben White, who will be returning to the stage after a disappointing season in 2012, where he seemed to just progressively lose his stride with a 12th place finish at the Arnold and then a fifth place finish at the Arnold Europe. Let's hope the time off the stage has worked in his favor. In addition, we have Clarence Devis competing who is currently looking huge and shredded. the Kai Green lookalike who not many people seem to know about who also unfortunately seems to get overlooked at most contests. The show is shaping up to be a great one for sure. Make sure to catch it this weekend. Now for the answer to Friday's trivia question. The question was, what current IFBB Pro bodybuilder is this a childhood photo of? And the answer. Shout out the locks in box for the correct answer. Now for today's trivia question. Name the three body shown here and what contest was this photo taken? Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Mort brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host Pet the Producer. See you tomorrow and make sure follow us on Twitter and Facebook.