I am calling out. Jose Raven, Massachusetts, the Boston Mass, Dave Palumbo, Long Island, Charlie Coslo, Chicago. Accept this challenge in 24 hours and do the same thing and donate a good cause. Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Wednesday, August 20th, 2014. And on today's show, Aaron Clark, the Ridiculous, Del Roza's new contest journey DVD, and to Tony's Titanic Delt Malach Carney's A-list legs, and Risk Jaspari the Gladiator. All that and much, much more only on Muscle in the Morning. Coach Fakri Mubarak posted photos on his Facebook page of New York Pro 212 champion Aaron Clark five weeks out from making his 212 Mr. Olympia debut. In the pics, the 225-lb Clark looks absolutely shredded with slabs of thick, grainy, dense muscle that surely make him a threat to contend for a top five slot in what is shaping up to be the most competitive 212 Olympia showdown of all time. If Clark can maintain this contest ready look for another 5 weeks, Flex Lewis and company better watch their backs. John Del Roza announced the release of a new DVD that will detail his contest preparation leading up to his first Mr. Olympia contest this September 19th and 20th. Del Roza is looking to continue building on what's been an impressive 2014 contest season that's included four top three finishes, including an impressive showing in front of his hometown crowd at the New York Pro. If Del Roza with the help of coach Chris Aceto puts it all together and manages to bring his all-time best to Vegas, a top 10 placing is certainly in his future. ISFBB figure pro and multicontest winner Ant Tony posted a photo on her Facebook page looking locked and loaded as she enters the final stages of her 2014 Olympia prep. In the pic to Tony shows off full round delts which are highlighted by her trademark wasplike waist. Annne has made tremendous improvements over the course of the last two years, and she'll look to carry the momentum she's built during a successful 2014 contest season right into the Orleans Arena, where she hopes to improve on last year's sixth place finish. After securing two definitive victories in New York and Dallas this year, women's physique pro Juliana Malikarnney is looking to come into Las Vegas's Olympia weekend with pomp and circumstance. The Brazilian bombshell with the best legs in women's physique posted a photo that shows her looking like she's right on track to bring her agame to the stage in less than 5 weeks. If Malik Carney can manage to find the right formula and give the judges what they're looking for this time around, she will most certainly give reigning Miss Physique Olympia champ Dana Lin Bailey a run for her money. After spending years battling it out on an IFBB stage, Rich Gaspari is spending a little time on vacation, checking out one of the most famous battlegrounds in history, the Dragon Slayer recently posted a photo standing outside the world famous Roman coliseum. During his competitive career, Gaspari had the reputation of being a fearless, tenacious competitor. But I'm sure that even he would have been intimidated staring down a swordwheeling rammyized gladiator in front of a crowd full of screaming bloodthirsty Romans. Or would he? And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. And for full quotes and muscle in the morning bonus features, join Muscle in the morning's official Facebook page. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And remember to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.