It is Chuck Zto, the beast from the east, and you better be watching Muscle in the morning or Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host, Pete, the producer, here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's February 11, 2014. And on today's show, Ronnie Coleman visits India. Ruth Rigno a new Star Trek series. RX Muscle's new video program behind the muscle. And bodybuilding legend Bill Grant's health is improving. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. The big nasty Ronnie Coleman has wrapped up his trip to India as he's made his tour of guest appearances in Mumbai this last week. Still to this day, Ronnie draws one of the largest crowds in the bodybuilding community and even in India has a huge following. Ronnie with his laid-back and easygoing personality seems to be enjoying meeting and greeting with his Indian fans. Lou Farerigno is still on to new television projects and this time a new original Star Trek series featured on YouTube. If you're a Star Trek fan, you're either going to hate it or love it, but as a Lufferno fan, this is something you might just want to check out either way. The video is currently up on YouTube.com. Check it out now. Bodybuilding legend and former Mr. America and Mr. World, Bill Grant has recently had some health issues, but fortunately, he's improving and making a speedy recovery. Last year, Bill was in the hospital 65 times. In a 3-month period, he lost 40 lbs due to colon issues, which required emergency surgery. Bill says he's now recovered, back to work as a personal trainer, and has gained back 35 lbs. Bill says, "I'm very grateful to have a second chance in life, and I've learned not to take anything for granted. I want to thank all my friends that knew what was going on for their continued support and encouragement. RX Muscle has officially released the first edition of its new video program, Behind the Muscle, where Dave Palumbo sits down with some of the biggest names in the industry for a one-on-one interview. In this premiere episode, the first guest is none other than Jimmy Pletia. In this episode, you'll find out where Jimmy grew up, how his father kept him in check as a young rebel, and as always, some crazy stories from Jimmy. Check out this video now on the homepage of rxmuscle.com, and stay tuned for part two. Now, for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, name this young bodybuilder before he started his pro bodybuilding career. And the answer, Dennis Wolf. Shout out to Official Krill for the correct answer. And shout out to Z's bra for yesterday. I know you're watching and thanks for playing. Now for today's trivia question. What was the first pro show and year that Dennis Wolf took his first pro win? Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host, Pete the Producer. See you tomorrow, and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook. Heat.