Welcome to the weekend edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the I'm your host Dave Palumbo and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Friday, January 16th, 2015, and let's get to it. If you're not familiar with the name Callum Vonoger, you're probably not alone. But the 24year-old Australian-B born bodybuilder is quickly making a name for himself. Von Moger was the winner of last year's Mr. universe contest and his classic combination of size, symmetry, and aesthetics have caused some to dub him Arnold 2.0. Earlier in the week, the Australian powerhouse released some new photos, looking impressively insane as he heads into 2015, looking to follow in the footsteps of the Austrian Oak and win back-to-back Mr. Universe titles. With four victories and a seventh place finish at the Olympia, it's safe to say that Sarah LeBlanc has established herself as one of the rising superstars in the bikini division last year. Recently, the ravishing LeBlanc released a new video giving her fans some inside access as to how one of the sports leading ladies prepares for the upcoming Arnold Classic, Bikini International. And with quite a few of last year's top finishers at the Olympia taking the stage in Columbus, it'll be interesting to see if LeBlanc can scratch and claw her way up the ladder and break into the elite top five. For more on Sarah Leblanc, be sure to check out her appearance on Heavy Muscle Television, available exclusively at rxmuscle.com. New offseason photos of a peeled and shredded Mike Yablon have surfaced recently. After years of battling it out at the top amateur level, Yablon finally broke through and earned his IFBB Pro card at the NPC Masters Nationals in 2013 and made an impressive pro debut last year at the New York Pro where he took 11th in a very tough lineup. Recently, Yablon announced that he's planning to hit the stage at the New York Pro once again and with a few minor adjustments could easily find himself landing in the first call out at one of the sports most heralded events. If you're going to do battle against the big boys of the 212 division, then you're going to need to come with some heavy artillery. And it looks like newly minted IFBB Pro Tank Moore is loading up the cannons and preparing for battle. Moore earned his IFBB Pro card at the NPC Nationals where he took second in the middleweight division to eventual winner David Pterick. Moore has announced that he plans to make his pro debut this season at the Wings of Strength Pro that's set to take place in San Antonio, Texas, where he'll be greeted by a rockus home crowd. If Moore can pack on some additional size to his upper body and tighten up his conditioning, he'll have a shot to make his first pro contest one to remember. And finally, in case you missed the live broadcast of Heavy Muscle Television featuring men's physique superstar Jason Poston and celebrity actor Holt McCannie, the rebroadcast is available now exclusively at rxmuscle.com. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today, I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and the Muscle Central forum of rxmuscle.com for all the latest news, interviews, and strong opinions from the world of bodybuilding. Heat.