This is the game. Triple H. You're watching Muscle in the Morning. Get all your bodybuilding news and all your facts and stuff right here. It's all about the game, but you can't take it. Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host, Pete, the producer, here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. is January 6th, 2014. And on today's show, Marcus Haley announces his retirement. Aaron Clark, a serious threat in the 212 division, and Shaun Wright, no longer with Gear Neutrauticals. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question, only on Muscle in the Morning. Marcus the Comet Haley has officially announced his retirement from bodybuilding. Unfortunately for Marcus, this seemed to be both health related and burnout. The statement Marcus left on his Facebook stated, "The sport of bodybuilding has given me so much, but at such a great cost. I so love the sport that left me with an enlarged heart. Each time it skips a beat, I'm reminded of the times of my crazy life and how it unwinds. I hang up the trunks for it's my last time. Thank you to my friends and fans for our time together. It was truly divine." Wishing Marcus all the best in whatever path he chooses and a happy and healthy future. As the Arnold gets closer, we're seeing more improvements out of our 212 competitors as now Aaron Clark gives us a peak at what we're about to see in Columbus. Can Aaron be a serious threat in the 212 division? With the recent pictures of Flex looking enormous at 220, we have Aaron sitting at 225 looking shredded. While you can't deny Flex is the favorite with this much time left, it should be very interesting to see what we'll see Aaron look like come showtime. Bodybuilding Sha Ray has officially announced parting ways with new supplement company Gear Neutrauticals. With Gear starting up with a very powerful team, also including Liz Gaspari and Kevin Levrone promoting Kevin's comeback and big things to come in 2014. This seems to be an unexpected change. With no official reason stated, FYI, as of December 27th, 2013, I am no longer working or affiliated with Gear Neutrautical Supplement Company. Thank you and happy new year. Now for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, who is this young bodybuilder shown here early in his career? And the answer, Milo Sarge. Shout out to old trainer for the correct answer. Now for today's trivia question, more early age bodybuilders. Guess this young bodybuilder early in his career? Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host Pete the Producer. See you tomorrow and make sure follow us on Twitter and Facebook.