It is Chuck Zto, the beast from the east, and you better be watching Muscle in the morning or Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host Pet the Producer here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's April 9th, 2014 and on today's show, Jonathan Del Roza heading into the Orlando Europa, the Steve Klo update, and Jeff Bling getting a lot of heat on his current condition. And as always, he answered yesterday's trivia question only on muscle in the morning. While prepping for the Arnold Brazil, a lastminute decision for IFBB Pro Jonathan Del Rosa to jump into the Orlando Europa has made for an interesting turnout. Delar Roa posted some photos just days out of the Europa and as coach Chris Aceto says, John Dela told delivers and is looking on point. The show is shaping up to be an exciting one for sure. With the upcoming Arnold Brazil, a competitor has been pretty quiet behind the scenes is IFBB Pro Steve Kougllo. Up until recently, we have not heard much about his prep, but he claims to be on the larger side after dieting down from a 300 lb offseason. As of now, the only real progress photos we have are mostly clothed and no full body shots. Is he hiding out, waiting to shock people with his conditioning, or is he behind, just pushing hard for the last few weeks? We'll find out soon. Stay tuned. IFBB Pro Jeff Long will be returning to the stage this weekend and coming off a tour of guest postings in France two weeks ago and in Germany this past weekend. Long displayed a physique that did not seem to be two weeks out of a contest and as expected has been receiving a lot of criticism. Jeff's response was that he was holding a ton of water due to flying, but assured everyone he is in shape. It's just water. Regardless if it's water or fat, does he have enough time to pull it together? We'll find out soon. Now for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was name this IFBB pro bodybuilder early in his career and the answer Eugene Mission or for those of you who may not know F Jenny Mission. Shout out to 1337 for the correct answer. Now for today's trivia question, name the two bodybuilders shown here and name the contest. Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host, Peter Producer. See you tomorrow and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.