This is the game. Triple H. You're watching Muscle in the Morning. Get all your bodybuilding news and all your facts and stuff right here. It's all about the game, but you play. Welcome back to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Man Labs. I'm your host, Keith Producer, here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. is January 15th, 2014. And on today's show, Sean McMillan, seven weeks out of the Arnold Classic, final Brazil, and bodybuilding legend Robbie Robinson still pumping at age 68. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. With Cedric Miller's unfortunate inconsistency at his last few shows, many fans have counted him out, saying he will never amount to his potential. It seems that after he took his extended offseason, he was the largest we've seen him in the offseason, pushing 300 lb. The question was, would he continue to progress and improve for the Arnold? Just now sitting at 278, Cedric looks to be on point with his conditioning, still holding that big and full size. If he can keep this up, I think Cedric will not disappoint come showtime. New pictures of IFBB Pro Lion BKI before he starts his preparation for the Arnold Classic Brazil in April. Showing off his huge physique, Lion looks to be way ahead in terms of conditioning than we've seen him in previous shows, where getting lean enough was always a problem. It looks that coach Dennis James has not let him get out of shape this offseason and plans to bring in that shredded Lionel that we're all waiting to see. Stay tuned for more updates in the coming weeks. Golden era bodybuilder and legend in our sport from the pumping iron days, Robbie Robinson is still at it, making even the young guys look out of shape. And believe it or not, Robbie is 68 years old, but clearly showing us that age is just a number. A true ambassador of bodybuilding and a healthy lifestyle, he shows us that in a sport of extremes, you can have longevity if you continue to pursue staying healthy. Now for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, what bodybuilding contest was first held in 1938 that would consider the winner of the show the best amateur bodybuilder in the country? And the answer, AA Mr. America. Now, for today's trivia question, what bodybuilder was the first ever to win the Mr. Universe competition with a perfect score? Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host, Pete the Producer. See you tomorrow and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.