This is the game. Triple H. You're watching Muscle in the Morning. Get all your bodybuilding news and all your facts and stuff right here. It's all about the game and you can't take it. Welcome back to another edition of Hustle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Egg Labs. I'm your host Peter producer here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's March 17, 2014. And on today's show, the IFB New Zealand Pro results, Lion Bi update, Eugene mission on new music video. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question only on Muscle in the Morning. This past weekend was the IFBB New Zealand Pro, which featured men's bodybuilding 212 and women's bikini. Taking the win in the men's division was IFBB Pro Joseé Raymond, who brought in an even more detailed physique than we saw at the Arnold. the most muscular and shredded physique on the stage. He took the win with ease. Over in Bikini, Miss Bikini Olympia Ashley Kawwasher takes on another win as her third title of 2014. IFBB Pro Lion Baki is currently 6 weeks out of the Arnold Classic Brazil. At 272 lbs, BKI is the leanest we've seen him at this far out from his show. And coach Dennis James says Lionel finally found the formula that works for him. Baki is looking forward to the final six weeks of dieting. Is this the show for Bayaki to win? Stay tuned for more updates. IFBB Pro Eugene Mission is still pursuing his acting career and was recently featured in another music video. Still being utilized for his huge size and his light-hearted personality. He was featured as a cowboy in the new song Cowgirl by Darna. Congrats to Eugene on another role and keep up the good work. Now for the answer to Friday's trivia question. The question was, at what national level NPC contest did Bill Heath win the overall where Jose Raymond placed first in the welterweight class? And the answer, 2005 NPC USA. Shout out to Locks and Box for the correct answer. Now for today's trivia question, name this young bodybuilder shown here. Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. And that does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host, Pete Producer. See you tomorrow and make sure follow us on Twitter and Facebook.