Heat. Heat. If you don't look ugly, then you're not a freak. See, I'm an ugly Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Thursday, December 11th, 2014, and let's get to it. IFBB Pro Zoa Lindsay released a video this past week giving her fans a sneak peek at how one of the top female bodybuilders in the world builds a championship level back. In the video, Lindsay gives you a trainee lesson on how to sculpt thick sweeping lats as she knocks out a picture perfect set of dumbbell rows using absolutely textbook form. Lindsay completely dominated the field at the 2009 North American Championships, where she earned her IFBB Pro card. But her uncertainty as to what division she looks best in, bodybuilding or women's physique, has left her in sort of competitive limbo. But as we saw at this year's NPC National Championships, where Susan Smith was awarded her pro card in women's bodybuilding, perhaps the winds of change are ushering in a new era for the sport. And we're going to see the return of the structurally superior, more aesthetic bodybuilder. Bodybuilding fans flocked to the great state of Texas last weekend to check out the North Texas Fit Expo. Fans in attendance were given quite the shock when 212 bodybuilder Kevin Ofurum took the stage to guest pose dawning a pair of board shorts. He also made the announcement that he was planning to cross over to men's physique. Luckily for the fans though and for the 240 lb of fur, it was all part of the show. Much to the delight of everyone in attendance, he quickly tore away his oversized shorts and hopped into the crowd full of cheering onlookers for what certainly has to be one of the more creative guest posing performances we've seen this year. Andre Adams took the men's physique world by storm last weekend when he won the inaugural Ferraro Legacy Classic. The former powerliffter turns men's physique standout released a video this week giving his fans an uplose and personal look at what it takes to build his championship level chest. The win at the Furrignos certainly puts Adams on the list of names to watch heading into next season. But if he wants his start to last, he'll have to find a way to duplicate his success in Santa Barbara and come in with the dry, crisp look that helped land him in the winner circle. Stay tuned. Mike Pence released some new photos earlier this week, and judging by the looks of things, he appears to be putting in some serious hard work. Pence caught the attention of the bodybuilding world earlier in the year when he came out of nowhere to win the heavyweight and the overall title at the NPC New York Metropolitan Championships. When asked about what his approach to the offseason thus far has been, Pence told Muscle in the morning, quote, "Right now, I'm 257 and the leanest I've ever been in my offseason. My plan is to stay lean and keep packing on quality muscle. I'm planning to hit the stage again at next year's North Americans, and I'm looking to make some serious noise. David Patterak doesn't look like he's wasting any time packing on the size as he enters into his first offseason as an IFBB pro. Parak earned his pro card at the NPC nationals just a few weeks ago, where he dominated the middleweight class with a combination of dense, hard muscle and razor sharp conditioning. Patak has already managed to put on over 20 solid pounds since the show and believes that this offseason is going to be his best yet. Quote, "This will be the first time since I've been competing that I'll really have a truly structured offseason under the guidance of my coach. I had to really suck down to make it into the middle weights. And right now, I'm looking to add another 20 lbs of lean muscle before stepping on stage and making my debut in the 212 division sometime mid to late 2015. And finally, don't miss tonight's live broadcast of Iron Debate featuring the wildly popular Denise Msino squaring off against RX Muscles Chris the Technician Aceto. It's man verse woman, bodybuilder verse guru. Two industry icons squaring off on the hottest topics of the day with yours truly getting the last word. Don't miss it tonight, Thursday, December 11th at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Live exclusively at rxmuscle.com. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. And for full quotes and muscle in the morning bonus features, join Muscle in the Morning's official Facebook page. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And remember to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.