Welcome to another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host Dave Palumbo and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Wednesday, April 29th, 2015. Let's get to it. After earning his IFBB Pro card by placing second in the heavyweight class at the 2012 NPC Nationals, it's been a bit of a roller coaster ride for Lloyd Dollar. Last year, we saw Dollar take the stage twice at the Phoenix Europa and Tampa Pro where he struggled to nail his conditioning, but apparently just recently Dollar has linked up with Tommy Diara of Enhanced Chemistry. Dollar says that he and Diierara have finally zeroed in on how to bring out his best and that he plans on hitting the Orlando Pro this upcoming weekend, bigger, fuller, and in the best condition we've seen him yet. Ly Dollar won't be the only athlete looking to unleash his fury in Orlando this coming weekend. It appears that Foued Abiad doesn't plan on leaving South Florida with anything less than a win and an Olympia invite in his pocket. After the lastminute cancellation of Fibo Power, Abiad has refocused his sights on bringing in his all-time best to Orlando. And it appears that he's on pace to do just that. Abiad has packed on some major size over the last two years and doesn't look to have sacrificed his conditioning one bit. When the lights come on in Orlando, it could very well be Fouad Abiad standing alone with everyone else battling it out for their piece of the pie. After starting the year off with a bang by hammering out fifth and fourth place finishes at the Arnold Classic in Arnold, Australia, it doesn't look like Evan Sentani has plans of letting off the throttle anytime soon. This past weekend, photos surfaced from Evans most recent guest posing performance in Ecuador, where fans in attendance had a chance to see the white nasty in rare form. Santa Capani took the stage in front of a packed house and showed off the kind of thick grainy muscle that we've become accustomed to seeing from him. And as we head into the heart of the contest season, it'll be interesting to see what happens with the sports most reclusive superstar prior to the Mr. Olympia. While the newer generation of bodybuilding fans might be too young to remember, back in 1983, Samir Bonoot was the king of the bodybuilding world. For over a decade, the lion of Lemonon was one of the most dangerous athletes in the sport. And despite the fact that he hung up his posing trunks over two decades ago, from the look of things, Bonud is still a bodybuilder at heart. Earlier this week, the former Mr. Olympia released a photo showing off a bit of that championship muscle that he was once famous for way back when. At 59 years young, Samir sports a physique that's still worthy of envy and reminds all of us that once you're bitten by the bodybuilding bug, it never quite manages to leave you. Coming off a disappointing 11th place finish at the Arnold Classic, South African bodybuilding sensation Morius Dona looks like he's ready to bring his talents back state side for the upcoming Orlando Pro. Dhoni has all the tools to be a very dangerous athlete, but he hasn't quite managed to put it all together on stage. If he can manage to overcome a small hamstring tear he suffered a few weeks ago and hit the stage harder and drier than in Columbus, he'll certainly have a good shot at battling it out for a top spot in the first call out. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. I'm your host Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram.