Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Wednesday, August 12th, 2014, and on today's show, another set of last photos of Big Ramy, Victor Martinez insists he never left, Cutler invades New England, Heavy Muscle TV airs live tonight at 8, and Dana Bailey's hair styling secrets. All that and much, much more, only on Muscle in the Morning. Dennis James has released yet another set of last photos we'll see of Big Ramy before the Mr. Olympia contest. According to James, Rammy is weighing in at 312 pounds in the morning on an empty stomach after cardio. James states that quote, "Ramy's training is better than it has ever been because being able to focus only on the show is what he needed. He won't let you down and that's a promise." With rumors swirling that Phil Heath is at his all-time best, Big Ramy is gonna have to show up with conditioning like we've never seen on him. Can he do it? I guess we'll have to wait till September to find out, unless, of course, DJ releases another set of last photos. For IFBB Tampa Pro Champ Victor Martinez, this past weekend's victory didn't mark a comeback. The Dominican Dominator boldly reminds us that he never left. According to Martinez, he isn't going to Vegas to merely crack the top six. He's going to leave with a sand out. Martinez has been through hell and back throughout his career, but he's the same guy Ronnie Coleman once dubbed as the successor to the Olympia crown. At 41, he's certainly not the young favorite he used to be. But if he shows up 10% better than in Tampa, the Olympia top three better watch out. The allegedly semi-retired four-time Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler will be doing a meet and greet this Saturday, August 16th, from 12 to 2:00 p.m. at Northshore Nutrition Center in Danver, Massachusetts. Although he may not be competing in 2014, Cutler continues to hold on to much of his size and continues to promote his Jay Cutler brands and long list of sponsors throughout the world. If Phil Heath manages to win Sandown number four this September 20th, the birds might be whispering in Cutler's ears for a comeback. If you're in the Danvers, Massachusetts area this weekend, stop by and chat with one of the most personable Olympia champs of all time. A brand new episode of the Heavy Muscle TV show will air tonight live from the Westbury, New York RX Muscle Studios. IFBB Tampa Pro Figure Champ Latory Watts will be tonight's special guest. Find out how Miss Watts went from blackjack dealer in Las Vegas to Olympia qualified figure competitor, all in the scope of a single year. Also returning with stories of amazement, grief, and unbelievable comedy is our very own Jimmy the Ironbull Pletia. Remember, you never know what may happen on Heavy Muscle TV. Don't miss tonight's broadcast live at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Standard, only on rxmuscle.com. In a video of monumental importance to the fitness industry, Flagnar fails Rob Bailey released an exclusive new video entitled Dana Lin Bailey's hair secrets. In the impromptu Facebook folly, the gifted entrepreneur and music producer reveals exactly how the reigning Miss Physique Olympia gets her hair to look so cool. Just go to any expo or contest and you're bound to see at least a dozen Dalin Bailey lookalikes. So, what's the secret? Let's check it out. There. Wait, little volume over here. Oo, there you go. Look how pretty you look. What are you writing in your little books? Your business. Show everyone what you're writing in your book. No. Move your little hand. Secret. What does that say? Oh, volume two. Wait, are you on volume three? What? That's secret information. Ryan Rob is so dumb. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs, the most hardcore bodybuilding supplements on the market. Check out Iron Maglabs.com today. And for full quotes and muscle in the morning bonus features, join Muscle in the morning's official Facebook page. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And remember to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.