 my 300-plus-pound cycle. Everyone wants to know what it is? I'm going to tell you after this. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RxTelevision, RxMuscle.com, this is Ask Dave, your weekly 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, diet training, supplementation, life, whatever is on your mind, this is your forum to ask Dave Palumbo your questions. We're going to go right into the first two questions. We're going to go right into the first two questions. We're going to go right into the first two questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Does it require a great deal of GH to get rolling after 60 as far as gear goes, supplementation? How can I find out through your recommendation some example cycles or just some suggestions he's trying to get going after the age of 60? Yeah, you know, growth hormone seems to work better on young people, but it has obviously effects on everyone. And I think it's because young people probably respond to growth hormone better. When I say respond, growth hormone, when it enters the bloodstream, eventually goes to the liver and it actually stimulates the liver to produce another hormone known as IGF-1, which is the growth component. So GH doesn't directly stimulate growth. IGF-1 does. So how much IGF-1 your liver releases in response to the growth hormone you inject is variable. And it seems like people respond better when they're younger. So I don't know if there's a receptor issue or if it's just a genetic thing, but young people grow better from growth hormone. But, you know, older people respond as well. So you have to understand that. Now, you know, when IGF-1 was synthesized, we all thought that was going to be the magic bullet, right? Because we said, well, if the IGF-1 component, you know, of what growth hormone initiates is what's causing growth in the body, then if we just take the growth component, IGF-1, we should get more growth than when we take growth hormone. And it didn't happen for some reason. And, you know, it did cause some growth, obviously, and people were responding to it, but not the way we thought you would. And the reason that I figured out was that it's a receptor thing. So, you know, protein hormones bind to receptors on the outside of the cells, you know, in the sense, in the terms, you know, we talk about IGF-1, we talk about muscle cells. And it seems like the more you flood your body with IGF-1, the less receptors you produce. So your body starts down-regulating very quickly. So you can't overdo the IGF-1 or you don't respond. I guess when you take a dose of GH, however, you know, you don't get that much IGF-1 release. You get enough that it stimulates the receptors, but not enough to shut it down. That's why when guys start taking like 10, 20, 30 IUs of GH a day, which I don't know how people even afford to do that. But if I see there are people that do it, they don't get a better response. They just get more fluid retention. They don't get the IGF increase because what happens is, you know, first of all, your liver can only produce so much IGF-1. And once you start producing too much, it kind of self-regulates itself by down-regulating the receptors. So in an older person who's over the age of 60, you will get the regenerative effects of growth hormone because you will get some IGF-1 release from your liver. How good your receptors are at that older age, you know, we haven't – there hasn't been studies to really look at that. But I have a feeling that the receptor numbers and, you know, ability for IGF-1 to bind to those receptors is better in younger people. Second question – Oh, Sid, sorry. Just to go back to dose, I didn't really give him a dose. I like two to four IUs per day. I think that's great for anti-aging and building muscle with the least amount of side effects. Because at 60, you want to worry about blood pressure. You start taking too much IGF-1, you retain a lot of fluid, you increase your blood pressure. Not good. Last week, you got a question about protein snacks that you recommend. This one is specific to protein bars. Now, I know you and I had some loose discussions last year about potentially looking into sources for a potential species protein bar. But are there any on the market that you currently recommend? Yeah, you know, if you know anything about how I produce my products at Species Nutrition, you know that I only put out the best quality, best tasting stuff. So if I can't make something that's better than what's out there already, I just don't do it. Because I don't want to have an inferior product to anyone else that are out there. And bars are hard to make nowadays. Number one, because of the shelf life, number one. That's the first problem. They only last so long. You have to be able to sell them, which I'm not worried about. I know I can sell the bars. Finding line production time is very big because a lot of these bigger companies now out there are making protein bars. Even Hershey's putting protein. So you can't find line time in any of these manufacturers that do bars. And a lot of the bar companies that do make bars, they don't have the right equipment to make the kind of bar that I want. Personally, I have no problem telling you what I eat on a regular basis. I eat those Power Crunch bars. And they're 15 grams of protein per bar. And there's very little sugar in them and very little carbs. These are 10 carbs or something like that. But they have a higher protein version of the Power Crunch bar. And those are 20 grams of protein. So I usually eat those. And I think you can only get them in Target. It's the only place I've seen. You can order them online from Target, too, if you don't have a Target near your house. And sometimes they don't stock it in the store. I like them because it's a wafer bar. It doesn't seem to bother my stomach at all. And I have a sensitive stomach to lactose. So there's obviously not a lot of lactose in it. And there's none of those sugar alcohols in there, which usually upset my stomach. Which there's a lot of bars that taste really good out there. But the sugar alcohols destroy me. I try to stay away from too much erythritol and all the other ones, malitol, sorbitol, that kind of stuff. So my go-to bar now happens to be the Power Crunch bars. And if I can get the higher protein ones, I usually do that. If not, I just use the regular ones. And once again, I'll eat them in the morning before I go to the gym. Sometimes if I'm in a rush and I don't have time to make a shake because I'm taking the kids to school. And, you know, I would love to make a wafer bar. Once again, it's hard to find a manufacturer that makes them or that has line time. Anyone out there is watching this. Sometimes we have fans and stuff like that or people who watch the show and their manufacturers. Reach out. I'd love to make a bar with you. Before we go to the rest of our questions, our friends at Titan Medical Center. Again, we talk about all the different therapies that they have to offer this one. It's not just specific to skin, but face, beard, neck, anywhere. They're GHK Glow and the GHK Cream. And they're packaging it all together at Titan Medical Center. Right. The copper peptide is like, you know, it's funny because copper peptide just recently has seemed to become very popular with people who are looking for rejuvenation of the skin, connective tissue stuff, hair. And, you know, it's funny because I had a hair. I did some hair grafts, you know, back in 2000 when they first started doing the real hair grafts. Before that, they would do these plugs and they look terrible. And they gave me this copper shampoo. It was copper peptide shampoo. I'd never heard of it. And I really they had me do it for a week right after the, you know, the surgery to do the transplants. And they and it really does help speed up healing, they told me. And I and I and I believe them. And I saw it was pretty quick. And I always wondered why they didn't sell it more, you know, as a regular shampoo for people to use all the time. And so then, like, you know, 20 years later, I started seeing copper peptides coming in. I kind of knew what they were already. And I was like, wow, I wonder why it took so long to get these things to market when the hair transplant people have been using them for years. And so Titan now has an injectable form of it in their glow formulation, which I'd use. It's it's BPC-157 TV 500, the KPV peptide, which is an anti inflammatory one. And then there's the copper peptide in there. Now they have AI think they have a face cream and I'm trying to get them to make a shampoo now, because I think that if, you know, for hair loss purposes or just hair restoration purposes, if you can shampoo like, you know, five, six times a week, maybe, you know, with a copper peptide shampoo, I think that would be helpful, too. So they're working on that. And they got some good sales over there. So head over there. Copper peptides, I think, have a lot of promise in regeneration, collagen, connective tissue. And obviously, now they're using it for face restoration for your skin and stuff like that to have that nice glow and youthful look. So check it out at Titan Medical Center dot com. Tell them Dave Palumbo Rx Muscles sent you. Also, those first two questions were from the Dave Palumbo Experience app, guys. If you want to subscribe to the app, it's twenty nine dollars a month. You download it on your iTunes or Android store. You get me as your coach in your back pocket. I answer all your questions on there in an open forum. Everyone sees everyone's questions and answers. I do a Q&A video exclusively for the app members every single week. So you're going to get that extra ass Dave there. Great information. All my protocols are on there. My diets, keto, cyclical keto diet, offseason diet, all my cycles. Everything's in there. It's a great library if you're looking to expand on your knowledge of bodybuilding, coaching, bodybuilding and just basic knowledge. It's it's it's a library of information that you can be assured is accurate and true. And you don't have to like it's like a lot of the stuff you look up online. You don't know what to believe. It's a great, great, great resource. And I appreciate you guys supporting me all these years on that app. And that's why I keep doing it. We'll go to our rest of our questions from our YouTube community page. Again, if you're not already following this on YouTube right here, hit the subscribe button, hit the notification bell. And if you go to our post tabs, that is generally where we take the vast majority of questions from the show. So for this episode or for following episodes, just go to that post. You'll see the Ask Dave post that tab rather and you'll see the Ask Dave post and you can type in your questions there. Oftentimes we get questions about your cycle. Now, I'm sure at a certain point or during certain points of your career, you kind of had variations in different phases of your career. But specifically, and he mentions the fact that he saw the video that we posted on RxMuscle and Species. Dad, what were you like in the 90s? Is that how you tried to whatever? And he showed you, you know, at your absolute most rip. So he wants to know the cycle that you took when you were 300 pounds and absolutely shredded. Right. Yeah, you know, that would probably be when I was at my biggest would probably be in the late 90s, you know, 97, 98, 99. I was, you know, teetering over 315 to 319 in that range in the offseason. There really was no Trenbolone back then. As far as Trenbolone acetate goes, there was Parabolon, which was Trenhex. And so I was on that. I would do cycles of that in the offseason, usually like two amps a week, which was like 150 milligrams total. It was 75, 76 milligrams per amp. I would be on 1,000 milligrams of some sort of long-acting testosterone, whether it be sustenone, testisipidate, testinathate. That was my standard cycle. I would do the testosterone and then we'd do like an anabolic with that. So I would switch from like Parabon, I would use EQ at beginning with like three, four, 500 milligrams a week of that. You know, the EQ back then was 50 milligrams per ml. So, you know, we would do two CCs, you know, every other day, which was only 100 milligrams. But, you know, it seemed to have worked. I would try to use orals like everyone. I would do like three, four weeks of like D-Ball or Anadryl. I would try and I would never get through because they would kill my appetite so much. And if I couldn't eat, obviously you can't grow. So I would try to stick to mostly injectables. DECA, I really loved DECA. I was a big DECA guy. So I would use, you know, four or 500 milligrams a week of that. I would do about three to maybe four IUs of GH per day. I always liked three, four scents to get me like really bloated. But three to four IUs of GH. And then, you know, at my biggest, I started using IGF-1. I think I mentioned that earlier in the show. So I had the first IGF-1 that was ever really produced at all. I had a connection from Germany. These guys were getting it from Australia. Australia was the – in Australia is where they actually synthesized the first synthetic IGF-1. And they realized that IGF-1, when injected, didn't last very long in the system. It only lasted like 20 minutes. So they created a – what's called long R3 IGF-1, which is the one that most of us see in peptide sites and that we get from these rejuvenation clinics like Titan Medical Center. Because it lasts long. It lasts 20 hours in the system. And the first stuff that they brought over – I've told this story before. It was like a 200-microgram bottle. And it was wrapped in this yellow plastic because they said it was light sensitive. You couldn't expose it to light because IGF-1 gets deactivated, which is something that I'm – I think about a lot because, you know, I see IGF-1 being sent in clear vials. I'm wondering if a lot of the IGF-1 is real IGF-1, but that it's mostly deactivated because it's being exposed to light. Because that was a real – this came directly from GrowPep in Adelaide, Australia, who synthesized it. They made it known that you cannot expose this stuff to light. So I do wonder if that's why people are not getting the response. Because when I took that first vial of IGF-1 at 10 micrograms post-workout for 20 days in a row, I gained 20 pounds. In 20 days. And I was already at 289. That put me over 300 for the first time. And I stopped taking GH during that time because I wanted to really get a good read on how this IGF worked. And it was incredible. And so I have to – because I was stuck. I couldn't get past 289. I was really having a lot of trouble. I was eating an enormous amount of food. I was actually taking some short, fast-acting insulin at that time, too. I was experimenting with Humulin-R. And I just wasn't growing anymore. And as soon as I put that IGF-1 into my program, it was like gold. It was like – I couldn't even believe it. It was the gains I got from that stuff. Now, the second vial I used, which was like I took a month off and then they brought more back. I tried to use 20 micrograms per day. And I did grow about five or six pounds from that, but it wasn't as potent as the first bottle. And then the price came down, and I think people started using more. And then I realized that it was being – somehow there was a down regulation of receptors if you used it too long or too much. And so I started modifying it. And then that connection got lost. And then there was no more IGF for a while. And then finally when IGF kind of showed up again, it just never worked the same as that first batch. And so I wonder if, once again, if it's a light thing or if there's just – people are taking – I know people take too much of it. I can get – if you're taking 100 to 200 micrograms a day of this stuff, you're definitely down regulating within a week. That's for sure. Now, whether the IGF is as potent, I don't know. And I'm wondering. I just kind of reminded myself by telling the story that it did come in these yellow bags, and we had to keep it in. I remember wrapping the vial in aluminum foil so that when I would take it out to take the injection, it wouldn't be exposed to light because they made it that – they were making a big deal about it that it couldn't be exposed to light. So that is something that we might want to consider and think about that maybe that's the problem. Maybe the IGF-1 we're getting is not really working because it's been deactivated in some way. So it's interesting to think about it. But that was the cycle. So I didn't do IGF all the time, but that's what got me over that hump that I got stuck at. And then pretty much it was like the long-acting testosterone with some sort of an anabolic. Always had some growth hormone in there usually. I did a little fast-acting insulin because I tended to be insulin-resistant when I took the GH. And that was what I did. There was nothing magical. There was no peptides back then really to speak of aside from GH and IGF-1. And the anabolics were the key and the training and the eating. And so I know it's hard to believe, but really, if you get your diet down, Pat, and your training is good and you take enough anabolics, the threshold amount, you got to grow. You got to grow. When I see guys that they don't gain any weight in a whole year, I know there's either they're missing meals or they're not training properly because I know they're taking the drugs. Everyone loves to take the drugs, but no one wants to do the other stuff. The other stuff is the hard work, eating. And a lot of guys can't eat in the offseason. They just, I can't get the six, seven meals in. I can't. I don't have the appetite. Well, guys, the judges don't care if you're hungry or not. Find a way to get the food down. So that's the take-home message. I should have practiced this by saying get your notepads out, but I imagine there was a lot of note-taking. But that was very, very thorough and very, very comprehensive answer. So I'm glad we got that out there. Can you explain, I mean, this may be sort of a general guideline, explain body recomp, hypertrophy, and how you would go about a cut with gear? So we're talking about cycles today. You know, the drugs, and I've said this a million times. I'm going to continue to say it because I think it's important. Steroids don't burn fat. They build and repair muscle. Now, they do increase metabolic rate because they're increasing protein synthesis, but they're not direct fat burners. So to say I'm taking Atavar and Winstrel and Masteron on my contest cycle because they're going to lean me out is inaccurate. Okay? The truth is you could take testosterone. I knew guys that competed in the 90s that had – they didn't have two nickels to rub together, and they were on, like, one shot of testosterone a week, and they looked better than 99% of the people who competed in the show. And that's all they took, you know, was testosterone. So it's – you know, the steroids build and repair muscle. The diet, the cardio, you know, the fat burners you take, whether you're doing clonbuterol, T3, those will dictate how lean and how good you look and not the anabolic steroids you take. Now, there are certain anabolics that work – that we just use by convention in contest prep because they kind of dry out a little bit. They kind of block – like, you know, like Masteron kind of blocks estrogen receptors and keeps you a little harder. But by and far, the leaner you get, the more these anabolics, you know, make you look better. You can see the difference between a natural person who's got zero body fat and a geared up guy who has zero body fat. There's just a better look to the geared up person because they have more blood in their body. The muscle is more glycogen loaded. There's a fullness effect that they don't have. And you have more muscle, obviously. So there is a difference, obviously, that the anabolics make. But they don't burn the fat. The diet, cardio, and fat burners burn the fat. And I think you need to make that distinguishing factor. I keep people on – and I always did the same thing, 1,000 milligrams of test a week base. And then I use anabolics. The anabolics I use during contest prep are probably a little different those last eight weeks. I'll use Winstrel Masteron and Trent acetate if it's available. Still with some GH, not as much, maybe two to three I use a day. I like Clambutero. I think it's the best fat burner on the market. And I think it works really well in conjunction with T3. And if you amp it up or ramp it up very gradually over the course of the contest diet, you get really good results. How the coach applies that is their own style. Everyone has got their own style. Obviously, diet and cardio are very important as well. They're variables. The good thing is that there's a lot of variables you can play with when you're dieting someone down. There's diet. There's the cardio component of it. And there's the drugs. And the fat burners – and I'm not talking about the anabolics because the anabolics don't – like I said, they're not fat burners. They're going to be in there to preserve muscle essentially. And how you manipulate the Clen, the T3, if you're using those two, how you manipulate the diet and the cardio will dictate how lean a person gets. And it's that simple really. It's hard for someone who's never done the process before. But having someone experienced like myself or some of the other really good coaches out there walk you through the process over the course of the 16-week diet is going to obviously make your life less stressful, less decision-making, less likely that you're going to make mistakes because it's hard to advise yourself. And it's going to help, you know, peak you for a show and be your absolute best. So my advice to you, especially if you're just getting involved in this process, is to hire a coach, someone that you resonate well with and work well with who can walk you through that process. Let's take a training-related question. We've had a lot of cycle-related questions. Best way to bring up the upper biceps specifically and carve out more separation between the biceps and the front delts? Yeah. When we say carve out, you know, detailed, the training is not going to do that. Steroids are not going to do that. That's once again comes back to the level of body fat that you have. Okay. So the lower the body fat, the more detail you're going to see in the muscle fibers. You know, the leaner you get, the more you'll see, you might get to see the split in the bicep because the bicep is two heads. Nice to see that little split down the middle. The way it, you know, connects with the upper, you know, front delts. And that separation is also just related to how much body fat you can get rid of so that you can see those connections and those insertions. Now, how your body inserts and what the shape of these muscles are is really dictated by your genetics and how much muscular development you have in that area. So whatever you got under there is going to be what you got under there. And you got to peel off that fat by dieting it off. And then, you know, there are certain exercises that will, you know, like if you ever watch Jimmy the Bull do bicep curls, he almost curls and brings his whole shoulder up. So he's working a lot more of that upper connection between the upper bicep and the front delt. But the risk of doing that is you can tear that long head of that bicep if you don't know what you're doing. So, you know, my wisdom that I can give you from years and years of training is don't do crazy stuff in the gym. Do conventional lifting. Build the muscle like we all know how with dumbbell and barbell and cable curls. And what the shape of the muscle is is going to be dictated by your genetics essentially. The bigger you can make the stuff, the better it's going to look when you strip away the fat. And that's the reality of the situation. I know you have to bolt. So we're going to take one quick fast one. Your opinion on taking Yohimbe for fast food cardio to target fast loss, fat loss effective or not? And if so, at what dose? I never found that Yohimbe was an effective fat burner. In theory, if you look up Yohimbe, and I remember Andrew Shane talking about this back in the day. It's an alpha 2 blocking agent. And by blocking alpha 2 receptors, you know, you increase norepinephrine at the muscular nerve junction. Which, you know, more adrenaline or norepinephrine, which is essentially the same thing. The more fat burning you potentially get. Now, what population of cells has the most alpha 2 receptors? Well, from what Dan's research showed that the estrogen-dependent fat areas, like in women in the hips and thighs, men around the waist, seems to be a lot of alpha 2 receptors on those cells. And that by blocking those alpha 2 receptors with a compound like Yohimbe, you theoretically can target fat loss there. Dan's theory was that if you injected a Yohimbe into the area, an injectable form of Yohimbe, that you would get targeted fat loss. It sounded great in theory because, in theory, it should work. But it never really panned out. But I did see a couple of injectable Yohimbe compounds over the years that were just not effective. Because if they had been effective, everyone would be using it to this day. So the theory was good. And it seemed right on paper, but it never really practically worked out. And the oral form is just flooding the whole body with these alpha 2 receptor blocking agents, Yohimbe. And I just didn't see any benefits from it. I didn't see much fat loss from it. And the truth is a lot of people don't realize that Yohimbe actually increases a hormone in your body known as vasopressin or antidiuretic hormone, which can actually make – it's antidiuretic hormone, ADH. Which does the opposite of a diuretic, so it makes you retain fluid. So too much Yohimbe raises this fat hormone and can make you hold water. So you really don't want to take Yohimbe the last week or two before a show because of that as well. So not a great fat burner. It was good before we had, you know, Plimbuterol and T3 and stuff like that. It was – or you couldn't get that stuff because, you know, Yohimbe was actually legal for a while. And I guess you can still get it. I don't know how pure it is now, but it was, you know, they were selling the pure Yohimbe, you know, in the health food stores. And so people thought, well, this is great. Plus, a lot of people thought Yohimbe was like an aphrodisiac. They thought it was like before Viagra came out or any of those, you know, erection medications, that's what people used. People would get prescriptions for Yohimbe to raise libido. I don't know if it worked or not. But there was a prescription brand for quite a while from back in the 90s. That's what I'm going to do for this episode of Ask Dave. Right now on the channel, all new episodes of the After Hours podcast as well as Heavy Muscle Radio. And if you haven't already done so, go check out our content from the Arnold Classic a couple of weeks back. And, of course, this upcoming weekend, we have the Arnold UK. So we're going to have at least wrap-ups of pre-judging and finals. We'll see if we have the capacity to do a live reaction show as well. Keep it locked to RX Muscle. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadiq Baruti. We'll see you next time.