Because things don't just change in life. People resist change because change is scary. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle rant. just got off the phone with eight time Mr. Olympia Lee Haney who I want to go right on the record of saying I have the utmost respect for. I consider him a friend. He's a man who prayed for me when I was going through my heart surgery. He always checks in on me. We talk time to time. I've interviewed him. He's been nothing but a gentleman. made a couple statements uh last week about what's going on with some of the stuff he's been saying on social media regarding, you know, the direction of the sport and how he feels that, you know, the the the physiques are getting worse and that he doesn't like the direction. And I know that he had a little bit of a runin with the organization in terms of running a a teen or you know teen division in his show and ultimately the I guess relationship between him and the NPC broke down and he decided to you know launch his own organization which was already in in existence from what he told me you know that's his uh personal training certification organization he's now sanctioning his own shows and um I basically you I I basically said that I I thought it was a big mistake. You know, I said that, you know, it's it's a shame that he's he's biting the hand that has fed him all these years. And, you know, he he was a little upset with with what I said. And we had a really good conversation. And I do want to apologize if I did insult Lee. Maybe I was a little too aggressive in what I said. Uh, and I that was not my intention. I did not want to insult him in any way whatsoever. I know he's a man of God and he's a very proud man and he he marches to his own drummer that being the Lord. And I respect that 100%. And what I explained to him was, "Yes, I know, Lee, that you are the face of the NPC. You were the first NPC national champion ever. You know, I know you and Jim Mania have a tremendous relationship over the years. Um, but as someone who has been in this industry a long time as well myself and I've been, you know, covering the sport for over 15 years now and I've had my runins with everyone and everyone knows they're very very well known some of the runins I've had. Um, I still know that I play in the biggest playground in bodybuilding. That's the NPC IFBB. And I wouldn't want to play in any other playground around because I know they're the best. It's just like if Michael Jordan's not going to leave the NBA and go play in another organization because he doesn't like what the NBA, you know, head honchos are telling him, he's going to find a way to use public support to use his platform to make the change or institute the change within because he knows the NBA is the best. And and and that's really what I was trying to get at when I was talking about Lee Haney. And that's really what I addressed with him on the phone. And I said, "Yes, if I insulted you, I'm completely sorry because that's not was not my intention. My intention is that I feel that with Lee Haney's name, an eighttime Mr. Olympia, he's been the on the president's council for physical fitness, he trained Vander Holyfield. I mean, this guy is a legend and he'll always be a legend and he's he's one of the most respected bodybuilders, I would say, of all time, right? Right under Arnold probably. I think that if he wants change or if he feels that the bodybuilding organization is not going in the right direction that that change should be instituted from within and that doesn't mean that every time you make a phone call to headquarters they're going to say oh yeah okay let's let's make that change. It's got to be done okay repetitively because things don't just change in life. People resist change because change is scary. And you know, it took me I've talked about classic physique, which I called classic bodybuilding originally, five years before they ever brought it into the IFBB and NPC. I've been I even came up with the height and weights and I and I put it out there. I said, "I really think we should have this." And it the time just wasn't right. It wasn't the right time. And when the time became right, they adopted it. But I have to believe that it was because of a lot of the stuff that I was talking about that instituted that change. Look at what Fuad Aad did. We've all been talking about black backgrounds, black backgrounds, black backgrounds on stage. He put one on his show and now everyone's talking about let's let's do a black background. He he became that change. We talked about it for how many years before anyone did anything. That's just that's just human nature. People resist change because it's scary. But we all play in this big playground. And I and I really I I pray I pray to God that Lee Haney and Jim Manny can sit down and iron out their differences because we're stronger when they're together and we're weaker when they're apart. And I told this to Lee on the phone. I said, "Lee, I want you as a part of the NPCB." And I know Jim Manion probably does and I know that that the everyone in the organization wants you because you're we're only better with you, not against you. That doesn't mean however that everything that you want to do is going to be accepted. Okay? It it's got to happen over time and it's got to evolve in a natural progression and you know turning your back on you know an organization that loved you and still loves you is is is really abandoning it you know and I understand that you know some people have to march their own drummer and have to go their own direction and I respect that if that's what you need to do and go and where you need to go but I think that we're better together and That's really what makes the IFBB NPC so powerful because we have all these voices, you know, whether it be Fouad Abiad, mine, Bob Chick, even the people you don't like, you know, who have who say stuff we don't want to hear. I don't need to mention those names and start trouble. But every person who voices their opinion, it's heard. And now with social media, it's heard in a much greater fashion than it ever was in the past. In the past, we had to depend on a magazine covering the story. Now it's always it's covered by everyone and every big social media website is is is got it on their Instagram and on their YouTube channel and everyone hears everything doesn't mean everyone's going to change because of it but the good ideas will will get adopted and the bad ideas will get weeded out and that's going to bring this organization to a higher point and that's why you know Lee and I were debating you know the direction of the open bodybuilders about he didn't like the the way they're looking but That's why they created classic bodybuilding because now if you don't like the big freaky guys, then you can go with a more aesthetic looking, you know, classic, you know, physique. And if you don't want, you know, that, you know, and and you want something more along the lines of just like something that looks good to the general public, you go men's physique. And, you know, in the women's division now, they have fit model. Do I like the division? I'm not thrilled with it, but you know what? It appeals to an average woman who might have just started working out for a couple of years and she's like, you know, I can't do these bikini divisions. I don't look like those girls, but I look like these fit models. So, we're creating a an organization where everyone can be inclusive in it. And the top level will still be the top level. And but now we have we have gradations all throughout, you know, the organization where you can find a place where you fit in. So it's all inclusive now. So that should be something that we're we're welcoming rather than criticizing it. We and and saying the shows are too long and there's too many division. We should be like you know what we're more inclusive now. So we are much more likely to bring greater talent into the organization which could ultimately progress up the ladder to the highest levels of in in in the men's division would be the open or the classic bodybuilding. uh guys that just start out with maybe just doing, you know, men's physique as a as a goof or women who might start out doing fit model, before you know it, they're on the Olympia stage, you know, as a classic or as a women's physique competitor. You just never know. But that's what's good about and that's what's great about what we're doing. I don't think I I didn't mean to insult Lee Haney, but what I wanted to do is wake him up a little bit and say, "Look, we need you. We need Lee Hanees. We need the Dorian Yates. We need the Phil Heath. We need the the Olympia guys to get on board and help institute change. Not dump and burn down the house and start over, but take the organization we have now and and craft it and mold it and put ideas out there so that we can make it better than it was before. So, Lee Haney, I love you. I consider you a friend. I'm sorry if I insulted you. Please, let's sit down at the table. You know, I think we got to make this work. We need you. We're better with you. And we're better and stronger when we have the top guys brainstorming to make this organization evolve in a direction we're all happy with. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle Rant.