Dave Palumbo here with rxmuscle.com. And as you guys know, I like to give a weekly rant or talk about something uh that interests me, you know, and hopefully it might interest you guys as well. I know that I posted a photo. I was going, you know, as I as you know, I'm moving to Florida in two days and I was packing up some old stuff and looking through some old pictures. By the way, I'm going to post a lot of these pictures because most people have never seen these. And there was a picture I found of Nasser and I backstage at a show and it was posted on uh on my Facebook and then someone recopied it and posted it a couple other places around the forums and stuff like that and people wanted to know what the story was behind this shot. I had never met Nasser Somati. I was a fan huge fan of his at the time um because he was such a freak. He kind of came out of nowhere and uh he was kind of friendly with a with a mutual friend of mine uh Josh Freriedman and I know Josh is probably going to watch this and and and text me after this. Josh, I don't know what his relationship was, but they they became friendly and they would always talk. And so Josh took me backstage. Now, the the backstory on this is I was in Dubai in 199 This was 1996. I went to Dubai. I was six or eight weeks out from the USA Championships. I went to Dubai to do an appearance for Worldwide Sports. They had the pro the the pure protein bar uh and which later was sold uh with metrics and packaged into the uh you know to the company is today. It was it was the best protein bar of the day. Anyway, we I went out to Dubai. Dubai at that time did not look like the city it is today. It looked like basically a sand castle. Okay. And there was one nice hotel which is where we were staying. And I was with Milo Sarv and uh Laura Bass and a couple other bodybuilders and we went around and we did uh we we sat at the expo. We guest posed there and I flew back. Now at the time there was no direct flight from back from Dubai and people smoked on the plane when you would leave when you would leave Europe. So I had to fly from Dubai to Holland. Uh they like almost lost our luggage or they may have lost our lug I they did lose the luggage and they it didn't make the connecting flight and I got back to New York. I was like a 20our ordeal. I didn't sleep well because the smoke and I was like choking the whole time and I was like 300 lb or 290 pounds at the time. I got off the plane. My at the time my my girlfriend Barbara picked me up and drove me right to the Metropolitan Championships in the city on no sleep. I get there and Josh is like, "I got to get you backstage. You got to meet Nasser." And I was all excited anyway. I'm like, "Yeah, sure, sure." I go backstage and there's Nasser somebody looking huge. He was off he was offseason. was like probably over 300 lb, you know, but he wasn't cut or anything like by any means. And he was getting ready. He was oiling up to to guest post. And Josh's like, "Dave, take off your clothes. I got to get a picture with you two guys." And I was embarrassed. I really didn't want to do it because I was kind of a fan. And I and I didn't want to like do that. I I just got off this flight. I hadn't eaten. I was 20 hours. I felt like crap, but I'm like, "You know what? Fine. I'm glad I did it because I got the picture." But uh so I take off the thing and I I just was I was exhausted. And Nasser got and I saw the picture later and I of course at the time I was obsessed with being huge. I was like man Nasser stepped up on me looked me made made me look smaller and and so started the friendship of Nasser Elbody and me. And this continued through the next 10 years. You know we would go do guest posings together. We were in Hawaii together. And you know Nasser was the kind of guy that he would be like oh Dave you look very good. Uh yes yes. And I would go to the bathroom and if I was hanging out with some girl, he would like try to, you know, give him his room key and he'd be like, "Oh, I am so somebody and uh I don't know why you were with that guy. I speak eight languages and you know, he is a drug monster and and you know, and that's he would do anything to try to put the kibash on you so he can move in on on whatever, you know, woman you were hanging out with at the time. Uh but you know, I I knew who Nassau was. I didn't care about it. Um I I accepted him for who he was. because I thought he was a great bodybuilder. He was very smart. He was funny, you know, and but unfortunately when when he stopped competing, uh, he became very bitter with the sport. And I don't know if he felt like he should have been able to go longer or what the case was. I mean, the guy won the Arnold Classic. He should have won the 1997 Mr. Olympia. He easily beat Dorian Yates and Dorian got the win for his number six. Uh, and I think Nasser was really never the same after that. He he looked great in the 98 uh uh Olympia when Ronnie and and was first and won his first Olympia and then Flex was second. He was third Nasser and he looked great there too. But he just couldn't beat these genetic freaks. It was it was an era of like you know shape, symmetry and size and that was just too much for Nasser. Nasser always, you know, people criticized his back. Uh but you know I remember the Nasser that I had a great time with when he was in the midst of competing and he felt good about himself. Unfortunately, like I said, after his career was over, he kind of deteriorated. Uh, he started badmouthing the sport. He even badmouththed me and Gay Kovac, who were really good friends of his, uh, or at least we thought we were. Um, and you know, eventually he succumbed to, I believe, kidney disease. Uh, and he's no longer with us. So, may he rest in peace. You know, I hope he's watching down laughing over there because we did have some good times together. And I, you know, I I gotta be honest, I never ever laughed as much as when I was with Nasser. He just had that he had a very r sense of humor. He knew exactly to how to find people's weaknesses. I mean, he's the only guy who could make fun of Dorian Yates. He used to call him Backzilla because he felt that he only had a back and he had no other body parts. And I I remember once I was coming uh one of his last shows, he competed at the Dallas Europa Super Show and we were coming up the expo, the escalator at the Dallas Convention Center. And I said, "Naser, how'd it go out there? How'd you feel you did?" He goes, "I I was beat by a blind guy." And that there was a there's a blind IFBB pro Greg Rando who won the team universe and uh Nasser was was humiliated. He was so he felt so terrible that he was beaten by this guy. Here he was, you know, the guy who should have won the Olympia. He won the Arnold Classic and a and a blind bodybuilder beat him which it was absurd at the time the way he said it. But I was actually I was trying to choke back the laughter because the way he was telling the story it was very funny even though he was not amused by it whatsoever. Uh he also was a you know great character because he had a photographic memory. He remembered every detail of every conversation he ever had. It was mind-boggling. You The guy was incredible. And I'm sure that's why he was able to speak so many languages. I think he spoke like seven languages because the guy had he just memorized everything. It was you mentioned one time to him and he'll remind you of what you told him, you know, three years earlier. Uh it could have been in in a passing conversation in a bar. He just had that memory. I I think he was too smart for his own good and he probably should have been doing something else other than bodybuilding. Why he was so enamored with bodybuilding. I don't know. Maybe he was it was the ego thrill of it. Maybe he was, you know, made fun of as a kid. I don't know what the deal was. But that picture, whenever I see that picture, that that's my most fondest memory of Nasser somebody because it was it was pure. It was I was a fan. It was like meeting, you know, someone that I looked up to and it made me believe in myself because when I saw how good I looked next to one of the the top bodybuilders in the world, I said, "Hey, I could be great at this sport." So, Nasser, if you're watching down on us now, I thank you, my friend. And I say good night, Nasser. Somebody.