It's Arnold week here at Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Lab. abs make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Tuesday, February 28th, 2017. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. March is National Nutrition Month, and I'm going to make it my personal mission to find out exactly what in the hell Max Charles has been piling on his plate. Less than one week out from bringing all of his Max Charles Fury to the Arnold Classic stage, the former Tampa Pro champ was spotted gutting through another tough late night training session as he tries to bring in a few lastminute details. After missing the mark ever so slightly at last year's Arnold, Charles looks to have made it his personal mission to see that history doesn't repeat itself at this year's contest. But given the depth of the top of this year's lineup, it's going to take all that and then some to crack the top five alongside some of the top tier pre-show favorites. There are some people out there who sit around waiting an entire lifetime for an opportunity to fall out of the sky right into their lap, while others go out there and do whatever it takes to create their own opportunities. and second-year figure sensation Natalyia Abraham is definitely one of the latter. After a blistering rookie season that saw her bring home six top 10 finishes and a memorable Olympia debut, the 21-year-old star in the making looks to be well on her way to having a smashing second season. New progress photos coming out of the Abraham camp last week were nothing short of spectacular, adding another layer of intrigue to the upcoming figure season. Abraham is just absolutely brimming with talent, and it'll be interesting to see how she responds to some of the high expectations being heaped on her shoulders as the season progresses. I don't have the slightest clue what it costs to move a 20 lb trophy through Australian customs these days, but something tells me that Icelandic bombshell Margaret Nar won't mind slapping that one on her credit card. Just a few weeks out from making her 2017 debut, the multi-time Olympian looks like she's ready to get her season started off with a bang. Nar has been one of the most improved athletes in the entire bikini division over the past few years and could really catapult herself to the next level with a good showing at the Aussie Arnold. If she keeps tightening up the reigns for the next two weeks, she could very easily wind up landing a spot in the elite top six. Over the years, we've seen plenty of guys hit their mark early and cruise into the competitions. But what rookie classic physique pro Eric Jones is doing right now is flatout ridiculous. The former two-time Mr. South Carolina winner is set to make his rookie debut at the New York Pro come early May, but I think we can put to rest any worries about him not being able to come in in shape. Jones latest progress photos are showing some flatout nasty conditioning and setting the bar awfully high for everyone else in the lineup. Even with his uber shredded conditioning, Jones looks to have added a few pounds of quality muscle during the offseason. And once that curtain draws, you could bet your butt that this guy is going to be ready to do battle. Someone needs to get in contact with the South Florida division of the EPA because whatever it is in Armando Aman's water these days definitely hasn't been discovered yet. Late Sunday night, Aman dropped his latest offseason update, showing off what appears to be at least 5 to 10 pounds of thick new muscle. During last year's rookie debut, Aman was good, but just quite didn't have enough to hang with the big boys in the lineup. But if he can keep the momentum going on this growth spurt, I don't think he's going to be having the same problem again when he hits the stage later this year.