Soloe is here with a victory, you're the New York champion! How do you feel? I feel super happy, I'm really excited. Honestly, I didn't expect it. My intention at this event was to make a name for myself, to build my career, to gain experience. I said, "I'm going to enjoy it, meet people, socialize, learn." And yes, it was very surprising. And I still remember it and I get goosebumps. It's so cool. We know this is your third show and we've always seen that you've improved show after show. What do you think was the difference between the other shows and this one? Yes, I arrived a little in better shape, but I do feel that in each section the judging varies a little. That's what I've learned. I've had three more competitions at the professional level: Sacramento, San Luis, and now New York. And that's what I'm learning. I see that in each zone something changed: the food, the training. Is there anything you think you did differently? Well, I pushed myself harder because I already had the previous training, and you keep improving each time.  Tight. And of course, without slacking off on the diet, without slacking off on the training, and even in San Luis, for example, I didn't do so well, I won eighth place. So I think that's what makes you learn more. When things aren't going so well, you say, "Eighth place, how?" and you put in more effort, and from eighth place, well, I jumped to first in New York. Now I win here. What can we expect now from Natalia? What? What 's next? Well, I still have a lot of work to do. I have a lot, a lot, a lot of work to do. I want to expand my lats. I have several weak points that I would like to strengthen. The Olympia is very close. It's not like in four months I can improve the parts that I have that are weak, but I will put in the effort and I will arrive in the best possible shape. That's what I'm going to do. How does it feel that in your year as Rucky you're going to be on an Olympia stage? Oh no, well, I don't know, I don't know. I'm like, I still can't believe it. Do you have that camera there? Is there anyone you want to thank? Well, first of all,  I owe nothing to God for allowing me the opportunity to get to where I am right now, for giving me the strength that many times you don't even know where you get the strength from, to get up, to keep going, to encourage yourself, to motivate yourself, and to my family too, who are always by my side, and to my team, the Woman Team, my coach Óscar Alejandro Domínguez, and Sandra Grajales, who have always taught me, supported me, and accompanied me. I am very grateful to God, to my family, and to my team. Their show as rook and Now Going To Theia for natal and on Camera I'm Johny stc.com