Friendship is higher than the woman of you know the fort. Yesterday I lived in the country and North America with Nazareth Al Hernandez, better known as Lito. He finally arrived in the USA. Tell us how it feels to have won. We were n't expecting this, but you won. Explain to the fans how you feel. I feel super happy. I've worked hard for this. I'm coming back from an injury. It's been a year. I was using a walker, and I set my mind to it. I started doing it for myself. I'm a trainer, but I started doing it for myself, and then in a year we managed to do this. I think what people don't know back home is that I've known Orito since before, and Vito was a vaudeville act, a bodybuilder. So the transformation he's made from being a bodybuilder to what he is today is incredible. Explain to the fans how your transformation has been since those days when I was going to consume you and I told you about habits too. Big, and I remember you telling me, 'No, no, no, I'm out of it,' but we 're still there. Explain to people how your transformation has been. Well, obviously when I started in this, I really liked the Bodybuilding, which I liked, the size 6, for that first, well obviously by inventing, doing what was necessary, little by little acquiring knowledge, working on it, and looking for the purpose, and little by little, well, after that, I was already competing in Puerto Rico with the help of one of my great friends, so then we decided later, after the knee injury, to start working on this, and we did it in less than a year. Speaking clearly, as we say on the island, if you like to wake up, the bodybuilder is Memphis, and you like him more, you know how you feel now. For me, I love vaudeville and I love what you do, what I do as a trainer, but the reality is that these are enchanting. Another thing is what I like is that when the knee injury happened and you found yourself in bed and you saw that you weren't going to be able to continue training, what was the first thing that went through your mind to get back on stage, especially here in the USA, and get to where you are now? Well, the reality is that the first thing I thought was that I was going to get ready. For me, that was the first thing I thought as soon as I started...  Recovering, the therapy, working for that, I felt good, I never doubted, I never doubted, and I kept going, because I put in the effort. The guys told me, "You can be there," in a competition we came to, where one of them competed, and from there on, we kind of walked, and so we did it. Anyone I want to thank in particular, right now I have those two guys who are there, and I've already finished the favor, and we have the twins from Puerto Rico, who are very famous, they've created many pros too, and they love me a lot as well, and I hope to live Memphis and pro Alejandro Ojeda, and they really are twins, as you can see. Explain a little bit about how the transformation was. We know that the milestone was quite big, that they wanted something different. Well, look, since he was coming off knee surgery, it took time for the recovery and the growth of his thighs and quadriceps, but we decided to change the category, and in his first competition, he gradually lowered himself until he softened up, and he managed to achieve success. The condition he worked in here was incredible. Many of the judges, many of  The fans, even the press, are very impressed with what they brought. They wanted something different from the previous time, the milestone being with Pitu. The way they did it differently was basically to tighten things up a bit, to give him less food to reduce his muscle mass, and well, that's how they achieved what's happening today. Well, I'm going to leave the microphone here for a few last words. There are a lot of people watching right now, and I know this isn't just a victory for you or the twins, but a personal victory because I know the feeling you have, having come from a broken knee as an athlete, thinking that maybe you can get back to where you were before. And to these people watching right now, everything you want to say, well, the first thing I want to say is never stop believing in yourselves. No matter what happens, whatever you set your mind to, you'll achieve it. You just have to work and pursue it. Success is at the end of the road. Okay, I've been mentioned today, a priori, with the twins on the Hernandez chart, but I say number one, dudes.