Nazanael Hernández, better known as Lito, you finally arrived in the United States. Tell us how you feel.  Did you win?  We were n't expecting this, but you won. So, explain to the fans how you feel.  I feel super happy.  I've worked hard for this.  I'm coming back from an injury a year ago, I was using a walker and I set my mind to it .  I started doing it for myself. I'm a coach, but I started doing it for myself and in a year we managed to do this.  What people don't know there in the houses is that I 've known Lito for a long time and Lito was a bodybuilder, he was a bodybuilder.  So the transformation he has made from being a bodybuilder to what he is today is incredible.  Explain to the fans how your transformation has been since those days when I saw you with Sami and said, "Okay, you're getting really big."  And I remember him saying to me, "No, no, I'm not done, but we're still here. Explain to people how your transformation has been. Well, obviously when I started in this, I really liked bodybuilding, I liked the size, the size. I worked for that. First, obviously by experimenting, doing what I could, little by little acquiring knowledge, working on it, and looking for the purpose. And little by little, after competing there in Puerto Rico with the help of some great friends, we decided later, after the knee injury, to start working on this, and we did it in less than a year. When the knee injury happened and you found yourself in bed and realized you weren't going to be able to continue training, what was the first thing that went through your mind to get back on stage, especially here in the United States, and get to where you are today? Well, the truth is, the first thing I thought was that I was going to get ready for myself. That was the first thing I  I thought. As soon as I started recovering, I started therapy, I started working on it, and I felt good. I never doubted myself, I never doubted myself, and I kept going. I put in the effort. The guys told me, "You can be there." At a competition we came to, one of them competed, and from then on, we kind of got on track. Okay, I'm going to leave the microphone here for a few last words. You have a lot of people watching you right now, and I know this isn't just a victory for you or the twins, but it's a personal victory because I know the feeling you have, having come from a bad knee as an athlete, right? To think that maybe I can get back to where I was before. Tell those people watching you right now everything you want to say. Well, the first thing I want to tell them is to never stop believing in yourselves. No matter what happens, whatever you set your mind to, you're going to achieve it. You just have to work for it and go after it. Success is at the end of the road.