We're going to be launching Tasty Pastry. It's a low carb Pop-Tart. It's got 3 to four grams of net carbs. And we love this show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Thursday, October 14th, 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you're a real bodybuilding nerd and you're one of the people who checks out the competitors lists when they're released at the beginning of the week on IFBBpro.com, then you've probably already seen the roster for the San Marino Pro this weekend, which means that you already seen that Nathan Dash's name is headlining the list. Even though he had to skip the Olympia last weekend because of the travel issues, in a sense, maybe that will end up working in his favor because it gave him more time to recover from the Arnold UK where he was arguably at his all-time best. So, if he even does replicate the look that he had there, it means everyone else just ends up fighting for second place. If you're a figure fan, and why wouldn't you be, then? Well, you're probably going to want to keep an eye on the Titans Grand Prix this weekend because the official lineups were released on Monday and it looks like they're going to be plenty of firepower at the top. Fresh off last weekend's breakout performance, seventh place finisher, Anda Jung will be looking to collect career win number three. But in order to do that, she'll have to square off against Bojana Vasik and Wendy Forina, who are both looking to come in strong and have great rebound performances after a disappointing Olympia weekend. And considering the fact that we still have quite a few shows left on the schedule before we close out the year, whoever ends up taking the win here should put themselves in a good position to capitalize on that momentum down the stretch and potentially collect a few more big paydays before it's all said and done. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.