Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Wednesday, June 14th, 2017 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Right now, we're less than 72 hours away from the bodybuilding world marching straight into the heart of Texas for this weekend's Dallas Europa Pro. And it looks like that's where we'll get our next chance to see figure sensation Natalyia Abraham. Earlier this week, Muscle in the Morning was able to get our hands on some exclusive new photos of a completely insane looking Abraham, just 5 days away from unleashing her wrath on that Dallas Europa stage. From a raw talent perspective, Abraham is right up there with some of the elite athletes in the division. And if she keeps shifting around the pieces and really fine-tuning her approach, I don't think it'll be long before we're talking about her as a real contender to win one of the division's major titles. I'm making it official, ladies and gentlemen. Suns out, guns out season has officially arrived. And apparently Cody Montgomery was the only one to catch my early memo. Early Tuesday morning, some new arm training video leaked from team Montgomery, showing the secondyear star in the making dropping bombs in his most recent arm training session. By all accounts, Montgomery has been training like an absolute demon throughout his entire offseason. And whenever he's ready to finally roll out Cody 2.0, I hope his fans have their popcorn ready because this kid is going to put on one hell of a show. As of today, we're still about seven weeks out from kicking off the action down here in sunny South Florida at this year's Tampa Pro, where it looks like Jennifer Taylor is planning to come back and make some noise. After putting together a dominant performance in the figure division on her way to a win last season, this year, the new and improved Taylor will try to make it two for two in her first foray into women's physique. This week, we got our hands on some exclusive photos of a flatout nutty looking Taylor who already looks to be miles ahead of her blistering pace she set last season. If she can hold her conditioning and manage to tiptoe that line between conditioning and fullness just right, I think we could be looking at a second straight year where she leaves Tampa International checking some serious hardware at the gate. Outside of the craziness that's gone down so far this year in figure, I think the classic physique division has probably been a pretty close second when it comes to entertainment value. And the reemergence of Lee Banks probably has a little something to do with that. So far in his comeback season, all Banks has done is reel off three really impressive top five finishes and open up a whole lot of eyeballs in the process. There's no denying that a 100% Lee Banks is one hell of an athlete, but it'll be interesting to see how he stacks up when he's compared to the rest of the best of the Olympia lineup. Speaking of guys opening up eyeballs in the classic physique division, it looks like our old friend Derek Farnsworth is ready to open up some eyeballs in his own right. Late last week, some new leg training footage surfaced of the longtime veteran in action as he gears up for the next phase of his contest season. Inside sources are telling me that Farnsworth have been in the gym training like a man on a mission lately. And it wouldn't surprise me one bit if that mission ends up landing him a spot dead center in the middle of an Olympia call out before all is said and done this year.