It's a [\h__\h] nightmare. You I'm sitting here with Nathan the Asher, my good friend I've known for many years now. And I've seen you grow from a an amateur to a IFBB pro winner to a guy who stood on the Olympia stage and and made people take notice. Now you're working with Yamamoto Nutrition here. A great company. Uh talk to me a little bit about how that came about. Um it came about Dave was like I got approached no sponsor like I said and um the guys basically offer offering me a deal I couldn't send down really. Um the products are awesome. Um the team's great. you know, they support me for what I do and they support my family and they give me everything I need. So, um, just to pursue my career as a bodybuilder. Were you surprised, you know, cuz you've been training obviously for a long time. We all love bodybuilding. We would do it for free. We all, most of us do do it for free. Um, were you surprised that someone wanted to pay you a large amount of money and support you doing this? I mean, cuz now it's like all that hard work paid off. Yeah, I'm surprised Dave because you know uh I've done many show without a sponsor and basically like out my own back pocket like like a lot of the guys out there you know like you said we do because we love the sport and these guys offer me like I say a good amount of money and uh I was totally surprised and I was shocked by the whole situation but um this now has helped me to to pursue and as you can say yourself become a better bodybuilder cuz now all my time and all my effort is based on bodybuilding and just based on doing better for myself, my family, for the team. Now, a lot of people nowadays are not really training heavy anymore. They're doing, you know, weird angle movements, a lot of machine stuff, high reps. I heard from uh our good friend Matt, manager Matt, before that you were in the gym bench pressing 500 lb for reps. Yeah, we go me, Matt, and our friend from another nutrition company. basically like we we just asked him around in the gym and uh I didn't basically had no 20s so just putting 15s on 15 15s and then we found two 20s and then uh I didn't keep count you know I just keep pressing and pressing and then Matt goes uh that's £525 I'm like he's like how many I'm like I'll just go for like seven or nine or something. I had no uh no wrist wraps. What? No elbow wraps, no belts, but I just I just enjoy Bench and heavy, you know. You're strong obviously too. Like like a lot of the guys like uh bench is an ego thing I think. But I just love Benjam. And uh basically Money gets 200 lb. So I wanted to make I wanted to make him look even smaller. You're you're looking like I said as big as I've ever seen you. You put on a tremendous amount of muscle over the last year and a half. Um, what do you think you're going to weigh on stage at the Olympia this year? Um, last in kilos. Um, last year it was 116 kilo. Wow. Um, this year I plan on being in better condition with a same size waist, maybe um 122 kilo, which is like uh 14 15 lb heavier. Unbelievable gains. Do you attribute that to training at an oxygen gym in Kuwait? Yep. out of oxygen gym in QA and basically putting all my time and energy into into into training. You know, I haven't got to focus on nothing else. My bills are paid for, my family's looked after, and I can just focus on on me and uh being a little bit selfish really and just focusing on myself, my career, and just getting better. When you train in Oxygen Gym, obviously there's a lot of big guys there pushing each other. Do you guys feel like you have to work harder to try to say, "Hey, I'm working harder than Roelly or I'm working harder than Hakee or I'm hard working harder than Ramy." I think as a as a bodybuilder and just as a man in general, you know, you you want to push yourself and be better than everyone else in the gym. So, we all want to do better than each other, but at the end of the day, like we only push ourselves to our limit because if you're trying to keep with somebody else, you can get you can get injured and that can be a setback. Um me, I see like the likes of Keem, Roelly, and Ramy. And I just think I want to be there. I want to be that heavy, you know. Now, I know it's great working for a company that has high quality products like Yamamoto. Of all their products, what is your favorite one? Uh, the whey isolate, you know, I love I love the way I isolate. Basically, I can just a lot of way I drink it. It kind of gets stuck in my stomach. The Pepto Proto. Yeah. It gets it gets stuck in my stomach and I get bloated. But with this, I can drink it. I can drink it and within an hour I can eat again. So, for this it's it's good. assimilated really well. Well, look, you got a great company behind you. You're you're you're doing well in shows. You're moving up the ladder. I'm hoping to see you in that top five at the Olympia this year. I Hey, I hope I if I get there, you know, you were the first ones to Frank, you know, because you you was there from before anyone knew me. You guys give me the the shout outs before any company knew me, before anyone in America. A lot of people in the UK knew me. So, you know, I'll always respect yourselves and I'll make sure you you one of the first shot I give. If I get so far, I get it. But, uh, I plan on being everyone and every man to himself really on that day. Give me a front double bicep pose. Unbelievable. I want to bring up one more thing before we close up. Um, my good friend Ally Sevi over there was offered a contract with Yamamoto. You know what he he's a real guy of character of of strong moral convictions. He actually told him, "You know what? Don't sign me. Wait till I turn bro. You got to sign this guy Nathan Dasher. He's a true talent. We got to get him on the team." And he made that very unselfish act to get you here. Which is something that you don't really see in our industry. No, you don't. You know, this guy's awesome. He made the He made the first contact. He made the first phone call. Come on the video. He made the first He made the first phone call. You know, without this guy, I wouldn't even be with the company. Ally, you know, people don't do unselfish things anymore. Bodybuilders are known as very selfish individuals. Why would you give up a a paid contract to get this guy on board? Because God, he give you everything back when it's time. So, I sign I make him sign because he's a good person. I like him and I I hope he represent myself in a company like I will represent a company like it was my company, you know, like I will do my best. So, That's why I basically, you know, I like him and I trust him and I know he can do good. I I only could hope that we could find a thousand more people like Alexandro Sevi with that kind of moral conviction and unselfishness. And I do believe that when you give, you get a lot more back. So, this guy's going to be an IFBB pro before we all know it. And uh let's get a little group shot here. Let me get a pose there. Uh Ally Nathan, let's see an arm there now. Don't worry about me. I'll just like ugle in and off. Dave Palumbo here at the Yamamoto nutrition booth. Let's get you together. Start a virtual riot. I'm [\h__\h] Ferguson burning buildings like [\h__\h] peace and quiet [\h__\h] the minds of the generations and our ladies and quiet. It's a [\h__\h] nightmare. You