 coming up next, our North American men's bodybuilding overall champion, Christian Palmer, you're not going to want to miss this, stay tuned. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of species nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to another exciting episode of RxMuscle Spotlight. Today's interview, our 2025 NPC, North American men's bodybuilding overall champion, added to that list of greats like Dexter Jackson, his name, Christian Palmer, ran into him a year and a half ago, and I knew he had some great talent, and I'm really happy to bring him here today. And let's find out a little bit about his story, and let's find out a little bit about his story and his rise to fame. What's up, Christian? We got so excited, the computer blew up. So talk to us. Wherever you come from, I was up in Connecticut visiting my sister about a year and a half ago, and I went to our mutual friend, John, excuse me, James Minoyan's spa. I work with both James and his brother, John. And you came in, and we sat down, and we chatted. I said, man, you got some good genetics. I said, when are you going to compete again? I think you might have said you wanted to do North American, right? Yes. Yeah, yeah. That was the plan. And actually, after we met, I had done Texas. I was at the Irving Texas this past December. Decided to do Texas this past December, got third place. And then, you know, the next step was, all right, how much time do we need for an offseason to make the proper improvements? And then what will be the next show? So we picked North Americans. Funny thing about North Americans is that that was the first national show I ever did. And I believe that was back in 2000, I want to say 18, 17 or 18. And I got my ass kicked. I didn't even, at that point, I didn't even make it to the night show because the people who didn't place the top 10, you didn't come back. And it's interesting to see now, full circle, what was the show. So it's pretty special that it was that show that this happened at. Yeah. What did you weigh back then when you competed the first time there? Back then, man, I had to be on stage. I was probably one in the 170, 176, 177. And what did you weigh at the North American here in Pittsburgh this past? So at the weigh-in, I was 170 or 197 flat. And I think the scale was about a pound off. So, and then by the time I carved up, you know, just about 200 pounds. So talk to me about, so you did the North American. How many years ago was that when you were at 176 pounds? So that was in 2017. And like I said, I got my ass kicked there. It was like very hard. Right. So in 2017, you do that. And what was the plan? Did you feel like quitting at that point? Or did you say, hey, you know what? I love this sport. I'm going to stick with it. What, what, because a lot of guys get turned off and they don't even want to compete anymore after something like that happens. Yeah. You know what? Resilience has definitely been something that has been a strong suit of mine. And every show I've ever done, we'll just say not as well as I wanted to. I've never been discouraged to the point where I said, I'm never coming back. Like I'm done. I've always turned the tragedy into fuel. If you want to call it tragedy. 2017, I said, hey, I didn't make it back, but I said, well, how many more years is it going to take for me to come back and do well? So never in my mind have I ever said I'm done. I always said, this is part of the journey. So it is what it is. Which is exactly what you need to do. And I tell people that all the time. Not every show is a great show. I mean, even a guy like Nick Walker had some bad shows. So Jay Cutler's had bad shows. Phil Heath's had some off shows. Not everything is going to work out perfectly. And if you're one of these people that gives up right away, you're never going to succeed in bodybuilding. Because it will brutalize you. It will beat you up. It'll throw you into the gutter. And it will ruin your self-esteem. And you can't take anything personally. And I tell them, I know you train a lot of people and you do a lot of coaching. So you probably give the same speech to your clients over and over again, I'm sure. Absolutely. It's not for the faint of heart. And I think the beautiful thing and also the challenging thing is that it's all on you. Yes, you can have a coach. Yes, you can have people that support you, help you with the process. But it's not like a football team where you look at the quarterback or it's the defense or it's the offense. It's all you. So whether you win or fail, lose, it is all you. And I think that especially in today's society, man, we're raising a lot of wimpy people. Where it's like, oh, I want a 10th place trophy. Oh, well, what about the effort I put in? We all work hard. What do you need to do in order to get the desired result? And also, you got to look at who's doing well. Success leaves a roadmap. I'm not saying that you do exactly what other people do because everyone's genetics, lifestyle and needs are different. But do what the greats have done. Get advice from great people. Find yourself a coach that's actually produced results, cares about you, is a good communicator. And at the end of the day, man, you got to sack up and just you got to eat shit sometimes. Right. It's like cardio. It is what it is. Oh, it's another day lifting. It is what it is. It's another meal. It is what it is. I'm hungry. It is what it is. What do you need to do to win? Now, I know you work with Chris Tuttle. I saw Chris at the show. You know, he's a great guy. I've known him for years. And how did you guys link up? So funny enough, back in 2015, a girl that I used to date introduced me to him. Actually introduced me to a guy named Frank Formichella. Not sure if you know who he is. No. He was actually my one of my he guided me through a show. I don't know if I call him coach. Right. But he said to me, he's like, he's like, look, dude, you've got a lot of potential. He's like, but I can't take you as far as I know you can go. And I had a lot of respect for that. I'm like, you know what? Rather than just saying, yeah, we'll get you there. And then it doesn't go well. He's like, I'm going to introduce you to a buddy of mine, Chris Tuttle. I met him at Powerhouse Gym New Haven. And he was coaching thing. He was, you know, on the up and up and competing himself still. And we started off and then just slowly grew over the years. And, you know, he's he's an awesome coach. He cares. He's very responsive. He's genuine. And he actually just gives a shit about his clients on a deep level about you as a person and you as a competitor. He wants to have longevity, have success, you know, make sure that your body doesn't break down before it needs to. He takes a smart approach and he's so, so knowledgeable. So, you know, I am very blessed that Frank introduced me to him when he did. Now, you're 38 years old. You kind of remind me of when I was working with Kareth Bajo and he, you know, he got a late start, too. And now, look, he's a, you know, he's a top two 12 guy and he just, you know, placed in the open. So obviously, I think you have a lot of potential to go a long way, you know, and you probably have a lot more years left. What got you decided to start competing so late? You know, why didn't you start younger? What were you doing? So my first show was in 2013, 12 or 13. And part of the reason why I didn't start earlier was a mindset that I think a lot of people fall into is, oh, I have to look better before I even start. Oh, okay. Man, in high school, I mean, you, I used to read Muscular Development, Flex Magazine. Man, it was like, I was looking at Cutler, looking at Coleman, looking at Dexter, you know, looking at Marcus Rule. And I'm like, oh, I got to look like those guys before I step on stage. And the reality is you have to step on, test your mettle, and then what you need to do in order to progress. That's funny. And, you know, when it comes to the years it's taken, you know what, you learn more as you go along. And something that has held me back in shows in the past, I always came in conditioned. Of course, in the beginning, you're not as good as you are as you get seasoned. But I've always, it sounds weird to people, but work too hard. What do I mean by that? I would, like, leading up to the latter part of prep, I'm still kicking my own ass, trying to hit PRs, not getting enough sleep. And I'd come in more watery than I needed to because I wasn't as sharp. And this prep was one of the first ones and the last few too where I've actually taken the advice that I give and truly listened when it comes to recovery. Because my mindset was always no one's going to outwork me. That's never going to be the reason someone beats me. It can also work against you. And this time I got dry. I was calm. I relaxed. And everything just, it happened exactly as it should have. Yeah, yeah. And you know what? You won a really good class. I mean, you not only won the men's open overall, you won the 35 and over two overall as well. And, you know, what a lot of people don't realize is that you were only a light heavyweight. And very rarely you see, I think, and Dexter Jackson comes to mind as one of the light heavyweights who won the North American overall. But very rarely do you see a light heavyweight win the overall in men's bodybuilding. Because usually, you know, the heavy and the supers are just usually so much bigger. But you actually look a lot bigger on stage than you actually are. I would have guessed if I would have seen it. I would have said, this guy's probably like 220 or something like that. I mean, you have big, round muscle bellies. You really don't have any gaps in your physique. You don't appear small on stage. Yeah, you know, it's interesting that a few years back, at the first Texas show I did, which I've done two of them, people started to say that more. And they're like, they would start to guess my weight. Oh, what are you like, 230? I'm like, no, dude, I'm like 208. They're like, you know, get the hell out of here. And then I started to look at my pictures in comparison to other guys on stage. And, you know, it's, I understand what people are saying now. And they're like, you know, they would see Chris post a picture. Hey, we're three weeks out, whatever it is. Oh, that guy must be a heavyweight. Nah, he's a light heavyweight. And I post my weight and they're like, there's no way you're that light. And, you know, I thank mom and dad for giving me the genetics. And, of course, you know, myself for putting in the work. But it really is amazing what you can do when you look at yourself and give yourself an honest comparison as to what progress you need to make. And how to pose. I mean, this is something that I know you've seen tons of times. It's like you can pose small where you look smaller than you are, where you can accent your strengths. And I've learned to do that over the years. And the other part is just, as Medcalf says, chop wood, carry water. Just keep putting on muscle every offseason. Make the most of it. And eventually you get to the point where, you know, you can play with the big boys. I don't know if he told you this, but I heard Bill backstage, who was the head judge, or Billy as we call him, giving like, you know, he goes back after all the classes. He talks to the winner and he'll talk to the guys who came in second, third, fourth, fifth, give them advice. And, you know, I helped Jimmy, Linne, who came in second to you in the light heavyweight class, who was shredded. But, you know, he was like 10 pounds lighter than you. He needs to put a little more size on. So, and, you know, Bill said, you know, the guy who beat you was like one of the best guys I've seen in many years. So, I mean, that was a tremendous compliment, you know, for you. You know, he said, you know, it was just, he couldn't say enough good stuff about you. So, I think that, you know, you're one of these sleeper guys that no one ever saw coming. And I always tell people, you never know who's going to show up at these shows. And you were that guy in the North Americans. Now, obviously, you know, weighing about 200 pounds, 198 pounds on stage, you're pretty much set up ideally to be a 212 guy in the pro ranks. Is that where we're going to see you or do you want to be an open guy? What's the game plan? Absolutely, 212 is the next step. So, we're going into an offseason now. We'll put on more weight and 212 is 100% the next step. And it's funny you mentioned Kareth because Kareth and Sean Clarita were the first two to reach out to me. And you're like, oh, dude, you know, good job. And it's pretty cool to, you know, I've looked up to these guys for years. I've been friends with Sean for a while. Kareth comes to be one of the gym, a pro body. Pro body, I love that gym, yeah. Yeah, and it's cool to be like, hey, I'm going to be on stage. But obviously, Kareth stepped into the open, which is awesome. And, I mean, he's got an awesome physique. And it's cool to be in the running with these guys now. Of course, I've still got to step in, test my mettle again, but I'm excited for that. No, you know, you, you, there's something in the water up there in Connecticut with your guys. Because, and you know what the point is? A lot of you guys wait a long time. Kareth waited a long time to compete. You did. Evan Sintopani, who I worked with in 08, you know, who turned pro. You know, he waited until he was like ready to turn pro to compete as well. I mean, and I always, and everyone used to tell him, Evan, why aren't you competing? Why don't you compete? He's like, well, I don't want to compete until I can, until I can be my best. And I just think it's funny because most guys are getting up on stage when they shouldn't even be competing. I'm like, you have no muscle, you know. And then you guys are waiting way, way, way past the time that you probably needed to wait to get on stage. So, it's all good though. And I always tell you, I always say to people, body bills have longevity because it's not a contact sport. As long as you don't have major injuries, you know, you can take your body, you know, pretty far, you know, into the, into your, well, into your 40s and still be your absolute best. So, you got a lot of good years behind you. And I'm personally excited to see you and see how you're going to do in that 212 class. Is that, is that something like you look forward to? Because you're going to be standing against guys like Kareth, you know, you know, Keyon, assuming he stays in that class. And Sean Clarita, assuming he stays in that class. I mean, that's got to be like something like, hey, I was watching these guys compete at the Olympia. Now, I'm up there with them. Yeah, I'm excited, man. You know what? I've, I've always been fueled by challenge. I love a battle. I love a struggle. That, that's what makes us great as bodybuilders, right? It's like, that's what we thrive off of. And watching these guys do so well for years. And then seeing that, hey, I've got the potential to be right there. It fuels me up even more. Like, I don't ever look at it and be like, oh, I'm scared. I don't know how I'm going to do. I look at myself like, all right, dude, you've got work to do. Let's get into the lab, i.e. the gym. And show them what we've got. I'm here to make noise. I'm here to make a statement. And I know, I know I've got a lot of progress ahead of me. So. What machine is that that you're using? I was just looking at it. The Pendulum Squad. Oh, that is the Pendulum Squad. I thought it was. Okay. Yeah. I've gotten more comments on that. That's Powerhouse Gym New Haven. I've gotten more comments on like, what is that thing? That looks insane. It's, it is the best Pendulum I've personally ever used besides Atlantis. But it's just one of those ones. It's almost like a mom and pop brand, but it just got a great feel. So, the machine is, I've seen that machine. My friend Ron Norman has. It's enormous, that machine. It takes up like so much space, but it's actually, it's good. It really takes the pressure up your knees if you have any knee problems, you know. Yes. So, interesting. Well, I want to congratulate you on the huge overall win. I think it was phenomenal. I like to give all our men's overall winners like a lot of kudos. Because sometimes, you know, back in the day, we used to get magazine spreads. And we would get, you know, all kinds of coverage. And a lot, you know, the way, you know, with social media now, and no one leaves the house. And everyone's a reporter from their basement, you know. A lot of times, guys like you are not getting the kudos and the accolades that you deserve. And this is a stellar title. You're up there with some of the best in the business that ever did it. And you need to, you know, that people should know who you are. And they should be very worried that you're coming to the pro ranks come 2026. What will be your first show? That's a great question. So, I've got to talk to Chris. We're actually going to talk this week and map out what that show is going to be. But it'll likely be the latter part of 2026. Make sure we have enough time to put on some good sides. Because obviously, I got some good. I think you got to do New York Pro. I mean, you're a freaking New Yorker. I know. It's funny. Man, I would love to have that ring. I'll tell you. Yeah. That's probably top of the list. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, congratulations. Great luck and good luck in the future. And like I said, you know, we'll be talking, obviously, because we know a lot of the same people. And I couldn't be happier for you. Thank you, Dave. And I want to say thank you, too, because you give a voice to a lot of athletes who, like you said, don't get enough kudos. Don't get enough credit. There's a lot of people that work hard, but they don't get their flowers. And you're a guy who you've got integrity. You do your research. You provide a lot of great information. I've learned so much from you over the years watching your content. And when we had the chance to speak together, you know, I'm like, hey, this guy is genuine. What I see on camera is who you are in real life. And you're an interesting guy, too. Like the different things that you're into, like the snake breeding and stuff. You know, I thought that was cool. So I just want to say thank you for all that you do. Thank you very much for that compliment. It was very kind of you. And, guys, this is going to wrap up today's show. I'm Dave Palumbo with our North American overall champ and new IFBB Pro. Not to mention that. Christian Palmer. We'll see you next time. And we'll be back today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show today's show