Detroit preview coming up. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back. And we're live for another edition of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo joined by the technician Chris Tacto. We are one week out from the IFBB Detroit Pro, the second pro show of the year. That's Fu at Abiad Show. It's a great lineup. We're going to be talking about that in a minute. But uh Chris, we lost a really great great man, great fighter, George Foreman. Big George Foreman. We were just talking about that movie that was on Netflix that your friend what David Zeon made. Did he Did he produce it? I thought you said he produc Who produced it? One of you. One of your guys. Someone Someone Google it. That's the only producer I know. Dave Zeon. Yeah, you told me he made that. Remember we talked about that movie? Big George Foreman it was called. He produced the Miss Olympia live on TV at ESPN 20 1993. Two one one. It's a great movie. Big George Foreman. I didn't even It was a screenplay by Frank Baldwin, George Tilman. Uh, produced by David Zeon. Yeah, I was right. See, I remember. Wow. Yeah, that me and Zeon got to spend time with uh I'm sure loved it. I'm sure he loved it to death. I'm sure George Foreman loved Dave Zeon. George Foreman is is such a great story. And that and they really captured it really well in that movie because um you know he was one of these guys that was like a he was the villain originally in in boxing. Yeah, because Muhammad Ali was the was the hero and he was the villain. Ali winds up beating him. Rumble in the Ali. Take it back, Dave. Ali was the villain. Then he became the hero. It was like wrestling the script and then Foreman was the villain. He became the hero. Yeah. Yeah. Well, the the great thing is that Foreman retired for a while and was like preaching 20 years and then he he he needed money. He was going to go out of the the the church he was running was going to go bankrupt. He's like, I got I gotta fight. And uh again, so he you know, he makes the comeback at like 42 years old, which back then was like it's like making a comeback at 52 because no one no one came back at that that age back when he was doing it. And people thought he was crazy. Even my father, my father who was a fight fan, he was like, "What's this guy doing?" You know, this is a you know, he was out of shape. It took him like three years to actually get get down to a reasonable weight. He was like totally overweight fighting like bums basically. And then he started having a couple good fights and knocked out a couple people and you know and he was and then he started doing I think I don't know if he started doing the Foreman grill during that time but he was he was like a likable guy like everyone was like like liking him just he had a very jolly attitude. He would make fun of himself how fat he was and and and people related to him and and you know he got a couple of title fights uh which he lost. I didn't even he fought Tyson right? No, he you know what he he his goal was to fight Tyson and it's all right. He fought Holyfield. Yeah. He said he'd knocked Tyson out in two rounds and he was on the David Letterman show, Dave. And he said, "I wanted to fight Tyson. I have no fear of Tyson." He said, "The only fear I had is when Don King became Tyson's manager." He said, "I was more fearful of signing quote signing on the line for Don King contract and getting trained with Mike Tyson. Yeah, Don King was was a shady character. Don King, by the way, has a is in foreclosure real estate news on Is he really? Yeah, in in Bokeh, they have a he's being foreclosed on on a $5 million warehouse that he owns. I don't know, but this I thought with all the money that guy stole and and pocketed over the years, he would be set for life, but I guess not. Yeah, he's still picking. So, he's got to be old, too. I think he's 93. Oh, he is. Wow. Maybe maybe he's like going scenile or something like that. But Foreman uh when he made that comeback when he was in that ring with Michael Moira when Michael Moa was champ and Teddy it was Teddy Atlas was in his corner. Teddy Atlas was his trainer and Teddy they would show the corner between rounds and Teddy Atlas kept telling him stay away from this guy. You're winning the fight. He goes stay away from him. The guy is dangerous. I know he's old, but he's got a knockout punch that if he hits you, you're you're done. He stay away from him. And he wouldn't listen. Michael Moore is like, I got this. I got this. Michael Moore gets knocked out. George Foreman becomes the oldest heavyweight champ of all time. I think he was 45 or something like that at the time. 44, 45, right? Yep. And it's the greatest comeback story of all time because no one ever expected it. It couldn't have happened to a better person because he had really become a completely different person at that point in his life. He was very wellliked. It was it was it was like I said, it was the greatest feel-good story of all. You couldn't have written it better in a movie, you know, and uh Foreman really accomplished it. And you and you said that Michael Moore is still sore to this day, huh? Over that. Yeah. Huh. Yeah. Pesto. He's he's he's always like denied that the uh that the He's in denial to this day. He said it was a lucky punch. But you know what? Luck is still facts. by the way because I know he may listen to it. Jay, I was at your house on Eusta Street in Worcester in that Taj Mahal two-bedroom apartment you had when that Jay was in one room, I was in the other and uh I was getting ready to fall asleep watching that fight and then Foreman knocked him out. I I saw it. I I I couldn't believe it. I was I was like flawed. It was great. It was I did send you which which was the true Rocky Balboa fight of the century which was the and you had already seen it uh Foreman Lyle what was his name for Foreman fight just a beast of a match. Ron Lyle was a guy was a was a jailhouse guy. He was a prisoner guy just an angry you know guy from prison fourth Foreman and they beat the crap out coell intro to the flight. Yeah. Yeah. He's a maniac. He's a criminal. He's brutal. Foreman is down and hurt. Down goes Foreman. Ron Lyall all over Foreman. Foreman gets up. I can't believe it. Down goes Lyall. He's down. He's down. He's down. Foreman got him down. It's out. He's over. It was a great fight. Dave, you could have auditioned. I could have got you auditioned for if I had known he was doing it for Dave. You know who played You know who played Howard Coastell in that movie? Who? John Voit. One of my favorites. Yeah. See, I haven't seen the movie. Yeah. You know, you see that movie? You didn't watch the the former movie on Oh my god. Dave, I did see the movie The Greatest and Muhammad Ali played himself in it. Yeah, he played himself. I remember that. That was back in the day. No, but uh it's on Netflix. It's called Big George Foreman. It's it's produced by David Zeon, who's a bodybuilding guy. So, it's very very well done. I I think anyone who watches it will like it and really enjoy. The reason it's called Big George Foreman is because he ate like the guy was like an animal his whole life. He just he would eat more than everyone in the household. He was always like a big stocky guy. But man, did he have a punch. But didn't that you told me earlier Van Holyfield said when he got hit with Foreman, he said it's it hurt him in his feet, right? His feet and ankles hurt. That's great. And Holyfield fought him when he was at his absolute prime, 28, and Foreman was either 42 or 45 somewhere up there. Someone would know listening. Yeah. Yeah. It was uh very impressive. But anyway, we're going to miss big George Foreman. He uh was born in 1949, died in 2025. So great. Eight kids named George, Dave. Yeah, he named all his sons George. People don't re don't believe that, but it's true. 76 years old. Someone asked him why did he name all kids eight? He said because we're all going to either in this life we're all going to rise up together or all going to fall. Do they have different middle names at least? I don't know. How did he call what did he call them like in the house? Did he have nickname? I mean, who cares? I I I I call my my my youngest son my uncle's name because I go through the names when I'm busy. I don't get the name right. So I guess if you have that's with four. If you have eight, you just name call one and they all come running. Yeah. I wonder how he he he referred to them. I guess he just Do you ever notice, Dave, when when they'd have someone in the corner the way he'd set them up, right? He'd take both gloves and put them on each shoulder and he like line the guy up. They They all had the same middle name. Chris, too. There you go. George Edward Foreman. I named all my sons George Edward Foreman so they would always have something in common. He has 12 total kids. You know, according to this uh this report here what a career really when you look Wow. One of his daughters died of suic by suicide in 19 in 2019 at age 42. That's terrible. Yeah. Terrible. Yeah. Yeah. You know, when you have a lot of kids like that, there's always a couple of, you know, unfortunate stories. It seems like even like all the Kennedys, you know, there was a million Kennedys. There's always like one or two that, you know, did some weird, you know, crazy stuff. And it's got to be hard to grow up in a family that big, you know, because especially when you have a father who's, you know, so po so popular. you know, and everything like that. So, it's got to be tough. Well, it's probably tougher growing up in a family today with one, two, three, or four or eight kids. Doesn't matter. It's just more more distractions for families. Yeah. Do people even have that many kids anymore? I don't think they do. No, nobody. No, it's I mean, who can afford it? Well, there you just finish a sentence. Yeah. Yeah. Well, someone was telling me how busy they are with their one child recently. With their one child. Yeah. Try bringing uh three kids to a shopping mall. See how See how easy it is. Hey Xavier, what's up man? There he is. Xavier Wills. Xavier Lee Priest in the chat too. Lee Priest. The celebrities are in the house. Yeah. Oh, I see Shawn Ray in the house late. Anyway, he comes here, Brian, because uh this is a cool place to hang out on Sunday night. That's why he comes here. All right. I uh the other thing I want to bring, did you see Colin Van Moger spotted in Thailand? I did a little video on it this past weekend. I didn't see it. What's he doing? He's uh I don't know. He moved to Thailand and I I guess he's trying to find himself. I I said it's kind of like the uh the razor's edge, you know. Yeah. He's I think he's just trying to find who he is. He got a tattoo he got this crazy like dragon tattoo on the side of his head. I don't know. I hope he's not uh I hope he's in a good place. I hope he's like in a peaceful place. You know, like some people sometimes people go away and and it's good for them. Sometimes they go away. It's not good for them because The the only one I know who put a tattoo on his head who found himself was Lee Priest. Yeah, you're you're probably right. As crazy as it sounds that what Lee did, it was actually it actually it was uh functional for him, you know. Yeah. Unbelievable. There he is. Cologer, let me see if I can find the the dragon tattoo. Hold on. There it is. He looked like he lost a lot of weight. He looks very skinny here. And he had he had just recently, you know, gotten big again. So, I don't know. I just it's not a good sign for him. But, you know, maybe getting away from it all, all the bodybuilding and all the hype and hoopla is is is a good thing. Well, Thailand is, you know, got its own Well, he looks he's smoking some weed there, but I don't know. You know, obviously, you know, I look, I wish him the best. He's a good guy. You know, he's got he's got a lot of talent. He maybe You know what he really should have done? What should he have done? Dave Dave just got lost. Yeah. I don't I I put my hands I put my hands down too high hard on the table and I and I lost my uh connection. What should you get given Colen Van Boger? I think he should go I think he should go to Hollywood. I really think he'd be he'd fit in fine over there. I mean, I don't know if that maybe that scene is a little too is not going to be good for his for his head, you know, because there's too many, you know, maybe there's too many drugs and stuff like that in there. But I think he would be a good actor. I think he's very marketable still. I think he's a good-looking guy. Uh, you know, I g Give him Gelb's number. I agent now. You know, you told me that. I Well, where does he book people like for movies and stuff? Who he's got, buddy? He's an agent in Hollywood now. Wow. Lee, Lee, Priest, you should call up. Irv used to love you, right? You did a million photo shoots with so funny. Dave V loved him, Titus, and Jay. Yeah, those are his two three favorites. You remember all those Texas and gold? Blonde. You had to have blonde hair and Did you like Gunther, too? Too tall. Too tall. What did Lee say? Hold on. Let me see what Lee said here. Oh, you Lee's going on the uh the Kyle Kelsey the podcast. Congratulations, Kylie Kelsey. She interviewed Michelle Obama. Now you Wow, Lee, you big time now. Send it. Send it, Lee. I want to watch it when you after it's posted. Yeah, that's that's great to mention fiberize or or testerize during the podcast. Yeah. I'm wondering, Dave, when you're coming up with the advanced test uh uh fiber, sometimes things are so good you just don't need to fix them, Chris. You know, you got to put a little logo, a little like plumbing like a Luigi the plumber. plumbers all 50 states. I have so many people that that use so much fiberized. I'm afraid that I was going to put some probiotics in it, but I figured maybe don't fiddle with don't don't fiddle with anything. Yeah. Coke and change the formula. No. Yeah, I know. I'm not changing anything. Matt Grego Wesley Vissers rematch this coming Saturday at the Fouad Abiad IFBB Texas ProClass men's physique. Give me a prediction. Grego. Grego. Well, now I know Visser said after this show he's shutting it down for the rest of the year he will not be doing the Olympia even if he wins this show. Is that a good idea you think? What do you think's behind that process? Uh, I think that his body is beat. And I say that because if you just look at uh the Arnold last year to the Olympia to the Arnold, you know, he's regressed every time. And it surely it's not like diet. And at that point, it's probably not like diet, nutrition, training related. It's like you lost the rhythm with your body where it get tired or not responding. And when it gets tired and not responding, it just does more of the same usually. Yeah. I mean, that's that's that's a guess. So, you know, well, he he got worse from the or he didn't really get much better, I guess, from the Olympia to the Arnold. So, that that right there is Well, he got worse from the Arnold to the Olympia, then worse from the Olympia to the Arnold, right? So, to you know, you can turn around like watery tension and came in too big or you can turn around like peeled out of your mind and then came in too flat. But I don't know if you can turn around like something that's like unturnable if that makes sense in a short period. In a short period because it's only been you know like a month. It's like if he had two months off from training or something and then started to training it probably like reblow up, right? Yeah. I agree with you. I think I think Grego is going to take him again and uh you know then that will validate his reason to take off the rest of the year for sure because you know Gregoro wasn't even on on the on the map last year when when Wesley won the Arnold. Now you know he lost to to Greg. Grego's got momentum on him. If Grego wins here then I think that uh I think that like I said Wesley's decision to shut it down is a good idea. If if Wesley were to win this show just by some miracle, um which is not really a miracle because he's a really good bodybuilder, but if he were to win this show, do you think he will do the Olympia or you think he's still going to shut it down? And and what would you recommend at that point? I mean, I wouldn't make you know, I don't know because I you know that previous saliloquy was a guess. Yeah. But you know what happens is when you win a show, you say like, "Oh, I'm back." Like I can get ready for the Olympia. And that's probably what he would do. That's just the way, you know, you said it to me years ago, Dave. You you said, you know, all your friends could say, "Oh, you're going to get second at a show." And you come up first and they'll all change your mind like right after you get the first kill them. You smoke. It's true. It's true. In other words, mindsets are changed based on the result, right? Often. Yeah, I agree. Let's uh talk before we go to the rest of the Detroit Pro. I wanted to um talk about Good Veto because I saw those updates by this guy. This guy is freaking off the charts. Chris, what what's going on with what with with Good Veto? I mean, Good Veto could have probably competed this coming weekend if he uh if he wanted to. I He looks like he's ready to go. Would you agree with that? Yeah. Well, he did Detroit last year. No, I know he did. How can we He's skipping it this year. Well, he's doing the Arnold in two weeks. No, I know he is. Why wouldn't he hit both? Um, he's committed to the South American show. You know, it's in his backyard. Traveling from Brazil is not like traveling from Florida to Detroit. It's a it's a big trip. So, to come to Detroit, then go back there. And I think he's just interested in bringing his best whether it be the South South American show, the AR I think it's the Is it called the Arnold or is it the muscle contest? No, it's the Arnold the Braz the South American view. Yeah. So he's only I think interested in bringing his best. So if he was if there was a show, you know, it doesn't matter if it's this show in South America, the Detroit show, a show in Kansas City, Missouri, you know, that's a pro show. He just wants to get back on stage and, you know, be his best. You know, he he did the show last year in South America and he had the tanning catastrophe. They painted him with motor oil. Um, and then then he uh competed in Detroit last year, which you know, Martin Wood Martin Fitzwwater on the show. Yeah. Well, that that's the reason why I was asking why he didn't do Detroit because that would have been a safer bet, you know, just just just in case, you know, he doesn't win, you know, the Arnold Brazil, but I can't see anyone beating him in in Brazil. I mean, I don't even know who's going to be in the show, but he seems like he should easily win that show, but I guess uh like you said, it's it's right in his backyard. It's easier. And um go with that as a first as a first show. I guess makes sense. Oh, in the words of Steve Weinberger, there's no guarantees. What if you get what if you get injured, right? You know what? If you get like a twist your ankle four days out or the worst case scenario is ever, right? There's no there's no guarantees. Steve said once, what if you get like a legitimate like bug a couple days from a show? You know, people say who don't hit their peak say I got sick. Yeah. What if you legitimately get a bug a couple days ago? So there's no shows period. Is that an accurate, you know, look at the good veto what we just saw? The video tape is extremely accurate. That's what I'm looking for. Sid, can you pull that videoape? You guys had posted it up. Yeah, I'm just I'm just looking. I mean, this is this is pretty freaky right here. Just look at him train. He looks like a like a young Jay Cutler. I mean, really. I mean, I gotta be honest with you. Yeah, I think he's the strongest guy in the MBB right now. If you compared him to Jay Cutler, young Jay Cutler, when you were working with Jay, I mean, what what does he have that Jay doesn't have? And what does he not have that Jay did have? Um, they both needed uh back thickness, but they both have the width. You know they have DJ back glass spread and Kito has a excellent back down back spread. I mean he really has a lot in common with Jay. So guy a couple guys are telling me they thought he looked like Ramy but I I think he looks more like Jay. You know maybe Jay's torso was a little a little more stretched out a little longer than his. But yeah, he's got some freaky glutes and hams from behind. He's got the side poses are [\h__\h] wacky. His chest is huge. his arms and shoulders. I mean, he's really got it all. Um, Veto, like this guy says, Veto might have a better structure than Jay did. You know, Jay was just a little wider probably and he uh Jay had those, you know, just some a little bit more wow maybe because he was taller than Veto, I think. Right. Yeah. Well, Jay had the super cap tricep early on and don't and Jay had the, you know, at a younger age just the most insane. He sent me the picture, Dave. You've never seen it. I should if I know how to He sent me a picture from the 01 Olympia where the Christmas tree is just absolutely starts like and it is just so crazy deep and strided. So his lower lats were he had the width. Some people have a width right on a back lat. Yeah. Width with crazy thickness in the lower back and crazy detail. So, here's J. Here's Jay Cutler. 2001. Let's see if we can get him on stage. Here he goes. Was he 250? Is that accurate? No, he was way higher than 250. That's what I thought. That's what I thought. He was 268. He said he's only 5'8 here. He's about Jason's about 5'11. So, does that sound even accurate? So, Let's see. What do you look like here? Typical terrible angles on the Olympia. They're shooting them from like four miles away, you know. Hold on because Jay sent me this recently and it's just astounding. Let's look at this. So, we're looking at his pose here. It's a 2001. Yeah. You talk. I'll look for the photo that he sent. Would love to see it. Well, I'm I'm looking at him right here. He looks freak like a freak. You know that crazy side tricep pose. He's just What people don't realize is until you see him in in in in person, Jay was really wide. I think he's probably wider than Veto, but but you know, Veto's got some some some better body parts than Jay. You know, Jay was the widest person I think Yeah. I've ever seen. It's crazy in history. Yeah. Like people would see him and just be astounded with the width. You just just see him in in a sweatshirt. It's impressive. Yeah, because he's so wide. Hold on, Dave. Got to find this picture because people It's Damn cuz he's There's his Lamborghinis. What else did he send me? Hey, look. Check out this shot, Dave. You got to post this up. All right. I found it, everybody. Did you just text it to me or did you email me? Yep. I got to email it to myself. Nick, can you just directly email it? No, I already I already That's too much work. You're so [\h__\h] lazy. Oh my god. People will be happy that I post that you post it, Dave. Yeah. All right. All right. All right. All right. They will love it. Is it Is it just two pictures you said? Yeah. There's ptorations. If you want to know what condition looked like in 2001, there you go. So, stop with the nonsense that 01 was not his best. Even though Jay will say 03 uh look at those calves, huh? Yeah, he he was impressive though. People will say uh 03 Arnold when he was 02. I don't know. Yeah, I remember these last the Ronnie J. Ronnie J. Ronnie J. Ronnie Jay. It was just it was non-stop back in the day. And unfortunately for Jay, Ronnie won every time except the last time, you know, or the the second the la the last two times. Yeah. You got I'm pulling the pictures up. Hold on a second. All right, let's download these suckers. Would this be one two at the Olympia this year? This is could be one two any year, right? You filled in the If we were on a game show, Dave, you would have won the extra million dollars. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They were [\h__\h] looking. All right. Well, I don't think you can't say [\h__\h] anymore. Even though in bodybuilding, you can say it because it's like referring to how freaky someone looks. Yeah. But can't say anything else. This is what you're talking about. His cris lats. Ronnie had good good lats here, too. Oh, yeah. Great lats. Just the Jay's, you know. Look at Look at Ronnie's glutes. They look like someone carved them out of freaking stone. But yeah, Jay was Jay was dry. That was supposedly the year. You know, people go, "Wow, 01, but Ronnie was off." It's like a retro. Yeah. Or not winning the show. Yeah. That's not what I wanted to show you. I tried to tell Jay, "You don't need my help." Sean Ray says, "You can do it all on your own." Blackman loves to tell the story about this show, too. Blackman predicted it. The reason why uh Jay was so hard is Kristen. He he didn't drink for three days. Just ate rice dry rice cakes. How about the most muscular? Coleman looks killer. The most muscular too. So does I'm trying to pull that one up. I pulled that was supposed to have download. I don't know where he didn't download. All right. His first publishing contract to Jay after that show. Yeah. I don't know how he got him away from Weer, you know, from money. Oh, is that what it was? You offered him more? I don't even think we was Did We Weda have contracts then? It was 01. Oh. Oh, you think I think Blackman started the whole contract? No. No. They It was a publishing contract. So Jay had a supplement contract. Oh, okay. I can't believe Weider didn't have Mole tied up though. Anyway, there it is. All you nut huggers, remember Coleman is close closer to the camera here, too. Yeah. Well, look at you could you could see how dry and hard Jay is by looking at his abs. You could put like, you know, quarters in there. You know, they'd stay. Yeah. Visa was gonna skim a contract after that because you could slide a Visa card. What people don't realize is Ronnie would win these shows sometimes. And this this was they probably that if it was happening today, they probably would have given Jay the win just because the the rematch would have been insane in 20 in O2 and then 03. Imagine that with Jay with one Olympia and Ronnie would have had a couple titles. That would have people would have gone off the freaking charts. Well, if you Dave the first twoerson call out at an Olympia ever. Oh, was it? Okay, you're probably right. The prejudge was over. The prejudge was over and like people like, "Okay, they were going crazy and they like, "Okay, one more time. We're not sure. I got to see Jay and Ronnie." Yeah. Yeah. This was a good show. Yeah. I was I was there. I I I I knew they weren't going to give it to Jay, but I wouldn't have complained had they done it because Jay looked that good, but I I just back then with Weer in charge, you just didn't you didn't see the title changing hands very often unless it was, you know, unless the person was really really off, you know, they would always h give it to him. Give it to him. Look, Jay beat Victor in one of his, you know, like that. You know, Victor easily could have won that ' 07 Olympia. They gave Dorian number six, you know, over Nasser in in 1997. There was a lot of close calls like that, you know, and they always kind of But then if you if the if Mr. Olympia didn't come, then Jay came back worse in '08 and then they gave it to Dexter. So yeah, but it would have been uh, you know, so you just never know, you know, how they're going to roll. Nowadays, it seems like if a guy's off, whoever deserved to win wins. And I think that's great. I I I think that's I think that's why the Olympia has been so exciting because we don't know who's gonna win. There's been a m new Mr. Olympia almost every year if you're off goodbye. Yeah. Yeah. So, no, you you're lucky you get a you know a look. Yeah. No, it's true. But but that's the way it should go. It's they're actually voting on who looks the best. All right, let's uh let's let's pre let's talk about the Detroit Pro uh men's open. And we know number one uh Carlos Thomas will be in that. William Bonak, James Hollings Head, Ron Gordon, Sass Herat, right? He's doing it. And uh there it is. This is a good opportunity, you know, to snag a qualification. I am actually disappointed in a lot of bodybuilders that did not show up at this show. range. I think Hakee Williams should have been in this lineup. Well, he's qualified. I still think he should have done it. He could have held on for another two couple weeks a lot of shows in his defense. Yeah. All right. All right. You're right. You're right. You're right. Now, there is something I want to ask you. It's a little off. His Sasserati, we were looking at him last week. He He's probably the best he's ever been. He could surprise a lot of people. He doesn't have the the greatest of structures, but I think that, you know, his his mass and his freaking hard and gnarly muscle is going to make him definitely a crowd favorite there. And and possibly, you know, I mean, I don't know who else could beat him, you know, Bonak maybe. Well, I mean, it's I mean, those are Bonak just came off a great finish at the Arnold. Look, if Bonak goes in there and wins this, it it's a big huge missed opportunity for a lot of guys. You know, obviously Brandon Curry doesn't need to re-qualify. He's Mr. Olympia. I'm trying to think who else could have could have taken advantage of this, you know, show. The only person I was thinking really is Good Veto, but you know, like I said, I think I don't think anyone's going to beat Good Veto in down in Brazil anyway. But Tesla will be available again on Amazon Prime. I promise you. Let me tell you something about Amazon. It's a great place to sell your products because you can make a lot of money, but it's a terrible place too because number one, they take a lot of fees out. And number two, they randomly will have you just, you know, send them like crazy amounts of reports and stuff like that on that. If you say like if you make a claim that they don't like, they'll remove it. So, and then you have to you have to do the appeals process to get it back. So, we just we just did the appeals process. They just reaccepted it. It It's It's the wackiest thing. They could actually do something to one of your like protein tubs that's like chocolate and then the vanilla or the other flavors they don't do anything to. So, it's it's like R they randomly just select products. They say, "Okay, we want you to test this or we want you to go over the claims on this or we don't like the claims that you're making or you know, can you you you got to rechange them or something like that." And so, you got to go back and you got to just you got to play by their rules because if you don't, they kick you off of there. So, it's like if you want to play in their playground, you got to The thing that sucks is I had to send Chris a thousand bottles back to my fulfillment warehouse. And now I have to send the thousand back to Amazon again. So, whatever money I make on those those those Tesla I'll probably lose because of all the shipping I had to ship them around. I I will tell you a funny I'll tell you a funny story that was a little scary. You know, I have a obviously I have a a pacemaker in my chest. I told you from the aorta repair surgery I had two years ago, by the way, which was two years ago about this past weekend. It was the anniversary of that. I'm glad to say I'm doing very well. And anyway, so I have a pacemaker in here because they kind of whenever they do like uh open heart surgery on, they can mess with the electrical system and my electrical system was was kind of fl messed up a little bit. So they to coordinate all the all the chambers again, they they give you a pacemaker. So, I have this pacemaker and I'm I every night, I think I told you this, I sit by the TV and I stretch on the floor and then after I'm done stretching, I'll put my legs up on the couch and I'll do I'll do ab crunches. I usually do 200 crunches every night. That's my my neurotic routine I do. Okay. So, I was on the phone talking. I don't even remember who I was talking to. So, I I had the phone on speaker and I had it laid it on my chest, Chris, and I'm doing crunches, right? And all of a sudden, I start hearing this. It's like a siren going off. And I'm like, "What the hell is going on? The phone is not is this coming from the phone? What's going on?" And then I realize it's not coming from the phone because it's coming from my chest. And the pacemaker is make is like is is putting off a siren. Now, it didn't it didn't shock me. It wasn't like it was nothing like that, but it was making like an alarm noise. And I'm like, "This can't be good, right?" Because I mean, think about it. What you hear something inside your chest I'm like, "Oh, boy." I said, "Either I'm dead or or something's something is seriously right here." So, I get up immediately because I I I have to assess now whether I'm actually feeling good or bad. I I think I'm feeling good. I mean, I'm doing abs. I'm not in any pain or anything like that. So, I get up and and the alarm stops. And I'm like, "All right, what the freak just happened?" So I go and I start googling what you know Medronic pacemaker what what could possibly go be going you know what why would it sound an alarm and one of the things was cell phones can disrupt the magnetic field around the pacemaker so you're not supposed to put the the phone near the pacemaker I had mine resting on top of it so it was disrupting the magnetic field and that's why the alarm went off because it probably couldn't it wasn't working properly and uh so I learned the lesson the hard It scared the [\h__\h] out of me. But you know, thank God, you know, there was nothing serious. That magnetic field when you hold it to your ear causes Right. Well, they Yeah, they say that, you know. So, what I guess the point I'm making aside from the fact that I felt like an idiot was scared is that these phones are not innocuous. you know, they're they they do, you know, have an electrical and magnetic field around them, which I'm assuming, like you said, if you're holding it up to your head 24 hours a day, probably not good for your your brain or your ear. Don't don't don't put it in your pocket either. It lowers sperm. I know. Well, yeah, I have I don't want any more kids, so it's that's fine. No, but a lot of you see that the women they put it in their like shirt pockets and they a lot of women have come up with breast cancers and stuff like that right where the cell phone sits. It's it's wacky. And I'm not saying it's going to happen to everyone, but there there is an absolute, you know, incident where people actually have issues with from cell phones. So don't, you know, just it's not an innocuous machine just because you can't see the energy field or the magnetic field it produces. It produces one. I had it here and the thing. Uh oh. Dave, you okay? We think your pacemaker be may be going off because we lost you. I think I think my phone disrupted the magnetic field of the uh Well, we we thought you just collapsed there possibly. No, I think the the phone disrupted the magnetic electrical field of the uh my camera here. Tim Cook had disconnected the t the show because he talked bad about the phone. Did you see that uh that reel I sent you about um Mr. Wonderful from Shark Tank was talking about Steve Jobs? No, but but Jose had dinner with Mr. Wonderful the other night. He did? Yeah, he sent me the picture. How did he know Mr. Wonderful? I have a mutual friend. They went to like the best place in Boston. Wow. Did uh Did Jose treat or did Mr. Wonderful treat? Oh, I think Well, I think that people around Mr. Wonderful. Isn't that how it works? wanted to freed him to everything which okay I didn't know I didn't know Jose knew the the funny thing is I guess Mr. Wonderful used to work for Steve Jobs and they were talking about like there was this woman who came into the office uh and had a meeting they had hired she was a marketing person and she's like uh Mr. Jobs I think I want to spend $2 million on doing some market research to see how people like you know the iPhone and this and that. He's like, he goes, "What are you wasting my money for?" He goes, he goes, "I don't need market research." He goes, "People buy what I tell them to buy." And so Mr. Wonderful says to Steve, he goes, and the woman walked away. I mean, he was really nasty there. And Mr. Wonderful's like, "You know, you made her cry." And you know, you know, she's got some valid points. He goes, "Listen to me." He said, his name, I don't What's his real name? Mr. Wonderful's real name. Anyway, he says, "Listen to me." He goes, "Are you making money? Am I making money? Are we all making money?" And he Mr. Wonderful goes he goes, "Yes." He goes, "Then shut up and go do your job." He said, "That was that was Steve Jobs." And Mr. Wonderful said, "You know what? I thought to myself for a second, he's right. When Steve Jobs in his book, there's a part in the book where he comes out with the iPad, right? and he brings it to like I don't know he goes on vacation somewhere or maybe assistant goes on vacation I can't remember but I did read the book it was a great book uh probably better than big George Foreman in the movie and they take the iPad like the prototype to somewhere I think in Central America and a little kid like six years old comes up and he starts scrolling through this thing and scrolling you know through the internet and in other words without a manual he can use it he's six right away and he's like enamored with it. That's when he knew that he had a home run with that product because it was intuitive. That's why. How do you think our kids use these these iPads and iPhones, right? Yeah. Yeah, of course. It's built for a six-year-old. It's just intuitive. That's what what it is is that kids just know intuitively how to use it. Yeah. Very excellent, Dave. You probably would have Yeah. That's the creativity part of you to know that it's intuitive. Yes. The genius behind it is that it is intuitive. How they figured it out to make it so intuitive that that people could just pick it up and use it is amazing. That was Steve Jobs vision. Yeah. Part of the book was also like, you know, people would say like, "Oh, we can't do that." Okay, good. You're fired. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Getting back to the uh Detroit Pro coming up this weekend, who do you think has got to be the favorite of the of the these people that I mentioned? Carlos Thomas, William Bonac, James Hollings Head, Ron Gordon, Bonak, he won two shows last year, more than two shows. He's been top blah blah blah at the Olympia. He's won the Arnold. He's, you know, just came off the most competitive Arnold going and he was fifth. Yeah, I I'd have to say you're you're right. I'd have to agree with that. I mean, that top six Arnold was probably the best it's ever been. Ever. Yeah, for sure. And he landed in the fifth spot. So, he has to be the heavy favorite. All right. I I have to I have to put you on the spot here for this one because Oh, all right. There's Back. All right. Thanks, Sid, for pulling that up. I'll uh let's let's just take a look. So this this is re that was recent, Sid. Yeah, I'm assuming that was recent. Two days ago. Okay. Yeah, Bon, the freak factor is still there. I don't, you know, I don't know how he's still doing it at his age, but but the freak factor is there. And I I think you're right. I think of of the guys we mentioned with the muscle maturity with the the balance to his body he's still younger than Foreman when Foreman knocked out Michael Moira. You're right. You're right. How can I argue with that? Sergio confirmed he's going to Fibo. Sergio Lea Jr. So that's good. You see, I interviewed Bob Chickerilla. No. What did Bob Chick have to say? Yeah, we just talked about, you know, freedom of speech. Told the story about the um the Nick Walker, you know, back and forth, which is kind of just internet dril as I call it. Yeah. The big what that that What is the main controversy there as you see it? Nothing. I just I I think obviously some perceived or not, real or not, there's there's a controversy there. Yeah. That what he Bob made a good point, you know, controversy lies. Bob made a good point in the sense that he said, "Listen, let's look at who just placed at the Olympia, you know, and see, you know, where where does Nick fall, you know, and he he went through all the competitors from Andrew Jack and and, you know, Brandon Curry, who just looked really great, and um Derek Lunsford, who just won the Arnold Classic, and obviously Hottie Chopen, who's coming back, you know, Samson Da who you know can can Nick beat those guys maybe but maybe not right he even mentioned uh Bay Ruse if Be Ruse Tobani makes it to the Olympia you know it might be hard for Nick to make the top five in this lineup of people and it's not it's not an unfound you know opinion on his part and if you you know if you break it down he he might be right. So I what I was defending I I you know we did it we defended his right to say it. I mean, if he if that's his opinion, then Bob should be allowed to say it. It doesn't matter if he's the MC of the show or not, because he's still entitled to an opinion. He's still a guy who who evaluates things. And whether I agree with everything he says or not, which I don't always agree with everything he says, I still defend his right to say it. And so that was a big part of the interview was defending that right to say whatever, you know, was on his mind. Feel that he is that the controversy that he supposedly doesn't have the right to say it? Yeah, they want to shut him down. They want him to they want people to people want him to be fired as the Olympia MC because he voiced an opinion that he felt they felt it was too strong. Like in other words, he should have coddled it a little bit more. You know, the opinion I think the only people who really need to bite their tongue and be careful is a judge simply. Yeah. Right. Right. I agree. The judge may have a thought of like who's going to be my top five? I wonder who. Right. have an idea of like this should be the top five or the top 10. These are the the guys we're going to fight for the top three. But unfortunately, if you ever brought him on, let's say your show and said, you know, judge a who do you think's going to be if God if he said like, well, I think Samson, I think Derek, I think this guy, I think that guy, Hardy, that you know, PE fans would come out, people would come out and say, "How dare he say that?" Because he's a judge. But the fact of the matter is people have their opinions and probably the only ones who should play their cards a little closer are judges, right? Otherwise, I agree 100% with what what you just said. Good. Because judges if they start giving opinions before the show, it kind of means like maybe they're biased, you know, in a sense them actually some of them to give their opinion after the show because, you know, people will agree with them so much that it's why even bother? Well, yeah, but you know what? It it's I think it's okay to explain why why you picked someone at the show, but you don't want to go on this record and say, "I don't think this guy will ever win the Olympia because now you're basically who the hell wants that guy to judge you, right?" If you don't think you can ever win the Olympia, you know? So, you can't do that as a judge, but as an MC, it doesn't matter. He's not, you know, he's not judging anyone. Yeah. The other controversy was that you he was talking about Arnold because they, you know, obviously he was supposed to, he was the Arnold MC for three years running. they fired him or he left or whatever, whoever, you know, there's two sides of the story about, you know, why he's no longer the NPC over there, he gave his side of the story. Uh I tal Brian Powers and I who run, you know, Brian who runs the Arnold who we said, you know, he did a really great job this year, you know, he he texted me and he was upset about the fact that I, you know, that I let Bob give his side of the story, which I said, listen, you can come on and give your side of the story if you want. It's it's it doesn't matter. It's just I had Bob on for another controversy and Bob just brought it up. So, I mean I uh you know I welcome all sides of every story, right? I you I don't I want everyone's opinion. We don't censor anyone here. So, I don't know why he was upset about it, but uh you know, Bob gave his opinion and that was it. Doesn't mean it's the truth. It just means that was Bob's truth. You know, why he was no he's no longer there. And it doesn't even matter. I actually like the rivalry between the Olympia and the Arnold. You know, Bob, you know, doesn't think there is a rival. He thinks the Olympia is superior, but of course Bob's going to say that because he's the MC there and he's no longer the MC at the Arnold. But I think that the rivalry between the Arnold and the Olympia is great because it raises the level of both shows just like when Weider and Muscular Development were battling each other, right? The two mag the magazine wars. And it made both magazines better because it made us work harder at MD, made Weer work harder at at the flex and and muscle and fitness and everyone got better coverage and everyone got better, you know, you know, information because we both were competing against. If you don't have anyone to compete against, then usually what happens is you stagnate, right? Because there's no reason to work harder. There's no reason to make any changes, especially in prize money. But now that they're upping each other's, you know, this one's raising the prize money, the other one's raising the prize money there. This one's bringing in, you know, more, you know, hype and hoopla. This one's raising the the stage presence, the lighting's better, the backdrops. It only makes both shows better, and it makes more opportunities available for for the athletes. And so that's all it's about. And like I said, you know, Brian, I'll say it here. I said it to you in text. If you want to come on the show, I'd love to hear, you know, what it takes to run that Arnold Classic. I know you you put a lot of time and effort into it. You're very passionate about it. Arnold obviously believes in you. I have nothing but but good stuff to say about the Arnold Classic. I've said that before. Uh you know, Chris and I had a very very positive experience there this year. We always have good experiences there. We that's why we come back every year. And uh it is what it is. But that's, you know, I thought the Bob interview was very good. I thought it would I thought it would went well. And even if you know some people were not happy with what he said, I don't care because I thought the interview was topnotch. Well, Dave, with with regards to competition. Yeah. I uh you know, I love Joita to death uh because he treated me really really well and uh I wouldn't say I was friends with him, but I spoke with him more frequently than other people probably. Right. Um but you know in terms of competition he didn't really break out his wallet until after Vince McMahon had previously broken out his good good point you make yes important in terms of you know the dynamic between the Olympia which is you know has the history and the Arnold has a history too. Um and then second to you know we all people are critics of course about everything but know but I do know from running a business and I'm sure you know people have completely no idea of what goes on behind the scenes to produce the Olympia or the Arnold. the amount of leg work and the amount of pre-planning and planning and dotting tees, dotting eyes and crossing tees, all the stuff that they don't see. So even if you have, which is rare, a odd snafu at the show while it's live, it's not like making the George Foreman movie when some scene doesn't come out well, you just say leave it on the editing floor. It's live. So, you know, to see so few snafuss is, you know, a testament to what goes in professionally into both of those shows. And I think both of them need like it I think that's what you're alluding to or not alluding to explicitly said it is the Olympia needs the Arnold and the Arnold needs the Olympia. Sure. to keep each other on their toes and there's nothing better than friendly or non-friendly competition. Look, we better you started with the without I will 100% guarantee you if Jay Cutler didn't show up in 01, Coleman would have just, you know, won all those we wouldn't have seen a Coleman 03, right? They had not shown up. And you know and and and if there was no Coleman, you would have never seen like the best of Jay. You are only good as your competition. Think about what happened at the Olympia two years ago when the guys went on stage at 11:00 at night. Remember? Yeah. All the look were all off and I made a big stink and it wasn't just me. Everyone made a big stink and they didn't like it. They got mad at us. Jake and I had an argument at the at at the afterparty about it and but you know what they fixed it the following year and now and and to this year it went off perfectly. you know, the guys didn't get on stage. It was in the middle of the show. It wasn't at the end of the show. They went on stage at a reasonable time. Everyone looked really good and we got a great, you know, competition. And that was because of criticism. You know, the Arnold, they raised their production value of the show. They they and they lowered the amount of of divisions in their show so that the show can run more smoothly, quicker, and I think people really had a very good experience. They they liked the show. I sat from the minute it started to the minute it ended. It wasn't too much. It was two and a half hours. It was great. Uh, it was I I like the fact that there are less divisions at the Arnold. Obviously, for the Olympia, you need more divisions because you got to give every division, right? There's it's Olympia title. It's a different show, but there's a different there's a different feel for both shows. Obviously, the Arnold is a lot more to do with the expo. The Olympia has a great expo, too, but the Arnold Expo is is bigger. And so, it's a different flavor of both shows, but they're both fighting for who's going to give away the most money. Obviously, the Olympia right now is is giving away 100 grand more. Arnold gave away 500,000. Still a lot of money out there. Romano thinks that, you know, Arnold should just pull out his checkbook and and and raise it to a million. Don't Don't steal that idea from me. I've been saying, well, maybe Yeah, he got the idea from you did say that originally, but the point is that once that happens, you know, then the Olympia raises. So, think about how much the prize money has gone up because of this little battle they have back and forth. Great for the athlete. Great. We have retirement money now being put out there. These guys could actually buy houses, businesses with this type of money. It's it's incredible, you know. And yes, you have to pay taxes on it just like everyone. I heard Ali Bal complaining about the taxes he had to pay on his money. Uh Chris, can you please explain to people that unfortunately you have to pay taxes on on on earned money in this day and age. You don't get free money anymore. Don King is coming out of retirement. You you only have to you only have to sign 100 page competitors contract, right? If you sneeze wrong, he gets all your prize money. I I love Ali Bal, but Ali, I'm sorry. Yes, you have to pay taxes on the money and and and yes, there's nothing wrong with the with the with the Arnold Classic people taking the taxes out because that's the way it happens. Okay, I know you're you know, you're not from America originally, but you still have to pay taxes. You want it here. So, they have to take taxes out. And you know what? You don't want to deal with the IRS. Well, do you have the option? Do you have the option if you receive Do Do you know that? Ask for our Norman. What's the option? You have the option to pay your US tax if you receive the money in full. Oh, really? You can pay your own? Is that what you're saying? You could pay your own taxes. If if if I live in England, right, or a church event, I I you know, win a Toyota Celica or whatever, right, and they they ship me the Celica. Do they ask me for the taxes before they give me the Celica? I don't know. It's a good question. I don't really know. I've never won a Toyota Celica. My point is if you're if you're into there's the I'm not sure. late priest. Did they did they ever take taxes out of you when you when you won prize money when you were from Australia before you, you know, were living here and, you know, married? Anywhere. He said, "How would they ever get paid of the taxes if they don't take it out, you know, right away if you're an international person?" I'm My question is, do you have the option? Lee never paid taxes. I love it. Those are the good old days. That was the wild west, though. You get away with it back then, right? In the 90s. Oh my god. I paid them in Australia. He said, "Oh, well, so you had to you had to pay Australian taxes or you paid even though you won the money in America. We gotta get Ron Norman on here to do a segment. He called me the other day, by the way. Get Ron on and see what type of diets he on at the same time. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, we got to get Ron on here because I I think that the bodys You know what the truth is? With all the money they're making now, they we need some uh some investment advice. What What should guys be spending their money on? Where should they be putting their money? What kind of funds they're putting them in? What what you're you're a money guy. What do you think? You think people should be buying real estate with it or putting the money in the money in the market? you know, um, you always depends on how hard you want to work. Yeah. Real estate, if you want to work, you know, if you don't want to work, you put it in an index fund. Okay. Forget about it. What does an index fund pay pretty much these days? I mean, it depends on what it's invested in. VFAX is the best one. What What is their average over like five years, 10 years? Beat the market up by a point really. Okay. Or or you can do like uh or you can buy Birkshshire B shares because you're buying um who owns Birkshare? Warren Buffett's billion dollars in treasuries. So, if the stock market crashes, don't you think he can say, "Well, I'm gonna buy $200 million worth of stock when it's at its all-time low." Oh, yeah. I'm sure he probably loves that. But you're trading out your cash for his cash. Plus, he has stock. So, that might best play. Yeah. But those are the reasonable. The unreasonable things is what people like to do. Yeah. Well, a lot of bodybuilders have been opening gyms recently with the money they're making. So, I mean, I guess if that's a passion project, then you're going to be there every day and and you know, it's work. It's work. But you know what? Pe a lot of guys love it because it's it's something they're passionate about. So, but I will say this, Levrone had a freaking unbelievable gym, Kevin Levrone, back in the day in Maryland. Uh I was it a Golds or a powerhouse? I can't remember. I think it was a Golds and it was the be one of the best stock gyms at the time. And that was back in the 90s. I went there in 96. I trained with him one day. I loved it. And he said the gym was doing well, but it was just it was a lot of work while he was competing, you know, to run that gym. And it's a shame because it was a freaking awesome awesome gym. So, it I take my I I do like the idea of guys like Derek and and and Flex Lewis. They're opening gyms, the guy Cino, they're they're a little on the smaller side, so it's a little bit easier to maintain the gym and keep an eye on it rather than having this mega mega gym you have to run. And uh they it seems to be a little bit, you know, more reasonable to run a gym like that. I know Samson's opened a gym like that. Uh what it said right here. A lot of companies because there's nuclear warfare between these gym equipment makers and they're getting heavily. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of these, you're right, a lot of these companies that make the equipment are funding these gyms or at least giving them free equipment almost used as a showroom. And uh the problem Dave the rent is not free. No. No. But you got to have you got you got to have some members memberships in there for sure. Unless you're just unless you buy like to buy a building yourself and you and you don't have to really worry about the rent too much, but you still got to pay taxes on it. So John King for his warehouse. He could change it into the one that's closure. I I like the idea of what Flex Lewis does because he kind of makes it like an exclusive gym like where you know it's expensive to to to join there but you know it's not just any Harry Dick and Joe coming off the street because it is more expensive and it is a lot of pros there and it is higherend equipment and I think I think that's a kind of like a niche that if you hit it right in the right area with the right type of people it could catch on and there's less wear and tear on your equipment when you have less members. It's kind of like concierge medicine, you know, you pay you pay a higher premium, but you get better service. And so, I don't know. I I if I had a gym, I I think it would be, like you said, it seems like a lot of work for me. Yeah. Tom Dick and Harry. Tom Dick and Harry. Thank you for correcting me. All right. Well, we have a great uh another, like I said, pro show men's open number two and the classic physique coming up this weekend in Detroit. Fouad Aviad putting that on. I'm sure it's going to be a great great event. And we got some Olympia qualifications up for grabs. Chris Aceto on the record predicting Matt Grego victory there. Let's uh let's see if he's right. If he can knock out Wesley Vissers again and will William Bonak, as Chris Tceto also predicted, take the men's open. That's going to be a one for the ages. Or will we see a new star emerge? Maybe Sass Herat will make a comeback and and win that. or you never know, maybe a James Hollings head or Carlos Thomas upset. There's also a free live stream which is great. I commend you. Applaud you Fouad for doing that. That's great. Good idea. Who the MC of the show Dave? I don't know. Uh Sid is Yeah, there was a plug for Sid. There you go. Our very own Sadi Farooqi uh putting on the uh the suit and tie, the yellow suit from that MCing that event. Sid's one of the best. I I say he's I'm a little biased because I'm very good friends with him and he works for me, but I say he is the best. So, if you guys are going to be in the Detroit area and you want to stop in, check it out. If not, you can watch it live on the live stream. And I will be doing that. Crystal will be doing that. We'll be doing a full wrapup next Sunday. Same bat time, same bat station. As we say every week, Chris with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you next week. Enjoy the Detroit Pro.