Heat up here. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host Dave Palumbo and tonight's guest of the evening is new IFBB Pro all the way from Ontario, Canada, Rean Grimes. Welcome. Hey, how you doing guys? Congratulations on the big win at the Arnold Classic Brazil and that new IFBB Pro card that you're now holding in your wallet. Oh, thank you so much. You know, it usually when I do these uh live with interviews, um you know, I usually go right into questions, but the but the truth of the matter is a lot of people don't know who you are. You had a lot of success very quickly at a young age. You're only 22 years old. tell us who Reagan Grimes is and tell us, you know, how you came into bodybuilding because no, like I said, no one has any background on you. Yeah, I mean, I'm from uh a small town, uh Lindsay, Ontario, actually, and then I mean, I moved to uh London, Ontario, which is a little bit bigger. It's still small, but uh I moved there for school for college. Uh I met a few friends there who bodybuilded, you know, and uh competed. They kind of got me into it. And uh from there I kind of was like 18 when I went to school for college and then I chose a show when I turned 19 and uh basically since I did that first show it stuck with me and uh yeah I've just been training training ever since. So he's a new generation of uh as I like to see genetic freaks. You got the teeny tiny waist. I mean you I obviously you work with Chris Aceto. We're going to talk about that a little a little later in the show. Uh, but you know, Chris showed me pictures of you and I was just like blown away. I mean, last year, a lot of people don't realize, last year you did the Canadian Nationals. Uh, you finished second in the junior category. I believe you were about like 216 pounds or so. And 213 213. You were second, I think, in in excuse me, you were sixth in the open category. And then this year and then this year, you come back, you're like 16 pounds heavier and you win your pro card. I mean, what a whirlwind year from 21 to 22. Uh, talk to us about that whole experience. First start with last year. I think the biggest difference was um when I hired Chris, we were like 12 weeks out from the Canadian Nationals and it was just like I had an amazing prep into it and I continued to work with him after the the show and it was just a consistent um like dieting. never actually had a really structured offseason and like with I I worked with Chris, you know, I followed everything to the tea and um just doing that alone like just being strict on my diet in the offseason, training hard and then going back into another prep, working with him, it was like huge difference obviously I mean with the weight and everything that we put on and the changes we've made. Yeah. you know, with the being such a young guy, a lot of times it's very hard to be so disciplined. Um, you know, especially at a young age and you started as a teenager, how did you stay uh out of the, I guess, the the trouble areas, you know, going out with friends and drinking and stuff like that. How did you stay so motivated and focused on bodybuilding to be able to develop the physique you have at such a young age? Yeah, I think I got a lot of my partying done like when I was younger, uh, like you know, in college and whatnot. And uh I mean yeah after that basically after I did my first show you know I I partied a little bit or whatnot but after um I started taking things a little more seriously that's when I started seeing the results. You know you usually you train during the week and then you go out on the weekends. When I stopped going out on the weekends that's when like I really started seeing seeing the results because I would train for the week you go out on the weekend I feel like you lose everything you worked for you know. So, so that was a big that was a huge that one like when I made that change. Now, also, you know, the newer generation of bodybuilder that's come up in in the ranks, so to speak, have really, you know, capitalized a lot more on social media, especially since you guys are a little more social media savvy. You kind of grew up with it. Um, you know, you're a nut with Instagram. I mean, I looked at your Instagram page. You you document your whole life on there. If anyone wants to know anything about Rean Grimes, go to his Instagram. Yeah, that's my favorite social uh social thing for sure. I like I love Instagram. I just started up um like my doing more on my Facebook fan page and uh YouTube actually. Do you do you find that there is a return, you know, as far as popularity? Like how many followers you got on Instagram? Huge. Like um for instance, like before I competed at the Arnold Classic Ohio, I had uh 50,000 people on my Instagram. Wow. And that was like I mean I don't even know maybe 3 months ago. And now I'm over I'm just hit like 85,000. That's insane, you know. Yeah. So, so like I mean just doing I think the huge thing was doing the international shows and you know what I would post it's crazy but like in the prep I would post almost every 3 to 5 hours like around the clock. Oh, so people love that cuz they know they could always get a picture. That's the thing. I I mean I can I can stay in um contact. I mean, they can follow exactly what I'm doing, you know, kind of going into the show. And I think people like that. Now, you're a young guy, obviously, a good-looking guy. You think I'm sure you probably have a lot of gay followers on that that Instagram. It's got to be at least half. Yeah, it's got to be half. How do people find out about you, though? Like, when you start posting regularly on Instagram, because a lot of people out there are probably wondering, "How do I build my Instagram following?" Like, who do you find that starts to follow you? And how did people find out about the fact that you're actually putting pictures up there in the first place? Yeah, I think it's I mean the consistent follow like the consistent posting um like if you continue to like just post every you know four or five hours you're going to hit yourself on the homepage and then like a lot more people will see you. I mean it depends who you tag. If you're tagging you know motivational um pages that have to do with what you're doing which is bodybuilding um they'll sometimes they'll shout you out and then other people will see that as well from that other pages. So you hit you hit the little number sign and you put other pages on there. Is that how you attach yourself to that? Yeah, exactly. So, you can tag up to 20 people on a on a photo and you know, I'll tag 20 motivational bodybuilding pages and maybe I'll get thrown up on three of them and you know that's just it just spreads like that. Gotcha. All right. See guys, you're learning how to uh social media uh network with each other and who who better ask than Reagan RS who happens to have the one of the best Instagram pages. I mean, you have a huge following for a guy who just turned pro. Amazing. I'm impressed. I'm also impressed with the fact that at your young age, 22 years old, you own a gym now with a partner. Yeah. Yeah. That was a that was a huge dream of mine to open a gym. Um, ever since I like started working out, I mean, I think it's everyone's 18year-old, 19-year-old dream to open a gym. Exactly. Yeah. How did that work out? Now, I like the name of it. It's Flex Plex Muscle and Fitness. It almost sounds like a like a like a takeoff on Flex and Muscle Fitness magazine. Did you come up with that name? Yeah. Yeah, we came up with that name. Um, me and my partner, I mean, we uh my partner and I like I found um met him at the gym one time and you know, he had the same dream as me to open up a gym. And where we are in London, Ontario, there's like so many corporate gyms. There's Good Life, there's LA Fitness. We just had Planet Fitness come in, you know, so they really take over, but there's no place to train like a hardcore bodybuilding gym. So, we, you know, we took the the risk and we just uh we found a place and we went in there, Flex Flex Muscle and Fitness. It's hardcore bodybuilding gym where you can just go and you can throw weights around and it's more of a a way better environment for people that are competing and whatnot, but I mean, we do have everyone from all different levels of fitness training at our gym. Well, I guess you got the home of new IFBB Pro Regan Grimes. You can't go wrong with that. Now, uh want to find like the gym on Instagram? It's Flex Plex Canada. That's our uh Instagram page. Now, now that you have two, now you have another Instagram page to take care of, maintain. Are you putting pictures up on that one every 3 to five hours, too? I I am. Yep. Wow. You must be with that phone 24/7. Oh my god. Yeah. Thought I was What does it cost to train at your gym every month? At our gym? Yeah. So, we have um our city's like a student city, so we have uh like right beside the college. So, we have a student rate that's $25 a month or we have like a regular rate which is 30. Okay, that that's reasonable. I think people could definitely Well, we had to beat Good Life, right? Cuz there's 15 Good Life's in this in the city and like they're like I think almost around 49 now. So, 50 bucks a month. You you're never going to beat uh Planet Fitness. They're like 10 bucks a month. Plan. Yeah. And then if World Gym, World Gym, I think's thinking of opening as well, but they're not. There'll never be a gym like ours open, I don't think. No. Well, you got you got character to your gym and that's important. Now, speaking of character, you you did the uh Arnold USA in Columbus, Ohio earlier this uh year and uh a lot of people thought you were going to win. You wound up coming in second. That had to be a little disheartening. you went you decided to go to Brazil after that to the Arnold there a couple weeks later and you won obviously down there. How was the uh was the USA loss? Was that uh did you take that tough was that tough loss for you? Honestly, I I um I was Yeah, like I wanted to win, but I was happy with how I placed you know my first international show. I'm only 22. Um I wanted the pro card obviously but um the guy that won Sergy, you know, he deserved it. He's huge. It was his like third time back, I think, at the Ohio's. And, you know, he was the better guy that day. So, going into the Brazil show, obviously that's a it's a big trip for you from Canada all the way down to Brazil. Obviously, you were very dedicated. Uh, I mean, you could have theoretically waited, I guess, to Canadian Nationals. But, um, obviously you wanted to strike while the iron was hot. You were in shape already. Was it a good experience down there for you? Um, yeah. I mean, it was a decision, you know, Chris and I, we talked about it together and, you know, he thought it was a good idea. Um, when we did Ohio, like right after, we had no idea that we would do Brazil. I didn't even really know that was a show. So, like basically when I found out, um, Australia was too close to do cuz I couldn't get the visas in time and whatnot, but um, Brazil, we had just enough time like we literally cuz we have to get a visa to travel there. We got our visas just in time. Like the day before we we flew out. Yeah, that's it was crazy hectic like to make everything happen, you know, book the hotels, um the flight and everything. And then when we got there, I mean, they don't speak English in Brazil. It's all Portuguese. So to like go to the registration and everything, it was uh like something that would take 20 minutes took an hour. Yeah. I I have my good friend Carlos Gdoy down there. Without him, when I go down there, I would be lost because no one speaks English. You're right. You can't do anything. Like, I've got my phone out, Google Translator, and they still don't understand it. I could bring Johnny Styles down there. They don't even understand Spanish down there. They they only speak Portuguese. It's crazy. That's it. Yeah. Now, here's a dilemma. Now, you 22 years old, you got your pro card. Uh, now you got to go into the into the big waters. You got to swim in the ocean now with with the big shots. Uh, is that intimidating for you at this point? And what's the game plan? I mean, definitely a little bit. I mean, I see, you know, it's it's hitting me now. You know, I see a pro or like, you know, I think of like, you know, Justin confidence. It's like, holy [\h__\h] I got to go against this guy. Like, that's my competition now. So, I have to set my bar higher. Um, am I like intimidated where I'm thinking about them constantly? I think I'm more like I need to worry about myself and I can only be, you know, I can only bring the best me, right? So, you know, I'm just going to worry about myself and try to put on as much size as I can and go back in and uh do my pro debut. Who's uh who's better, uh you or Cody Montgomery? Who's That's funny. Uh I don't know. He's a great bodybuilder. I don't know. Two youngest guys in the pro level. So, yeah. Yeah, he's um No, he's awesome. It It was, you know, motivating to see him go right into the Arnold like that. It was really cool, too. I don't know. What do you think you'll do? You think you'll wait till next year? For me, yeah, I think I'm going to do a show um in the middle of uh next year. You know, I want to take about eight months to put on some quality sides and then do about a 4 month prep into a show. Okay. Now, you know, talk about being on the fast track. You already got your own gym. You have a pro card at 22 years old. I hear you're also getting married. Is that true? Yeah. Yeah, I just got engaged. I just asked her about uh yeah, two days ago. So, You're not wasting any time, man. Uh no, man. No. Well, when you know, you know. I Yeah, that's right. You know, I guess you're uh like I said, you're a quick learner. I'm a slow learner. I'm 48. I just had my first kid, so you know, hopefully you don't wait that long. Let's talk a little bit about contest prep because obviously, as we know, Chris Aceto instrumental in in your success. Um I understand you had a bad experience, you know, with a former trainer. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Like I mean when you when you put so much effort into a contest prep, you need a coach that's going to, you know, put the same amount of effort. And Chris was just that and more. You know, like every single morning going into the show, I send him pictures, he gives me feedback, and you know, changes were daily, which is I don't know of any other coach honestly that does that. Yeah. Yeah. Chris likes to to mix things up a lot. Um, what you know, I guess different competitors require different amounts of attention. Are you a needy uh guy going into a show? Do you like to have constant, you know, feedback or are you more of a self-sufficient type of a dieter? Um, do I like the fe like to know that I'm on track or not? Yeah. You like a more of an insecure guy where I I got to know at all times. I want to be able to, you know, converse with my coach and and you know, cuz I have I have guys I help that never contact me. Once a week I get I get updates from them and then I have other guys that contact me every single day, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Um I don't think so. So, I mean, I'm pretty like if he only wanted pictures once a week, I would only send them once a week and I'd be fine with it. But he asked for them every day. So, I just send them and I like it. I mean, cuz every time I if I send my pictures every morning, I do it at the same time in the same place um with without a meal, empty stomach. So, you know, I have these photos like hundreds of photos from like saved, you know what I mean? To see like my changes throughout contest prep, which is cool. I mean, I can always look back on those. Well, you need those pictures anyway for Instagram. Practice my posing because every morning I'm doing every pose. And you need those pictures for your social media, too. Right. Exactly. He You could probably give Chris pictures three times a day if you really wanted them. I could if he wants them. Let's talk about uh something that's very important to the sport of bodybuilding, money. Okay. How do you make money? How do you afford the sport? because it is an expensive sport between the supplements and the and the um and the food and gym. Well, you don't need a gym membership, but you know how what I'm saying. And then, you know, and then just supporting yourself. How does a guy your age, you know, afford the sport? You know, do you have any sponsors? Are you looking for sponsors? Yeah, that's the thing. Like, uh right now I'm not currently with any nutrition sponsor, but I have um I mean I've got a suit sponsor and whatnot. Um, basically as far as financial, I'm okay. You know, I've got my gym and uh I do a lot of um online coaching actually. Okay. Um, yeah, you know, it's it's financially you got to be stable cuz there is a lot of cost to bodybuilding. A lot. Huge cost. Huge cost. Did your family support what you do? Uh, or are they like think you're crazy? Huge support as well. Yeah. Yeah. That's great because you know a lot of times people's families don't understand like my dad came from football. He didn't know what bodybuilding was. It took him until I was 5 years into the sport that he really said, "Oh yeah, you know what? My son might actually be good at this, you know." Yeah. Well, I mean there was a bit of that, right? Like they didn't they didn't understand, you know, how far I really wanted to take it. Or they didn't understand how big the industry really is. um until you know I started doing I mean I think it was as I went up the ranks you know in Canada we got like a level one show, level two show, level three show and you know as they saw me like going into those shows they got more interested you know and they started supporting more and more just seeing like that maybe he I got something here you know. Are you a uh would you consider yourself like a nasty der? What kind of a der are you? Like did you get grumpy? Do you do you get recede into yourself and get quiet or what kind of a person are you when you're dieting? Um I don't think it it doesn't get bad for me until like maybe two weeks out I just get really tired and drained. Um that was another huge thing. Like the difference between my prep for the Canadian Nationals and the prep for the Arnolds was like night and day. Like the one for the Canadian Nationals I was pumping in like working 120 hours a week. Wow. like I was we were putting equipment into the gym and you know I was sleeping on the gym floor in the office like it was it was I just worked 24/7 basically. So yeah that was and then the Arnold Arnold prep I was able to you know step back a little bit you know I hired a few people at the desk and uh I was able to you know just focus right on my contest prep and that was the that was the biggest difference like if I needed to have a nap I could. So, well, Rean, congratulations on the big win in Brazil and the new IFBB Pro card and the new proposal for the marriage and uh everything else that you got going on with the gym and uh if people want to get in touch with you for potential sponsorship or maybe some online coaching or even just just asking your advice on something, how is the best way for them to do that? Yeah, I think email is the best way. Um, if you're looking for coaching, uh, team grimes@hotmail.com. if uh you're looking, you know, for a sponsorship or whatnot, it's uh Regan Grimes89@hotmail.com. And yeah, no, thank you for uh having me on here. Well, my pleasure. And uh that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo. We'll see you next time.