! What's going on guys, this is Luke Pritchard, I'm a new IFBB pro, just turned pro at the amateur Olympia on October 8th, and I'm here interviewing with Dave Palumbo. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. What's up guys, and welcome back to another Rx Muscle Spotlight. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined today by our 2025 IFBB Amateur Olympia Super Heavyweight Champ and new IFBB pro, Luke Pritchard. What's up man? How are you brother? Congratulations on the big win and the pro card, I know you, that was the goal of yours for quite some time now. Oh dude, it's crazy, it still feels like a fever dream. I mean, I'm three weeks both now and it still isn't hit me. I don't think it will for a long time. Is it true, I was doing a little research here, is it true that you gained 25 pounds of muscle from last year? I had a pretty crazy rebound. So last year in 2024 was, I did the USA's show in Anaheim last year and that was my first national show. I sucked all the way down to heavyweights and I was about 221 on stage and I hit a pretty crazy rebound coming out of that show. I went from like low 220s up to like 270 with glute lines and only like eight weeks. And this past year I was 247 on stage in arguably better condition and I put up a comparison to just from on my Instagram from USA's last year to the amateur Olympia this year. There's only like whatever it was, 13, 14 months in between. Yeah, right there. You're saying, yeah, I saw the picture, that's crazy. It's pretty wild, it's pretty wild. So I'm hoping I could do something like that again this year, you know. I had one of those years in 2000, from 1994 to 1995, I gained 30 pounds of muscle too on stage weight and it was like one of those crazy years and I think I gained 15 pounds a year before that and I gained 10 pounds after that and then I kind of leveled. You know, you get hit a point where you level with that. Yeah, of course, of course. But yeah, I think you could do another big year, definitely for sure. What would you attribute to? Go ahead, go ahead. No, what would you attribute that big weight gain to? Was your life in check? Was your metabolism better? What do you think gave you that big boost? For me, it was I started getting into my later 20s and my metabolism slowed down a little, which enabled me to actually gain some weight. I think honestly, it's one of those things because I'm very, anyone that knows me knows I'm very regimented year round. I don't really let life stuff kind of get in the way. I've been through a few things, but I don't miss meals. I don't miss training. I don't really make excuses. So it wasn't that my life was any more stable or less stressful than it has been. I honestly think that, yeah, that's a funny picture. I'll talk about that. But I honestly just think I was probably a little over-dieted going into USA's. We were a little more aggressive during the rebound that I have been in previous years, which was the first for me and it worked really, really well. So I just think taking full advantage of that post-show period was huge for me this past year. And like you said, just the more muscle, I'm a taller guy. I'm just under six foot, about 5'11". So I had a big frame and I have a huge appetite. And the more, the more food I can handle. And I got up to about 7,500 calories this offseason for like, I don't know, six months straight. And I was just pounding that food consistently. And, you know, I got up to about 285 when I started prep. And I was holding that for a few months. So just, just staying, you know, doing what I do year round, but like really just more time, you know, more time, more muscle, more maturity, things like that. But I think the biggest thing was just the rebound. It was one of those like magical rebound kind of things where like, you can't really believe what's happening. The scale is going up like four or five pounds a week. You feel like you're getting fatter, but then you take pictures and you still, you know, lines in your glutes and you're like, okay, I guess this is good. You know, yeah. Not everyone has that metabolism. I had that metabolism, but some guys just get fat when they do that. You know, I thought I was and then I would take pictures and I was like, yeah, it's not too bad. You know, so. Are you a heavy, are you a heavyweight? So you're more of a volume guy. You're definitely, I'm definitely a stronger than I am. Bigger kind of guy. I don't chase strength by any means. I'm just naturally pretty strong and I've avoided any injuries. I definitely take more of a, I came up like really following like the guys over in the UK, Jordan Peters, like Luke Sando, all those guys. I take after that approach, even like Dante Tradell and all them, like DC training, but I've kind of modified it to a little more volume. But I do, you know, more of a top set back off style training. I'm not, I'm not in the gym for 20 plus working sets. You know what I mean? Yeah, I definitely believe a bigger muscles are stronger muscle and there are certain body parts you need to kind of prioritize strength and getting started, especially when you're starting. Especially when you're young and you have a lot of muscle to put on. I think getting strong is important. And then there's obviously a point in your career where things need to shift. You can only get so strong, right? And I'm like, someone like Nick Walker now, I mean, I watched him since he's from the Northeast too. Funny enough, I'll tell you a story. He did that first show I ever did. Did he really? Oh, that's funny. Yeah. And so I've kind of watched his whole career. And I mean, he came up shoulder pressing 200 pound dumbbells and some crazy show like that. Nowadays, obviously the guy doesn't need to be doing that. And it's just asking for an injury. So he's obviously restructured his training. But yeah, I definitely lean into more heavy kind of slag iron type stuff. That's definitely more my style. I enjoy it better. I get better pumps from it. I grow better from it. I've never just been a guy who can go in the gym and get a pump and that'd be enough for me. I think guys that have fast metabolisms, you know, which you obviously do with the amount of food you have to eat, do better on lower volume, heavy weights. I think sometimes the guys with like slower metabolisms can get away with more volume because their bodies are just geared that way. But if you have a fast metabolism and you have trouble gaining weight and you're in the gym too long, you're done. You're never going to put weight on. I'm sure we all made the mistake. I was in the gym when I first, I went from a distance runner to like, you know, doing workouts in the gym for three hours. And I was like, it was like, I was just doing another cardio workout. It wasn't even going to be any longer. I found a, I found a workout in my computer that I wrote when I must have been like 19 years old. It was like a shoulder workout. And it must have been 40 fucking sets. Like just every exercise, right? Every exercise. Yeah. It's like every machine possible, just like the whole gym worth of shoulder equipment. And it was probably like a two and a half hour shoulder. It's just not necessary. You know, like when you're younger and you're getting started, you kind of just doing everything. Yeah. But yeah, you're 100% right. I definitely agree with that. Yeah. I think so. I think that works well. Now you, at 28 years old, obviously you're still really young. How did you, I'm started obviously young. Were you an athlete in high school? Yeah. Yeah. So I grew up playing hockey in lacrosse. Hockey was my main sport. And I've always just been into athletics my whole life. I grew up with two brothers. Just sports was a huge part of what I do. Yeah. And then I actually, funny enough when I started in the gym, I was like a late bloomer in high school. So I had a baby face. I was a little pudger than my friends that are going through puberty. They started talking about bench pressing and stuff. And I wasn't even, I didn't care about any of that. But I was a little insecure because I still had the baby fat, right? So all I wanted was a six pack. So I went to my mom and I was like, hey mom, I want to join the gym. I think I was about 15. And she had a friend who did, who owned a CrossFit gym. So I actually started in a CrossFit gym and I did CrossFit for like two years. And I got great shape. I got my six pack that I wanted, but I was this big, that fucking big. So then I was like, okay, I want to get bigger. So I started powerlifting under a coach that I grew up from for like a year or two. That went pretty well. But hockey was still going on on the outside. So that was still my main focus. And then I went off to college and I went to, I went to university in Miami down in Florida. Oh, man. And so they didn't have a varsity hockey team. I was considering trying to play in college at a certain point, but I wouldn't have been good enough to go like division one or anything where there was any sort of future. So I kind of knew that after high school, my career was on the down end. You know what I mean? So I played club hockey for a little bit in my freshman year of college. And then I stopped because I realized, you know, there's nothing really going on here. And that's when I started to get more serious with the gym. This was about 19-ish years old because I had more time and I was taking my training more seriously. I was researching stuff, learning stuff. And that's when like fitness YouTube was kind of becoming a bigger thing, like Steve Cook, Matt Bogus, guys like that. And that's kind of who I was watching when I was a young kid. And I didn't know, I didn't know much about bodybuilding. At the time, I saw them doing these men's, which I know now are men's physique shows, but I saw them doing these competitions. Right. In like a bathing suit. Right. And so that was the first picture that you pulled up that transformation of me. That was brutal men's physique shots. But how old were you there? Cut. This was just me on my own. I was like, I'll do a cut and I'll do one of these things that they do. So I ended up signing up for the NPC Muscle Beach in 2017. I didn't really know what it was. So I go there with my mom. I was 160 pounds soaking wet, clearly not even in shape. Right. I go there with my mom to some high school in New Jersey. I didn't even know about the tan. So I shut up in a white hoodie. Just tore my hoodie. And then me and my mom walk into this high school in New Jersey. And this is how I talk about Nick. The first two people that walked past us were Nick Walker and Jeff Long, when Jeff was still coaching him and Jeff was still big. They just struck past me and my mom like this. And I look at her and I was like, oh, shit. I think I'm in the wrong place. Nick obviously went on to win. He was still in amateur. He went on to win the overall at that show. I think he was like 23 at the time. And I got smoked. I took fifth place out of five in the Teenage Rims as he passed. Oh, no. And I didn't even place in the open novice. But it was, if I didn't do that show, I don't know if I'd be where I am now. Because I was getting into bodybuilding then. I was starting to learn more and more about it. But I just sat backstage and just watched Nick, watched Jeff, Akeem Williams was there. Freddie Smalls guest posed. He was still big and he's obviously a great poser. And there were a bunch of pros. And then even the amateurs backstage were huge, man. They were freaking huge. And I was just observing them and them carving up and they're posing. And they're this and they're that. And I was like, yo, I want to do this. Like this is what I want to do. The smell of protein, right? Oh, it really hooked me, man. So I went home from that show and sat down, wrote out a diet, six, seven meals, wrote out a training plan, started researching everything, all-encompassing bodybuilding. And I basically shut my life off right after my 20th birthday, which is a couple weeks after that show. And I haven't, I have been all in ever since. So I haven't missed a meal, haven't missed a training session. And I was 20, I just turned 28. So I don't count that first show. So technically the amateur Olympia where I got my program was my fifth bodybuilding show because I'm not counting that one. If you count it, I guess it's six, but I ended up coming back in 2021. I was 23 years old. And that was when I did like my, what I call my first real bodybuilding show. I worked with Chris Tuttle for that show. And I did the Connecticut State where I won the novice overall, and I took second in the open to the guy that won the overall. So that was a good start for me. And then they just kind of rolled from there. Yeah, my story sounds a lot like my story. You know, I did a 1990, I did a natural show. And 168 pounds that I only been training for like eight months. And was running the thing. And I was like, so, you know, I was, I was shredded. So I'm always shredded, but you know, the size, you know, I saw these guys, I looked like, like, I looked like a, like a runner basically. Oh yeah. And it's the most demoralizing thing, but, but it's still like, it didn't need the bug. Dude, I tried to tell people after I did that show was like, you don't understand how big these guys are. Because like everyone in their own little gym kind of thinks they're big and hot shit, you know. And I'm like, no, no, no, I'm like, go backstage at one of these shows and you, you know, it's a whole new game. Did you ever see someone like who was in that original show like now? And they don't, they don't, they don't remember you. And you, but you know them because they, and you're like, no, I was that guy. And you try to explain. Yeah. I, I, I met, I guess, posted a show. I met a guy, it was a gym in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, where I went to college. I used to go to gym there. I used to train with this guy and he was like the big guy in the gym. And I went up to him in a show. He was in the show. I was guest posted. This was five, six years later. And I tried to explain to him who I was and we were friends. We were friends. Yeah. He couldn't, he couldn't, he couldn't figure it out. It's great. He's like, the funny thing for me was, and I could try and find some pictures for you too. So before I went to college, like I said, I was a hockey and lacrosse player and I obviously was skinny. So I had long hair like down to here, like the total hockey lacrosse player look. Oh, shit. I went to University of Miami looking like that. And then I came home four years later looking a lot more like this. And so I would go up to people that like, not just like I was friends with, I'm talking to people that have met my parents, people that have been to my house, people that I was close with. And I'd go up to them and be like, yo, what's up dude? Did it? And they looked at me like, who the fuck are you? Yeah, yeah. I was like, you sprained myself. And it was, it was brutally awkward. So I got used to it because everyone, I look very different than I used to. So I like, I got a better story. I'll even, I told the story before I went on a talk show, a Jenny, there was a talk show host Jenny Jones. They had a show. Look what I look like now. And they, they went back and found some kid I played soccer with in high school. And they had me and two other guys on stage and they wanted, and they wanted him to, they told him like everything about me and, and do you recognize him? He picked the black guy. He thought the black guy was the guy he knew. He had no clue. When he mentioned my name, he was not who I was. We played soccer together for like six years. So, but it's that, it's the same thing. It's so funny, man. Like when you get bigger and stuff, just the way people treat you, the different way it's just, it's hilarious to see. It's hilarious to see. Talk to me a little bit. Now you're training at Derek Lunsford's gym and working at Derek Lunsford's. Yeah. So how'd you get down there? Give us the whole story. That's a crazy story to himself. People don't think that you went through a stressful prep for this show. Let me tell you, this guy went through a stressful prep. Tell us. And I'll tell you, I'll tell you too, Dave. I'll tell you a story. After this, we'll talk about my show in 2022 because that was the one that was probably the, to this day, affects me and my family, but that was a crazy story too. But yeah, this year. So I qualified for a national show this year because I won the Connecticut overall last year. I went on to do USA's, like I said. So I didn't have to do a qualifier, which was nice, but I started prep for this show back in May, the end of May. And I had plans to move actually to Dallas with somebody that I was with. And everything was lined up to kind of do that right at the start of my prep. You know, movers were paid for, lease was signed, cars were getting shipped, the whole nine. And when I talk about the very last second, things blew up, I mean, the last day. So, you know, things kind of got difficult with me and her for a little while towards the end. Still out of arguing and things like that. And then the last couple of days, everything kind of came to a head. And I'll say, without getting too personal, I'll say, I basically found out some information that I couldn't just simply couldn't move forward with that move. I'd be an idiot if I did it. So I kind of had to make the really, really difficult decisions to pull the plug on everything. My money and my name was on everything anyways. So I was tied up in it. So I had to make a really difficult decision to pull out, which means breaking a lease, which was a lot of money to get out of. Very expensive, yeah. The money that I spent on the movers and the car shippers, I wasn't able to get back either. I'm talking 10 to $20,000 range. And so that was literally the first week of my prep. I found all that information out and we were supposed to drive to Dallas on a Friday. And I found it out Friday morning before we left. Hold the plug on everything. By the grace of God, one of my best friends and a freaking brother to me now, my buddy Nick DiPietro was moving to Tampa that same day somehow. And he had kind of been informed with what was going on because he's a close friend of mine. And when I told him, hey, I had to pull the plug on everything, I got my car packed, basically nowhere to go. He responded. He was, I'm boarding a flight to Tampa in an hour. If you can get back to me in an hour or two, I'll be able to upgrade, reach out to the leasing office. I'll be able to upgrade from a one bedroom to a two bedroom apartment. And you can come live with me in Tampa. And I said, fuck it, go. So a couple of days later, I drove down to Tampa instead of driving to Dallas. I moved in with my buddy Nick. I got here two AM on like a Tuesday morning or night or something like that. And then I basically walk into this place with a couple bags of clothes, no furniture, no job. No plan really. I wasn't supposed to be here. I was supposed to be in Dallas. So everything was set up for that. And I was like, okay, that's week one of prep. So I had to figure it out and slowly start to rebuild my life, which I was able to do. And honestly, I'm a big believer in everything happening for a reason because as shitty as that was going through it, I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be down here. I've got a lot of good opportunities. I've got a lot of good opportunities. Not a lot of things happened for me. I just freaking turned pro a couple of weeks ago. So obviously the prep went well. The show went well. Everything accomplished a lifelong dream of mine. And I've created some really good friendships down here, built some good relationships. I've got some opportunities in the works and things like that. So it's kind of crazy how life plays out. But as hard as that was to start prep and kind of be like trying to figure out my own life while also getting ready for the biggest show I've ever done was difficult. But like I said, I've never been somebody that allows life circumstances and stuff to get in the way of my bodybuilding. I've always just found a way to get my meals and get my cardio and get my training in. So when I go to sleep at night, I know that even if the rest of my life is going haywire, I still got this going for me. Do you think you're kind of like Michael Jordan in the sense that you almost need something like, in other words, you almost push yourself harder when something like that happens. Yeah, because it drives you to kind of be like, one, it is a sense of pride, especially when we're talking about what happened to me in 2022. There's a sense of pride where it's like most people couldn't do this, but I'm going to find a way. And then there's also just the thing of like, for me, what bodybuilding has brought me over the last eight years plus, whatever, is just a sense of pride and purpose. And I'm always getting better. Something I tell myself and my clients when we're going into shows and stuff is I'll be like, hey, barring any health or injuries or anything. This is the best you've ever looked and the worst you'll ever look. Right? Because it's always improving. Right? So that's the thing that drives me too is like, you know what, even if all this shit in my life that I can't control is just going crazy on me, the things I can't control, my meals, my training, my effort with bodybuilding, at least keeps some level of sanity and balance in my life and at least allows me to feel like, hey, when I go to sleep at night, the rest of the day could have been shit, but at least I got this. You got to do that. Yeah, keep moving forward. So. So and how did you meet that, Derek? Once for what we just saw there just been training at his gym. He opened his gym down here to the public. I was probably like the middle of my prep. Champs Elysium over here in St. Pete. Great. I just met him over there. We started talking because obviously my prep lined up with his. So because I competed whatever two days before. Right. So we just became friendly through the prep. You know, I got to know his wife and the other people that worked there and they're all really, really good people. Just just a really good place to be, you know what I mean? A really good environment they're building over there. I'm proud to be a part of it. The gym is awesome. A lot of the new tech stuff is really, really good. It's just a good, it's a really good, like I said, environment that they're building with like serious competitors and stuff like that. You know, Patrick Moore trains over there too. And you got guys, we had before the Olympia, all the Brazilians taking over the gym. Yeah. So they all came down here. Yeah. All of these guys, man. So it was super cool. Good Vito is in there. Like it's Kamal over there. Is Kamal over there? Kamal's over at MI 40. So that's where I was training before. So Kamal was training Andrew Jack over at MI 40. MI 40 is a great gym too. It's just, yeah. I prefer Derrick's, the environments a little bit better. And yeah, I just, I genuinely just, I got it towards, because it was like, I switched over to Derrick's when they opened it, like middle of my prep. And that was kind of the point where like, you know, training starts to get difficult. You know what I mean? You walk in the gym, you kind of need some energy. There wasn't a lot of that in MI 40, but it was very different over at Derrick's spot. The gyms. New gyms are always cool too. What, talk to me about 2022 really quick. What happened there? So this was when kind of my life started to get crazy. And it's kind of now just settling in after all these years. Yeah. So in 2022, I was still, I was 24, 25, 24, 25, 24. But this happened right at that time. And I was prepping for my second show, which I did the New York state grand prix. Right. And I was still at home back in Connecticut, my child at home. I was staying there with my parents. I was just paying them rent, whatever. And there had been an, I'm going to try to be as specific as possible. There's still a legal battle going on. The last time I spoke about this on the internet, I actually got arrested the next day. So I'm going to try to keep this as detailed, but not go over. Okay. If you want, if anyone wants more information, my dad still, like I said, he's got an ongoing legal battle with this stuff. He has a page over on, on rumble called humble on rumble, where he talks about all this stuff in detail. So if anyone's interested for like more information, they can go over there and check that out. But basically what happened was there was an ongoing legal battle between the state of Connecticut and my dad. They were trying to take my house for like seven years. And we'll just say, for lack of better words, it wasn't by the book necessarily. It feels like a real foreclosure. It shouldn't take that long. And there was a lot of threats being going back and forth between the state and my father. And it was just butting heads for a long, long time. Now, like I said, I started prep. So that show was September 20th, September of 2022. I started Joe at the end of May. And they tried to come take the house a couple of weeks into my prep. But because I was a paying tenant, they didn't serve me any papers. They legally had to turn around and leave, right? So fast forward to three weeks out. That was 20 days out from the show. Two days before. So my parents lived in that house for north of 30 years. It was a big home. It was kind of like the spot that growing up, like all my friends would come hang out at. It was kind of like the hub, right? Lot of sentimental things happen there and like a lot of good memories and whatever. But I say all that to say, there was a lot of shit in that house. 30 years of stuff, right? Now, I believe when they serve you papers, they need to give you at least like three to five business days or something to clear your shit out. They served us a vision notice on a Friday night for a Monday morning eviction. And they filed the same paperwork that they did the previous time they tried to come. And once again, I hadn't been served any papers. So we were under the impression they were going to have to turn around again, right? And this was more just a threat just to kind of scare us, whatever. That Monday morning, I said I was 20 days out or something like that. I was woken up by the police, three cops in my bedroom, lights in my face. No, please, no, please. Get out of bed. I, it was like seven in the morning. I had no clothes on. I was naked asleep. I was like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I was like, what's going on? Like, because in an eviction, cops shouldn't be busting in your house anyways. Yes. Yes. And so they bust in my room and they're like, no, please, no, please. And I've got flashlights in my face at seven in the morning. I'm like, whoa, what the hell? They love to cut. They love to come early in the morning. Yeah, they do that all the time. Yeah. My, my dad had already been arrested. They had taken him in for what? I don't know what the reasoning exactly was. They didn't even let me get dressed. So they escorted me out of the room. Oh, and they tossed me. They said, they said, where are your shorts? I said, they're over there. They tossed me a pair of my shorts. I said, where are your shirts? I said, over there. They tossed me a t-shirt and they threw me some flip flops. I didn't even have my phone. I had to beg one of the cops to go back in the house and get my phone. And then they escorted me out of my house down some, the other steps that I don't even usually take and box me off from the perimeter. And that was the last time I've ever been in my house. So I lost, I don't, anyone that's kind of been through this before might know, but like, when they clear your stuff out, they damage everything. Like there were holes in our TVs. I had built a gym out in my garage during COVID where I was training some clients. Right. And it was so damaged to the point where like, I had a power rack that was dented. Like they're just beating the shit out of your stuff. So at 20 days out, had no food, no supplements, no, obviously super simple. All your gear was in there too? Oh my God. All my gear was in there, man. And at one point, at one point they found it, which was also illegal. They shouldn't have been searching my stuff. Yeah. Yeah. But at one point, there were 40 cops at my house that day. He had blocked all my entire street. I don't even want to know what your dad must have done to the boy. Dude, it was, it was fucking craziness. And at one point they found my gear and one of the cops comes parading out to the house with all my gear in a box and the sergeant comes over to me and he's like, you know, it's in there, right? And my first instinct is bodybuilder. I'm like, I'm three weeks out. Yeah, I need that stuff. I said, I need that. Yeah. I said, I got a show in three weeks. I said, I need that stuff back. And then I quickly realized, okay. It's illegal. I'm not getting that back. He's like, look, bro, you're not getting that. And I realized, oh shit, they might arrest me.  it was like, no, we're not going to arrest you. We're not here for that. We're here for the house. We're just going to take it and put it in evidence, whatever, let it kind of sit there. Now that was eventually what I ended up getting arrested for a month later, which I'll tell you about. Oh, you did arrest it for it? Oh my God. They eventually did arrest me for it. But so, yes, so they escorted me off the property. They boxed me off. They didn't let me go inside for anything. Like I said, I didn't even have my phone at first. I had to beg one of the officers to just go in and get my phone for me. So I had to, like I said, that was 20 days out. I was already, I mean, you already know how you feel at 20 days out from a competition. And like I said, that was the one that like really, I mean, I think 95% of people probably would have pulled out. I didn't have clothes, I didn't have food, I didn't have gear. I spent that entire day just luckily, dude, this was a huge turn important for me because it really spoke to the people in my life. I had a lot of people save me. Like 20 year old kids that I thought were just acquaintances went to the mall and bought me clothes and bought me a phone charger. And like it was emotional as hell, man. I walked out, I ended up staying at an ex's mom's condo for the last three weeks of prep. And I was staying there. I walked out one day to go to the gym to turn clients and I trip over a big bag of gas. One of my clients had bought me like $400 worth of gas stuff. All these kinds of things to just kind of keep me going. Right. So I was like, no, no, I have no reason not to. I lost my house. Yeah, that night I lost my house. Like I said, I basically ran around the state of Connecticut and food trying to gather whatever gear I could for people. And I ended up training that night at midnight in my same flip flops. You know what I mean? But I didn't miss any meals. I might have eaten them at different times, but I didn't miss any meals. I didn't miss my cardio. I didn't get a whole lot of sleep that night for sure. But I still stayed on. I didn't miss anything. That's that's the testament to your willpower. You know, yeah, I ended up really probably the most peeled I've ever been at that show. And what sucked was you were hungry, literally. Oh, my God, yeah. But it was really, really, it was a really crazy experience, man. And then like I had like 30 some odd people come out to support me when I competed. And realistically, I should have won the overall. It was a tough, it was a tough call. I never want to be like, I got robbed, da, da, da, da, da. But it was when I posted the pictures that got a lot of traction. Because it was it was a pretty, pretty brutal call. But it was just a crazy story, man, and just getting there. I got a lot of reassurance to after that show. That was the first time, because I didn't win the overall. And I was like really, my head about it. I had a lot of people reach out to me that were pros, coaches, judges, like that have respected opinions in the sport, because I was in my second real show. So they were like, Hey, man, I know you didn't win, but like you're on your way to being a pro in a couple years, like keep doing what you're doing. And that was the first time in my life, I had ever gotten that kind of feedback, which built a level of confidence that I didn't really have. Because you know how we are as bodybuilders, we always think we're that small and shitty. Right. So that was the first time I was like, Hey, if this guy's saying that, maybe he's right. You know, and then Boat was at three years later, I just won my pro card. So it was a really, I want to say cool experience because it sucked. It's still like affecting my family. But it was a very emotional thing. And it was something that changed me in a lot of ways. My family's still fighting it. That's why I said it's kind of still ongoing. It humbles you too. It humbles you a lot. Oh yeah, man. And it puts things in a perspective, as far as what's important in life, all that material stuff I lost, prior to that happening, would have stressed me the hell out. And of course it still did. But you realize that the relationships in your life, the people in your life, those are the things that are more important, how you carry yourself. And then all that material stuff, it can be replaced. You know what I mean? I've got plenty of clothes now. I don't have any clothes. Great story of overcoming obstacles and achieving goals. And what's next for you? What's the first pro show going to be? So the plan, I'm definitely going to do my debut next year. We haven't decided on exactly what show being in Tampa, I would love to do Tampa, Texas. It just gives me enough time to grow. And then the venue is 15 minutes from my place. So like, it's a lot nicer than flying across the country to Vegas. But for now, the plan is keep riding this rebound out a little bit. At the end of the year, see where I'm at. We'll kind of sit down and make a plan and really assess things. But I will be on stage next year, trying to get in front of these judges, trying to get my name out there more. And like I said, for me, it's just a matter of filling out my frame, a couple of 10, 15 pounds each year before I'm competitive. So that's the luck, man. You have a great story. I think a lot of people are inspired by it. And once again, I know the goal was to get the pro cards, you achieve that goal, check that box. And now it's on to figure out a thanks. Thanks for sharing. Thanks for being honest and sharing that story with us. I'm sure it wasn't easy to tell. Always. Yeah, I try not to put too much personal information out there, but I think it's important for some people to hear, you know? Yeah, well, you know, you also get PTSD from that. You get like it's like traumatizing. You can get triggered very easily. It's not, I mean, it's like after one thing after another. I mean, it seems like every time you do a prep, it's what happens, you know, that's the worst part. I know, like 50% of my prep for getting slammed was nothing. Hey, thanks for reaching out. And once again, I'm really happy to help you and if you ever need anything, feel free to reach out to us. Thank you, Dave, man. I really appreciate your time, brother. Lou Prichard, our IFBB, amateur Olympia, super heavyweight champ and new IFBB pro. Great guy. See you next time. Thank you guys.