If you're taking a GLP-1 agonist, should you stop it prior to carbing up for a competition? Stay tuned and I'll let you know. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution, >> RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your 30 minute weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Bodybuilding, non-Bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation, anything going on in and outside of the IABB, bodybuilding competitions. Next week, big one, Italy Pro. It's going to be a massive, massive lineup. You're going to have the likes of Quinton Rio, Sergio Oliva Jr., Uruz Kalisinski making his open debut. Uh Lewis Breed, some big big hitters. So, a very bright prime Olympia qualification spot on the line next week. So, whatever is on your mind in the next 30 minutes, it is all on the tables as we go right into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question for the people using Trozepide on a diet will affect carbon up at the end. Should it be taken away before peak week? It's an interesting question and you know um it's such a these GLP-1 agonists are so new and for those of you who don't know what we're talking about glucagon like peptide one agonist what they do when you stimulate that receptor and there's a lot of drugs that do it ompic does it which is semiglutide tzepatide which is mjaro then you have the the new and redotide the these these all do pretty much the same thing you know some of them have extra drugs added but they stimulate the GLP-1 one receptor and they slow the transit of food through the intestinal tract which makes you feel full longer which makes you not cheap between meals. But when you're trying to carb up and make sure that you're absorbing all this food and it's going into you quickly so you're getting those carbs into the muscle the glycogen stored that could be a problem at the end. I see. So if you've lost the fat already okay now these drugs last about a week in your system so you have to take a shot once a week. What I recommend doing is what if if you can get in shape at two weeks out, I would stop it at two weeks out. If you if you're, you know, if you're down to the wire and and you need to, you know, take it up to a week out, you could stop it at a week out. This way, that last week, you know, you'll be a week without it. Don't take it a week before the show. Take your last shot two weeks before the show, which will last for a week, and then that last week, you won't have it in your system. You might get a little hungry, but you're going to be carving up anyway at that point, and you'll increase your gastric motility. So you're not the food will be moving through your intestinal tract a lot faster and you're not going to get constipated from all that food you're eating. Obviously if you're taking fiberized it's going to help tremendously as well. I recommend twice a day especially if you're on a GLP-1 agonist. Otherwise you're not going to be able to go to the bathroom and I mean you should be taking it anyway but once you stop it that last week when you carb up it's going to it's going to help tremendously. You really don't need it that last week. The key is don't think hey I'm going to take a shot Sunday the night before the show and and it's not going to be effective. No, it's it remember it's effective for a week after the shot. So you gota you got to take your last shot two weeks before the show and then that will mean the last week it really won't be in your system very much and you should your your your intestinal motility should return to normal and that's important. Second question again these first two from the Dave Palumbo experience app. Uh this one is about a program that's on your app um the power building program. The question is, how should someone go about incorporating the powerbuilding program into their routine? >> You know, and this is a good question because, you know, there are, you know, there's a lot of um information on my Dave Palumbo experience app. And if those of you who don't know about it, you can download it from your iTunes store, from the Android store. It's an app on your phone. It's $29 a month, and you get me basically as a coach in your back pocket. You have access to all my writings, all my videos I've done in a very organized way. All my routines are in there from my workouts to my um drug cycles to my keto diet to my rotation carb diet. All everything's in there. Offseason pre-contest. It's it's it's a great uh it's a great resource. Plus, I answer everyone's questions in an open forum. So, you see everyone's questions, everyone's answers. I do a Q&A video every single week as an extra add-on. That's this is an addition to ask Dave just for the app members. So, there's a lot of information you get in there. And um one of the routines I have on there is what I call the power phase or power workout. And it's like a six to eight week max. You would do this in the offseason when you're eating, you know, ostensibly a good amount of food. And it's really concentrates and focuses on the basic free weight building movements. And it does it kind of gets rid of all the extraneous, you know, shaping, you know, uh movements. and it focused on deadlift, uh, bench press, shoulder presses, you know, squats, and you're doing a lot of sets of those, but you're basically doing a lot of sets of those, and you're leaving the gym. And what it does, it enables you to build strength and size. And what the strength does is going to is going to enable you to get stronger on all your exercises because free weight movements work everything. So, even though you might not be doing uh you know, dumbbell flies, so to speak, when you get to dumbbell flies after doing eight weeks on this program, they're going to be they're going to be stronger anyway because you've strengthened your whole body. And uh my recommendations is is not to do it for more than eight weeks in a row. Uh and to do it while you're eating maximal foods and if you are cycling drugs when you're in ostensibly your offseason drug cycle, too. >> Let's go to the rest of our question. Actually, before we do that, Dave, uh we did um my apologies that we have a sale from Titan Medical. Uh let me see if I can pull it up. Here we go. Uh $50 off all growth peptides. Uh includes Tesa Morelin, Sir Morellin, uh Epimearellin, CJC, Maximarelin, IGF-1, LR3, MK-677, and Hexarellin. So, this is $50 off. Yeah. >> Uh all week long at Titan Medical Center. >> That's Yeah. All the therapies. That means that uh all the growth hormone releasing peptides which 99% of what you just listed is all growth hormone releasing peptides meaning it stimulates your pituitary to release its own growth hormone. Obviously IGF-1 is is not it's a separate peptide that actually directly stimulates growth. We did a really good episode I believe last week we talked about IGF-1 and how it that can be utilized whereas less is better. These are all all these therapies are $50 off. That's a that's a big discount. So, if you are thinking about using any of them, head over to titanmedicalcenter.com. When you hit them up, tell them Dave Palumbo RX Muscle Center, you're going to get a nice discount. Plus, you're going to get that $50 off any of those growth peptides that we just mentioned. So, thank you, Titan Medical. Let's go to the rest of our questions from our Instagram, from our YouTube community page, as well as our other social media platforms. Uh Jaden Hullbrin, what is your take on old school bodybuilders of the 90s, early 2000s constantly comparing about how this generation doesn't compete as much? What is your take on this? Is it necessary or do you believe it also has bearings as far as cost of living, financial reasons as compared to back then? >> You know, I I don't think that that's an accurate statement. I think that the number of people competing is is is much bigger now. It's just spread out. So when you go to a show, you don't see as many bodybuilders, but you see men's physique athletes, you see classic guys. So there there is the same there is a very large number of people competing way more than there was back in the 90s. However, given the amount of people you see on social media, a lot of people just don't compete because they they think, well, I don't need to. I'm doing my social media thing. And then a lot of guys that do compete don't compete as often. And I think that's also because it's much more expensive nowadays. I mean, to do a national show, you're talking $350 per application fee. Sometimes you do more than one class. You got to fly in. You got to stay in a hotel. You got to spray tan. You got to I mean, it's it's expensive. And a lot of guys can't afford to do that. Even the pros, think about it. Even though the pros don't pay an entry fee, they're still having to fly themselves in and put themselves up and spray tan and and buy food and all that stuff. It isn't it is much more expensive nowadays than it was back, you know, when I used to do it in the early 90s. uh it was it was way way way cheaper and I think that's why people did it and and you know not a lot of once you hit the national level back in at those days guys weren't doing a million shows they were doing two shows maybe you know just to try to get the pro qualifier in uh as far as the pro shows go I think a lot of these guys can make more money staying home with you know doing Instagram and YouTube and stuff like that and coaching people so they pick their shows strategically and they do those shows that they want to do they try to qualify for the Olympia if they don't they don't and and that's how it goes. But I I think that cost of living is a big thing. And I think the ability to make money at home, that means on your computer with YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, whatever you use to to to monetize yourself. Coaching is something that never existed 25 years ago. 25 years ago, if you didn't go to the shows, if you didn't compete, the magazines didn't take pictures of you and you didn't make money because then supplement companies wouldn't hire you to represent them. And that's how guys made money. had contracts with supplement companies. Some, you know, superstars had contracts with magazines, but if if you didn't do that, you didn't make any you couldn't make money at home. And so there's a there's a little bit of a different business model today. And I think that's why we see that >> question about EQ, but EQ sipionate. The question is, is there a such thing as EQ sipate? I heard it's actually faster acting than EQ. Your thoughts? Well, yeah, the baldenown you know um I person I haven't used it obviously baldinone cipionate remember cipionate ananthate decanoate undeanoate propionate fennel propate all these like these are just these are just esester linkages that these drugs are bound to and they all have different release times and and and some are faster than others some are slower I'd never seen EQ cypionate but that doesn't mean it doesn't exist it's theoretical can be could be made. It depends on, you know, the manufact you know, whoever is synthesizing these things. Um, is it better? Probably not than what's out there. I mean, but is it worse? No. I mean, it's it's probably assuming it's real equipoise. Um, it should work exactly the same. Just like when people say to me, hey, is Cypionate better than anthate? And I'm like, they're both testosterone. They just release differently. It's the same drug. It's the same thing with with Masteron propinate versus Master and it they're the same drug. They one releases faster so you have to take it more often. That's all. I mean it's it's the only difference. So if it is available and you've tested with the Roy test and it comes out good then yeah use it. >> Question about so I guess this is specific to test 400 but I guess if you want to extrapolate this over different types of test is it safe to take test 400 when it's a bit past its expiry date? the bottle and the oil look okay and not perished in any way. >> Yeah, I um I I think these steroids will last forever to be honest with you, unless they're like in tremendous heat or something like that all the time. I don't think these these these steroidal compounds are pretty stable. Uh so they don't really they don't really lose their potency. Um I've you know I'm sure you know guys out there myself that have used stuff that was expired by many many years and it still worked fine. Even growth hormone seems to work fine as long as it's kept in a controlled environment. You know, I I don't I don't think these things go bad. So, I wouldn't worry about it. I don't like personally test 400. I think it's too many milligrams per per ml. And I and a lot of guys have very painful injection sites from those. Um but putting that aside, I'm sure it's fine. Um we're getting a lot of questions about carb intake and um I guess you know rotational diets. I'm taking 125 grams of carbs every day and I'm losing about two pounds a week and I'm in very good condition. I have two months left until I compete. My question is, should I lower my carb intake each week or do a rotational diet or should I wait until I stop losing weight before changing my diet? >> Yeah. I mean, if you're dropping body fat with doing the diet you're using, then I wouldn't change anything. You know, the I always tell people the more food you can eat and still get in shape, the better. Now, if you're not losing weight fast enough and you might think, "Hey, I'm not going to make it because I'm a little behind." That's a different story. Then you might want to cut back some carbs. Um, I like to do a rotation diet and I'll tell you why. Not because you need to go zero carbs, but I like to get higher fat days in because I think guys get too fat depleted and then their bodies go into like a hoarding mode because they're not getting enough essential fats. Plus, the muscles get a little depleted looking from uh depleting themselves of essential fatty acids. So, I will do maybe three carb days in a row when I first start and then I give them a day with no carbs, but the no carb day has a lot of fat in it. You know, they might get 25 30 grams of fat per meal with with their protein. So, I just think that we're the body looks better on that. It's it's it might and plus it's a little more challenging. People like, oh, this is this is my fat day. I'm not going to have carbs, but I'm gonna eat a lot more fat. It's kind of like kind of like a change of pace, so to speak. Most people do like that little bit of a deflection from the diet. Sometimes the diet can get very monotonous and uh and I'll do that and sometimes if they're not losing weight I'll I'll add another fat day or I'll cut back the amount of carb days. Sometimes we'll it'll go from three days of carbs and one day of fat and eventually it winds up at one day of carbs and three days of fat. So it it varies by how the person's responding. Um some people will just do low and high carb days, but I don't like to do that because if you're eating even low carbs, you really can't add too much fat in because then you're not going to lose weight. So, I'd rather go no carbs on those days and just give them, you know, a nice fat loaded day. And then they seem to respond very well to that. >> Um, I'm currently taking 5,000 IU HCG once a week whilst on TRT for fertility conceiving purposes uh based on a doctor's recommendation. Do you believe this is sufficient to do the trick or do I have to come completely off? >> Completely off. Completely off. you will you might get will you get you know your wife girlfriend whatever pregnant doing that protocol possibly possibly but let me tell you something once you start this baby making process it doesn't become sex is not fun anymore it's a job the job is to get her pregnant as quickly as possible because the longer it takes for her to get pregnant the more she's going to be very mad at you there's going to be a lot of friction in your relationship so just follow the baby taking protocol like I give I give out. If you want it, email me. I give it away for free to everyone. Follow the protocol. Don't take any HRT. No anabolic steroids at all. You want to take a little GH, that's fine, but no anabolics. Stay off of that. Just do the HCG, the HMG, the u the Clomid, the the glutathione, the the multivitamin, the the demineraliz I tell people to take. Do the protocol and stick to it and get her pregnant as fast as possible. That's my suggestion. We've gotten this question before. I remember a long time ago, but uh chalk. Did you use chalk in the gym back in your day? >> Yeah, sometimes, you know, there were certain gyms that that just had chalk available and I I just I don't think I needed it, but I thought, you know, everyone else was using it, so I would chalk up my hands, too. You know, sometimes when we were doing some heavy bench presses and stuff like that, but um I never I never really deadlifted uh bare hand. I always use I always use straps so it didn't really matter if my hands were were you know were dry. I you know what I don't have sweaty palms like some people have like sweaty damp palms and and those people do well with chalk. Um but the the people who use chalk the most of powerliffters because in powerlifting you can't use you know uh straps or anything like that. You have you have you have to use your natural grip and no one wants the bar slipping out of your hands you know while you're doing it. And that's why I got I wasn't a huge chalk user and to be honest with you, it was because I hated the d getting the dust all over me. It makes a mess. But but a couple on a couple occasions I did use it. >> Uh your thoughts on Superdraw? >> Never used it, but I can tell you this is very toxic and I wouldn't I would The reason I never used it was because I never wanted to take anything that toxic. I just don't think these toxic orals like anadrol and superrol even dianabol I mean a small dose of diabol is not bad but the orals just don't the negatives which are the toxicity to the liver don't outweigh the benefits meaning that you can get everything you can get from an oral in in an injectable. So why take the orals? There's no reason to. The reason they made orals knowing that they were toxic is because some people just don't like to take shots. So the doctors would prescribe these pills to people, you know, for short periods of time. If they had different conditions like anemia back in the day before they had EPO, they would give anal for anemia. It wouldn't be a long dose of it. You'd do maybe like a week or two of it, you know, or three and that's it. You were done. So these drugs were never meant to be taken long term. Uh whereas the injectables were meant to be taken long term. That's why they're long acting esters. So I just don't think we're meant to take orals. I I it's it's the less orals you could take, the better. Now I'm not talking about like drugs like anavarrol because they're really very there's very low toxicity to those drugs even though they are in oral form. I'm talking about the debol anadrol superdrol howlet and you know we when we take how testin before show we take it for two weeks that's the way it's meant to be taken so um I just wouldn't mess with it. >> A question about uh essential amino acids post-workout. If I'm going to do cardio immediately after weight training, can I slam an EA shake right after lifting and still get all the full benefits of post-lifting cardio? >> No. No. Because what your body will do is it will turn those amino acids you're drinking down your throat into glucose and then your body will use that as fuel. Um, gluconneioenesis occurs in the liver somewhat in the kidneys where the body turns amino acids into glucose. Okay, in a depleted state like you would be after training. If you take in a branch chain amino acid formula and then you go right and start doing cardio, a lot of that's going to be used for fuel. So, you don't want to do that. The whole reason you're doing cardio in a depleted state, meaning after weight training is so that you can dig into that stored body fat to use as fuel. Uh likewise, we do fasted cardio in the morning because when you wake up, you're very depleted. uh you never want to give your body any kind of fuel source that it can use prior to um going into the gym and training because otherwise I mean if you're trying to burn fat that is and uh yes I wouldn't recommend it. Uh question about stenazelol which is venture. >> Oh yeah. So is it worth to take a high dose during your final weeks of diet in the primary physique example say in a 16we diet the last five six are with 30 mgs of winstrol a day. >> Yeah. I mean that that's a reasonable dose. That's not really a high dose. I mean anywhere from 25 to 50 milligrams per day of Winstrol oral or 50 milligrams every other day of the injectable Winstrol which is Denzel same drug um is usually what we take the last six to eight weeks that's usually the best time to take Winstrol >> uh in terms of injecting uh test why is test taken intramuscularly versus subcutaneously >> it it could be taken subcutaneously I just don't see the benefit of it it leaves welts wherever you kind of put it Um, intramuscularly it's just, you know, you put it in the muscle, you know, it's in there. Intra under the skin, it kind of just sits like a lump there. It can sometimes build up scar tissue. Sometimes you get, you know, the skin looks weird around that area. I I just I don't know who invented this whole subcutaneous thing, but I I wouldn't do it. I do everything intramuscular. Even Even now, I take my 40 milligrams twice a week, which is my 80 milligrams of replacement I do, which is super low. I do it I just do it right into my shoulder, you know? So, I I I don't know. I don't know why people would want to do it. I think people are always trying to find a better way, and there just isn't. We We know what the best way is. It's intramuscular. >> Question about cramping. Um, he kind of boils it down to quad cramping, but I mean, maybe you can uh answer this as far as just cramping in general. Do you ever suffer from severe quad cramping after every workout? How'd you fix it? I've tried everything in extreme, water, supplements, bananas, etc., but no success. So, I guess your guide to dealing with cramping. >> Yeah. I mean, you would you would think that cramping is being caused by an electrolyte imbalance. You know, when I would take IGF-1 for some reason, I would get a lot of hamstring cramping. I don't know if it was messing my my electrolytes, but I noticed that if I drank like a Gatorade, um, which is, you know, basically salt and potassium and a little sugar water. Um, I I didn't I I could avoid that. So I don't know if like certain drugs deplete certain minerals in the body and uh you know or and or make you a little dehydrated because think about IGF kind of drives everything inside to in the muscle. So maybe it's pulling so much fluid into the muscles that you're you're you know you're the muscle I I it doesn't even make sense to me even just talking through right now. whatever whatever was happening, I don't know. I I just noticed that if I took a a simple Gatorade or even a coconut water drink, which is pretty similar to Gatorade, uh I I didn't have any problems. That's one problem. Now, if you're taking cluterol because you're dieting and you're cramping from that, um that's not an electrolyte imbalance. That's just that the cluterol makes the muscle contract too hard. And the best thing to do for that would be to take a a diet tonic water. Okay, the diet tonic water is better because it's sugar-free and it's like taking diet coke essentially, but it's dietonic water and and the quinine or the methylquinine in the tonic water itself will inhibit cramping. So, it won't allow your body to cramp. So, that a lot of people find relief from that and that's something very commonly employed and I recommend it to people who have clenbuterol cramps. So, you might want to try that. I but I would try the whole Gatorade, you know, trick first and you don't even need to. You could use a Gatorade zero. You know, you don't have to use a regular Gatorade. You could just use the regular, you know, the Gatorade with no sugar if you're dieting. If you're not if you're not dieting, just use a regular Gatorade. Um, and uh and let me know how that works out because I think that might solve your problem. If it doesn't, try the methyl guinine in the atomic order. >> Question about offseason. For how long after an offseason growth cycle would you recommend waiting before going on a caloric deficit cut? Also, what is the best time? Actually, let's start with that because then there's another uh follow-up question to that. >> I mean, it depends really on what your goals are. I mean, if you if you just came off a diet and now you're going into an offseason, I would do at least three, four months, you know, um I would think before you go and do another diet, you know, unless you're planning to compete again, you know, uh it's always good to give your body like a three to four month break in between dieting. Otherwise, you kind of get like a you get a little burnt out mentally. But, you know, I've seen guys compete all year long. they they take one month off and then they go right back on the diet. I don't know how they do it, but uh people do it. To me, if you're going to try to grow, you got to give yourself at least three to four months to grow. And at minimum, six months would be ideal and then start dieting again. So, you got to kind of assess what your goals are. >> Question about Human. Um have you ever used Human? If so, your thoughts? Yeah, my my friend Emerick Delig sent it to me. Uh he's the human guy. He he's the only guy at least has the real human. I don't know if I felt that much from it. I I don't know. I tried it. I used it. Um you know, he promised a lot of like, you know, benefits, anti-aging, stuff like that. I don't know. I I think I felt a little more energy on it. I don't know. But uh I I didn't I didn't I wouldn't say that I could quantify the results that I got from it as far as saying this stuff is awesome. I I didn't notice anything like that. It was more of a subtle type effect. >> Take one more question. This one about training, but specifically about Nick Walker training. Cody says he saw a recent video Nick Walker doing legs and started talking quote, "Okay, that may work. load there. I just trained hypertrophy, so I'm not sure exactly what the question is. He's he put in quotes, okay? He says, "They work load theirs." So, I'm really not sure what but I guess I guess that and then he kind of follows it up with the general stimulate not annihilate. So, I mean, I guess if you want to tie that into what you've seen generally out of Nick Walker's training methods. I I don't think Nick Walker is an overt trainer by any any means. You know, he see it seems like he goes in there, he hits it hard, and he leaves. And that's the best way to grow. You know, Scott Connley said it best. Scott Connley invented the product metrics. He was probably he's probably the foremost authority in protein metabolism in the world. You know, this guy, he's a genius. And he said it best. You know, I I loved his simple approach. He said, "When people ask me how to build muscle, I tell them, go into the gym, lift heavy weights with full range of motion, and leave and eat and and sleep. That's how you're going to grow. And that's it. It's simple. If you stay in the gym all if you're in the gym too long and you're overdoing it, which is what Haney Lee Haney referred to as annihilate, you know, annihilating, you're you're overdoing it. You're overtraining. Mike Menser, Casey Vader, you know, Arthur Jones, who did the the hard, you know, the heavy duty system said the same thing. If you overdo it, annihilating the muscle, your muscle can't recover and you don't grow well. You want to stimulate the muscle. And how you stimulate it is basically up to you. I personally like the the heavy duty approach. Heavy weight, full range of motion, controlled movements, and and and don't leave anything on the table. And if you do less sets, you tend to be able to give more aggressive, more in more um more I guess you could say more gusto into the workout because when you have a lot of sets to do in your mind, you're it's like you're pacing yourself and you don't want to pace yourself in the gym. You want to be able to give everything to the sets that you do that you are doing. So, if you do 10 sets instead of 30 sets, you're going to give way more, you know, intensity to those 10 sets than you can ever give to the 30 sets because it's impossible to be intense for 30 sets. And that's the philosophy. And I think Nick Walker has that philosophy as well. And and the results speak for themselves. The guy's a big freak. I mean, he put on an inordinate amount of muscle in a shorter period of time and he still looks like a big freak. And you know what? That's what got him there. he should stick to that training and and it works. >> Take one more question. Um now the question is tilted for natural athletes. I'm wondering if the applications would apply to enhanced as well. Uh when we're deep in prep, some of my clients hit a plateau and stop losing fat is now again he says as natural athletes, what should we do to keep progressing with fat loss? Do you go with refeeds, diet breaks, or would you suggest a different approach if you feel that that applies to only naturals or for enhance your your methodology? >> I work with a lot of natural guys and I give them cheat meals once a week and that really stimulates the metabolism. Sometimes if they're too depleted, I'll give them an extra cheat meal even, you know, when I say a cheat, I'll give them like a burger and fries, you know, greasy stuff that they normally don't eat and it really seems to kick up their metabolism. Um, likewise you can play with cardio amounts. I like I said in the last I'd say five to six years I've been rather than giving consistent cardio every day. I've been I've been changing up the cardio kind of shock the body. The body never knows what it's going to get. Some days it might get more, some days it gets less. And I think they're they're they're just at a plateau. I might cut back the cardio for a week and then hit them hard, you know, the week after that. So with natural athletes, you have to be a little more creative because you can't add cluterol. You can't add T3 in there, you know. Yeah, you could use like fat burners like my like lipolyze formula, but by and far most of the fat burning that's going to happen is going to be through the manipulation of the diet and through manipulation of cardio. >> And that is going to do for this episode of Ask Dave. Dave, you are right now in Pittsburgh. >> Did you hear the horn? Did you hear the horn on the Pittsburgh? Yeah, the the the ferry out there that's going to take people out. Just honk the horn as you said. That was the final question. >> Oh, that is classic. That is So, on that note, I mean, we kind of hit the poll in this one. if you want to tell the fans a little bit more about what you're doing out in Pittsburgh right now. You're going to be there. Yes. >> Quite a few days. Yeah. >> Almost a almost a week. I you know, it's funny. I I went to check in. I'm here in at the Sheridan Station Hotel in Pittsburgh for the North American Championships, which now is is becoming the biggest weekend. I think I think it's the biggest amateur weekend of the year because not only do you have the North America, you have the Masters North America and then you have the Masters World Championships on Sunday. So, I'm here Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. I go home Monday. So, it's the longest, you know, stretch of a show that I'm at, you know, and I was checking in and the woman was giving me the lay of the hotel. I said, "Listen, you don't need to give me the lay of the hotel. I've been coming here for quite some time." She's like, "How many years you've been coming here?" And I sat back and I thought about it and this is like my 30th year coming to this place. Since 1995, I've been coming to this hotel and they've been having this show at this venue. You know, originally it was just team collegiate and masters nationals. Now, they have that show here, plus they have the uh the North American here as well. And uh the other Pittsburgh show that I was at in May. This is my third time in Pittsburgh this year, by the way. The other show in May that Jim has is at a different place. So, um but the the two big shows are here in this hotel and uh it's I love coming here. It's I feel like I'm it's like my home away from home almost. And uh it's going to be a great weekend. We're going to see a lot of pro cards given out. We're going to see some pro pro athletes crowned and given prize money. And uh you know I always see old friends, I make new friends and uh it's one of the these two weekends, Mast's Nationals and North Americans are my two fun the most fun weekends I go on because the people are just awesome. So um I I love I love being here and it's like it's like it's like a little mini vacation for me, you know. >> So I'm sure you have you have your uh road mic on you, right? Or the DJI, whichever one you mic you do. I hope I hope I get it to work this time because I did all these interviews last time with Chris Cedo and his son, right? With John Hansen and with the the a couple of the other winners and I, you know, I might still edit them and put them up that for some reason that the microphone wasn't picking up and it was there's a lot of outside ambient noise and I thought it was I thought it was going to be annoying, but maybe we'll put it up anyway. I don't know. >> Well, I was going to say, look, you're undoubtedly going to be running so many notable names, big names who are going to be there. So, make sure you document that and we'll see if we can put that up on the channel. So, it'll be fun. But enjoy. Have a great time and uh we'll do this again next week then. So, that's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. We have all new episodes of the Afterhour podcast as well as Heavy Muscle Radio from this past Monday afternoon. And then surely Dave's going to have content uh from Pittsburgh. We also have a couple of day in the life videos. one from India for Dave's trip uh in India last month. We have a full day in the life there. That's going to be going up on the channel as well as a part two to the day in the life that you saw a couple of weeks ago. We have part two of that also going up live on the channel. >> And Sid, let's not forget my pharmacy my pharmacy video that I did. >> Oh yes. Wait, is that on the channel already or that >> what up? I uploaded it to the site. >> So okay, perfect. Even better. All right. So there you go. So, what was one of our most popular videos from back like I want to say 2012, if not 2013, >> Dave went into a Mexican pharmacy and I think you could fill in the rest. Right. >> Right. Well, then I did I did one I did Yeah, I did an updated Mexican one like >> just a few months ago when Dave got the cell the stem cell treatment. Now >> Dave did the same thing but at a pharmacy in India. So again, you can fill in the blanks, but that's going to be up very soon now. Now that he told me that, I thought it was just a general day in life, but no, this is going to be even juicier. All right, perfect. >> So again, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss this or any other cool segments that we have coming up. Of course, now with the Olympia talk heating up next week, we're going to bring back Iron Debate. We're going to start talking about some of the topics, the biggest topics leading into this 2025 Olympia. And sure, we're going to bring on some of the biggest names in all of bodybuilding to help us break down some of these topics. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadique Farooqi. We'll see you next time.