What this new system does allow competitors to do is if you don't win a show, you still now have an ability to get to the Olympia. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle news update, guys. Uh they just announced the new Olympia qualifications for 2026 season. Uh they obviously took into account a lot of the complaints that they'd received and I know there was some issues with just too many people being on that Olympia stage. I mean after all the Olympia is the Super Bowl. In the Super Bowl of football you have two teams competing against each other. In the Super Bowl of bodybuilding sometimes you have 60 people on stage and that's just not cutting it anymore. And I think uh what the proposed new or I guess this is the new rules are is something that's going to actually help the sport. Uh I I still think it might be a little too little right now. It's I don't think it's going to cut back a lot of the people on stage, but it's not going to solve the problem. I think we still going to have too many people. Now, in the bodybuilding uh men's division open and the 212 and the women's open bodybuilding, not much is going to change according to, you know, what we're seeing. I'll put up the the statistics here and the the new systems. Top uh three from the Olympia will qualify. Top three in the women's bodybuilding Olympia and from the Rising Phoenix show will re-qualify for the following year. and the winner of every contest held during the qualification period will will qualify. That's exactly what exists. Now, that's going to be for men's open 212 bodybuilding, women's bodybuilding, fitness, uh, figure and women's physique and fit model. Okay. For the classic physique division and the men's physique division, bikini and wellness, now the top 25 in point standing, so we're going back to a point systems will qualify. If you win the Olympia, you automatically get a qualification. Top three Olympia spots will automatically re-qualify. If you place fourth and fifth, you're going to get 12 and 10 points uh appropriately in the Arnold Classic. Uh in the United States, the Pittsburgh Pro, the New York Pro, uh the Romania Muscle Fest, and the Dubai Pro, the winners will automatically qualify. The second, third, fourth, fifth places will get points. All other pro contests, if you win, you're going to get 10 points. And then down the road to fifth place, you're going to get points. The top 25 point getters in those divisions that I just mentioned will qualify for the Olympia in addition to the um the top three at the Olympia uh and the winners of the shows I mentioned. So, you're going to probably, you know, in the big divisions like men's physique and and bikini, you're going to get about 30, you know, to 35 people, which I guess is still a reduction from whatever we had last year. I don't know what the number was. It was probably like, you know, there was probably 50 people in some of those categories. So, we're cutting back. Is it enough? I don't think so. I I would like to see the top 15 point getters go to the Olympia, plus the top three at the Olympia and and the winners of the New York Pro, Pittsburgh Pro, Arnold, and the Romania Muscle Fest and Dubai. I think that would be better because now we're now we're looking at like 22 people, 23 people, you know, assuming that if someone wins multiple shows, obviously that's going to eliminate some some of the numbers. But if you want to really get these shows down to a palatable amount and to an amount that Jake Wood can afford to justify paying for, I think you really got to go to 15. But you know what? Maybe we'll do 25 and 26 and they'll see how that goes. And then maybe they'll they'll drop it down in 2027 to maybe less people. I I that would be my suggestion. Uh I also think that Jake Wood should not have to be required to pay for these people to come in. He is not their father's. Okay. The onus of responsibility should not be on the Olympia promoter to pay for everyone's flight and and and expenses and hotel. My suggestion would be if you make the top 15, you get reimbursed. That's it. I don't think anyone else really has to get their stuff paid for. If you want to come to the Olympia and you know you're not going to place well then you you you pay your way. I would pay if you know just to say I went there. I don't think anyone has a problem with that. If you place top 15 then then that means that you have achieved the level of uh success in your division that warrants you getting your expenses paid for plus the pri whatever prize money you might go home with. To me that would be a good methodology. Uh, is this system perfect? I'm sure it's going to have some kinks that need to be worked out. And I'm sure as we go through it, we're going to find, oh, oh, this is not really perfect here. Maybe we should make an adjustment here. But it is a move in the right direction. I'm glad that Dan and Jake and and Jim and Tyler sat down and they and they ironed this out. I don't know who who masterminded this whole thing, but I'm assuming that it was, you know, a lot of different, you know, suggestions being thrown into a pot that eventually, you know, got, you know, weeded through. And this is what they came up with. Now, the reason why they're not doing the point getters in the men's bodybuilding 212, women's bodybuilding, fitness uh divisions, and figure divisions because there's just not that many people. There's not that many shows, number one, and there's not that many people to qualify. So, it's it's irrelevant. They don't need to do it for that. And that's why they're doing it the way they're doing it. Um, it's for the divisions that have a million shows. There's a million bikini shows, million men's physique shows, a million now wellness shows and in those divisions, you're getting too many people qualifying and it's just, you know, it's it's like a cattle call when prejudging starts. So, uh, this is going to help those divisions quite a bit and like I said, I think this is going to be a an evolutionary process, meaning that it's going to the good stuff will stay, the bad stuff will get weeded out, and hopefully over the next couple years, we'll we'll perfect it. I I really think it's got to be knocked down to I think 25 people. Uh the top 25 point getters is going to be too much. Now, what this new system does allow competitors to do is if you don't win a show, you still now have an ability to get to the Olympia, something you didn't have in the last couple years. With the old system, you had to win a show to qualify for the Olympia. Back in the 90s and early 2000s, it top three was a qualifying for the Olympia, so you didn't have to win a show. Now, with the the way the system's been recently, you could have a guy who comes in second three times behind someone who's just a little better than him, and that guy could be on an Olympia stage and couldn't qualify. It happened to Logan Franklin. He missed qualifying for the Olympia one year. He should have been there, but he he just he couldn't get the qualification. Now, if you do enough shows, you can get 3 seconds and qualify for the Olympia if your points add up. I got news for you. If you're tenacious enough and you can do 10 shows during the year, you could even place in third, fourth, fifth positions and make it to the Olympia. And some people would say, well, that's bad cuz you're getting guys that are not necessarily, you know, the the cream of the crop who are making it to Olympia. Well, you know what? If you're tenacious enough and you have the the wherewith about to do that many shows and place top five in that many shows and build up enough points, you deserve to be at the Olympia because you're a hard worker. I'm fine with that. There's not going to be many people who fit that category. But you could get one or two people who do sneak in there with a bunch of, you know, seconds, thirds, fourth, fifths throughout the year that add up to enough points to get them to the Olympia. There'll certainly be people who play second a few times. I mean, I've seen shows where guys or women won three, you know, pro bikini shows in a row and the girl came in second absolutely deserve to be on the Olympia stage and she couldn't qualify because of that. Now, with those three seconds, she'll probably have enough points to make it, especially if they're going with top 25 point getters. So, there is an advantage to the system. It's competitors should really like the system better because now um if you can't win a show, you can just work real hard and come in second, third in a few shows and get that qualification. So it'll cut down the numbers in hindsight or in retrospect now looking forward now this is going to absolutely cut down the number of competitors in these shows who make it to the Olympia. It's going to have a better quality of competitor ostensibly. Uh it'll give people who are frequent competitors an ability to get to the Olympia even if they didn't win a show. And it's going to take the burden off the Olympia. And it should cut back how long the show lasts. And after all, uh we get audience fatigue when we're there for 25 hours watching these shows. So I think that this is a move in the right direction. I think it can be even refined a little bit more and cut back, but for the first year, I'm happy that it's being done. Thank you guys out there for facilitating this. Um, I think it's a real move in the right direction, and it'll be interesting to see how this pans out over the next 12 to 14 months. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle news update.