Dave Palumbo with another Dave Palumbo RX Muscle Rant. Guys, uh, you might have heard it. There's rumors out there. It's there's rumblings. I heard it from a couple of people that there may be another weight division in the men's bodybuilding ranks. And uh, they're calling it the 187 pound division. Okay. As you know, we have men's open which we've always had and uh the last you know over the last 10 years we uh we instituted the it was originally 202 then it went to 210 now it's 212 went it was 210 and then it went to 202 and now it's 212 how they got these arbitrary numbers I have no idea but we have a 212 class obviously that's super competitive Flex Lewis is the reigning Olympia champ you got Jose Raymond Ahmad Ashkani David Henry you know the whole guy Sisterino the whole litany of guys that are terrific in that category and a lot These guys came out of the the uh bodybuilding ranks as middleweights or lower and worked their way up uh you know including all those guys I just mentioned. So now people are saying well we need another division. We need a we need a 187 pound division so the guys that can't get up to the 200 212 mark can compete against each other. Okay. My answer to that is I think it's a terrible idea. Now, I know all I know and I help a lot of guys that are in that in that predicament where they're in the in between. Uh I'll tell you why it's a bad idea. Number one, the IFAB did something tremendously good this couple years ago. They started classic men's physique. Classic men's physique fills all the the voids between the huge guys and the men's physique guys. Okay? It allows guys to pose but still have nice symmetry and a nice physique but not be too big. So guys don't have to feel like, well, you know what, I have to take a ton of drugs or I have to do all kinds of crazy things because I have to get so big to be able to compete with everyone else. It's a nice in between class. Men's physique is great because you know what? There's guys that don't want to pose. They just want to stand up stage on stage and do a couple quarter turns. That's great. So you do that for a little while and then if you want to move up to classic physique and start posing, you can do that. And then if you want to move on to the pro ranks of the IFBB men's bodybuilding, you can do that as well. And guess what? If you can't be a huge super freak, 250 pounds, you can be a 212 guy. And if you're not 212, that's fine, too, because you know what? David Henry's probably 195 pounds on stage. You know, maybe he's he's he's almost 200 lb and he still looks tremendous and he wins shows and he looks, you know, he's a former Olympia champ, too. So, we don't need a lighter class because all that's going to do is water down the talent pool. And and in all these shows that we have, which almost every week there's a show nowadays, you're going to have to have these promoters are going to have to create another division, which they're going to have to pay a sanction fee for. They're going to have to give prize money for. Uh I've seen some 212 events where there was only four guys in the whole show. What if you have a 187? You how many guys? I mean, where are you getting all these people from and that are going to compete every single week? I think it's a bad idea. If you're going to do that, you might as well just make weight classes. you might as well get rid of classic physique and just say, "Okay, in the pro ranks of of bodybuilding, we're going to have a super heavy, heavy, light heavy, middle, just like we have in the amateurs and and just do it that way." But the whole idea behind turning pro is now that you're an elite class and you have to compete against other people that you didn't have to do on the amateur level where you were protected with weight classes. So, yeah, it's good the athlete. It's good. We always hear that trit saying it's good for the athletes. Yeah. Well, you know what? Why don't we just give everyone a trophy and everyone a prize check and tell everyone, "Oh, Kumbaya, we want everyone to be happy." No, not everyone's happy. There are winners and there are losers in in in in the sport of bodybuilding, you know, and if you don't win, you're a loser. If you win, you're a winner. But winning doesn't last very long, as we all know. So, you know, bodybuilding is a competitive sport. It's got to stay that way. We can't wash it down so that everyone goes home with a trophy or a check. It's not going to work that way. Sorry, guys. This is the major leagues of bodybuilding. Okay, I think it's perfect the way it is. You start adding more classes. These shows will take a hundred years longer than they're already taking, which is too long. Uh we'll have to go to eight day shows. Okay, one show will be going into the next show. We'll be going from the Arnold USA. We'll be the next day we'll have to hop on a plane. We'll be in Australia. We'll be starting the Australian show already. So, yeah, I think it's too many. It's too many divisions. I think we're good now. Open men 212 classic physique and we got obviously the men's physique division. Look, I'm Dave Palumbo. It's my opinion for another RX Muscle Rant.