Welcome to RX Recap brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and today we're going to wrap up this past weekend's 2017 IFBB New Zealand Pro. And to help us do that, we have the man that runs bodybuilding in New Zealand, former IFBB Pro, Mo Masawi. Welcome, man. Hey, we're only you're only what, like 4,000 miles away from us. No, I mean 40,000 miles away from us. H pretty much. Yeah, kind of like you could swim it, I guess. You've been uh Mo, you've been holding this show in New Zealand. I actually was there in 2012. Uh you've been holding the show since 2008. You've been doing this for eight years now. The show has grown. This is the first year, I believe, you've had an open men show here. Actually, it's the second year. 2008 I had Dexter Jackson, Tony Freeman and you know yeah that was the first year we done it. Did you stop doing the open and then you know you took some time you did bikini you did a couple other divisions and now all of a sudden you got men's bodybuilding back here again. No the bikini was a new class and men's physique new class. So you needed to kind of promote those classes by bringing pro bodybuilding or I mean pro uh men's physique and pro bikini to New Zealand. So, you know, we needed to grow these division divisions and then we bring back bodybuilding, I guess. Sure. Now, you know, it's got to be frustrating for the New Zealand people because, you know, that you're you have that that country in and of itself is not a very populated country. So, you know, the United States has got, you know, millions and millions, hundreds of millions of people here. Obviously, New Zealand, a much smaller pool. Yet, we're seeing good talent now come out of New Zealand. And and thanks to you, you're getting them on the world stage. Well, thank you Dave. You know, I've been doing this now for what, 22 years. I'm very passionate about it and, you know, I see a lot of talent comes out of this country and just trying to help him out get where I was one day and, you know, hopefully even better. How did you wind up out in New Zealand? Just out of curiosity. My wife dragged me down here for a vacation. And you never left? and never left because there was money waiting for me. That's good. Nothing wrong with that. Le let's talk about the pro show. Brandon Curry, who's been getting a tremendous amount of hype over the last several weeks. He, you know, took the pilgrimage a few months ago out to Oxygen Gym in Kuwait, trained with the the camel crew out there, uh, transformed his body to epic proportions, and a lot of people thought maybe he was hype, but he came in this past weekend and he beat an excellent Dallas Macarver, Juan Morell, uh, you know, Jeff Beckham. Talk to me a little bit about how impressive Brandon Curry was in person. To be honest with you, I saw him last year and yeah, the pictures looked amazing online, but I never thought that he would actually improve that much. And when I saw him in person when he landed here in New Zealand, I was blown away to be honest. Like the amount of mass and it's real good solid mass. It's not just mass, you know. The guy was uh very solid, very hard, very conditioned and he gained like good say 25 pounds. So I mean that was amazing to be honest. Um he brought a a very nice package, a very balanced. Um he could still grow a little bit on the quads as we know, but when that happens he's going to be an unbeatable guy. Talk to me what pushed Brandon Curry past Dallas Macarver who finished the previous weekend behind second behind Cedric McMillan. A lot of people thought he was going to come into New Zealand and kind of decimate the lineup. Didn't happen here. Why did Brandon beat Dallas Macccarver? Well, to be fair, I honestly have to say that this was not the best of Dallas Macarver. I've seen him much better at the Olympia last year. Um, for some reason things are not going right was his preparations. He could have been a lot more solid, uh, a lot harder, but he he wasn't. I mean, uh, at the end of the night, the guy got a little bit softer and more softer, and Brandon was getting better and better, so he ended up beating him. Yeah. Fair and square. But, you know, Dallas Dallas could have won the show if he would have been Dallas. What what do you think, you know, because you're you're a student of the sport, you know, you've been you judge internationally. What do you think Dallas Macccarver may be doing wrong that's not allowing him to to to bring out all his gifts? Well, one thing we need to remember, Dallas is only 25 years old and he's been competing just for the last five years. He's been training for five years. So, you know, it took me what, 12 to 15 years to mature my muscles. We all know about this. He's still not very mature. I mean, it's going to take him another couple years to mature that muscle, but the guy is gigantic. He's he's got everything that bodybuilding is looking for. Uh he he's a massive guy with a small waist, and that's what we we we're definitely looking for something like that. Uh he's not doing anything wrong. I mean, he it's going to be a learning curve for him, and I think just give him some time, he he's definitely going to do very, very well. Is Dallas Macccarver a guy who can vive for an Olympia title or at least a top three spot in your estimation? Personally, I believe he can. Uh if there's anyone who can have the the the size and you know the balance we're looking for to be another Jay Cutler or someone like that, it's going to be him. There's no one on on the bodybuilding stage right now that can present that Mr. Olympia package beside this guy. So, I'm I'm just going to give him couple years to mature and I'm sure he's going to be a very strong force in this business. Wow. That that that's a a very big compliment coming from you. Let's let's talk about third place here, Juan Morurell, who you know, um sometimes he looks like a world beater and then sometimes he just doesn't look good. He's flat or his legs are small. What was your impression of Juan Morell at this particular show? Well, you know, coming from the Arnolds, um I actually watched him before the Arnolds and he was he was getting better and better and better and I have no clue what happened to him at the Arnolds. From what I heard, he drove all the way from New York to Ohio, which is not something that anyone would want to do. You know, I would want to get to Ohio in 3 seconds if I can. Uh, you know, but that drive must have killed him to be honest. Um, I I I think he has massive potential if he grows his legs, his upper body is is out there to be the best. Uh, but you know, when you look at the massive upper body versus the smaller lower body, it just throws off his balance and symmetry and everything and you just you just can't help the guy. You mean he has to do his job and bring his legs up. It's just a matter of training at this point, just getting more mass on those on those lower limbs. I I've had my my talk with him and hopefully he would listen you know that he needs to stop paying attention to his body so comes down to his look and hopefully they will grow. I mean, at one time of my career, I had small legs. Um, and you know what? My arms were my arms and I said, "No more arms and it's going to be legs from now on." And it got to a point where my legs gotten really big. And you know, he needs to be smarter with this approach and stop concentrating on adding size on the top, balance his physique because he's got a nice physique, very nice, you know, small waist, broad shoulders, uh, everything about him is good. just grow these legs, you know, as simple as that. Uh, a lot of people, he needs to learn from Johnny Jackson. Put it for you this way. You know, Johnny had had a Mr. Olympia upper body, but lower body, you know, wasn't there, right? Never. So, he just needs to learn from that and just take a year off perhaps. If I was him, I wouldn't do the Olympia this year. I would just take a year off, put some serious mass on my legs, and come back and do the damage. Right. Do you do you believe that when you stop training a strong body part, it enables the weaker body part to have more nutrition and more nutrients to help repair it quicker and build itself better? 100%. I mean, you could you could prove it with science and you could prove it was experience. To be honest, definitely if you're going to work your arms, all the nutrition or most of the nutrition is going to go to recover that body part that you exhausted. And a lot of these guys, I'm I'm I'm I don't want to be disrespectful, but you know, a lot of these coaches out there, uh, unfortunately, like they don't have real knowledge about training. Uh, this is why I tell all these young guys, look, if you want to be coached by someone, be coached by someone who's done it before, not someone who's just, you know, read a book or knows A, B, C, and vitamin D and whatever. Yeah. Yeah, you know, you need someone who really done bodybuilding and knows the and understands training and and the whole theory behind it to enable to help you. So, you know, that's that's that's no one out there, but that's just the way it is. No, you're you're right. I mean, training is important. I mean, and if you have a weak body part, uh it's probably because you're not training it right, you know, unless you have an injury. So, I think that that's that's wise words. Absolutely. Let's talk about Jeff Beckham because Jeff Beckham is a guy who won the team universe a number of years back. He he came out into the pro ranks. He was huge but he wasn't coming in in shape in San Marino and I believe he was in also in the Dubai show last year. Yeah, he looked pretty impressive. His conditioning finally was was brought in the way it needed to be. What's your take on Jeff Beckham? Did he deserve to be higher here? Um where should he go from where he is right now? Well, look, you know, you could argue his placing being third or fourth, but it wasn't really far. I mean, Juan was a lot fuller, a lot bigger. Uh, Dave Jeff has a weak chest, and unfortunately that no matter what he does, as long as you have that weak chest, you and I know, Dave, that that's going to make you look flat as full as you can get. So, and his his lower body right now is overpowering his upper body as well. So, he's the opposite of Juan Boral. I mean, a lot of people argue, oh, he should have been third, he should have been fourth, but doesn't really matter. I mean, Juan had lower body problems. D had problems on in the chest and shoulders. So, I mean, yeah, but I was really impressed with his conditioning. He looked really good uh on the night. He poses very nicely, but you know, he also another guy who needs to just take a year off and put some decent size on your chest and upper body and just come back. Mo, speaking about posing, because you were always a great poser too on stage when you competed, uh, do you like the idea that the at the Arnold Classics, they're judging the posing round for one-third of the competitive scores, or do you think that that's not appropriate? Personally, I disagree with it. uh you know posing to me is more of a plus. It's more for the fans, you know, and it is important. I mean, we're not we didn't become pro bodybuilders and not knowing how to pose. It's impossible. I've never seen a pro bodybuilder who's an idiot in posing, you know, like to be frank. But that should not if someone knows how to dance and how how to pose a little bit better than the other guy, it shouldn't put him ahead of him under any circumstances. That makes sense. Let's let's talk about one of your countrymen over there, Darren Onawa, uh who finished in the sixth position. A lot of people are touting him as the next big star in fifth. Oh, he took fifth, excuse me. Right. Uh a lot of people are touting him as the next big star over there in New Zealand. What was your impression of what he brought to the stage this past weekend? Uh Darren is one of the widest guys in the sport. Um he's he had his own personal issues over the years. Um he's 41. He took five years off and trying to make a comeback. He was very successful to be honest in bringing it back. Uh he needs he needs definitely needs attention, you know, to actually get somewhere. He is the best best guy we have in New Zealand right now. The best bodybuilder we have. Um whether he's going to be make it or not in the future, that depends on how much investment he's going to put in that body, you know, and uh but yet, you know, we were very proud of having him on stage representing New Zealand and battling this big guys, you know, like he has never competed against any one of these guys before and he stood his ground. Uh he came in condition, could have been a little bit fuller. He's got the Arnolds this weekend to, you know, hopefully to bring that and yeah, but we're happy we had him on stage. Now, uh, let me ask you a question about these comebacks we've seen recently from Kevin Levrone. Flex Wheeler now is saying he's coming back in classic physique. You know, you were a ninth place Olympian at one point. You know, uh, did you ever consider, you know, maybe I'll make a comeback or are you done? No, I'm absolutely done. I think I have a brain that I've been using recently, you know. Uh it's a shame. I have to be honest about this and I'm I'm glad you asked me. You know, I know a lot of people not going to like it, but I'm just going to say my honest truth. I think it is stupid when you're done completely done and your body is done is to try to bring it back. You know, we only live once and you know, if you try to oppress that body that you have, you only have one uh liver, you know, one and a half kidneys, in some cases, one kidney. Yeah. Yeah. You know, one bar and one too. Yeah. So, you try to do that and you end up harming yourself. You're going to reflect bad on a whole sport of bodybuilding. And then if you want to come back, make sure you come back strong. With all due respect to Kevin, I don't think the comeback was to be honest. Um, but you know, props to him. He he came back and he he looked good enough, but not the Kevin we know. He would never be the Kevin we know. Uh, once you're done, you're done. You and I know you're not coming back after 12 years and and you're going to come back the same way and battle it with a guy who's never stopped, right? So to me, I would here live on your show, I would say, please, please, to Flex Wheeler, don't do it. You know, as simple as that. Please don't do it. You know, we love you. We respect you, but you're still an idol. Keep that idol image up in our heads and just don't do it. I I think those are very wise words, uh, Mo, and hopefully maybe, uh, maybe they'll be heard with open ears and open eyes. Now I have a question because um this New Zealand show has been getting bigger and bigger every year. Um you had Classic Physique this year. Matteo Ve who won that from New Zealand. He'll qualify for the Classic Physique Olympia in September. Where would you like to see this New Zealand Pro show grow to like say five years from now? I'd definitely like to. Well, you know, the the show was not just a pro show. It was an international show as well. So, we had people from all over the world, you know, different countries. We had like eight or nine countries involved in the in the amateur part. I'd like to grow it to a full pro show where all the classes are involved. Um, definitely we, you know, need support for that, but it's happening and I think within the next two or three years that will happen and hopefully we'll have you down here. Yeah, that would be great. Do you have uh any plans to put, you know, open like an expo type of thing, you know, like they do? We're definitely looking at that, too. We're working with a couple people right now who's involved in Expo. Uh I spoke to Tony and he's he's interested, you know, from Australia to come and do it here as well. So, we'll see. We'll see how it goes. Yeah. Well, you know, you're doing a great job there in New Zealand. I know it's it's not, like I said, the hugest country with the biggest talent pool, but you seem to be promoting that, putting it on the map. You have an open men's show here. A lot of places don't have that. Congratulations on everything you're doing for the sport, Mo, and and I always appreciate your direct radical honesty. Thank you so much for having me. All right, and that'll take us to the end of an episode of RX Recap brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time.