I'm standing here with Adrian AOA, our bikini class A champion and new IFBB pro. I know you love hearing those words uttered from my mouth. Yes. I've waited so long and worked so hard for it and I'm just I can't even describe how happy I am right now. When when I saw you in nationals, you were so upset. What place did you wind up placing in nationals? I actually got sixth place, which was amazing for me. And that was the biggest show that I've ever competed in. So that was awesome. Right. But I thought you should have been first there. Oh, thank you. And I What did we tell you? We said, "Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. You're going to be get your day in the sun." And you got it here today. Yes. Hard work, perseverance. I don't give up. And now I can't wait to join the pro leagues and do it all more. You know, I think that you will be a better pro than you were an amateur because I think that you stick, you know, in the pros there's not that many girls. I think sometimes when there's a crowd of girls, people get lost sometimes in the shuffle. Yeah. No, I agree. And I mean, thank you. I hope that I can live up to that. And isn't that frustrating a little bit sometimes when you do get lost in the shuffle because you work so hard, you know, everyone tells you how good you look and then sometimes you just don't get the placing you want. Oh yeah, it's definitely frustrating, but you can't let it get to you. You got to just keep your head straight and remember why you're doing this for yourself and go after your goals. We always feature you on muscle in the morning and everyone always wants more and more. They say, "Give us more, Adrian." And I'm I'm giving them more now. So, here's your chance. First of all, a lot of people ask me, "What nationality are you?" I am Hispanic, Latina, baby. That's why they call me spicy. From where? Uh, Mexico. Oh, Mexican. I never would have guessed Mexican. Yeah. What' you think I was? I don't know. I thought maybe Puerto Rican, you know, cuz Johnny's got the whole Puerto Rican contingency. We got all the love around. It's fine. Anyone you want to thank out there? Um, my coach Pete and Apple Grubs definitely out of construction zone. I love you guys. My husband Sean for putting up with me and my craziness. And my sponsor, Sexy Strong. Uh without them I wouldn't be here. So thank you everybody. Adrian Showa, new IFBB pro here in Tene, New Jersey. This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com in the iron asylum with Adrien AOA. We are here one day after the NPC team universe championships where Adrien won the bikini class A and earned her IFBB Pro card. We're here at Bev Francis powerhouse gym in Scios at New York doing a little leg and shoulder training. Welcome Adrian. Hey, thanks for having me. Yeah, it's just such an awesome opportunity to be here where so many legends have trained before and it's my first time so it's really exciting. You're from the west coast, Seattle, Washington, and we got you all the way. What made you come out here to do team universe all the way on the east coast? Um, you know, I really love the East Coast style and I love how it's kind of where the heart of bodybuilding is and they I feel like they really appreciate the work that the athletes put into their physiques. Now, um, obviously you had the USA coming up in a couple weeks you could have done out there, but you got the pro card here, so no reason to go do that now, which is always a great thing. Now, you did the uh, NPC nationals last year. I remember talking to you. You were sixth place. you were very upset with the placing and deservedly so. I thought you should have been way way higher. I actually thought you should have won, but needless to say, you regrouped. You took the judges uh I guess you could say opinions to heart. You made the changes necessary. You came back here and you beat a very impressive class A in bikini. Uh you have to feel vindicated to one degree and another degree thrilled with the uh with the fact that you finally achieved your goal. Yeah, it just feels so unreal right now and I can't even believe it. Um, you know, I've put in so much work. This is actually my fifth national show. So, it's not something that just came right away for me. I really had to work hard and uh put in my time and do the things that I needed for my physique and make the adjustments to my training and prep. So, it really means a lot more. What were the judges telling you that they thought you needed work on? because you know in my mind I thought you look great but bikini is a very um specific sport. It's not about muscle. It's not about conditioning. It's about total package presentation. Yeah, for me I you know lean out really quickly. So that's never a problem. But a lot of times I lean out too fast to where I might lose a little much too fullness. And you got to keep that a little bit still for bikinis so that you have that feminine look. So just adjusting my training and my nutrition as I needed as I went through. Um that's what made the bigger difference this time as opposed to my look in nationals in November. Now um legs seems to be a big thing for you because your legs grow really quickly and obviously bikini you know you want to have muscle but you don't want to have too much muscle. So you know I guess figuring out or constructing a leg training protocol for yourself is challenging. Now, we're watching you train some legs here today, but what do you have to do and what do you do in the gym on a regular basis because you got to work them out to some degree, but yet you can't do too much, right? So, I typically don't even work my quads. Um, just because I'm so quad dominant genetically. So, I do a lot of focus on my backside, which is where my weakness has always been on my glutes, on the hamstrings. And, you know, you don't want to lift heavy every day and be sore and not be able to move every day. So, I'll I'll have one heavy leg day for sure a week with my coach, but I usually still do hit the glutes and hammies with a lot of resistant band work. And I'm able to mix it up that way so I don't get bored and get creative with it. And for me, that's more scientific because you're really visualizing how the muscle and mind connections working with the bands. And that's where I have been able to find the most success. Now, um obviously band training is a good idea because you're not really putting too much resistance on it. Will you ever like go outside and do sprints and plyometrics like some of these girls do uh just to be diff some to do something different and mix it up because you know I used to always look forward to squatting and stuff like that but you can't do that type of stuff. So you know how do you um I guess add a little spice seeing that your nickname is spicy right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean I'll mix it up. I'll do some plyometrics and stuff. I don't really need to kill myself. you know, I'm pretty blessed in that area cuz I know a lot of girls do crazy cardio regimens, but um because I've been going for such a long time, my body responds very well to where I'm able to do a lot of incline cardio on the treadmill and stuff like that. Um but you know, I get fun and creative with my coach in the gym and that's where I really go hard is when I train with him. and you know even like flipping tires and doing a lot of lunges and routines outside and that's where the fun is at you know when you're having the pure bar and just out there going across the fields and stuff. So those are the videos we like to watch. Yeah, you got to come out there. Now let's talk about diet a little bit because you mentioned you have a good metabolism. Does that mean that you get to eat more food or do you still have to restrict, you know, when showtime comes around? I still have a certain, you know, type of regimen that I follow. I don't go all crazy. Um, it starts out from maybe a higher carb during the week and then slowly decreases as I get closer to the weekend and just making the tweaks and adjustments. I check in every week with my coach and we check my body fat, my muscle mass, and see where I'm at, check my physique, and see how it's responding and make the adjustments as I need. And, you know, sometimes I'm able to add a cheat meal here or there. And I do enjoy it. What's your cheat meal for you? Oh my gosh. Um well I'm a everybody knows I'm a crazy cooking monster secretly really but um if I'm doing food you know burger sushi I love sushi and uh peanut butter cheesecake all day. Peanut butter cheesecake. Wow. Now that sounds Yeah. That that's a big cheat meal for certain. Yes. Especially 5 foot. I can put it down. Now um when the diet is eventually structured would you say give us kind of like a macronutrient breakdown. How much protein, fat, and carbs do you usually consume on average per day? Um, you know, a lot of people ask me that and I always say, you know, I never count my calories and stuff cuz I kind of just do what my coach gives me. How much protein like per meal say? Three to four ounces of protein a meal and I'll have seven, six to seven meals a day. So, depending on where we're at during prep, but um consisting of your lean meal, your lean meats, your fish, your chicken, um AI tuna, salmon, stuff like that. Carbs, I love my golden sweet potatoes. And then your greens, you know, broccoli, green beans, asparagus. So, you're eating a pretty well-rounded diet. Yeah. Yeah, I would say. So, would you say the look that you brought to the stage this past weekend is something that you like or like because I've talked to girls and they say, "Well, I wish I could be more muscular because I like that." But, but this is what wins and this is what I'm bringing in. Do you like the look that you brought? Yeah, I think that for me, this is by far my best look so far. Um, I've put in a lot of work and put on muscle where I needed or, you know, maintained it where I needed. I definitely can always improve and I think everybody can. That's what this is all about. You're always continuing to progress. And for me, I'm, you know, the glutes are going to be big because those bikini pro girls don't mess around. So, I'm just a whole new level. Now, now let's talk about presentation a little bit because obviously bikini is not about just muscle and conditioning. It's it's more so about the total package. how you present it, hair, makeup, beauty, the whole the whole nine yards. Uh, was that easy for you to to to really come about, you know, getting up on stage and and sacheting up there and doing the turns and everything like that? And how much time do you spend practicing that? In the beginning, that was I was horrible at it. And it's embarrassing, but it's also very cool to see how much I've gotten better and progressed over the years. Um, I've never been this vaa voom girl. And, you know, spicy though. Come on. Well, I am now. I, you know, when you're posing, you're just kind of turning on your persona and becoming somebody else on stage. And I think that's the best part. And, uh, just really mastering that presentation for bikini from the hair to the the posing so that it's all fluid and just looks effortless. And that's where you want to get. Um, I'll practice my posing in between sets and every day after a workout. And I think that's the best way to go. Oh boy, the people in the gym must love that. That's for sure. Because I know what they used to do when I used to pose in the mirror. They were horrified, but uh seeing you doing bikini turns in the mirror has got to be more entertaining. Yeah, you get a few looks here and there. All right. Well, you know, you you won the show this past weekend. You got the pro card. Um you're flying back to Seattle, Washington as a champion. We'll see you on a pro stage hopefully in the next couple weeks, maybe couple months. And all's good in in the world of Adrian Ao. Huh. Yes. So much. Thank you for this time. It's been awesome. Now, uh, just real quick, give us an idea of what do you do back in Seattle? Do you have a regular full-time job? I do. I am a project manager at a nonprofit. All right. And her nationality is officially Mexican, not Puerto Rican. That's right. Well, I want to thank you for uh stopping by and congratulations on the pro card. For now though, we are out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo with Adrian Nachoa in the AR asylum.