This new peptide incinerates fat. Stay tuned. I'll let you know what it is. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements. ments that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. whatever is on your mind, be it bodybuilding, non-Bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation, of course, IFBB Pro shows, the IFBB Pro Calendar, and full swing. And next week, very excited about this. Dave, myself, Chris Aceto, and a host of other uh big names you're going to see down there in Pittsburgh for the Pittsburgh Pro, the first ever Pittsburgh Pro is going to have an open class competition. Uh check on our Instagram right now. were on top of all the, you know, repost as far as like Nick Walker just posted a, you know, an update couple of hours ago and the show is shaping up to be very exciting. They announced yesterday that the guest posing, it's going to be another all-star guest posing. In traditional terms, it would be your best open class bodybuilders, you know, on stage for the guest posing. This year, obviously, with many of the best already competing this year, you're going to have Mr. Olympia Samson doubt. You're going to have twotime 212 Olympia champion Keon Pearson and then two of the best classic physique competitors and Mike Somerfeld and Raone Dino uh on stage guest posing. So everything that's going on that weekend we're going to capture for you. So if you haven't already done so, subscribe to this channel. We're going to have loads and loads of content throughout the course of the weekend. Dave, myself are going to be all over the place, wall towall. Obviously Chris is going to be joining us um on the wrap-ups. We actually got a message from someone today. I was having a conversation with him. So, Matt Grego, Matt Grego wants to be in on the recaps as well. So, we're going to have a lot of fun with this for of course we're going to do some interviews as well. We'll try to catch the athletes coming out of the pro meeting. Um, so a lot to expect over the course of that week, that weekend, and then of course the following week with the New York Pro. So, anything and everything is all on the table. We go to the questions, the first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. For shoulders, I like to include upright rows in my routine. However, in the days following the workout, I get significant stiffness and soreness in my rotator cuffs. Last for a couple of days. Should I continue including this movement in my routine or opt for lateral raise movements which do not cause the same symptoms. You know, um when my shoulders first started hurting, you know, I originally thought that it was rotator cuff for late. I didn't realize I had joint problems. But, you know, everyone has a little bit of strain in the rotator cuff from time to time. And the the stronger you become at pressing, you know, the weaker, you know, the rotator cuffs get stay pretty much the same, but the the deltoid muscles getting stronger. And this very powerful deltoid is pulling on those rotator cuffs. Now, what the rotator cuff does, it's these strap-like muscles that hold the head of the humorris into that acetabulin joint. So, if it if they get weak, you get movement in the joint. So, those muscles need to be strong. Now, if you're putting tremendous strain on the deltoid muscle that covers that that joint, uh it pulls at these rotator cuffs and they and they just can't handle the pulling because the deltoid muscle is so powerful. So, what you need to do is you need to train those rotator cuff muscles. You need to get a dumbbell and you might have to start really light like with a five pound dumbbell and you literally you put your arm up like this. You do these raises like this with each arm. you you get I get a cable and I do I do these where I rotate external rotation and I do those on my on my shoulder day. But if you have injuries, you might want to do it every other day for for like two weeks to strengthen those rotator cuffs up. And then what you'll find is they start tightening up because what happens is the muscles the rotator cuffs grow. They hypertrophy and they and they create more stability in that joint so that when you're pressing overhead, you're not going to feel that pain. Remember, you're only as good as the weak link in your body. And and that's the reason I tell people also if you train your biceps and triceps and you don't train your forearms, what becomes the weak link? This forearm muscle. And then you get wrist pain. So you cannot not train a muscle group, including the rotator cuff. Just because you can't see them doesn't mean you shouldn't train them. You got to train those rotator cuffs, especially the heavier you lift. Guys and and women who don't lift heavy will never really notice that. But when you start pushing heavier weights, those deltoid muscles will cause those rotators to get strained and possibly even tear if they're too weak. So, make sure you train them. Second question, again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. What are the best pep? We got a lot of questions, by the way, on peptides on this episode. Best peptides to increase IGF-1 levels. Well, I mean, the best way to increase IGF-1 levels is take IGF-1, which is a peptide. So you could, you know, if you go to our friends at titanmedicalcenter.com, you tell them you want some long R3 IGF-1, that's the best way to raise IGF-1 levels. Otherwise, you have to then hope that your body is going to release IGF-1. Now, what where do you where does IGF-1 get produced? Well, predominantly in the liver, right? So when GH is released in the body, okay, the liver then releases IGF-1 in response to that. Now, there also is local IGF-1 release in in all the muscle. So when muscle gets damaged for instance, it releases a local form of IGF-1 known as mechano growth factor MGF which is really just IGF-1 that's locally produced. Um those are small trivial amounts though that that happen and they basically you know initiate the repair process. But the the systemic release of IGF-1 is from the liver. So you want number one you want a healthy liver. Number two you you know everyone responds differently to GH. Now if you can stimulate GH production that which then stimulates IGF-1 you know production you can get IGF-1 that way. So a lot of guys take GH releasers like semiglutide and all the other ones that we've mentioned you know over you know that that are available. But the most direct way to increase IGF-1 is to take IGF-1. I mean that's just you know that that's the easiest way. The problem is if you take too much IGF-1 your receptors for IGF-1 downregulate too quickly. So, I always recommend 10 to 20 micrograms max per day, 30 days in a row at le take take two weeks off and then you can go back to 30 days in a row. And I only tell people to take IGF-1 usually when you when you're in an offseason scenario because it has an insulin-like effect. It will drop your blood sugar. So, if you're on low carbs, probably not a good idea to be doing that because you could get some low blood sugars. Now, these two questions were from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. It's an app you can download on your Android or iTunes store on your phone. You get Dave Palumbo, me as your coach in your back pocket essentially. It's 29 bucks a month. You get access to all my writings, all my videos in one place in a very organized manner. You get all my protocols offseason, my keto diets there, my cyclical carb diet, my offseason diet, all my drug cycles are there pre-contest, you know, offseason. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum. So, it's a great learning experience. You get to see everyone's questions, everyone's answers, and I do a Q&A video exclusively for the app members every single week. haven't missed yet. So, you get an extra ask Dave uh to learn by it's a basically it's like having a library of of knowledge in your back pocket that's constantly evolving and that's uh what people love about it because it's new information all the time. Thank you guys for supporting it. We're constant we have a ton of members on there and it keeps increasing and that's what basically motivates me to keep going. So, thanks a lot. We're going to take questions from our Instagram, our YouTube community, Facebook, all our social media outlets. Let's go to uh we had a quick question here about Reddit True Tide uh from uh Ricky. No, no, from uh Alter Eagle. Thoughts on Reddit true heart arhythmias being reported? Can it be mitigated or is it is it a risk that one must assume? It seems like a promising peptide. Your thoughts? Yeah, I I pronounce it retatride, but I don't know what the right pronunciation is. It's a little bit of a tongue twister. And this is like a third I would call I call it like a third generation um GLP agonist, you know, compound. So you had first you had ompic, right, which was a GLP-1 agonist, which we know slowed the digestive tract, it improved blood sugars, it um it caused a lack of appetite and people lost weight on it. Then they came out with Mjaro which was basically ompic plus uh a a GIP receptor agonist which basically increases insulin production and and helps lower blood sugars but for some reason the two of them synergistically together cause more weight loss. Unfortunately they don't really know why but but but it does work. MARO is more effective than Ozmpic. And now they just came out with a triple one that which they call retract or retro tribe and that includes a uh glucagon receptor agonist. Now it's interesting because GLP-1 you know reduces or blocks glucagon production. Now glucagon is what is the hormone that's released in in opposition to insulin. So insulin stores gluc you know sugar as glucose excuse me stores glucose as glycogen. Glyco glucagon takes glycogen and kicks glucose into the bloodstream raising blood sugar. So obviously if you reduce blood sugar you know that's going to help you know tighter blood sugar control. It's going to reduce insulin levels and it's going to you know make it easier to lose weight. But for some reason the addition of this glucagon receptor agonist which would increase glucagon production which doesn't make sense increases fat burning in the body. And they don't know why. And if you read all the I read all the literature, they're like we're trying to figure out why why they synergistically work together. So it appears at least in studies that this retatriide is more effective than both Mjaro and Ozmpic. It's because it's got three three targeted ways it's working. The question is does it have dangerous side effects? Um I read the article. I I'm not so convinced that that that it's something that's going to happen to everyone. I think if you're maybe prone to arrhythmias, it's possible that it can it can increase the the risk of them. But, you know, all these drugs do have side effects. You know, they one of the things they tell you right in the pamphlet is if you had a history of like a thyroid cancer, medularary thyroid cancer, you shouldn't take it or any kind of pancreatic, you know, pancreatitis or any kind of pancreatic issues. So, you know, come, you know, I had I first of all, I don't need it. I don't need to burn any more fat. I'm already too lean. But the point is I wouldn't take it because I had you know a thyroid cancer. So nothing is without side effects. Remember that. So the question is should you use it, should you not use it? Um I think it's relatively safe. I don't think the I don't think it would be approved um if if this particular drug was more dangerous than MARO because they don't need to risk it. MARO is selling they can't even keep the stuff in stock. So, I have to assume this is pretty safe and uh you know, maybe just there's a certain population of people that might be sensitive to it or or at risk. Um I think that it it is something that you can try and not really worry about it. Now, I think our good friends at Titan also have this new peptide as well. So, you can get Mangaro, Zepic, and this retachide from titanmedcenter.com. Just make sure you mention Dave Palumbo, RX Muscle for your discount. So, check it out again. Titanmedicalcenter.com. Uh, Bal Hamid, I keep reading that injecting peeds through an insulin s insulin syringe in the side delt area is not preferable and it's best to inject in the abdominal area. Is it true? And is there a difference? I think he said he said anabolics, right? Like testosterone. Yeah, he's talking about EDS uh through an insulin syringe. Yeah. I Yeah. I mean, I look, if you're only taking a very small amount of of testosterone, like I take literally um 20 units, okay, which is 40 milligrams twice a week. So, it only takes up like tw it's it's like it's like two ten of of of a cc. It's a very small amount. So, I put it in insulin syringe and I just pop it in my delt. But, I'm very lean. Um, for some people that don't have a lot of muscle on their body and that have more body fat, sometimes the insulin syringe because it's short doesn't go deep enough, you know, and and you can't get it into the muscle. Now, I know some people do inject subcutaneously, which you can do. Uh, I always think that when you do the subcutaneous injections, you kind of get like a an irritation uh and a swelling at the point of injection. So, I I prefer to do the intramuscular route. I don't I wouldn't recommend injecting anything on your stomach to be honest with you. Nothing. Because who the heck wants marks on your stomach and and you know what I mean? Because if you stick enough needles into your stomach, you're gonna you're going to leave marks and it could cause a little scar tissue. Abdominal area should be clear, you know, because that's the first thing you see when you take your shirt off, you know. So, I would stay away from the abdominal area. I would do it into the delts. I would do it into the glutes. Um, obviously, if you're doing an insulin shot, you know, with an insulin syringe, you're going to have to go delts. delta is this area of your delt is is the least fatty area on your body. So for most people, especially guys who work out, it's going to be a very easy, you know, the front it's it's really the side delt at the front part of the side delt or they call it the anterior part of the side delt is the ideal person's ideal place to put an insulin syringe loaded, you know, testosterone shot in. Now, if you're doing two, three cc's because you're on a cycle, I would do it with a with a 22 or 23 gauge at least one to one and a half inch syringe in your glutes or in your lats or deep into your shoulders. You don't put multiple cc's through an insulin pin. That that's that's disaster. When you're doing a lot of volume, you got to do it deeper into the muscle to make sure that it's it's getting in there. When you're doing small small amounts, it doesn't really matter. Let's take a question from our good friend Alexander Ruin Training. Uh, two-part question. Why do people say that it is not a good idea to swap EQ or DECA after 6 to 8 weeks like you do when the saturation time is 10 weeks or so? Also, why don't people go off cycle anymore? These new studies, and I don't know which studies he's referring to, but he says they're BS, but first part again, um, why do people think it's not a good idea to swap EQ or DECA after six to eight weeks? Why it's not a good idea or why it is a good idea? Why why do people say that it's not a good idea? I don't know. People idiots. I don't know. Look, if you have access to multiple drugs, look, let let's say you only have a prescription, right, for one of these rejuvenation clinics and they give you testosterone and deca. I would stay on that all the time, obviously, because you you know it's real. You have a prescription for it. You don't really have access to anything else. So, so that's fine. But you and most likely in those situations, you're using small amounts anyway. But if you're doing steroid cycles like to grow muscle, okay, and you're taking a thousand testosterone, you're taking, you know, 600 milligrams of EQ a week, um, I just find after six weeks, if you switch to another compound, it starts working. I don't wait till the drug stops working. I I switch the compounds while they're still working because you don't want to wait till the point of saturation where the receptors are just sick of it already. So, every six to eight weeks is is AI find is a good time to then switch drugs. So you might go from deca to EQ. You might go from EQ to trend, you know, an antate. You might go from trend to master, whatever you or you might go just back to EQ again. It doesn't matter. But keep switching them in the offseason so that your body stays, you know, like guessing the receptors don't know what it's going to get and and just before they stop working, you're switching compounds. I also don't like to use a lot of different drugs in the offseason. I like to just stick with two anabolics because we know two drugs has an exponential effect. There's no reason to kick three, four different drugs in because then you're getting used to all of them at the same time. So, I I'll stick with testosterone with an an with another anabolic and I'll keep switching it every six to eight weeks. And I find that look, just through experimentation with not only me but all my clients, that works best. You kick a little GH in with that, maybe an aromatase inhibitor if you need it, and you're good to go. Uh the most important part of the offseason is to eat and train heavy, right? and train well with full range of motion, etc., etc. The drugs are are are a necessary, you know, evil that are in there, but there's you don't have to do anything extremely exotic. Now, pre-contest will use more variety of drugs. We might use three drugs, four drugs toward the end just because we're trying to like, you know, maximize every little and squeeze out every little possibility. But the truth of the matter is, you could probably use two drugs for that. And I know guys that have done that and look just as good because it's just a matter of getting in shape. But by convention, we usually use more drugs, you know, or more variety of drugs. It may be in slightly lower dosages pre-contest. Let's go to raw muscle glutes. Does GH have any direct effects on the body or are all of its effects mediated through IGF-1? Well, the direct effect of growth hormone in the body is fat burning. So, it mobilizes fat directly. indirectly it builds muscle via the release of IGF-1 from the liver. So it has two effects on the body. It directly burns fat but it indirectly you know causes muscle growth via the release of IGF-1 which they used to call a smatamine because it was like a a middle hormone meaning that it was between something. So, GH caused this ex next hormone to be released which actually caused growth because we all thought originally back in the 80s that growth hormone was the hormone that was causing you know bone and muscle growth but it wasn't. They found there was another hormone that was released. It was along the line that was actually the initiating factor. They called it smata and smatamid and C initially and then changed the name to IGF-1. They actually changed it while I was in school. believe it, I was doing research. I've told the story before, so I'm not losing my mind. I was in my third year of college. Uh, this had to be 1989, and I stayed over the summer, and I was doing research on on chickens. And we were studying the effects of thyroid hormone on muscular development in chickens. And they were doing it with regular chickens and chickens with musculardrophe to see if adding, you know, or or to see if thyroid deficiency might have been responsible for what was causing what was happening in distrophic chickens or just or people who, you know, ostensibly the humans who had musculardrophe. So we did all these studies and what we found is that you know when you when thyroid hormones are not at adequate levels these somatamine C or IGF-1 levels are too low in the body meaning that the reason why the the muscles don't develop properly is because there's not enough IGF-1 release so that to at least to some degree thyroid hormone in the right amounts maximizes the release of IGF-1. So what that tells told me as when I entered the bodybuilding realm was that if your if your thyroid gland is not working adequately even if you have enough GH release you're not going to release enough IGF-1. So you want to make sure but ironically ironically when you take growth hormone it actually causes your thyroid gland or thyroid hormone T4 to convert to T3 at much higher amounts. So if you're on GH you'll notice your T3 levels tend to be higher and and T4 tends to be lower. And that's because that T3, which is the active thyroid hormone, is necessary to to make IGF-1 work better. So, it only makes sense that IGF-1 upregulates the conversion of T4 to T3 or either GH does it or IGF-1 directly. I'm not really sure. I don't think they know for sure, but we do notice that if you go for blood work while you're on GH, and the more you're on, the more you'll see this, you'll see a greater T4 to T3 conversion, meaning that your T3 levels are higher and your T4 levels might even be low. And T4 is and people say, "Well, that's why you should you should supplement with T4." And and the answer to that question is no, because T4 is an inactive thyroid hormone. It doesn't matter if it's a little low. It's low because you're converting more of it to T3, which is what's important because that's the active thyroid hormone. Had a question about uh HGH as and keto. Uh can you make good gains only running HGH? He says he's planning on using it while on keto while cutting to hold on a muscle while burning fat. I'll tell you my experience when I would go off cycle, you know, uh, in my offseason, and I would always stay on a little bit of growth hormone, you know, usually like two IUs a day for and I would notice a huge difference in recovery. And if I didn't take GH, I I noticed that I I I wouldn't recover as well. Now, I still got the def deflated look from coming off the steroids. I still lost some strength, but my recovery was much better on growth hormone than it was on nothing, which tells me that GH is important for muscle recovery and rebuilding, but it's not really going to give you those increased pumps. It's not going to give you the hypertroy of the muscle that the steroids do, but it's important in in protein synthesis and recovery. So, it does have an effect. The good thing is you can stay on GH when you're off cycle because the growth hormone has nothing to do with the androgen receptor or androgen receptor regeneration. So it's not going to interrupt your your your I guess recovery off cycle. The only thing you might want to do is a lot of guys go off to GH just because they want to give their pancreas a rest because remember it GH still antagonizes insulin production meaning that insulin doesn't work as well when GH is present. And that's why you want to stay on lower dose GH so you're not putting your pancreas under tremendous strain all year round. And so if you're going to go off cycle, you know, for six, eight, 10 weeks and you're going to stay on some GH, stay on like two IUs a day. I wouldn't stay on any more than that. Uh we had a question. I have a couple of questions about legs. Uh one is about uh Tom Platt's goes on with his nickname squadfather salt in a squad. Why does Tom Platt seem to have a negative opinion regarding the effectiveness of 45deree leg presses, often stating that it is a quote inferior movement? Do you know why he would say this? And do you agree with that opinion? You know, I always hated 45 degree leg press. I I you know, I never felt it in my legs properly. It was like a weird It's a weird like movement. Um, it like works like I always felt it worked a very limited amount of my quads and I felt like I was using a lot of hip joint in there to to push the weight up. I do vertical oh not horizontal leg press. So I'll get on a machine um or sometimes there's free weights but usually machine uh plate loaded machine and and I you push straight out because that I feel on my quads I feel it in my adductors. I feel it in my you know uh I feel it in my glutes a little bit if you if you can if you can come all the way back if you have that range of motion. But for some reason, I agree with them. I I don't like that. I never used it. And you know what? I would always do like squats and then I'd go to hack squats a lot of times. I what I would do by just because everyone did leg press. I would do some leg press, but I never really went super heavy on it because I always felt like you were cheating and I didn't really feel it. And you know, if you don't feel it in your legs, then it's not working. I'm sure there's guys that get good benefits out of leg press, but I always felt like, you know, you ever see Ronnie Coleman, you have to put like like he has like 2,000 pounds on that on that on that machine. There's no way that, you know, I just don't think it's working well. You know, it's it's just not a good movement to to build muscle. Uh nothing replaces squats. Hack squats are a good a good second movement. Um I hate also, you know what I hate? I hate those squat machines. I see guys using them. It's the machine does all the work for you. It stabilizes the weight and you wind up pushing from your back. Everyone leans forward into them and uses their their lower back to push the weight up. It it no one gets good leg development on those machines. Now, there are some people that have back injuries and and they have to use those machines and that's fine, but stay away from those machines if you don't need to use them. If you can free weight squat, that's what you should be focusing on because that's going to get you the best gains of anything. And it goes for the women, too. I see all these women come complaining about, I need glutes. I I see it in the gym. They all want to build glutes and they get on the that hip thruster machine, that stupid machine. They get on all these butt blaster machines and no one's getting under a squat bar and squatting. If you squat, you're going to build glute muscles. That I mean, that's exactly what they need. But people love machines because they're comfortable and and that's the reason they use them. But they're comfortable because the machine is doing a lot of the work. It's stabilizing the weight. You want to have your core stabilized. You want your your your your legs to stabilize. You want your glutes to st you want the muscle you're training to do the stabilization so that you get a fuller development. People just don't get that that it does not it's for some reason it doesn't compute. But we live in an you know an automated age where we don't want to push too hard. We don't want to be in pain. We want to we want to do things that require the least amount of effort to get the most benefit out of it. And that's fine. But you're not going to get the most benefit if you're not using free weight movements. I'm just curious. Is it actually called the butt blaster or did you just make that up? Because that's hilarious. No. Yeah, I think it's called the butt blaster. I'm pretty sure that there are but I don't know the original machine where you kick back that was called the butt blaster machine. Yeah. And then they uh you know they have a couple new versions of it. You know that hip thruster machine and a couple other you know BS machines out there. But they've grown their own segments in gyms recently. Pretty soon there's going to be glute only gyms. Someone should open up a gym called glutes. I bet you would be super popular with the women. I see I give away all my good ideas to on this show, but seriously, you know that's coming next. You're gonna be driving around one day and there's going to be like all new glutes opening up down the street. If I open the chain of gyms called glutes, I I can guarantee you I've packed the women into those gyms, man. Absolutely. Well, you did say that we're we got a couple of questions about legs. So, that one was about, you know, I guess uh leg machines. This one is a little bit more of a general, maybe a broad brush question. Why do the guys today have much larger legs but in width as opposed to say the 70s to early 2000s guys? Is it the advanced training techniques, machines? What would you attribute to? And do you agree with that sentiment? I don't know. I I think the guys in in the 90s had some pretty damn big legs. I mean I mean look at Nasser's legs. Look at my legs. Look at you know Ronnie's legs. I mean Jay's leg. I mean I mean Levrone when he first came out. I mean guys had huge legs because everyone squatted back then. weren't there weren't a lot of leg machines. You know, there was the leg press, the hack squat, and and and the free weight squat and everyone squatted. Um, guys today have big legs. I mean, Nick Walker has huge legs, but there's a lot of guys that don't have huge legs either. So, I think that the guys that train hard and there's and I would say 90% of the of the pro bodybuilders train very hard out there. They have great legs because of that. And and if you ask 99% of the people, if you who have good legs, you ask them what they did to build those legs, they'll tell you free squats. There's a couple of genetic freaks that, you know, build their legs without squats, but not many. Now, there may be guys that don't do squats now because they have injuries, but they built those quads and they built those hams and adductors and glutes using squats initially. So, you can't just because they don't do it now doesn't mean that they didn't do it in the past. So, I think you should take that into consideration. Earlier, we had a question about uh someone wanted to go on HGH while on a keto diet. Well, this one extends, I guess, the applications of a keto diet. What do you think of the research and anecdotal evidence out of Harvard that keto is ridding people of anxiety, depression, and worse conditions like bipolar, etc. Look, it makes sense. I've been saying this for 30 years. I was the original ketogenic diet guy in the bodybuilding realm. I'm not take look Atkins was before me and then you know the guys like Vince Deronda they were doing like you know protein fat for you know back a long time ago but I kind of popularized it for the bodybuilding world and I made sure that people were not only using high protein in their ketogenic diets a lot of the medical ketogenic diets are low lower protein and higher fats we I did high protein moderate fats okay with low carbs and the reason it works well and and I and I've said this before. What's the major reason people fail on their diet? Because they cheat. Why do they cheat? Because they're hungry. When you're on a on a non- ketogenic diet, in other words, when your brain is using glucose as a fuel source and you lower your carbs, right? Everyone has to lower carbs to lose weight. You know, if you lower your carbs, now your brain has a reduced fuel supply. So, when you're eating, you feel good. But in between meals, your blood sugar gets low and your brain says, "I need more food." and and you get grumpy and hungry and irritable. And so it's hard to stick to a diet when you feel like that all the time, especially if you have to work during the day in a work setting where you have to think and and interact with other human beings. Bodybuilders, most of us sit home. You know, we don't we can do whatever we want. It doesn't matter if we're in a grumpy mood, but for the average person, they're not going to be successful on a low carb diet. But if you get them onto a ketogenic diet where they're not the carbs are so low that now their brain switches its metabolism from using carbs, glucose as a fuel source to using fats, ketones as a fuel source. You have an unlimited supply because you always have stored body fat available and then you're going to be eating fat in your diet. So, you have a fuel source. So, now the brain is like, great, we're never out of fuel. We don't have to worry about what blood sugar is. And a matter of fact, blood sugar is always stable on a ketogenic diet because you're not really dipping into it very much. The only time you dip into blood sugar would be if you're doing, you know, highintensity, you know, workouts like weight training or if you're silly enough to do highintensity cardio, you're going to dip into that that glucose source. But other than that, you don't need it. Your brain has an unlimited fuel source. Now, if your brain has a stable blood uh supply of fuel on a ketogenic diet, you know, and you feel good while dieting, imagine if you have a brain disorder that that you know that has, you know, that that doesn't do well on fluctuations, you know, I I don't know about bipolar, but there are certain, you know, issues that people have mentally, you know, where they they get depressed, you know, and they they don't feel good because of fluctuating glucose levels in the brain. So because the ketogenic diet keeps the the the levels of fuel consistent in the brain, it see tends to alleviate a lot of problems. It's phenomenal for people who have seizure disorders. It almost eliminates seizures completely. Okay? Because you're you're not fluctuating these these energy levels in the brain. Depression a lot of times, you know, is is very uh responsive to that. And now I'm hearing bipolar. It doesn't it doesn't surprise me because bipolar is right. You're up and down and up and down and up and down. If you can stabilize the brain a little bit more, you're more likely to stabilize moods as well. And so it it like I said, it doesn't surprise me. It's not for everyone. Everyone doesn't need it. If you have a fast metabolism, you don't need to do it. But I put almost every woman that I diet on that. They do really, really well. They don't because women like to snack and it takes away that urge to snack. It's almost like a GLP one. It's almost like taking ozic when you're on a ketogenic diet because it stabilizes blood sugar and fats delay the absorption of food through the intestinal tract. So you feel less hungry and you feel more satiated for a longer period of time and that once again leads to the success in dieting. If you're not hungry and you don't and and you don't cheat, you're going to have better results. We'll take one more question. It's a question that kind of leads into another question. First part of it is cortisol control especially as it relates to inflammation and high blood pressure. Would increasing GH help? And then I guess the second part of it is um best ways to increase GH naturally. Yeah. Well, sleep sleep decreases uh cortisol and increases GH, right? When we sleep, we release growth hormone. So that's one way. Okay. That so people who don't sleep enough, they tend to have higher cortisol levels, lower GH levels. That's that's that's an easy easy solution right there. Um, eating a high protein diet increases growth hormone release obviously. We know that um exercising, you know, post exercise, you you have a big surge of of growth hormone release in the body. Um, obviously if you want to do it naturally, those are the best two ways. Sleep and and and training. Uh, if you take a growth hormone releasing peptide like a serarellin you can get from like titanical center.com that will increase growth hormone, but that's now you're artificially stimulating it. Okay? So, you know, it's if you get your body into a good rhythm of eating regularly, you know, so your body knows when to expect food, okay? You're going to see better results in your body. It's all about regularity. For people who are all over the map with their eating and sometimes they eat, you know, they miss a meal and then they overeat at the next meal. That whacks the body out. The body likes regularity. Okay? When you stress the body out, you raise cortisol levels. Okay. When blood sugar drops too low because you're missing meals during the day, what does your body do? It releases cortisol. Cortisol turns amino acids into into into glucose and raises blood sugar. So, we don't if you want to avoid high cortisol levels, don't miss meals and get enough sleep at night. The best two ways. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Again, reminder, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. We have all new episodes of the After Hours Podcast. Last week, we posted a clip um from a previous episode of Ask Dave where uh Mike Mener reacted to seeing Dave Palumbo in the parking lot of Gold's gym. Well, yesterday uh it was a lot more expansive uh you know, untold stories of Mike Mener, hilarious stories of Mike Mener. You know, Larry, who's you know, a regular on the panel, was actually a roommate of Mike Mener for a year. So, some of the things that he was able to share, I'm sure have never been heard before, and you're definitely definitely going to want to check it out and hear those stories. All new episode of After Hours, then of course, all new episode of Heavy Muscle Radio, Dave Palumbo and Chris Aceto. Again, next weekend, we'll be in Pittsburgh for the Pittsburgh Pro. And we are going to be packing your YouTube timeline, your Instagram feed with all sorts of content. So, if you're not already subscribed, subscribe. Hit the notification bell. And if you're not following us on Instagram, official_rxmuscle for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadique Farooqi. We'll see you next time.