Find out the secret fat burning ingredient in Nick Walker's contest prep for the New York Pro after this. I created species nutrition with one mission in design to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever is on your mind, be it bodybuilding, non-Bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation, whatever it is, IABB pros competitions, of course, we are now in the thick of the contest calendar. Uh the Dubai Pro and the China Pro on the same weekend in a week and a half. So, a big show. Uh, we're gonna get another chance to see Beer Ruse, Tobani, and perhaps perhaps a couple of other big names. There are some rumors floating around right now. We'll see if any of these big names confirm, but nonetheless, a lot of reasons for excitement. So, again, whatever's on your mind, any question you have, bodybuilding or otherwise, it is all on the table. as we go straight into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo experience app. Um, there is a shortage of Tren ace and Mastron pro in my country. I'm not sure he doesn't specify which country. I'm only able to get Trent and Anantate and Mastron and Antate. Can I use the long esters for my contest prep? Yeah, it doesn't really matter. The Trembolone and Tremolin, you're going to get the same effects. the the short acting esters like the trenacetate just hit you a little faster and uh you know they also cause more side effects too in people. Back when I was competing in the early 90s there was no trend acetate. We were using parabolone which was trend you know hex which was like a long acting tremblone and it worked great you know so I think for a lot of people that do have the side effects of not being able to sleep uh or it affects their appetite and digestion maybe gives them hiccups this is very common with trenastate you're better off going with the long acting trend now he didn't mention which country there's a there's a lack of tritetate in but I'm sure there's someone out there right now saying hm maybe I should move into that country and start producing some of them. But seriously, yeah, the long acting esters are fine. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo experience app. Do you still rotate some clients between the protein fat diet and the protein veggie diet? And I guess I'll add to that. When would you do that? If you do I most women that I work with I have on a ketogenic diet, you know, except the ones that have like crazy genetic freaky metabolisms, then I can feed them carbs or some women just they absolutely just don't do well on on on protein fats and they do better on on a little bit of carbs. Uh but you know, most women can't eat carbs at all. So, I do protein fat alternated with protein vegetables, which is basically, you know, a certain serving of protein rather than with a serving of fat like, you know, nuts or avocados or or macadamia nut oil. I'll give them a vegetable like um asparagus, spinach, you know, green beans, a very low glycemic vegetable. And I do that because it kind of like it puts them in a really big deficit on those days calorically speaking. And they usually burn a lot of fat on them these days. And a lot of times when you first give them those days, they actually like them better because vegetables take up more volume in your in your stomach. Unfortunately, they're they're they have virtually no calories or they're very low. So, they don't really sustain you very well. But if you do like two days of protein and fat, which is, you know, my typical ketogenic diet, and then you drop it to a a day of protein and vegetables, they're so low that they'll, like I said, usually you see a good fat loss on those days and and they deplete real well. And then the next day you're putting them back on fats which gives them a little more calories because fats are higher in um calories than say vegetables would be and that kind of like shocks their body. So I do that with women. Very rarely do I do it with men except guys that are like we're down to two weeks left and and and they're still just not where I need them to be. And then I might do something extreme like that. Um you know I know Kevin Levrone used to like to do protein vegetables you know uh before a show. He would sometimes do it for six weeks straight, but he's he's a genetic freak. Mo most guys would wither away on that. And their metabolisms actually might slow down because of that. So, I don't go there unless I need it. It is a tool I have in my tool shed to use if necessary, but I like to get guys in shape, you know, prior to getting down to that two week mark. Now, some guys come to me at two, three weeks out and they say, "I'm not making good progress with my coach. Can I hire you the last three weeks?" And and I have my work cut out for me. And in cases like that, I probably would do that. But that's an extreme measure. Now, these two questions were from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. If you guys haven't subscribed, you can download it from your Android store, your iTunes store. It is uh you basically get Dave Palumbo in your back pocket as your coach and it's $29 a month. You get all my writings, all my videos in one organized place. I have all my protocols, drug offseason, pre-contest, beginner, advanced, women, men, detoxifications in there. I have all my diets, offseason, pre-contest, rotation diets. It's it's a really good resource. It's like a library of a lot of great information. And it's constantly being updated because I do a Q&A in an open forum for every app member. So, you can ask any question you want and it's answered in an open forum. So, everyone sees everyone's questions and answers. Great learning experience. and we do a Q&A video just like this as Dave except it's an extra one every single week for the app members only. And so it's a great great learning resource. Uh we have a a ton of members. Thank you for your support. Tell your friends about it. It's a really good good resource. If you're looking to buy a gift for someone, it's a great gift. Uh if they're a bodybuilder, I'm sure they'll greatly appreciate it. Before we go to the rest of the questions from our social media platforms, our friends at Titan Medical Center have a weekly uh special, the Triton Trifecta package, the Hercules Potion. Um Titan Complete and your ECA stock. Uh if you want to tell the audience a little bit more about this weekly special from Titan Medical Center. Yeah, they're giving a huge discount on all these stacks. I I like the um you know if you can't get clbuterol which is a great fat burner obviously not legal but if you want to order something legal the ECA stack which is the ephedra caffeine aspirin stack they sell that legally you can get that prescribed it works really well a lot of people like it they like that little boost from the ephedra you know they get you can get that from titanicalcenter.com I know a lot of people think it's it's unavailable you can't get that uh that drug anywhere anymore now you can still get it by prescription you don't even I don't think they even they're saying no consult required, right? You can just call there and order it. So, that's great. So, you don't have to do a consult with their doctors. You don't have to do blood work. You just call in, say you want to order it, you can order that. And uh so, they're having a huge discount on that. So, if you guys don't have access to climb and you want something that's going to boost your metabolism a little bit, give them a shot. Plus, all those other potions are also greatly discounted this week only. Titanicalcenter.com. So again, if you mention Titan Medical, go to titanmedicalcenter.com or give them a call. Uh let me pull up their phone number 7273893220. Again, this is all available at titanmedicalcenter.com. Mention RXMuscle Dave Palumbo and they will hook you up. Let's go to the rest of the questions. Um there was a real I'm just trying to pull it up real quick. Uh it's from Charlie Cruso. I'll give him a shout out. Let me pull up the Here we go. So, he pulled a clip from a recent podcast where Nick Walker talks about uh Reddit True Tide. Now, we've gotten quite a lot of questions on Reddit True Tide uh over the last few weeks. Um and then I guess he Nick Walker opens up about using it for his prep. Let's take a listen. Taking Reddit too tried. On a recent podcast, Nick Walker did say for this bodybuilding prep leading up to the Pittsburgh Pro and the New York Pro show, he did use the peptide known as reatrite as an appetite suppressant. And he said that it worked amazing for him. And Kyle had me use the reatide reaut and it it worked tremendously. The great thing about this is that it burned fat very well for him. So much so that Nick didn't need to take a lot of harder compounds to lose fat during this prep. Now, if you don't know what REDA is, it's a triple hormone receptor agonist targeting GLP-1. It's primarily aimed at treating obesity and has shown promise in weight loss and diabetes management. It's interesting hearing a big-time bodybuilder like Nick talk about this, especially at such a high remark. This will be something that 100% a lot of guys start implementing and I know many already have. I believe this will be a peptide that potentially if you don't use it, you're just going to get left behind. And Nick has seemingly transitioned right into the Mr. Olympia prep 18 weeks out. And I would put a lot of money on it that Rea is a big reason for that. This new peptide will be utilized a ton and not only in bodybuilding. Open bodybuilders are now taking Reddit too tribe on a recent this is yeah so let me cancel out of that. Uh but again going to his point that not only again reacting to Nick Walker using but to his assertion that he can see this being a gamecher that a lot more bodybuilders will use Red Tru. What do you say to that? Well, you know, there a lot of bodybuilders already, especially the women are using Mjaro, which is a double. It's a GLP one agonist. It's also a GIP agonist. Uh, retatrite just adds another It actually adds a glucagon agonist to it, which is kind of weird because glucagon, you know, mobilizes blood into the into the bloodstream and raises blood sugar, which kind of the other aspect of, you know, the GLP-1 agonist kind of lowers blood sugar. So, it's kind of weird that that that that's added to it. Um, I I I'm not really a huge fan of the the reduite. I think the MARO is better for bodybuilders, believe it or not, because I don't really want blood sugar being raised with the glucagon antagonism or agonism, I should say, of in the Red of Truth. But regardless, I don't know why Nick used it. The guy's got in shape very easily for every show I've ever seen him in. I think that it's one of these things where these gurus just like to throw everything in the kitchen sink in. There's no way he's using less of anything else. They're adding it on top of everything. That's the way it goes in this industry. And there's nothing wrong with that. Why? I mean, if everything else works perfectly, why would you take something out if you're adding something else in that's ostensibly going to burn more fat? Uh, what it did for him is it took the edge off his hunger. The reason why these GLP-1 agonist take the edge off your hunger is it slows the digestive tract. So, the food has a certain pace that it goes through the digest digestive tract, right? the more fats in your in your meals, the slower it goes. Which is why a lot of times people like my protein and fat diet because it it sustain gives you more sustenance and doesn't make you as hungry as quickly, whereas carbs go through faster. So, they you tend to be hungrier after a meal. But the red truth type slows that transit. The problem is you can get really constipated, especially in bodybuilders like Nick who are probably eating an enormous amount of food even on a contest diet. So, you have to use you have to use a fiber supplement. You know, I I don't mind if everyone in the whole world uses Red True, but I will sell a ton of fiber because of that because if you don't take fiber while you're taking those things, you're you're not going to go to the bathroom and you're going to get backed up. And in a lot of cases, people wind up in the hospital because they have, you know, fecal retention and it gets hard and then they can't poop. So, that's something that you have to be careful of, especially as bodybuilds, we don't want to get distended, you know, abdomen because of that. So, you definitely want to take, you know, something like fiberizer, a potent fiber supplement. think that we're the best on the market at this point. I'm pretty I'm pretty confident in saying that. So, I don't care if people use it, but I don't think that everyone needs to use it. It's one not one of these drugs that you just throw in there uh on top of everything. It's great for people who are cheaters on their diet, who have trouble sticking to a diet, but if you don't need it, in other words, you're if you're a militant diet dieter already and you don't cheat on your diet, I don't think there's any benefit to adding it. I think that you're only all you can get is side effects. You know, you're not getting any benefit. People say, "Have you tried it?" And I'm like, why? No zero body fat on my body. Why would I even take this? Why would I take this stuff just because everyone else is taking it? So, it's not like everyone should take this. It's it there's a certain population of people that do really well on it. I have women that have trouble losing weight. They're snackers. They have eating disorders. They take this and it takes that urge away to eat between meals. It doesn't mean you shouldn't eat, okay? Because a lot of people make the mistake and think that this drug causes um muscle loss. It does not. What causes muscle loss is not eating. If you miss meals, so in other words, if you're eating six times a day as a bodybuilder and you start taking Red True Tai and then you stop, you only eat four meals a day and you're losing weight, you're probably losing muscle, too. So don't cut out your meals. Just don't snack in between meals. As long as you keep your food intake at what it should be, in other words, your protein intake at a certain amount at a certain time interval every, you know, all throughout the day, you're going to you're only going to lose fat. when you start missing meals, that's when you start losing muscle and you don't want that. It's funny because they they're actually I'm going to do a video on this, a separate video on this. They have a it's one of these new f um myostatin inhibitors out there. There's two new drugs and they're doing studies with complexing the the myostatin inhibitor which inhibits myostatin which sensibly unlocks muscle growth with like ompic or with like mangaro. So they're putting them together and they're saying, "Oh, if you take these together, you won't lose muscle." Which is really which is really ironic because the reason they're still not acknowledging that the fact that the people are losing muscle on these GLP-1 agonist is because they're not eating. It's it has nothing to do with the fact that the drug is causing muscle loss. The drug does not cause muscle loss. Not eating causes muscle loss. Not eating enough protein during the day causes muscle loss. Imagine if you take a drug and you don't eat all day and you start losing weight. you're gonna lose equal muscle and fat. And maybe that's the goal. I don't maybe you don't care if you know some of these Hollywood people, they're just fat slobs. They don't give a [\h__\h] you know, how they lose the weight. They'll lose muscle. They'll lose fat. They just want to see the scale go down. But for bodybuilders, performance-enhanced athletes who are looking to look their best on stage, you cannot skip meals. You must take a fiber supplement with this drug. And once again, the drug is not for everyone. If you don't need it, don't use it. Is this the part, Dave, where we uh drop a promo code below in the in the comment section? That's right. Yeah. Anyway, go to speciesnutrition.com. Next question. Question about creatine. Is supplementing with creatine a bad idea if you have high creatin levels? I currently only take post-workout. Um IV had or as I've said IV as I've had kidney failure in the past uh just as a recovery aid three times a week. So the question is creatine with high creatinine levels. Is that a bad idea? Yeah, I'd say it's a bad idea. I I if I had high creatinine, I would not take creatine because it's just it's putting stress on the kidneys to have to break the stuff down into creatinine and it's probably not a good idea. Now, some people run high slightly high creatinine levels because of the fact that they're eating a high protein diet. They're training really hard. But if they test their cyatin C levels, which is really the the the premier indicator of kidney health and those are normal, then then there's nothing to worry about. The problem is that when cistatin C starts, you know, dropping a little bit or or going too high, I should say, uh, I would not take creatinine creatine, I would not take a creatine supplement. But if you're if you're, you know, if you're just running a little on the higher side of creatinine, meaning that, you know, there's a range from like I think it's like 0.8 8 to like 1.35 or something like that. And in men, you know, there's a higher value. For women, I think 1.25 is normal. If you're running 1.35 as a bodybuilder, that's really not high. It's the high normal, but it's really not high because I expect to see higher levels from bodybuilds. We eat a ton of protein. We we work out hard, which means we break down muscle, which goes into the bloodstream and has to be daminated by the kidneys. So, that's kind of normal. It's when you start seeing those creatins of 1.5, 1.6, 6 1.7 that that's that's too high already. Now you want to definitely avoid creatine supplementation. And this guy has a history of of kidney failure or kidney issues. So probably wouldn't push the I wouldn't push the envelope. Uh question about we do get a lot of questions lately about peptides and the various various applications of peptides. This one along the lines of you know depression and anxiety. Uh, are you familiar with the peptides and I don't know if I'm pronouncing correctly, Celank or Selank and CX, uh, S E M- A-ax. I believe they're to help with mental health, anxiety, brain fog, depression, etc. It could be quite helpful for bodybuilders as we all seem to have a few mental issues. Your thoughts? Yeah, you know, I I have I've heard of these peptides. I've theoretically heard of what they do. I don't know anyone that's actually gotten any success from it or relief from it or or have said, "Holy mackerel, this changed my life." So remember, a lot of these peptides are being studied in like ma mice models. They're being studied in in labs. And so theoretically, they're isolating these things from the brain. So they're like, "These things should theoretically do this, but do they really do this in humans?" you know, do you know, when you test them on mice for a week and you get a result, does that necessarily translate to a human? And most of the time it doesn't. And I and I always worry about just shotguning every peptide you known to man into your body hoping that maybe some of them will work because who knows if they interact with each other. Who knows if they if they mess up cascades of other, you know, stuff that's going on in your body. So, I don't like the whole polyfarm pharmacy thing because we just don't know how these peptides all interact with each other. So, what I recommend doing is using the ones that we know work and the ones that are kind of on the fence that that that really we're not getting good reports on or we're not getting any consistent reports on. I would avoid those until they're proven otherwise. You know, we know that BPC-157, TB-500 are good healing peptides. We know they work. We know IGF-1 works. We know growth hormone works. We know insulin works. Those are all peptide hormones, right? We know melanotan makes you darker. Okay, these are proven GHPS, the growth hormone releasing peptides work. We know these work. So, there's no fear at using those and we know what the results are. But these more esoteric ones that that we really have not a lot of practical empirical information on, I would just avoid them. I I just don't think it's worth it. Uh, question about wacky pre-contest rituals. This is from our friend Raw Muscle Glutes. Weirdest or wackiest pre-contest ritual or superstition that you ever heard or seen a bodybuilder do. You know, I should write these things down because I I forget. You know, there was back in my day, there would be guys that stunk to high heaven because they hadn't taken a shower for a week backstage because they thought that if they bathed in water, it would cause water retention. Uh I there were guys that wouldn't brush their teeth the day the morning of the show and their breath sunk because they thought the sodium fluoride in the in the toothpaste was going to make them hold water. I mean, stuff as ridiculous as that. I mean, those are probably the two most disgusting because I I I'm a smell guy, so like when I smell someone's breath that stinks or their body odor that stinks, you know, I it drives me nuts. But but that I've seen some kooky kooky stuff that people have done like protocols like taking like, you know, 150 units of insulin, you know, the the night before and eating like, you know, thousands of grams of carbs. I mean, just wacky [\h__\h] You know, the diuretic protocols that some of these people take are insane as well. But as far as just like weird [\h__\h] like those are the probably two things that come to mind from my competitive years sitting backstage and and it's always, it's funny, it's always the guys that do those weird things that don't even look that good. Like like in other words, rather than diet hard and get in the best shape of your life, they're like worried about you brushing their teeth with sodium fluoride that they're going to hold water. Meanwhile, the guy is like three, four weeks out from being in in contest shape, you know, and he's on stage and he's worried about toothpaste, you know. So, but that's part for the course. The guys that look the best don't do crazy [\h__\h] That's that's really the the bottom line. Ask any guy that consistently looks good at every show. There's there's no craziness in their routine. Matter of fact, it's probably very boring their routine. They do the same thing every single day and that's what yields good results. Question about optimal testosterone. Uh I respond well to testosterone and can get my levels to 5,000 by taking 750 mg per week. And with taking 1,000 mg per week, it was up to 7,500. In your opinion, what is the optimal testosterone level to be at if I can get my levels that high? Yeah. I don't know what the total testosterone that on blood work is in terms of how you can relate that to results in the gym, but I do know that the sweet spot of injecting uh testosterone seems to be 1,000 milligrams a week. I mean, that was in my experience what worked the most magic. It had the least side effects with the most results. Once I went over 1,000 milligrams a week and I went to 1,200, I I felt a little blo I felt a lot more bloaty and I felt a little more nauseous, like almost like a flu-l like feeling. And so, and I didn't notice any more muscle gains. So, I I would cut back and I would do the thousand milligrams per week. If I went a little less than 1,000 milligrams a week, I didn't grow as much. and the the side effects were no different. So that was my sweet spot. Other people might have a slightly higher sweet spot or a slightly lower sweet spot. I know guys that do well on 800 milligrams a week and they're fine and they and they they like it and if they go to a th00and they kind of feel crappy. So you kind of have to there's a range, but I think a thousand on average tends to be the ideal amount of testosterone per week. We can't hear you. you know, this silly mute button. Uh, would you recommend running an offseason cycle all the way through contest prep and then coming off after contest or is there a benefit from running an offseason cycle and then coming off for eight weeks before starting the contest prep cycle again? Yeah, I don't, you know, I don't like coming off before because if you're if you're at a nice peak, let's say you get up to 300 lbs, I just for for argument sake in the offseason and you you're feeling good, you're strong as as can be, you're big, you might be a little bloaty, but you know, that's fine. And then you got 16, you know, now you go to start contest prep. Um, I would go right into the contest prep at this point. Why would you want to go backwards and then have to try to go up again? So get through the contest prep, be your best, hold as much size as possible, and then after the prep, definitely come off and give yourself eight to 10 weeks off the off the drugs. So you don't want to like go up and then down and then go up again. It's it's it's it's ridiculous, you know, at that point. So I I would recommend staying on offseason pretty unless you're doing a super unless you're doing like a two-year offseason, that's a different story. But if you're doing like from January to like you know uh April or May offseason and then you're going to do a 16week or 18week you know pre-contest to compete in the fall. I think that's perfect. Go continue. We do get this question very often but I think it is one that applies to really the whole gamut of bodybuilders and that is uh dealing with hunger during a diet when you're pre-contest. your tips, your best tips to dealing with hunger and the craziness that goes with that when you're dieting. I've done everything from drinking two liters of diet coke and diet sodas, you know, just I coffee was a tremendous help for me. I would do coffee with like, you know, maybe some Splendor Stevia in it, uh, black, but and when you're dieting, it tastes like chocolate milk, you know, to me. I've done a lot of times I'll I'll leave the house. In other words, if I'm starting to get crazy and I'm super hungry and I and I know I got an hour or an hour and a half to my next meal and I'm and it's and I can't like rest or take a nap or to try to or what I used to do is try to like clean things. I would clean out a closet, you know, just to pass the time. If if it got to that point where I was just going crazy, I just got out of the house. Do not stay in the house when you're freaking starved. And you know, everyone has a list of options. It's like almost like a menu in your head of what uh you know what what to do when you feel like you're starving, right? In some people's drop- down menu, uh cheating is is is an option. In my in my menu, my drop down menu, it was never an option. So, I I was never going to sit there and put extra food in my mouth just because I was hungry. So, it didn't matter. There were plenty of other options. do computer work, clean, go out, take a ride, go someplace, you know, get on a phone call with someone to distract you. But it was never stick something in your mouth, eat an extra couple of raisins, eat eat a eat some almonds. I that was never an option for me cheating. It just it just wasn't. And that's what because I did not ever want to have an excuse when I got on stage that I wasn't my absolute best. So that's my suggestion. If if you are just one of these people that that cannot control themselves and they and you're going to cheat because you just can't you don't have that willpower, you're probably a very good candidate hearkening back to our earlier question of doing a GLP-1 agonist like an Ozic or Mjaro or Revit True Tide because that will curve your appetite between meals. But for anyone who's, you know, getting into this sport and wants to bodybuild and wants to compete for the next 10 years, you better learn how to suffer because that's required. It's not fun between meals when you get down to very low body fat. And if you're not a person who who can endure that that suffering, you're in the wrong sport because it doesn't get any easier. Okay? It gets worse if anything because the longer you do it, you're like, "Oh my god, I got to do it again." It's part of the whole sport. The good thing is that after the show's over, you can eat whatever you want. So, it's deferred gratification. There's a lot of people out there that don't know how to defer gratification. They want instantaneous, you know, gratification all the time. And if you're one of those guys, bad option to be a bodybuilder. Not sure if we're getting trolled or if you've actually seen people use this backstage. Um, again, we talked about wacky, superstitious things that people do before stepping on stage. Pam cooking spray. Do you recommend spraying Pam cooking spray in your body before going on stage? Is that something? Is that a thing or or are we being trolled? Yeah. No, that that was backstage. A lot of times, you know, they have people who oil you up backstage. A lot of times they have the at least when I was competing, they had a ton of Pam back there and that's what they used as oil. Yeah, they would just spray because it's sprayed on more evenly, you know. Um I, you know, I used to use some of the stuff from Protan. I think it was called Muscle Juice and there was a bunch of other tanning oils that they would put on that actually smelled really good. Pam doesn't have a smell. Um but I remember back in the day. Nowadays, a lot of the um the spray tanning people have a special oil that goes or at least they say it's special that goes with the specific type of tan that you have. So, the good thing is that they have people backstage and they're and they're oiling you up. Whereas, when I competed, you had to find someone, another guy there who's backstage and you'd oil his back, he'd oil your back, and you'd do the rest of it yourself. But at the national level, they always seem to have people back there. But nowadays, I see there's always people backstage oiling people up, which is really kind of cool uh to have that. This way, at least, you know, your back is done properly. You know, you're not too shiny, you're not too too um you're not too um uh dull. When I go backstage now at these shows, because I've been going to a lot more shows recently, this past year, I'm usually walking around and if I see someone who's too oily, I'll tell them I'll pat them down with a towel. If I think they're not oily, I'll say, "Hey, go over there and get some more oil on your back." And everyone's very appreciative because it's when you're backstage, you're really nervous. And and and a lot of times these guys are doing or women are doing their first show and they don't know any better. So to have someone like myself or people who know what they're doing back there advising them how to you properly oil that's that's a really cool thing to have. But yeah, they used to use Pam. I don't know if I don't see too much Pam. I think like I said I think the the companies like Liquid Sunrays or Protan have their own oils that they use now. Uh the I guess second part to that question was there any flavor that you saw backstage or that you would recommend of Pam cooking or spray whatever? No, it was usually very generic, but like I said, I liked I always loved the Protan. I gotta give a shout out to Stacy who owns the Protan. He's a He's an awesome guy. He's been doing it for many, many years, over 30 years. He he had some amazing smelling oils back there that I used to love. And matter of fact, when I would go into a bodybuilding or I'd go into like an auditorium, gymnasium or wherever they were holding the bodybuilding shows back in the night, it was always a smell that I smelled and it it just said there's a bodybuilding show here to me. And it's still you can still it's still that way nowadays. It's not as strong, but I and I think it was because of his products that that had that special smell. A lot of times we used I don't see it used much anymore. It's called hot stuff spray. It was like a vaso dilator. It would dilate your veins on your on your body. And the problem is it made you a little bit red sometimes, but it would it I would get crazy. You know, I have a lot of veins already. And that was always being used in the 90s. And that smell it had such a strong smell that stuff that you it permeated the air of the whole of the whole arena, the whole gym or the whole whatever school it was being held in. And there was it was just a very distinctive smell. I don't smell that anymore, but there is definitely when you walk backstage, you can smell this bodybuilding show here. Uh, wanted to take home more. I'm not sure if I asked this about a week, week and a half ago. It's about uh uh tmoxifen and milk thistle. Did we ask this question already or I'm not sure. Okay, so I'll ask it. Um, says that he's seen contradictions regarding tmoxifen and milk thistle. Does this refer to taking them at the same time? Um, I don't think it matters to be honest with you, but you know, tmoxifin is usually taken every 12 hours. So, you take it in the morning when you get up. It's an estrogen receptor blocker. First of all, for those of you who don't know, Nulvidex, Tmoxifin, same drug. You take you take 10 milligrams in the morning and you take 10 milligrams 12 hours later. That's just how it's taken. It's a 12-h hour pill. Whereas milk thistle, I usually take milk thistle with my last like with dinner, you know. uh milk thistle's designed to dilate the bile ducts that drain the liver into the gallbladder. What's the advantage of doing that? Well, the liver we know detoxifies all the drugs in your body and all the poisons and toxins and stuff like that and then it drains it into the gallbladder. Okay? And then the gallbladder releases bile when you eat fats and that goes into the digestive tract and then you poop it out. Right? So the if you can dilate those those bile ducts more it gives it better flow to the liver and it allows the liver to detoxify itself more efficiently. Whereas sometimes when the liver gets inflamed because it's it's being asked to do a lot of detoxification those bile ducts can get pinched off because there's too much inflammation. The liver's swelling and then they can't it can't drain itself and it backs up and the liver starts to get you know can get lay down scar tissue and stuff like that. by taking a milk thistle product. I actually sell a Bill Wellins product called Liver Stable on Dave Palumbo.com. It's a really good liver detoxifier. You take that, you know, like I usually take it at night before bed and then or with my last meal, I should say, and it just opens those bile ducts up and just lets all that junk just flow out of that liver. And that's probably if you're on a cycle especially, uh you should probably take that every day. Did want to sneak one more in. Uh the what is the point of intraworkout carbs if it takes at least 24 hours for carbs to be stored as glycogen? Yeah, I mean if you're eating if you're drinking like like a drink that has some carbs, I wouldn't drink a super concentrated carb drink. But if you're drinking like some light carbs, even if you're drinking some coconut water or you're doing some some Gatorade, which Gatorade is kind of crappy. It's like high fructose corn syrup now. Whatever you're doing, if you're sipping some carbs while you're working out, those carbs are not going to get stored as glycogen while you're training, what you're ostensibly using is you're using those carbs. They're going into the bloodstream and you're using them immediately for fuel. So, you're not trying to like you're not carbing up while you're while you're working out. Now, post-workout, if you do like a high molecular weight carb, you know, with your whey isolate, kind of like my isoliz and carbalized combination that I have everyone do, uh those carbs are going to get stored as glycogen and you know, and replenish the glycogen that you lost in the gym. Likewise, you're going to start protein synthesis recovery and uh from the workout with a fast, you know, absorbing whey isolate. So, that's the the the reason. during your training, it doesn't pay to take in a very concentrated amount of calories because you're really not doing anything with it. But taking in some little bit of carbs, a little bit of amino acids, and maybe a way of a of like a product like my amino evolved, you know, the essential amino acids, those are going to be utilized immediately because they're going to be in the bloodstream. Um, once again, uh, you're not going to be storing any any amounts of glycogen. Matter of fact, your body doesn't really process uh much or do much digestion while you're training because all the blood supply has been diverted away from the the g the GI tract and diverted to the muscles. So, you need something that's in its simplest form like a, you know, some kind of glucose, you know, or some kind of very simple sugar or or amino acid that doesn't require digestion that's just going to pop into the bloodstream. And that's the idea behind doing that. Now, off in a contest, you know, prep phase, I recommend only doing water, you know, or or or a non-caloric drink. Uh offseason, there's nothing wrong with sipping some aminos with some you some, you know, with a small amount of carbs in there to give your body that extra little push it needs in the gym so that when you're training hard, you have a little extra in there. But once again, you're utilizing this stuff immediately. You're not storing it. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Reminder, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss this or any other shows on this channel. We have all new episodes of the After Hours podcast and of course Sunday, well at least not Monday's episode of Heavy Muscle Radio with Dave Palumbo and Chris Aceto. Uh we've been toying with the time format of the show. Dave, what is it looking like? Is it going to be a Monday staple going forward or for Heavy Muscle Radio? Yeah. Yeah, we what I did was because I have my kids on the the weekends, you know, or at least every other weekend, I'm going to be doing Mondays for Heavy Muscle Radio on certain travel weekends or if we have like, you know, something like Chris is not going to be able to do it Monday or I won't be able to do Monday, then we might pre-record on Sat on Sunday or or even do a live Sunday night if I don't have my kids that weekend. So, I think that that's, you know, on the table still, but we're going to try to mostly go to Mondays. Yeah. All right. So, there you have it. But again, both those shows right now on the channel. So again, subscribe, hit the notification bell so you're not going to miss anything on this channel. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sad Perooi. We'll see you next time.