catch up to see what Dave Palumbo is doing in India. >> I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Stan Hill, my good friend Bruce. Stan Hill, my good friend Bruce from Legendary Foods. And they have done it again. I guess we're back. [laughter] I don't know what happened, Chris. I'm trying to run more commercials. Nothing's happening. I am in India and uh this is Heavy Muscle Radio and we're pre-recording this a little. I'm here with the technician Chris Aceto. Uh, I don't know why the other commercials didn't run, but I guess the uh the powers that be who run the uh AI internet nowadays don't want to run commercials. So, we're gonna >> know how food is and how the hotel is and how it compares to your food in hotel and >> so it's >> I'm 10 and a half hours ahead of you. I think I can believe I'm in Mumbai, India. And uh I just was uh I gotta tell you I >> I've gone to India now three times. First >> wasn't such a great time because you know I quad but um the last two times I got to tell you the Indian the Indian bodybuilding community is is really special. They really really appreciate you know people who have accomplished things in bodybuilding and they really roll out the red carpet. Every place I've gone they have bands playing. I feel like R I feel like when Ramy goes home to to Egypt. Chris, >> by the way, Ramy is supposed to be here somewhere in India. I'm supposed to see him tomorrow, I think. >> Do you think that uh >> No. >> Do you think that Ramy's compete anymore? >> Um, not at the Arnold, I don't think. No. >> I hear him hinting at a comeback, though. is that uh he was did some I think he put up some posing footage, right? >> It's in the cards. It's in the cards. He'll tell you that >> it is in the cards. Have you been talking to Ramy? >> I've spoken with him in the last month. >> Really? Does that imply that that if Ramy did make a comeback that you might be involved with it? >> Uh possibly. He's training, you know. I mean, it just, you know, he's training and he's eating good and I know he's got a travel schedule and I know he's got a visa issue. Uh, that's about the extent. >> What's what's his what's his visa issue? Because he always he never had a visa issue before, did he? >> Well, that was that was pre uh nuclear war in Gaza. Uh, I thought the Egyptians usually don't have trouble getting visas, is now. >> Well, yes and no. You know, I mean, in the past, no. But sometimes, you know, politics changes everything. I mean, you would think, you know, logically guessing that seeing that Tibani just got his visa, >> right? And of course, Hardy got his visa that he might not have an issue, but you know, I don't know that I don't know all the details. And some people, you know, in bodybuilding, you know, we've talked about it off the some some people have bigger issues than others in terms of a little bit harder time getting visas. I think that uh a Ramy comeback would add a lot of excitement to the Olympia lineup if we ever if he ever decided to throw his hat into the ring again. I don't I don't know how he would do uh because he has he's been off the uh out of the scene for quite a while, but he sizewise he certainly wouldn't have any problems. >> Yeah. Well, George may prep him. Who knows? >> Dr. George Farah >> or or Hanie. I I understand you've seen both George and Hanie. I did see well I didn't see George I I did see Hani Ramba though he is out here in India as well at his he has an Eva gym booth and we were talking he actually asked me he said um who do you think won the Olympia I said Derek and he's like you're the only one who thinks that I said well I I well all the guys that was sitting next to me in the front row thought that too I said Chris and uh John Hansen and Rich Kaspari and Ian Valier. I said who did you think won? He's like I said did you help? He goes, he said only uh only the last couple weeks. So I guess Hani, even though he was retired, he did he actually did do some coaching of Potty, but only he said only when he came out to stay with him. Uh so he wasn't coaching prior to that. >> Yeah. Just translating at that point, >> right? Yeah. So I I mean I don't know. I don't know if that means Han's going to be coming back as a coach. He seems like he's he's over coaching because he says it gets him too stressed out. And I told him I said, "You don't even need it anymore." I said, "You you got a business. Well, why would you even want to stress yourself out at all? >> Yeah, but you know, I guess these guys are begging him to >> see may maybe we'll see an Andrew Jack Chris Aceto versus Hottie Hannie showdown at the Arnold. >> I Well, I said to Hanie, I said I said >> I asked Hanie if Nick Walker reached out to him because you know Nick has fired pretty much every coach out there. So, I mean there's there's not that many left. and he said, "Well, no." He was he's like, "A lot of people contacted me." I said, "Does that mean you're going to come back to coaching?" And he didn't he didn't want to commit to anything. So, >> well, that's a very that's a very uh odd way to answer the question. Has Nick Walker reached out to you? A lot of people have. >> Yeah, I guess he was implying that a lot of people wanted him to come back to coaching. So, >> so the answer is Nick has not. But go ahead. [laughter] I don't I don't know what I didn't I didn't I couldn't interpret the what he was but but but all kidding aside and I did have some good conversations. We were aside from the bodybuilding, you know, talk, we uh we were uh you know, we sometime when I talk to him about like family life and and just in general, I have better conversations, you know, bodybuilding. I always tell people this, you know, like there's a lot of guys out there that I argue with like we argue with Shawn Ray and and and Bob Chikorillo and but you know, at the at the end of the day, when we don't talk about bodybuilding, I can sit down and I can have I could eat a meal with them and and and you know, put bodybuilding aside. you know, professionally what we don't agree on has nothing to do with, you know, with real life. I don't want to I always want to I want to see everyone do well in life. And uh, you know, I hope everyone's family's healthy and all that type of stuff. That has nothing to do with the the arguments that we have with the bodybuilding scene, which is a lot usually. We don't agree with we don't agree with a lot of what what everyone else out there does agree with. Um, the question is, and I asked this to Honey, too. I said, "Who do you think's going to do the Arnold?" And I said, "I mean, we know that Martin's doing it. We know that, uh, Andrew's doing it." I said, "Do you think we'll see Derek do it?" I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. He didn't, you know, I said, "Wait a minute. What do you think? Have you gotten any word from Derek on the Arnold?" >> No. No, I haven't. But I I mean like I said Andrew's do I I do know for the people I know doing it right. The actual people who said I am doing the show is Martin and Andrew. I don't know of anyone at the moment who said I am doing the show. >> I mean we're less than 16 weeks out now. So I mean really people would have to make some sort of a commitment. I can't even believe Dave that you just said we're like 16 weeks out. I in my mind it's like It's crazy, but it's but it's it'll before we know it, it'll be here. You know, it's that's how fast. >> Go online and check the hotel rooms for Columbus. Like right now, they're probably like 169 for that. >> Get closer, they go for like 5.88 for like the Hampton end. >> It's not You can't even get a room when we get close. So, if you guys want to go to the Arnold, I'm telling you the secret. I don't I don't like to give these secret texts. It always screws me in the end. But go book a hotel room now. Do not wait. If you wait if you wait till after New Year's, you're not going to get a hotel room. >> I think what I'm going to do, Dave, is you know how you have the option, no credit card required, you know, 100% refund. I'm going to book at like one like 300 rooms and then once they're booked fully on a different website >> and mark those $118 rooms up to 390 or 490 like the actual hotel will as we get closer. real estate guys. Yeah, you can do like Airbnb Airbnb about, you know, hotel rooms. I I will say this though, um the Sheru Expo that he set up because this is the Sheru Classic where he I got to take my hat off to the guy. You know, I'm sure there's people I know there's people out there that don't love Sheru. I always got along very well with him and he's always been very respectful to me, but he did a great job on this expo. I'm I'm telling you, it's it's VIP all the way. It's red carpet for the athletes. It's he has like a he has food backstage. He has like beautiful bathrooms for for the the competitors. It's he did a really good job, you know, and the booths are all they all look like they're million-dollar booths. Like he has equipment companies there and he has nutrition companies there. I'm there obviously with Alpha Alpha Elite which is my exclusive distributor in India. So if it doesn't come from Alpha Elite, it's not real. So they're uh they're my dist distributor there. So all these companies have, you know, tremendous booths there and and and any and it's really well set up and I I was very shocked because the last time I came out here was very small. That was like 10 years ago or a little even more than that. So he's grown this show into something that's unbelievable. And uh I tomorrow, unfortunately, I'm I'm filming this today on Saturday night because tomorrow I'll be leaving directly from the show to go to the airport. We won't have time to film, but the pro show is tomorrow. The classic physique and the men's physique and they get some some some good good Middle Eastern bodys and the Indian body show. So, it should be a good show. Obviously, I don't think this is an Olympia qualifier, but it will be a point qualifier. So, you'll be able to build points up towards your Olympia qualification with this show. And I think I'm giving out some trophies or something like that or doing some kind of promotion tomorrow. So, but I will say this, I've gone to like four or five different gyms since I've been here. And every time I've every gym I've gone to, Chris, they they've had a marching band there. They've been playing drums and and doing all kinds of crazy intros for me. I feel like I feel like I feel like I'm like in the Macy's Day Parade every time I show up. >> You post any of those up? >> I haven't. I'm taking footage. I'm gonna put up a whole video of it. >> Send me. I would like >> I would like to see it. >> Yeah. You You'll get a kick out of it. >> I come. Dave, I don't like the tambourine. So, if they can't play the tambourine, they >> I did, you know, I did I did I did put up something. >> This was this was a a couple that came to the uh to one of my two days ago came to something that we were doing and then they came back and they brought me a they printed out the picture and they they wanted me to sign it for them and they bought me this leather coat. You see that leather coat I'm wearing? >> Yeah. >> That was a gift from these this couple. So, which I thought was really nice, you know. >> Now, you wouldn't have gotten that in Long Island, Dave. A freel. >> No, no, no. They they love you leave the country. >> A band, right? What does not >> Hold on. Hit. So, this this is when I This is when I arrived at the at the Sheru Expo. Uh or this was at the booth. And then this is when I when I pulled up to the front here. Let me see if I can play it. You have the man playing. >> I don't hear background. See him in the back. And they put they sprinkle they sprinkled rice on my head. Chris like and they put one of those little red dots in between my eyes. redies that people [singing] wear. She's about right there. I where I paused. She's about to put the red dot between my eyebrows here to open up my third eye to give me good luck. And then she sprinkles rice in my hair. I I'll start the video. You'll see. Throw rice in my hair. You see, she sprinkled the rice in my hair. >> I didn't know what she was doing to me to be honest with you. But it it was it was very nice. It was it was a lot of pop and circumstance and uh I felt uh I was I felt like very uh I felt like I was important for a few minutes there. But the Indian they're very very respectful. I got to be honest with you. You know every time I go there I always get you know very good response and uh which makes me want to go back you know which is important. >> What do I want to show you? What else did I want to show you? Uh oh, here's my picture with Hani Tani Rambod. Ryan Terry was the men's physique Olympia champ was there. Take a picture with him. I haven't, like I said, I haven't seen Ramy yet, but we'll see Ramy probably tomorrow. I was going to ask him how the fishing boats were going, but uh I imagine he does I imagine he's been doing more fishing since he's not really competing lately. Huh. >> I don't know what he's up to. Really? You'll have to you'll have to put sit down. >> This was one of the one of the gyms I went to there was really good. That's why I went to a gym every every day. I went to uh this place called Rewind Fitness. might see you see got a marching band every day. Every gym I go to fast. So yeah, I I I I like I said, I can't thank everyone enough. I went to um where do we go tonight? Oh, to my friend Junade, who's the a well-known pro here in India. He has his own gym. It's called the one and it's in this really exclusive like part of Mumbai in the shopping mall. It's gorgeous. The gym we trained at tonight. And uh then we went out to eat, ate some Persian food. all the I love Indian food and I love I love all international food. When I go to other countries, Chris, I could eat, you know, I'm very lactose intolerant, but if if I'm in another country, I could eat cheese. I can eat drink milk. It doesn't nothing bothers my stomach, which tells me that I'm not really probably lactose intolerant. I think it's all the preservatives and all the crap they put in our food in this country that is is really messes me up. when we when you have fresh food and it I the same thing happened when I went to Italy. Italy I ate anything I wanted. Nothing bothered my stomach at all. Yeah. And same thing with India. Nothing bothers my stomach. Now granted I'm not eating street food but uh but the food in the restaurants which is you know freshly made. >> I have no I had mutton today. Lamb. I had prawns and I had fish and I had chicken and lentils. I I've been doing I I eat authentic. I I go I don't not like go to India and eat like McDonald's. If I'm in India, I eat Indian food, you know, and that's the way you should do it. When in Greece, do like the Greeks do. Or when in Rome, do like the Romans do, whatever expression is. So, that was great. And uh I had some good meals, I'll tell you that much since I've been here. Some really good meals. >> How was the hotel? The hotel could be a little better. I don't want to. What happened was at the last minute they didn't get the right I don't know. The hotel information was not It's okay. And matter of fact, if you saw the room, you'd be impressed because it's like I have like a like a three-bedroom apartment, but it's like not like it's not like the Marriott, you know what I mean? It's a little it's a little indish Indianish, you know? >> [laughter] >> I I've been trying to figure out why the bathrooms in India are not that nice. At least like the ones the public restrooms and some of the hotel ones. And I this is what I figured out. In India, like in the Middle East, Chris, they don't use toilet paper. You know, they have that hose where you spray your butt and they they they wash their their their their rear end with the hose >> as opposed to taking white paper and just wiping it forever on you on back on devices. hose actually it it sounds a lot more logical when you think about it, right? The problem is the water gets everywhere and then what happens is there's a lot of water in the bathroom and it gets musky, you know, gets it you don't want a bathroom that that's that's that's like humid and damp. You want a a dry bathroom. So even though we use toilet paper, which is probably barbaric, think about it, it at least the bathroom's dry, you know what I mean? So when when the bathroom is wet all the time, it gets a smell to it. So that's the only negative thing I can say about India. Dave, >> these are, you know, I I have to I have to do like like I'm an anthropologist, though. I have an anthropology. I have to do like an anthropology. >> Can Can I tie it? Can I tie my Can I tie it to my properties? >> I have a three unit >> and in the bathroom >> on the first floor, >> the second floor, and the third floor, I can date when when we're done with the show, I'm going to I'm going to show you the building. ridiculous. [laughter] If if the the the bathrooms are on top of each other, >> right? >> And the first floor tenant, the second floor tenant, and the third floor tenant, >> right, >> all have beds, >> they hose. So, you're talking about getting water on the floor. >> Yeah. >> The electrician went over one day. He said, "Chris, I almost fell through the second floor into the first floor." Said, "What are you talking about?" He said, "The wood is so soft over there." He said, "I don't know what's going on." So, the water was getting everywhere. I'm talking for years. I didn't know because nobody ever calls me. I mean, they live there. >> Same people 10 years. >> I sent someone over this week, Dave. They had to replace the bathroom floors, not just the subfloor. I mean like reinforce the the joist third the second what you're saying water gets everywhere and it runed out the floors. >> Wow. >> Yeah. You know that's so there is something to say about toilet paper. You know it's saves your floors. >> Preserves your floors. >> The the thing that I love about India though most and and I've talked about this in the past. It's these those little like cars now in in like Mumbai they don't really have the ones where they pull them with in Delhi they they have the people that pull the cars. I forget what those are called but in in >> what are they called? >> Rickshaw >> like rick shaws. Rick shaws right in >> we love those Dave. Here in Mumbai they're called tuk tucks because they're they they they drive they're motorized cars. We we we were forced to take a tuk tuk Chris because we first of all there's no just for you guys who don't know there's no traffic laws here in in India there's no stop signs there's no traffic lights everyone just drives and and I gotta tell you Chris because I'm gonna be honest I actually enjoy it a little bit because I have no patience to wait for anything so it's like first come first serve like everyone just goes and it's motorbikes >> style And there's bicycles and there's cars and everyone is fighting for the same three lanes and there's cars coming the other direction at you. And it's a miracle. I'll tell you why it's a miracle. I haven't seen a single accident. I don't know how these people do. All they do is lean on the horn. It's horns everywhere. I don't know. And no one crashes into each other. I I don't know how they do it. It's unbelievable. >> You have you have to be super alert. is but you know when you get tired or you you know you you have to be so alert that you can't cry as opposed to like >> they it's like they get used to it right they get used to it. There was this girl and and she was good-looking girl too. She was getting on her little motorcycle scooter she had and we were waiting for a car forever. I'm like you want to give me a ride back to my hotel? She's like sure. And then I realized that she was going to go the opposite way into traffic and I'm like uh that's all right. I'll pass on that. What would I show? I'm going to show you some pictures first. Let me show you the tuk tuk ride I took. Hold on. I have AI put a little footage up here. Hold on. In my Instagram. This was just >> All right. Against my better judgment, we're in a Tuta. I just told you that you have to be out of your mind to take one of these. But but then again, we don't have any time, right, to waste. We don't want to wait for anything else. So at the uh against my better judgment where to tuck and uh there's very little barrier preventing me from falling out here. Uh I'm going to hold on for dear life here. >> I'm your favorite. >> Sh his armor at me. >> But I had to you know what? I had to do it just for you guys because you guys would never believe that I'm in one of these here. Don't try this at home. whatever you do. [laughter] >> That That was insane. >> That's funny. >> Yeah, believe me, I took I I have more footage I'll put up when I do my YouTube video version of this thing because I took a lot of footage. There's some absolutely insane lunatics like driving out there and but like I said, I don't know how they do it. No one gets hit. But I will tell you there's so much traffic there that it makes New York City almost look like they don't have traffic and and everything's open Chris till like you know at midnight there's still people running around like like it's the middle of the day there and you know how I'm late for everything. I I think you and I have discussed this before. >> I'm always I for some reason in my brain I think that everything takes 10 minutes to get to. So if I have a doctor's appointment that's 20 30 minutes away, I leave 10 minutes before because I don't know why in my brain I think everything takes 10 minutes to get to. In India, they're at least a half hour to an hour late for everything. So I look like I'm on time in India. In India, I'm early. So if they say, uh, we're going over to the expo in 45 minutes. Be ready. I'll go down, you know, at at in 50 minutes downstairs and no one's there. Not for another 10 or 15 minutes. So, no matter how late I am, they're always later than I am. So, if I lived here, I would be early for everything. Even though I'm still 10, even though I wait till the last minute to do everything because no one's in a rush in India. When I tell you no one's in a rush, you if you expect something to be done on time, it will never be done on time here ever. And everyone knows it here. No one no one even like like pretends that they don't know it. They all know that the Indians just take forever to do anything. And uh it's probably why they have they're so relaxed here, you know. >> Well, no, you're probably right. You know, >> it's there's no there's no stress here. People think it's a high stress environment. It's really not. No one's in a rush to do anything. So, >> how long, Dave, to get back? >> So, I leave I leave at like 1 in the morning, like uh on Monday morning, and it's like I think it's six, it was 14 hours here, but it's 16 hours to get home, I guess, because the jet stream. But uh speaking of gesture, have you been seeing all this all these >> I think they just came out with a movie too about UFOs >> like a new a new documentary that just came out about like really highly documented you know the fact that there were UFOs and that you know there are unidentified object and that there's you know been alien you know creatures or or beings that have you know, killed and and or encountered and it's like very highly touted. I know Joe Rogan interviewed the guy who made the the movie, the documentary. >> Oh, really? >> People are wondering if like Donald Trump's gonna comment on it or do do you believe that there's UFOs out there? >> Uh, I do. >> I I I do because I don't believe anything. I mean, I believe the ups files, JFK, all of the all the conspiracies I believe. So, UFOs for certain >> for certain. >> You think that they're slowly trying to bring this stuff to light? That's really they've known for years now >> slow walking it. They're gonna slow walk it. >> Yeah, I think so. >> So, people are comfortable with it. >> That's what I It's >> crazy though. Think about it. I mean, if Joe Rogan's, you know, Joe Rogan's pretty astute on that stuff, you know, he doesn't just come out with stuff that doesn't that doesn't have the uh any meat any meat behind it, as they would say. You know, >> I don't know. I I I um I I think we're going to be over the next couple years, we're going to find out stuff that that we just we never knew. So all the rumors and all the conspiracies that >> people knew but you were discredited. You said something like you thought you knew. >> Yeah. >> I think it I think we're living in interesting times. But hold on. I want to um >> maybe Dave, you you could get a a UFO. You could be back in in Cape Coral in like six minutes from India. There you go. There you go. That's right. >> The ticket probably be cheaper, too. >> Hold on. I need to show you this picture. >> I want you to tell me what you see here. Hold on. I took this tonight on the way on the way back. >> I see NASA on a >> Hold on. What do you got for me, Dave? >> What do you say? I see a circle. >> Circle. Do you do you see the motorcycle? >> The the twins there. The from the Guinness book. >> All right. So, I'll explain what you're seeing. There's a motorcycle with a man on the front, which you see the green sleeve. the the black shirt is the wife who's holding on to the the the father the with one arm and in the other arm she's got a baby girl. >> Oh, I I >> no helmet on. >> I couldn't even see that, but I knew you were going to say it. I hope you believe me what I was going to say. What's there? Baby, >> Chris, the baby was sitting on her lap. She's holding the baby with one arm and they're riding a motorcycle and the baby has no helmet, nothing on it. It's and I you know what I bet you no one gets hurt. No one ever gets killed. It's it's it's a miracle. >> Dave, >> it's an absolute miracle. >> Listen, we are we have to I'm bad parenting. If I take my 5-year-old on his tricycle, if I don't have the elbow pads, the helmet, the knee, >> they'll come and take away your kid from you, right? If you don't do that. Look at that. You want to see even better? Look at this one. Three guys on a motorcycle right next to the car driving at like, you know, 40 miles an hour. Look at the guy in the back. Can you The two guys in the back have no helmet, nothing. They're just sitting on the back of this motorcycle. Chris, this is just one of a million different things that you It's unbelievable what I'm seeing, you know, in this place. >> They have an Only Fans page, too. I think Dave You know, you don't need a helmet in Maine. >> You don't need one in Florida either. But but uh you don't but you're not allowed to have three people on a on a on a motorcycle. >> You don't need a helmet in Maine for a motorcycle, but your 5-year-old needs a helmet for a tricycle. >> It's ridiculous. I know. It's ridiculous. >> But Dave, I listen. I swear on I I made you swear in your mother's grave. Yeah. Earlier >> my mother's grave. I had been out with my he's six, but when he was five on that tricycle with no helmet and people stopped to tell me he should be wearing a helmet. >> Are you serious? >> Get serious. >> Unbelievable. >> I'll tell you this and I know a lot of people have been asking me and so I have to I'll give you guys a little sneak peek or not sneak peek, a little teaser. Everyone, you know, every time I go to a foreign country, Chris, what do I usually do? One of one of the things I usually do that people really enjoy >> the Zambons, the little Zambon, >> I I look for I try to find whatever anabolics are are available here in the country. If I go to Mexico or if I go wherever I go. So, the last time I was in India over the summer, I went into a pharmacy and I I saw what, you know, I showed everyone what's available there. So, this time I said, you know what? I don't want to go to a pharmacy because they don't have as good a selection. I want to go black market like what's available to the actual bodybuilders. And I I met this guy who, you know, knows someone who's a dealer there and has his own brand. It's called Dyson. Dys. And I'm telling you, and you guys will see it when I when I when I I when I put the video up later this week, you know, when I get back, the amount of stuff in this product line that this person has developed is so all-encompassing. And you know me, I know every anabolic, right? There was one drug that I I did I didn't even know I didn't I've never seen it before. How do you know? >> I knew it was, but I I had never seen an actual ampula like a like a bottle of it. >> It's real. How do you know it's real? The only question to ask. >> Now, yes. Now, what I did say was I I don't know if any of the drugs are real because I didn't test any of them. But I will say that one of the guys who was there when I was doing it was on the stuff and he looked and he's a pro and he was going to be competing, you know, this uh on Monday in Japan and he looked really good. So, I h I have to assume some of the stuff at least that he's using was was 100%. From what these guys tell me and and where it came from and and how they made the stuff, it seems uh very likely that the that the uh the brand that they this whole thing that they did put together was legit. Matter of fact, they had testosterone suspension. When was the last time you saw a suspension? >> Uh six weeks ago. Um >> this who has more, this guy or Ted Dixon? >> But you know what the funny thing is? Yeah. It's it's it's harder to get nutritional supplements in India than it is drugs. That's that's >> Yeah. They're theoretically illegal here, but but everyone seems to be able to get them. No problem. No one really cares about it. >> The I guess the the depth of this product line. I mean, they had everything. They had absolutely everything I you could imagine, including all the peptides, including all the SARMs. I mean, it was a really And the packaging was very impressive. Put it this way, the packaging, which I know is underground, is better than most pharmaceutical grade packaging. That that's how well the stuff was put together. And uh so we'll we'll we'll see once I put the video up. I think people will really enjoy it. I I enjoyed going through all the different products they had and just showcasing it. Can I buy those products on your website or not yet? >> No, I wish. Yeah, if I could sell those, I'd be a very wealthy man, Chris. But no, that's unfortunately they're illegal. But, you know, I'm in a different country, so I can do that. What I really would like to do is next next time I go I don't think I've ever done anabolics in the Middle East, which I would, you know, in the Middle East. It's not even a big deal. It's like you can it's like you're buying a cup of coffee there. So, if I ever go back to the Middle East, which at some point I pro I'm sure I will. I'll help to showcase that. But speaking of the Middle East, you know who I ran into? Um Sammy Trudy. >> Oh yeah. Where in India? Yeah. >> Yeah. In my hotel lobby, actually. And he um you know, he just won the Masters 212 Olympia. >> Yeah. >> And you know, he's dating this girl from Sweden. He tells me the story. I'm going to get him on the TV show. We're gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna interview him because, you know, he deserves an interview. He he made a big comeback. You know, he was out of the sport for a while. The last time I saw him, we were I was in Dubai and we went up for we went for sushi together and I hadn't really seen him and he he put a tremendous amount of size back on, you know, so he's obviously in a good place. So he's visiting his girlfriend. They're in Sweden because they go back and forth from Dubai to Sweden and he's I think two days out from the Masters from leaving for the Masters Olympia. And you know what they you know the whole shtick in Sweden? I thought they were done with this. But in Sweden, if they think that you're taking steroids, they will arrest you and and and drug test you. Remember that happened to Martin Kel Kelstrom back in the day. So he's in the gym working out, his last workout before he leaves. And some guy in in the gym decides he's going to call the police and tell him that some big guy is in the gym who looks like he's on steroids. So the police come, this is remember one day before they're leaving. Police come, they arrest him and the girlfriend. They bring him down to the station. They drug test him. They subject him to steroid testing. Now he's not a citizen of theirs. There's really not much they can do to him, but she is. And so I guess after being there for three hours and drug testing, they let him go. her test is pending, you know, and I think it just came back, you know, she wasn't using anything. She came back negative, but and he they're never going back there again. So, he luckily he didn't imagine if he would have would have been retained and they would have let him know, they would have thrown him in jail. He would have missed the show. It's it's it's an it's an absolute lunatic asylum in Sweden with the with the rules for for steroids. All they have to do is suspect you of taking them. All they have to do is say, "You know what? You look too big. We're gonna take you down to the station and we're gonna drug test you." I would would I would move out of that country in 10 minutes. Not just because because I want to take steroids. Obviously, I'm not on but just because of that. You know, if they imagine if they said, "We're gonna we're going to take every black person and we're going to take them down to the to the to the station and we're going to make sure they we're going to check their house to make sure they didn't steal anything." Think about the the racial discrimination, you know, lawsuits that would go on. I mean, only bodybuilders get victimized like this and they and and and the government can get away with that, right? No one thinks it's a bad thing. Only only us bodybuilders think it's bad, right? But they're profiling people that are big and they're actually against their will. They've done nothing wrong. They're taking to a a a police station and they're drug testing them with they have no choice. It's It's the most insane thing I've ever seen. >> That is a That must be a very uptight society. If that's where they choose to provide any s any remote source of energy policing, it says an enormous amount about their society and not in a good way. >> Yeah, that's a humongous broad brush of a statement, but Do you really need to be trying to figure out how big you think so and so's arms should be with or without anabolics and other people are being negatively impacted and affected because their arms are big. They could be on anabolics from India. It's insane. >> It's insane, Chris. It really is. And and I really felt bad for Samir what he had to go through. But you know what? It's it it's still happening there and they're still profiling anyone who looks big and I don't know why anyone would even want to work out there. I would I would just leave the country. I mean, at that point, I mean, it's like >> if you >> if you remember, you know, when that happened with Martin >> Yeah. >> the most beloved pro probably bodybuilding, the guy with the most impeccable reputation, Jay Cutler, decided not to go to Sweden. >> Oh, that's right. You're right. Jay did cancel his tripund. You're right. I forgot about that. >> His statement was apolitical. It was deadon. It was in his best interest. >> And essentially he said, you know, you could call it up somewhere. It was like, you know, there's a lot of things going on. And I'll unfortunately for people who set this up and you know, we're expecting me to come. I I can't honor this commitment. and I honor all my commitments, but under the circumstance I can't honor the commitment uh that I've made. So, it's it's it's batshit crazy. >> Yeah. Because no one's immune from it. And you know, even if you go visit there and you go work out at a gym and someone reports you because evidently there's a lot of snitches there who who you know like to turn people in. Why? I have no idea. But you know, >> well Dave, if you can't certainly if you can't express yourself through your physique, you not politically in this country. could not say something because that's more offensive would that would be more offensive to other people than actually just trying to keep some washboard, >> right? >> Can you imagine Ramy walking into a gym in Sweden? >> Oh my god. They probably they'd probably shoot him shoot him. >> They'd shoot him with a with a with an elephant tranquilizer probably. >> Yes. They would just they would they would shoot him down. They would just shoot him and say, >> you remember the scene from what was that movie? old school where >> we don't want we don't want the difference between test in males and females to be too out of whack. So Dave Palumbo, your level is a little bit too high. Toxic masculinity. You have to think >> if you remember that movie Old School, I don't know if you saw it, they will Will Will Frell got shot with a tran gun like there was enough tranquilizer to take out an elephant and he they show him like slow motion falling into the pool. Like that would be rammy. They they nail him with a tran gun and they they take him down to the the the police station. Drug testing. >> Oh, wasting time on stupid. >> Well, maybe they can call them. Isn't George Farah a lawyer? They probably can get him to help, you know, and then he can testify as a doctor, too, and give them his his medical his medical opinion as well. >> He's the ambassador to the country, I believe. >> Oh my god. So that's that. Yes. So Samir is here obviously and he's looking really good. I think who else I ran into? Sheru is doing great. Like I said they got I think he's running all the NPC shows down here too. He told he's got like something like 30 shows or something like down here. Indian I'm gonna tell you Indian bodybuilding is kind of reminding me of what bodybuilding was like in the United States like in the 1990s and I always said this India is like 20 years behind America so whatever we did 20 years ago that's where they're at now like in the 90s India was like the remember the the 70s where everyone was into running the running revolution yeah like that that was India then now they're just getting into bodybuilding so Everyone's like competing now there. Everyone wants to work out. Everyone's looking for the best supplements. That's why you know the species nutrition line is going to do very well in India because there are a lot of athletes that want the the you know high quality supplements. Uh whereas 10 years ago that wasn't the case. And so Sheru went from having one show, you know, you know, 12 years ago, 13 years ago, and now he's running the whole NPC in in India, and he runs these amateur Olympias or what whatever they call Sheru Classics where they're doing giving pro cards out and they're running pro shows and associated with this. So, it's there's a big boom in bodybuilding and and the big boom what's associated with it is is a a a thirst for knowledge and everyone wants to learn what the right way to do things is are how to eat properly, how to train properly. That these are the questions I'm getting from all the the guys that are coming up to me. How do I what do I what am I doing wrong? And you know, Chris, you know what the number one let me see if you're you're pretty smart. You're you're the technician. What's the number one mistake that all these guys here in India are making >> in in India? >> Yeah. The number one reason that no one's putting on muscle >> train too much. >> Well, that's one of them, but that's not the main reason. What do you think was think about the Indian culture in general? >> Uh incomplete proteins. >> Yes. They they they just don't eat enough. They they eat twice a day. You know, they take the right drugs. and they they they work out, most of them, you know, pretty well, and they like to take pre-workouts and supplements and creatine and all that stuff, but they don't they don't eat they eat two meals a day, and they don't understand why they can't gain any muscle. And you know what the answer is? The number one answer when I ask people, why do you only eat two meals a day? What's the answer you think I get? >> Uh, probably culturally acceptable. >> I'm not hungry. >> Oh. And I try to explain to and I and I look I've said this this is anyone listening to the show this is the right the advice I'm tell you eating is not a luxury item when it comes to bodybuilding it's a job and if you miss one meal a week you erase all the progress you made from the entire week. So one meal a week missing one meal a week can erase everything good that you did the whole week. So think about it. If every single week that goes by, you miss one or two meals, you you make no progress. So the hardest thing in bodybuilding, and I think Chris, this you had this problem, too, is is making sure that you eat all your meals. >> Yeah. >> Every day. And in the offseason, it's a lot harder because a lot of times you're not hungry because you're eating so much food. Pre-contest, most people get all their meals in. That's why a lot of guys gain muscle during a pre-contest period. But the truth is that you should really be doing your growing in the offseason, but if you're missing meals, that's the number one reason why you will not grow. And that's the main problem of Indian bodys. They just don't eat enough and they don't eat frequently enough. And they don't even they don't even realize that that's a problem. So, and this is this was a a very small field study that I did, Chris, over the last four days or five days, but I've had so many people come up to me and ask me the same question. And now I know what the answer is. I'm like, "How many times you eat a day?" Twice. They're like, "How'd you know?" He said, "Because all you guys eat twice a day." I said, "Don't you guys realize that you need to eat a lot of protein?" They're like, "Well, we're eating the protein after two meals, you know." But I said, "Well, your body can't store protein. So, what do you what's happening during the six or seven hours when you're not eating anything?" I said, "You're you're you're losing muscle." I said, you know, you you're not creating an anabolic environment to grow >> three backwards. Yeah. So, for what it's worth, this was a big problem, I think, back in the 80s with bodybuilders, you know, not the professional ones, of course, but I think when person, especially when I first got into bodybuilding, I didn't realize you had to eat that much food and that frequently. And that's the magic bullet really. That's what separates the people who put muscle on from the people who don't. Ask Nick Walker how many meals he's he's missed over the last, you know, eight years. He'd probably say zero. Ask Jay Cutler how many meals he missed when he was competing, he'd say zero. Ask Dave Palumbo how many meals he missed while he when he was competing, they'll say zero, too. I'll say zero [laughter] because that's the difference between success and failure in bodybuilding. And it's it's it's not easy. Like I said, it's not easy to eat when you're not hungry. It's way easier to starve a little bit when you're dieting. It's not easy to eat when you're not hungry. And I can promise you that's why the offseason is harder for more people than the pre-contest is. >> Totally agree. >> And uh now Chris, everyone's taking these GLP-1 agonists like reatride, siride, ompic. And guess what? They take them year round because they think, "Oh, my blood sugars are going to be better and I'm going to stay leaner." But you know what it does? It kills your appetite. So the worst thing you can do is have no appetite in the offseason. And then you make it worse by taking a GLP-1 agonist. Do not take these things in the offseason. You'll never be able to consume enough food. It's imp it'll be virtually impossible. >> Ever end? Does it ever end? Can it end? Sometimes like >> No. You know what it is, Chris? They come out with these new drugs and and people say this drug is going to replace this and I'm like, "No, it's not. It's just going to be added on to the stack." >> Yeah. I don't know. >> No one takes away drugs. They just add more on top of it. Right. You're 100% right, Dave, as usual. 100%. >> In other words, no one's gonna say, you know what, I'm not going to use clump roll now. I'm only going to use those epic. No, they do both. >> Can it just end? Yes. Yes. Yes. Exactly. What are you using for using a fat burn using everyone name? You you know I also wanted to say something also about these these >> but but the whole thing is Dave the whole thing is people will take those and they still will not hit their peak or close to it. >> Yeah. Now they figure they can she can get away with more fat burn their diet. But you know what also Chris I've noticed all the people who are touting these GLP-1 agonist they all are having abdominal issues. Their abs are not as sharp. They're bloated. They're they're they they don't like this some kind of like their waistlines don't look normal. And the problem is because it backs you up. It slows your digestive tract. And that's the worst thing when you're dieting for a show. If you're going to use these things, number one, you better take fiber twice a day because you're never going to go to the bathroom. And you should stop these things three weeks before the show or at least two weeks before because it's going to take a week to come out of your system because you don't want to have that stuff working on your body and slowing the transit of food through your intestinal tract when you're trying to carve up and and and get rid of waste so that your stomach is flat on stage. So I think a lot of these guys are getting those big, you know, bloated wastes because they're not able to go to the bathroom and get rid of all the waste because they're on these GLP-1 agonist. So make sure you guys stop this stuff two to three weeks out. That's my recommendation. >> That catches fire on this sport is >> I wonder what Dr. Farah would say about this. What does he think about GLP? >> [clears throat] >> I am into manuka honey. >> I'm very I'm very happy to be ignorant. Vote me. I don't know anything about initials. Never used them. Never offended him. People ask me about him. I say I don't know. >> CHRIS IS CHRIS IS LIAR. I KNOW HE recommend GLK1 agonist. It's insane. >> Did you hear the story Jay Cutler told about Nasser? He guest posed with him. I think it was like three weeks out from one of the Olympia. I don't know if it was the 98 or 99 Olympia >> and he was he did he ate they went to the cheesecake factory. I guess Jay had just done some show or something like that. They went out and and NASA had like three pieces of cheesecake like three weeks after the Olympia. And the next day at Gold's Gym in Venice, he saw NASA do like three hours of cardio straight. Like he he didn't get off the bike, you know. And and Jay said, "At the time I I thought you were only supposed to do an hour at a time, you know, you don't do more than one hour without taking a break." And then maybe he's like, "No stay on the thing three hours." He said three weeks later at the Olympic took 30 looked unbelievable. He goes, "I've never [laughter] seen anything like that in my life." >> Noon to three. He told me that story. >> Oh, he did tell you the story. >> What What are you gonna do from noon to three? I'm gonna go watch a movie, take a nap, I'm gonna be on treadmill. Got to burn off three pieces cheesecake. [laughter] >> The funny thing is, if I would have done that, I probably would have gotten leaner from eating the cheesecake and it with no cardio. Well, Nassie did weird [\h__\h] like that because Nassie used to tell me, "Yes, uh, [clears throat] Chad Nichols is not in favor of it, but I I tell him I I need pasta in my diet because I I look fuller with it and I don't like the way I feel with rice, so I eat the pasta and I have to do more cardio, but uh but but there's a better look for me." You know, NASA was always trying to reinvent the wheel, like you know, like like he had the weirdest eating habits I've ever seen. I told you we we went he would eat like bowls of ice cream and he would even eat like protein. It was like he had very very bizarre bizarre eating habits, you know. He was one of these guys that could like look at a at a cheese at a piece of chicken and he would he would put muscle on. He just he was really good at gaining muscle. I think he had to work very hard to get lean, but he would do the work. You know, you can't take it away from the guy was always in shape, you know. He would always pull it out at the last minute. >> He would Dave. He would He could always pull it out at the last minute. >> The last You don't know how to turn four weeks out. >> Yeah. Because I would see him like sometimes I guest post with him a few times and I'm like I'm leaner than this guy. He's got the Olympia in a few weeks. >> Hey, he's got seven weeks, right? >> Yeah. I'm thinking I'm leaner than this guy. How is he gonna be in shape for the Olympia? But he always was. I like I said, I never saw him out of shape. So, he must have done some some extreme things at the very end, I guess, to get himself in shape. >> But some people need that pressure. Like I I think I you look, you work with a lot of people. Don't you think that there's some guys out there that unless they feel that pressure of like you only got two weeks left and you get they're not going to work hard. Like they're not going to get in shape two weeks early. That's just not in their like DNA, you know? They got they got to be within they just can't be sloppy seven weeks to go. You know what weeks they're not 16 week dieters. >> Correct. Correct. >> And not motivating. It's only when you comes down to like a period of time where it clicks in their head. Okay. >> And and they'll do the work. You can give them three hours of cardio. They'll do it. But they don't want to do it for 16 weeks. They want to only do it for like four weeks. You know that. >> Yeah. So, I know a lot of girls that like that they would rather do three hours of cardio a day for the last four weeks than do 45 minutes a day or an hour a day for for 12 weeks, you know. >> Yeah. It it suits their mentality and, you know, their mental better. >> Pretty well, pretty soon. I was talking to some some guy, I don't want to mention his name at the expo, and pretty soon he's convinced pretty soon that that that they won't even be coaches anymore. AI will be uh better than the bodybuilding coaches out there and will be giving better advice. So people will be using AI for their coaches for their prep. People will just upload their pictures every you know every twice a week and and and uh chat GPT will tell them how to you know how to change their diet and what to do. Do you believe that? Um >> because he said chat GPT is I mean the AI will be smarter than the smartest guru. >> Not smarter than me. No >> I don't think so. >> The problem is that humans don't respond like robots do. >> Yeah. Let me say this. You can an AI diet program can definitely mimic many many many many many of the good but there's always exceptions to the rule and the exceptions will always beat AI and it's just like this you know you've heard it before like in think about the process of beating the stock market that means You have to be smarter than the collective wisdom of all the stocks themselves and all the analysts themselves on the entire the entire United States. In other words, it cannot be done [clears throat] ever, but it is by a very very very small few. A lot of them cheat inside information, but you can beat the market. It's very very difficult but you can because the market is a collective sum of itself and artificial intelligence is a collective sum or I don't want to use the word wisdom of all the current diet plans and techniques that are available. But it's >> the problem is a lot of those those diet techniques are >> trying to lean towards perfection. But there's always an anomalies in a person and anomalies in what will work for that person which means if you want the best result it's better to work with a live person. But for sure I think that AI is a viable tool going forward for you know diet plans >> for start yeah for a starting point. Yeah. I think the problem is like you said is that humans don't respond like robots do. It's not like if you do give a person this they then this will happen because everybody's body responds differently. So, it's going to be hard for AI to predict given the person who's inputting the data how that person's body will respond. So, I I think it's going to be hard for for artificial intelligence to basically problem solve when things don't go right. I think if things go perfectly according to plan, I think then then AI will be something that's viable. But very rarely do people's bodies respond. Like you could have a guy who's losing two pounds a week like four, five, six weeks in a row and then all of a sudden they don't lose any weight anymore, right? And and what do you do? Like why all of a sudden all the things I've been doing over the last six weeks work perfectly. Now nothing's working anymore. And a lot of times you have to do a reset. You have to have them eat some more food to cut back their cardio. Whatever you got to do, right? Shock their body. And I don't know if AI can make those accommodations like that. But I guess maybe in 10 years from now that maybe it'll be so good that that we'll all be obsolete. I mean I I guess Elon Musk has said that he believes that no one will work in the next five to 10 years. Like there's there'll be no reason to work because AI will do everything you know essentially for us. >> So where does he think people can get money from? >> I he he didn't he didn't reveal that. >> He's so smart. He thought about that issue. He didn't. He's like he he basically said that money will be obsolete. Like people won't need money anymore. It'll just be like uh >> food will be free and the rent >> the government will provide everything. >> Go down to my Tesla dealership and say, you know, I'll like that one for free. >> That's right. Yeah. Give me a free car. Give me a free car. So that's it's it's interesting to think about it because uh you know sometimes I play around with with chat GBT and I'll ask it questions like science questions and I'll ask it to answer in a common way. I'll ask her to answer you know in a scientific way. I'll answer I'll ask it to answer in in a book form format like if you were reading a book >> because I don't not I'm not I'm not on Blackberries and stick shift Mercedes was the ideal leg workout for hottie for the Olympia which I heard that he was not using >> the ide for hottie >> maybe GB didn't come up with a better leg work I don't know but the point I'm The point I'm making is that I don't know what the point I was making was. I don't even remember what I was talking about. >> to to make you laugh only. >> It'll be interesting to see what the future holds with chat. Oh, so I was playing around with chat GBT and and and it's interesting like some of the things that are it says are like really good and astute and well written and then some of the stuff is like broid. So, I think what the problem is is that chat GBT, like you said, because it calls everything that's out there. >> It's pulling some of the the crap that's out there, too. And it doesn't know how to decipher what's real information and what's not real information. And I think that's maybe as chat GPT gets better and all these AI become better, they they'll be able to weed out the stuff that's not true scientifically speaking, but I don't think it can do that yet. And that's why it's it's it's not perfect. And so, but I think it's the rate with which it's improving is is very impressive. I will say that because it's it's better today a thousand times better than it was, you know, a year or two ago. That's >> Dave. I I I I used it once. That's it. And I used for a a luxury apartment and >> right >> I spent a lot Oh, >> I spent I wrote an ad for a luxury apartment. Spent a lot of time a lot of time editing. And when I finally finished it, put it up, I looked at other people's apartments who had nicer apartments than me in this building. >> But just the description was horrendous. >> Right >> now, they all use chat GTP. I still have mine. I'm too lazy refined it. Mine is there. greatest explanation and each one's a little bit unique, but it's like perfection in the apartment description from like >> like the amenities, the way they describe the [laughter] location, the the view, the it's just absolutely perfect. So that you know, there's no telling, >> right? Well, you know what I tell people? Because now there's no excuse to write ignorant emails. What you should do is go on your I on your iPhone and in the notes pad, hit the voice button where you can voice what you want. Talk say the email that you want to say. Save it. It'll print out. It gives you all the text. Copy that and put it into chat GTP and say write this as an eloquent eloquently written email. and it will in three seconds turn it all the garbage you just spewed out of your mouth will sound like Shakespeare wrote it and then send that email especially if you're dealing with an employer or any legal you know lawyers or anything like that it it it [clears throat] will save you so much time you know having to sit there and try to write this thing out in an intelligent way and a lot of people don't even have the skill to do it in an intelligent way so I think for people who are like you know like trying to get jobs and and try to impress You know, people, you should have chat GPT clean up your your writing, you know, because it it it does it in in in seconds. Unbelievable. And I can't even imagine what it's going to be like in five years. So, we'll see. All right, let's uh let's wrap this up. I got to get some sleep. I got to go back to the expo tomorrow. Big day at the Sher Classic. And then I'll be flying back at like 1 in the morning. For now though, Chris, we are out of time. As we say every week with Heavy Muscle Radio, >> the truth hurts. >> Dave Palumbo signing off from Mumbai, India. See you next week.