Dave Palumbo here at the IFBB Pittsburgh Pro Jim Manion Show in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. And it's a great venue here in the Weston Hotel. We're going to be heading over to the convention center tomorrow. But we have the men's check-in going on now. And what I'm going to do is when I leave you guys, I'm going to go see if we can snag some of the biggest stars in the men's open lineup. Derek Lunsford, Nick Walker, uh Martin Fitzwater, and you never know who else we might meet. I want to see what these guys are thinking, what their mindset is, and who will win tomorrow. So, stay tuned. Let's go. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. here with Nick Walker. First time back on stage in a couple years. I thought New York pros. Hasn't been a couple years. Literally last year. We're I'm a fan first. For me, it feels like a couple years, but how does it feel to get back into the saddle, so to speak, at your best to get on stage against some of the best in the world? No, it feels good. Obviously, my prep last year for New York was a show. Um, mentally, and all the above, this was probably, um, a prep that went very smooth, mentally, physically, emotionally. Um, so I'm actually very excited to come back to the stage and just present a look that I'm extremely proud of, that I think everybody will be extremely proud of. And it's it's going to be, I think, a different look than what people are expecting. I'm still going to bring the freak factor, but I think we've uh worked very hard on bringing the waist in, very very much so. So, I think we're going to see a good bit of that. How do you do that? What do you do to bring the waist down? Uh, nothing. I just I don't have secrets for you. It just it happens that way. Right. Right. But I'm saying what did you did you do specifically? Anything or just you just think you got a better look? I just think I don't I'm at a stage in my career where I don't have to push through it as hard as I did and over stuff myself and it's just kind of eat to refine, not eat to grow as much. And over time, you know, everything else is kind of gonna work around the waist and the waist is just either going to stay or it's just gonna You look like you're more confident even in a lot of the posts I see on Instagram. It seems like you have a very very comfortable feeling going into the show. I feel like you need back to the rooms are way good. It looks like Hungarian goulash as my father said, but it's like mashed potatoes. Now, is it true? I heard a rumor that you're like 10 lbs bigger than the Olympia. Yeah. Eight. Did you grow 8 lbs from the Olympia? What did you weigh? What we're doing. So, right now, this morning I was 244. Olympia on stage. I was 234. Unbelievable. I think we'll still as I dry out here, I'll be probably about 242 somewhere in there. But still very impressive. 10 pound 10 8 lb jump somewhere in there for sure. Now look, I have to believe that you want to get a little revenge on Nick Walker because let's face it, the New York Pro was really close. I had you winning, but you know, it was close enough that you can flip a coin. How bad do you want to beat him here in Pittsburgh? I'm here to win the trophy. I don't know if Nick's going to be fighting for that with us or not. I love the confidence. I'm here to I'm here to win. Whether it's over Nick, whether it's over Derek, I'm bringing my best physique and that's all we can do. A lot of people thought you should have beat Derek at the Olympia. Hey, hopefully we can get one of those done here this weekend, right? So, um, you know, I'm the most confident I've ever been in my physique. I pushed this conditioning the farthest I've ever pushed it, and I'm as big as I could possibly be. So, I'm really excited for this one. My team's really excited for this one. And honestly, more than anything, I'm going to display a physique that's representative of what I think bodybuilding is. A mix between classic and absolute max. I want to be that of a bridge between the two and uh I'm bringing that this weekend. Good answer. Good luck. Thank you. Classic champ going for number two this year. Hey, this is uh this is round two of three for the year. Yeah, I know. So, hey, it's long season, but uh I'm hungry. I'm ambitious. We put a lot of work in. This is the Arnold to get here. And uh I expect to bring something even better than the Arnold. You got the Rocky Valdo with you. I know that people better watch out. Listen, man. Ever since I stepped off the Olympia stage last year, I've been so focused, man. And I got such good support around me and just I've just been so locked in. And I'm going tell you this right now. I'm not skipping ahead past tomorrow because this is so important. This is the biggest show of the year. Stacked lineup. I know you got we got some really really hungry guys. Got Nick, Martin, um you know, Kriso. We got a lot lot of really good guys going out and um you cannot skip over any of those guys. Nobody's a shoe in. There's nothing that you cannot take this for granted. So, I'm focused on bringing my absolute best tomorrow and then after that, trust me, I'm already locked in. You're the only Olympian champ that I know that has ever laid it on the line to the degree that we've seen here. Not only doing the arm, but coming back and hitting a mid-season show in Pittsburgh and then having to come back and be the Olympian. I mean, no one else has done that. Well, literally Jake Wood just said, "Man, don't know what he's doing. All the stuff you're doing. I can't believe how much you're doing." Listen, if you're going to do something, you got to do it all the way. You got to do it big. I want to I want to do this bigger than it's ever been done before. And that's why I said I want to win the first ever Pittsburgh Pro title. That is legendary in itself. This is a legacy show, but I want to be the first Triple Crown winner, winning the Arnold, the Pittsburgh Pro, and then the Mr. Olympia all in the same year and getting that Mr. Olympia title back. I mean, listen, I'll always be the grand slam of I'll always be Mr. Olympia, but I want to be the reigning champion and I want to come back and I want to show everybody that I'm here to stay. Plus, money doesn't hurt. That's a lot of money. You will have won if you get all three. Listen, first year that retire on that. First year that they are bringing open bodybuilding to the Pittsburgh Pro. They're giving six figures. Come on, man. That's a hard decision. But listen, we all know that we don't do this for the money. Money is definitely an aspect of it that's going to draw a lot of the the best competitors. is great for my family, but when it comes to these shows, nothing's guaranteed. And so, I don't think about that money going in my bank. I think about I want to win this title because this title, honestly, you want to talk about money, that title means more than than the money you get in the show. Because that prestige of winning that title, especially if you win, you know, Mr. Olympia, the Arnold, and the Pittsburgh all in the same year is way beyond just, you know, the money at the show. I don't know that many guys will repeat that ever again because not many guys would lay on the line three times in one year. I appreciate you saying that, but I still got to do it. And it starts well, it started at the Arnold, we continue tomorrow, and then it's on to the Olympia. So, like I said, I'm not I'm not looking past anyone or any show. Every day counts, and and we're bringing it. I promise you that. Tomorrow. You heard it from our Arnold Classic champion and former Mr. Olympian, Derek Bless. Thank you.