Heat up here. This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com in the iron asylum with Dominic Mutasio and Nick Vulpi. We are here less than 6 weeks out from the NPC USA Championships. We're going to be doing a little back training here at Bev Francis Powerhouse Gym in Scios in New York. Welcome guys. Welcome. Thanks, Dave. Thanks for having us on the show. Let's go to you, Dom. We've had you here before. You always seem to bring out some great new talent every time we uh get you in the in the art asylum. And uh you know, this time around, you're getting on stage. You have five weeks to the USA. Last year, you did very well at the junior nationals. What have you been working on this past year to bring the best look possible into Vegas? Well, this year, um, I've been concentrating on trying to come in, you know, not only with, you know, the same or better conditioning that I had last year, but I want to come in more of top of the class. I mean, last year I only weighed in at um 171.9. So, I still have that um 4 to 5 lb gap that I need to make up, which this offseason um you know, this was actually like the first time that I set aside an actual 12 weeks and had an actual offseason and uh trained with Jerry Scalesi um to bring up my lower lats and my back, add some more thickness on my hamstrings and on my outer sweeps of my quads. And uh you know I broke my ass over those 12 weeks and uh you know feel like that I put on the necessary muscle that I need to. Um I'm about 6 to 7 lbs heavier this time around at you know about 6 weeks out. So um I feel like I made those adjustments and I'll come in top of the class and just as conditioned or even better this time around. Now Nick, you've been uh floating around. You've been you went from Vegas now. Now you're in Arizona. Now we got you back here in New York a little bit for a few years. Talk to me about uh what's been going on with you and uh leading up to the USA. Um this past 2014 I had finished uh first and overall and won the Mr. Arizona title and placed top six uh at the USA Championships. I think my posing was just a little bit off cuz they had put me in dead center battling for third and they had two rounds of quarter turns and mandatories and they threw me in six. So that always hurts when you just when you fall out of the top five. Believe me, it's happened to me before, but sometimes it makes you come back even better. What did you work on over this past year? You and Chris Aceto had me in fourth or fifth. Yeah, I think we did too. But you know, you know how that goes. I had guys had me win shows and I and I was six. Um, what did you work on this year? What was in your mind? Because we all have we all critique ourselves very harshly. What did you think you needed the most work? Well, I had work with Scott Turner. he helped me for the show, but uh I talked to Mike Dragna who's a pro and then Troy Tate and a couple other people and they had said go in the the stills and check out the the back shots because my mid low back were a little weak and I wasn't doing uh much deadlifts. I don't do any deadlifts on the floor, but I've been doing a lot of partial deadlifts and really squeezing and contracting the muscle now. And I had worked with Chris Cormier in Venice about uh four weeks ago and really integrated more of his style of uh squeezing and contracting the muscle like he trained with Dorian in uh in England. He's a big he's a big believer of focusing on feeling the muscle line muscle connection. So I really uh integrated that into my training as well as uh the first exercise that he brought me through was the old school pullover that Dorian Dorian loves that Dorian loves that one. And at the bottom, uh, he he was screaming quite a bit for me to hold the contraction at the bottom. It's the most difficult part at the bottom of that exercise. Most people think that exercise is really easy. Well, it's humbling also because you have to lighten the weight up a lot when you when you do that. Absolutely. Now, Dom, let me ask you this question. Um, you know, moving up from a junior national show to a proqualifier obviously is a big step. Uh, the competition gets a lot better because now you have guys going for a pro card. Obviously, the USA gives out a pro card to the middleweight class winner. um uh from a standpoint of I guess you could say confidence, self-confidence yourself, how does it feel going into that moving up to that level for the first time? I mean, I'm not trying to really look at it like that. I'm looking at it more like it's against myself. So, as long as this time if I come in, you know, better and I improved uh my back and on my legs than the last time, um you know, I'm just going to worry about the variables I can control. Um, and like I said, I do believe if I come in, you know, 15% better than I did at the juniors that, um, you know, it'll be a pretty difficult package to beat. Now, you, you know, today, uh, a lot of bodybuilders out there are not hardcore trainers anymore. They don't study the sport of training kind of like, you know, the way you two do because I know Dom, you train real hard. I know you like to go out to Jerry, who's old school school at Deer Park, Gold Gym, and really, you know, blast the [\h__\h] out of yourself. I know Nick, you obviously you've been training with various people around the country trying to perfect your your your hone your skills. Uh do you think that's lacking in this in this day and age with the way bodybuilders just seem to like to use machines and they just they're almost more concerned about taking selfies of themselves in the gym rather than training? Yeah, I mean absolutely. I mean I use a a combination of different training methods. Um you know some of the old school but also stuff based off of science. I mean, I get a lot of blood work done. I It's keep a close eye on uh all my IG panels, my CK levels, estrogen, cortisol, prolactin, and I Those are all great though. But what it comes down to when you go to the gym, you bust your ass. Yeah. 11 110%. Every when I leave, I I'm not satisfied if I know that I could have did another two reps on that set. If I'm going to do this show, I'm going to do it and know that I did everything in my power to be my best. Nick, when you go out to Venice Golds and you see some of these guys, I'm not going to mention who they train with, but we know who they are. And you see them doing these angular movements and they're really not lifting too heavy. I mean, I know Cormier cringes when he hears that, you know, what do you think about that? I mean, do you re do you feel like, oh my god, I can't believe what the sport is, you know, come down to? I just think like even what Kevin Levrone said a while back at about the Arnold like guys really aren't bringing conditioning today. They don't want to suffer. So they they revert back to the old school to the new equipment rather than going old school and using barbell. Um I mean I I use a Smith machine from time to time, but I really believe that barbell training because you're you're balancing out the weight and everything and you're really trying free weights. You bring up areas that you know were lacking on certain sides, especially dumbbells. I really believe in dumbbells as well. Yeah. Well, you know, I remember the first time I tried to do a bench press, you know, other than, you know, I had been working on on one of the universal machines back in the day. The first time I got under a barbell, I I couldn't I couldn't balance the bar. And it's because there were muscles that were being utilized that people don't realize. I mean, when you freee barbell press, it's way better than hammer strength barbell pressing from a developmental standpoint. But then again, there's also a place for machines, you know, and sometimes I think guys are too busy talking on the phone when they're using the machine when they are actually working to squeeze the muscle as like a Chris Cormier would make you do. Yeah. And really just, you know, feel the muscle. I always, you know, I I eliminated a lot of exercises from my routines when I was coming up because I didn't feel the movements and I incorporated more of the movements that I did feel a lot of unilateral. I was a big unilateral guy toward the end of my career because I just felt that it gave me better balance to my physique. That's I don't know. It seems like guys are not students of of training anymore, right? Well, I think it's too like different strokes for different folks. Um, you know, what necessarily works for one person might not necessarily work for the other person. It's not that that exercise is bad. It's that, you know, you want to make sure that they're getting like the proper muscle contractions in each set. And, you know, that's going to be changed accordingly to the person. Nick, talk to me a little bit about what kind of a diet you're following leading up to the USA. Um, I'm doing um about three three days of zero or 50 carbs depending on how my body looks. And I'll increase the good fats. I I've also integrated macadamia nut oil from time to time. Big believer. Uh MCT oils as well. Mhm. Um so you're a low carb guy. I really believe that you're going to get that conditioning from lowering your carbs. You really need to lower your carbs. You don't have to talk to me about that. That's I I know you're a big believer with that. How low do you I mean, how um how low do you have to go and for how many days? I mean, do you toward the end of the diet, do you tend to go all low carb pretty much? Do you do cheat meals? Depending on how my body looks. Actually, the other day I just posted uh Dominic actually seen it. He was he was uh pulled a one moral the other day and uh my girlfriend uh took the video and we were in uh Five Guys and people were freaking out of my veins. Like I was walking, they're like, "You eat this?" And I said, "Yeah, when you go crazy like the Five Guys, what will you consume?" Um, the other day I had uh two triple uh cheeseburgers with bacon and I had a fry and I had had to had to have the Fanta Zero though, so no sugar, of course. Yeah, that's the way I am. I actually for the first time in a very long time was I had a triple cheeseburger in Australia. I have the video to prove it. Tom, what do what do you like to do? I know you're a low carb guy. Obviously, I'm helping you out with your diet. What do you do on your cheat meal? A lot of people like to know. Well, actually the my diet's very very similar to his actually do two to three days on very low carbs around 50 grams and then um I have my one cheat a week. Um I probably consumed about 600 g of uh carbs in two hours my last one. But what I do is I try not to go super crazy like on fats or burgers. I have more of just a ton of carbs, protein, pancakes, uh, bagels, uh, waffles, cereal. Um, that's like really what my body fiends out for. I actually don't even feed out for junk. I feed out for carbohydrates. Like even a sweet potato, like is great for me. But on my cheats, I usually do just, you know, a lot of dense, high GI carbs. Gotcha. Well, hey, that works for, you know, for me. When you're dieting, anything sweet always tastes good. Oh, yeah. So, we got the show coming up in, like I said, less than five weeks. Um, as we get down to the last couple weeks, what changes for you, Nick, uh, dramatically? Do you up cardio? Do you find yourself posing more? Depending on how my body looks, and I'm also working my options for a guru right now, so I'm chatting with quite a few people. So, uh, we'll we'll we'll see what's going on toward the end. But I'm I'm a big believer in how your body looks in the mirror more so than anything. I do check the scale periodically because sometimes I'll lose 8 to 10 pounds in one night. I'm more of an ectomezo body type, more ecto, so I lose a lot of size. Got to be careful with that. So, I've got to I'm about 205 and cut off's 198. So, I've got to keep eating high caloric intake and really get my calories in. Gotcha. What about you, Dom? Um, I mean, pretty much the I go off the same thing of how I look in the mirror, but I do tend to slowly up my cardio, but at the same time be cautious that it's not taking away from anything from, you know, my legs. Um, and then just kind of, you know, try to coast into the show. No curve balls, you roll. I always say if you look great a week out, don't do anything different. And you've been both making very good progress over the last couple weeks. And I want to wish you the best of luck at the USA Championships. For now though, we are out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo with Nick Vulpi and Dominic Matasio in the Iron Asylum.