I BB Pro Kelly Ann for rxmuscle docom I am here with Our Brand New 2016 npc Universe overall women's physique Champion Nicki Sims nck how are you feeling right now Oh my gosh I'm so speechless I honestly I just Just This is a blessing this entire Journey Just Everything I mean I've Had help from so many angles And I just I I'm on Cloud Now right now I don't even know what to say I was Just so speechless I Had no idea  That I could even achieve this Level of conditioning look This Way um especially Being obese my entire life and weighing 250 pounds my entire life I didn't think I could I could Ever achieve What I've have achieved so Just Being here is an incredible honor and Being on sharing this stage with so many incredible competitors that have been doing it forever I mean it Just means the world To Me And I did it in a State Where I could have my family here um With Me And um I have you know 15 of them flew up here just  to see me compete I have my 90y  Grandma, here's her. Death wished to see me on the stage, and she just saw me compete. It's just incredible, so I couldn't have asked for a better night. Excellent! Great story! Amazing transformation! You have your family here. We actually have Grandma here right now. We'd like to have a few words with her. I'm very, very proud of you. We're here with your grandma. We know this victory you've had today is very special for you. First of all, explain to people what it means to have your grandma here. It means... I don't know how to say it. This night is very good, and I didn't know I could do this with my body, and now I have my grandma here to see me. Look, my granddaughter dances! My granddaughter danced and won! What do you think of your granddaughter? Well, I think she deserves it because she has sacrificed a lot for this job she has, and you support her completely? No, I support her in everything she does, and I applauded her like crazy. Now, now, now, dance! See her everywhere! I'm here today. Likewise, if God gives me health. God willing, say a few words that I love you very much