Yamamoto Nutrition, proud sponsor of RX Muscle. Visit yamamoto nutrition.com. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and today's guest of the evening is IFBB Pro and new super freak on the block in the 212 division, Nicholas Vouad. Welcome. Hey, how you doing? You had a pretty uh pretty good pro debut at the Charlotte Pro. third place in that 212. Very competitive 212 division behind Milan Shottic and of course Craig Richardson. The three of you battling it out there. Uh and a lot of people have taken notice of your physique and myself included. You have a something special going on there for certain. You're from Switzerland, not a lot of pros out of the Swiss uh countryside and you're really making a name for yourself lately. Nicholas, take us back because a lot of people don't know who you are or or where you come from, you know, where did this whole competition thing start for you? What was your first show? How old were you? Because I know you're only 26 years old now. Yeah. So, yeah, I'm 26. And so, I'm living in Switzerland next to Geneva. And um I've started bodybuilding six, yeah, five, six years ago. And um I've started with the European Championship, IFBB European Championship. And um yeah, then I did three times the Swiss championship. I won every time the division and then I did two international show uh Mr. Olympian Spain and then the ANC classic last year in the USA and I won both uh the division and then I got the pro card. So this year was actually my first brochure. Yeah. Yeah. What was interesting is in 2015 you were a middleweight which means you couldn't weigh more than 176 pounds. In 2016 you were a light heavyweight. What what did you weigh at that 2016 victory? Uh in 2016 it was uh the Arnold Classic. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, I got actually the problem I I had when I was an amateur um was my weight because I was all the time at the limit. So I had to make a choice between being full or shredded. So I prefer to be shredded and to be under the division. So but the thing is I wasn't really Yeah. I mean full. So yeah, I wasn't at 100% on the on the last on the last show actually. Well, let's talk about the light heavyweight class because you you went from middleweight to light heavyweight, correct? In 2015 to 16. Um, I'm not sure. Uh, middle weight is like middleweight's 176 and and light heavy is 198 cutoff. Yeah, I I've been under 80. No. Yeah, it was. I'm not sure. Under 90 uh in 2015 and I think it's the same uh No, under 90 uh last year. Yeah. So, just three four kilos of difference. So, 198. Yeah. So you made you were under 198 obviously you were having trouble making that weight class. So moving up to the pro ranks when you got the pro card. Now for a lot of people don't understand usually you have to win the overall at the Arnold amateur uh to get the uh pro card. But because he two years in a row won it first the amateur Olympia then the Arnold amateur. They gave him a pro card. So um he was able to do that. But now once you move up to the pro ranks, the cutoff is 212 pounds, which gives you a lot more room to grow into that class obviously and to put on more muscle and I don't have to worry about making the class. Was that something that you that you knew would work to your advantage now that you didn't have to like try to suck down to 198? Uh it's just I think the thing is when um when I knew I was a pro um I knew I I I wouldn't have anymore the problem of the weight, right? So I said, "Okay, now we we can build muscle and we don't need to count or calculate anything." So yeah, but now I saw I was already at the limit. So I will find I will have to find a a good balance for the next show. Of course. Yeah. that you you happen to be only about 5'4. So when you pack, you know, over 200 lb on that body that I mean, it looks huge. You look like a monster on stage, you know. Well, thanks. Uh I think it's just um you know, like me, it's very visual. So I'm not so big actually. It's just visual the way you pose and this is how it makes the difference. Yeah. Well, 5 foot4, 200 something pounds is big. How what did you actually weigh on stage at the Charlotte Pro? I was a bit lighter. Um, when I did the weight in I was at 211.9. That's pretty. And on stage I was probably at 28. Yeah, nine. Not more. Did you feel that you needed to be fuller or bigger or do you think you were good? I think we that's the first year with my coach we found um a good balance a good package. The only thing is that I'm 26 so I don't have this maturity with my upper body. So I need more details and striations on my upper body. So I think that's one of the points that we have to improve for um the next season. Look to be honest with you when I saw the pictures initially I said this there's no way this guy's losing. I said, "Even in that lineup, I mean, you got ridiculous conditioning. Your glutes and hamstrings are crazy strided. You got a big back. Got a great front double bicep pose." And then I saw the one picture where all of a sudden there was this big lump on I think it was your right shoulder, I believe. And I was like, "Yep." And I was like, "What the hell was that?" and and and I knew look as soon as I saw it, I knew the judges were going to go were going to mark that down because, you know, that's something that that that they are pretty big sticklers for nowadays. What what happened to the shoulder? What is it? I've heard a million different explanations. I want to hear it from your mouth. What's going on with that right shoulder? Yeah, I I have nothing to hide. So, actually, um I have um a kind of scar. I did actually a checkup today, just this afternoon. So, I have a scar. It's very superficial. Uh, but the doctor told me, um, because of the weight and the mass I've gained during the last prep, uh, it has pushed the scar on the side, so it's now more visible. But I have this since like two or three years, and it wasn't visible um, three years ago, but now I'm a bit bigger than the few years. Uh, yeah. I mean, it's just more visible now. That's Yeah, that's it. Nothing more. no synth or I don't know what I have heard. Yeah, there's nothing to drain there. There was no infection is what you're saying. You're saying it's just old scar tissue that seems to be getting worse. Now, a lot of people don't realize, but when you have scar tissue there and then the muscle is exerting a lot of pressure on it sometimes, and I don't know if this is the case to you, sometimes a cyst will will form in there and you'll get a cyst. It almost acts like a cushion, like a like a it's almost like a callus there to protect the the body from the scar tissue. So, you might have something growing in there, like a cyst type, a little small cyst or something that they don't even see. And I'm sure once they go in there and surgically remove whatever is there, they'll probably find out what's going on, you know. Yeah. I think the mistake that I did was I knew I had this um but the thing is, you know, I see my body every day, right? So I don't really I couldn't realize it was so so visible and uh it's only after the show when people and judges told me okay you have to be careful then I look at the pictures and I try to analyze and I said okay it's true I have to do something because it's not very aesthetic and uh that's why I did immediately I mean I saw immediately my doctor just to get uh his version on this and yeah now I I would do surgery and I would do the necessary So, I'm assuming you're shutting it down for the rest of the season. That'll be it for the for the competition. You're not going to do any more shows? Yeah, I wanted to do New York Pro, of course, and Toronto. That that was the plan. But yeah, I I think it's more important to fix that now. And I think it's good also because I can have a good rest and I did Charlotte, so now I know what I can do with the pro so I can get a better idea. So I think it's just I think it's positive in a certain way because um I know what I have to do now. I know what I have to improve and I just have to fix that and to have a rest and then I will come back better than before of course. Now question for you because um obviously you you were going to do Toronto and New York which makes sense. Those are big shows. What made you decide to do Charlotte first? Was it a warm-up? I mean uh that was I wanted to do something very quick. um in the Europe and that was actually the first uh 212 pro show. Okay. So that's why I've started with this one. Then New York because um New York is one of the biggest show. We all know that. And I think for the visibility it's good and Toronto just because the plan was I know that if you do maybe um a third place I mean three times you can get your ticket for Olympia. I mean you have some chances to get it right. So that was that was also the plan. I mean to be at least in the top three for the three shows. Yeah. I mean and let's face it, those were big shows you picked. You could have picked a small show and probably gone in there and won that easily, you know. But um yeah, but I mean, you know, I'm doing this. I didn't get the pro card just to get the pro card. So right, I want to be the best, right? That's it. may be pretentious but I want to compare myself with the best ones. So that's why it's good to do small show because I can see my level with maybe guys from I mean they're doing Charlotte there were a lot of guys with uh I mean new pro. So it was good for me to see if I was at the right level and shows like New York is good because I can compare myself with the best. So I can see really the level I can have. So that's why do do you think you need to get any bigger when you look at yourself? Do you think you need to to increase your size at all or just your uh the proportion of your size? No, motor quality I think because the the size I think is pretty good. I can we can do better of course but the thing is I have to find um a balance with the weight all the time because being bigger is also being heavier. So I have to find a good balance with this because I was already at the limit. So I have to improve first I think the quality. I know I have some uh weak parts like my chest and my back. I I need more thickness. So I have to improve this. Uh I know that my lower body is pretty good since like two years. That's probably my strongest part. So I I need to improve the the upper body of course. Now you have some one of the best set of legs I would say in the 212 division. uh the your glutes, your hamstrings, your quad. I mean, every it's you have super development. What would you attribute that to? Because a lot of people probably watching this and saying, "Man, this guy's, you know, what does he do for his legs? I mean, do you squat? Are you a leg presser? What what what do you feel is your bread and butter?" Uh maybe you won't believe me, but I don't do any exercises for the glutes. Um it's just probably something genetic. Um now the thing is I I work with um a special method that my coach um has created. It calls um SST and this is something I have used since the five years I'm doing bodybuilding and I think it really brought me a good quality and density because I have used this during yeah five years without stopping and this is very intense with heavy weights and yeah I think it it really paid off. Yeah. What what kind of exercises do you do for your legs? Uh I use a bit all I mean everything. I don't do any free squat. No, I do. Yeah, I don't I only do leg presses, leg extension, basic movements. Um I think the thing is I have very short legs. So the I don't need to do something I mean a full movement to to get the right stimulation. So maybe I'm bit I'm a bit luckier for this part I would say. So, this is maybe what makes the difference. I don't know. Who knows? Impre, very impressive legs, you know, like I said, super super super intense. You got great veins and separation in there. What um did you always have good legs as a kid when you first started or or was this something that just developed? I think since the beginning, yeah, when I started, we all know that my legs going to be my strongest part. I didn't have maybe the hamstrings. So, I have developed the hamstrings during the the last few years, but the quads were already, I think, on track when I started this uh this sport. Give us a little idea of what bodybuilding is like in Switzerland because I personally I've been to a lot of places. I've been to Switzerland. What What kind of What are the gyms like? Do they have good equipment? What's the food like? Can you get the food that you want? Yeah. Well, first thing is um Switzerland is very very very expensive. So it's very hard to I mean you can find everything the food is really good, the quality is good but you have to pay a lot. So apartment um food gyms everything is very expensive. If I can give you an example, if you want to go to the gym, uh the price for just one day, for one session is approximately the same price as if you go in the USA, but for one month. Wow. Really? Yeah. Yeah. So, it's Yeah, you can get the better idea now. Um but you have everything. That's a very peaceful country, so I'm pretty relaxed here. I can do whatever I want. I'm very Yeah, I'm in my little world. So, that's that's a good place, peaceful place. But honestly, I prefer the USA. You have more there are more choices. There are more um concept like for the food, for the meal prep, and you can't find this in Switzerland because this is very I don't know how you say they they don't like really the the changes, you know, right? So, uh yeah. So when you speak about bodybuilding, first thing is that people don't really know what is it exactly and then when you explain what you do, they just think you're crazy. So they think they think you're crazy here, too. Don't worry about it. If you had to move to the United States, what state would you want to move to? What do you like the best? I've stayed um I've been in Las Vegas last year during Olympia for a few weeks, right? And I think that's the most incredible city I've ever seen in my life. So everything is made for bodybuilding, food, gyms, everything is open 24 hours and just Yeah, that's just perfect for this sport. Do you see Do you see yourself moving in the next couple years? I know you're still a young guy, so it doesn't really matter. But I would love I would love, of course. Now it's just about It's the same problem all the time. It's just about money, right? I can't go like that if I want because I need to uh Yeah, I need to earn some money. But if I if I had more money, of course, I would have moved since a long time. What now? Do you have any supplement company sponsors right now or are you currently looking for a sponsor? No, I have signed with BPI Sport um a few weeks before. Congratulations. So, yeah, they they're really good. We Yeah, the the the company is really great and very they support me a lot. So that's great. Yeah, very happy. It's good to have uh definitely it's good to have a supplement company sponsor in this day and age because uh like you said it is a very expensive sport. How does your uh how does your family feel about the whole bodybuilding? Are they supportive? Uh yeah, you know, I'm living with my mom. Um because as I said it's very expensive. Yeah. So apartment it's like just crazy the price like how much per month uh fore you see me. So yeah two 2,000 it's approximately the same dollars it's2 yeah $2,000 for one month. Oh my god. And you have two uh you have two rooms and a half. Holy mackerel. Yeah. So yeah. Welcome in Switzerland. Yeah. Live home. Forget about it. Let mom pay the bills. Yeah. She she's she's really nice. She support me since the beginning. She helped me with food. Yeah. Uh she went to Yeah. All the shows I did in Switzerland, she was there. Oh wow. So yeah. Yeah. She's she's really Yeah, that's a great person. Yeah. My dad only bought My dad used to buy the DVDs. He didn't he didn't go to the show. Um, let's assume you take the rest of the year off, you get the surgery, the shoulder looks great. What would you like to do next year? Have you thought about it? You think maybe Arnold Classic? Uh, what do you think might be your first show? Uh, honestly, my my first plan I I really really really want to do the Arnold Classic in How are you in 212? Because I know that's the biggest show. if you can do something great there automatically you can do something great on the on the Olympia stage. So I think um yeah I really want to do it because I want to prove that I can do it even if I come from a small country. Uh I want to prove that I can do it and I want to prove also to the to America that yeah even if I'm not in America uh I can do something great. Yeah. Well, you got a tremendous physique with tremendous potential for the future. I'm glad you're taking care of that shoulder issue you had and I know next year you're going to be back with a vengeance and and I think you're going to be one of the most difficult guys to beat in that 212, especially with another, you know, eight months of training under your belt. Best of luck. Keep us updated and and and you know, let us know how the shoulder surgery goes. Yep. Sure. Of course. All right. And that is going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time.