Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Tuesday, August 16th, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, things in the figure division just got real. Over the weekend, new photos surfaced of the most decorated athlete in figure history, looking every bit as spectacular as she ever has following an announcement that she will indeed be bringing her talents back to the Olympia stage just about 5 weeks from today. If you remember back to this time last year, Nicole Wilkins was the heavy favorite to come in and successfully defend her title for the third consecutive time on her way to rewriting the record books as the only fivetime figure Olympia champ in history. But after falling to eventual winner Latoya Watts, Wilin finds herself in the unfamiliar position of the underdog this time around. But as she's proven before, if there's anyone who could battle back from a tough title defeat to regain her chokeold on the sport, it's Wilkins. And come Olympia time, look for an epic battle between reigning champ Latoya Watson and her to be waged on the main stage at the Orleans Arena. Nicole Wilkins isn't the only decorated athlete getting back in the gym and making noise these days. Things also seem to be coming along well for our old friend Sadi Hodzvik. After leaving his footprints all over the men's physique division for three solid years, the former Arnold Classic champ announced late last year that he would be taking his talents over to the classic physique division. Over the last nine months, Sadiq has been in the gym with his hard hat on, building muscle and putting in some serious work and doing his best to keep most of Project Sadik 2.0 under wraps. But over the weekend, Hudzik leaked some new training footage from a recent leg training session where we get a chance to catch a quick glimpse at what he's been working on. By all accounts, Sadique is on track to come into this year's Olympia and blow the roof right off the building. So stay tuned for the epic clash of the classic physique superstars. Operation Pro debut appears to be firing on all cylinders for soontobe Impact rookie Charles Griffin. After winning his pro card back at last year's NPC Nationals, Griffin got back in the gym and turned into bodybuilding's version of Bane, destroying weights and crushing anything in his path with malicious intent. During his offseason, Griffin packed on more than 10 lbs of quality new muscle. And slowly but surely, he's been dialing it in over the last few weeks as he prepares to show the world he's going to be a force to be reckoned with in bodybuilding for a long time to come. Although he still has a long way to go before he's ready to hop on stage and see how he stacks up, when he does, Griffin certainly has a chance to do something very special. Less than a week out, after delivering what might have been the best look of his career, species nutrition athlete Lorenzo Arasco is already back in the gym doing what he does best. It's been a busy season for Arasco, who's already hit three competitions in three different states and gotten better each and every time. Over the weekend, Arasco was spotted in the gym grinding out another brutal chess training session as he continues to carve in new details to his continually evolving physique. Arasco brings an old school bluecollar mentality to the game that you can't help but fall in love with. And as if there's one thing that you can count on from Morasco, it's that you will never ever get anything less than the best he has to offer every time he sets on stage. If you thought a little thing like a broken foot was going to put the brakes on Brad's contest prep, then you must not know Brad Row very well. Despite breaking the bone in his foot one day last week during a strange beach mishap, Ro put out some footage from a recent back training session to let his fans know that he doesn't plan on missing a beat over the next 10 weeks as he prepares to take the stage for the first time this season. Unfortunately for Row, he's no stranger to injuries during his contest prep. And just last year, he gutted his way through a serious quad injury to put an admirable performance on in his first career Olympia. Given what we've seen from him in the past, I fully expect to see Mr. Front Row hit the stage just as he planned a few weeks from now. Because come hell or high water, there just doesn't seem to be anything that can keep this guy down. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo! Move.