We're going to talk about the new species nutrition preworkout supplement known as Nitrolyze. I was resistant to come out with a pre-workout supplement before I finished off all the other supplements that I felt were necessary uh to a person's health and performance and recovery. But, you know, moving forward into the future, the pre-workout segment is extremely popular. And I decided if I was going to come out with a pre-workout formula, I wanted it to be one that was unique and that worked. And I felt that the what was lacking in our industry was the fact that most of the pre-workout formulas were just jacked up with tons of stimulants and contained what we call a proprietary formula. What that means is that you don't have to list how many milligrams of each ingredient is on the label. You can just put a sprinkle of this, a sprinkle of that, and most of the ingredients probably don't do anything. There's no they don't even have a potent dosage of it in there. So, if you look at the new Nitralize S and new Nitrolize non- stem formulas, you will see exact ingredient amounts in there. Now, let's break down a pre-workout. Let's talk about what makes a a very good potent uh pre-workout formula that you're going to notice results from. Number one, it's got to have nitric oxide releasing compounds in it. We use arginine, which is one of the most prevalent ones used, and you have to use a nice potent dose of this stuff. And we have two grams in each serving of of arginine. I also use beetroot juice extract. Beets are very high in nitrates, and when you consume them, and I learned this the hard way, or maybe the the easy way. I was juicing nutrients at night before going to bed. And when I would put every time I put a beet into my juicer uh and I drank the stuff uh the next that night I was like I almost couldn't sleep because I was so pumped up. And I realized that that was a terrific way to raise nitric oxide levels. So we have a nice amount of beet juice extract in there as well as well as a host of other ingredients that will help aid and and increase the availability of nitric oxide production. The second most important thing about a pre-workout is acid buffering capability. In other words, as we work out, our bodies produce lactic acid which builds up in the muscle and causes fatigue and it enables the muscle not to continue to exercise for prolonged periods because the the acid has to be removed or gotten or flushed out of the muscle cell. We use some tremendously potent acid buffering compounds. Probably the most prevalent being beta-alanine, but once again, a nice potent dose so that uh you can train for extended periods of time and you're not going to notice the fatigue you normally would. When I take this pre-workout, Nitrolize, I almost can't uh I don't want to get off the treadmill. That's how good my endurance is. And and that's important. Uh the third ingredient of a good pre-workout is something that's going to help mental focus and energy. Okay? Now, a lot of companies load it up with stimulants. I made a formula that has no stimulants. At least one of our formulas. This is the nitralized berry blast flavor. This is stimree. It has no caffeine or nothing that's going to stimulate you to the point where you're not going to be able to go to sleep. It's not going to raise your blood pressure. It's not going to increase anxiety levels. It's not going to increase heart rate. Uh this is anyone can use this pretty much. Uh I use the non- stem formula. There's certain ingredients in there that will help mental focus. We have creatine in there as well. and that's going to get you through. Now, if you one of these people that needs a little extra boost and wants to really, you know, feel jacked up when you're in the gym, we have the Nitrolized S formula. This has got stims in it. It's got some buffered caffeine in here. You're going to get a nice little, you know, jerk or jolt, I should say, when you get into the gym and not only going to feel your increased uh acid buffering effect and nitric oxide pumps, but you're also going to have the energy that you guys uh desire. So, we got Nitrolize S freak factor or freak formula I like to call it and berry bolast non- stem nitralize. Give them both a shot. I guarantee you're gonna