Hello everyone, Bill Wilmore here. We are actually at the first annual Bill Wilmore Classic and I'm actually going to interview the actual winners tonight. And here we have Brian Wilman Army Garrison. Brian, um, you look great tonight. Um, do you feel that this is the best you've ever been? Um, yes. I've been competing since, um, 2009 and I've won a few championship, but I think this is the greatest shape I've ever been in. Okay. Um, what's next for you? Well, I'm planning to go in the southern states of the light heavy. I came in tonight as a heavyweight. You know, I I was shooting for light heavy, but uh, I still came in as a heavyweight and did did my best and came out victorious. So, I'm planning to go to southern states and um as a light heavyweight and see what I can do. Okay. So, right after that, h are we looking to do the USA or are we going to wait and maybe do the nationals, give ourselves a little bit of time to make some improvements. But um you know looking at you today tonight um looks like you have a bright future and I definitely would say you know you should definitely be thinking about you know one of those national qualifying shows to to to see where you really stand. Yeah I I I believe I should look into that also. But I I do the shows and you know I speak with the judges and see what they say and what I could work on and things like that. And you know with time everything gets better. So if they give me the go ahead or say you know no then I'm going to listen them cuz I I've been depending on their guidance for a while now. So whatever they decide for me you know and the opportunity of talking with them and letting you know hey improve on this or you know I'm going to listen and if they say it's a go ahead then I'll take their advice and roll with it. Well awesome. You look great tonight and just want to wish you the best. Thank you so much Bill. Appreciate it man. Hi. How are you? Hello. Okay so you won tonight. I did. So, um, how do you feel? Give me your give me an idea of of the your experience here. Well, it's amazing. Um, there's no feeling compared to that. You work really hard for 3 months. So, achieving that is like amazing. This is the the only word I can use. Okay. Um, so what what's your plans after this? I really want to do North Americans. So, those are my plans for sure nationals here in November. Well, it sounds perfect and um like I said, you look awesome tonight and I wish you the best of luck at your next show. Thank you. Appreciate it. Hello. How you doing? We have Marco Ronito. Marco, um so you won tonight, the overall. Is this your first overall win? Uh first overall win, second actual show that I've competed in. I did Europa Orlando the first time and only placed 11th. Didn't really feel comfortable in what I was doing. Still very new to me. So to say that I'm happy right now is an understatement. Well, that's awesome. Um, so what's your plans from here? Uh, compete in a national show. I guess I, you know, I tend to not go into a show and figure out how I'm in a place cuz it's not really well realistic to be honest with you. Uh, I haven't looked at national shows. I don't know when they are. Well, I like that approach. You know, at the end of the day, we compete against ourselves. And, you know, the better that you're going to make yourself, that's how you're going to climb the ladder anyway. Absolutely. And this is definitely the best best shape that I've been in in my life. And I can say that with confidence. So, it's good. Well, best of luck to you in the future. I appreciate it. Thanks a lot. Thank you.