I'm here with overall classic men's physique champion James Smith. How does it feel being the first classic physique champion of the MPC Natural Ohio? It it doesn't feel real to be honest with you. It's it's a it's a pretty big deal. So, uh yeah, it's it's it feels unreal, but I mean it feels good. It's a lot of work and it was worth it. It was well worth it. I know you said you competed before in bodybuilding. What made you want to try out classic physique as opposed to stay with bodybuilding? Well, the reason I got into this stuff was, you know, heroes like my dad had that became my heroes, you know, Frank Zayn and Arnold Schwarzenegger and Serge New Bray, old school guys like that. That's what I wanted to look like and that's who I aspire to be like. And you know, uh, that kind of made me want to, uh, venture into this classic physique division because of what it represented and and the classical style posing and stuff. Where do you see yourself going from here as far as next time you're going to be competing or I think I'm going to take a little time off, you know, uh, but I think, you know, we'll do a national show here hopefully, uh, within a year or so. So cool. James Smith, first class of physique champion at NPC Natural Ohio. Look awesome, man. Enjoy some food. I'm Jeff Jnikar with rxmuscle.com. Here with the overall men's bodybuilding champion and the junior men's overall bodybuilding champion, Matt Vogle. How you feeling, man? Feeling great, humble. Can't believe it. Yeah, it was two tough classes and you came out on top. Uh, where do you see yourself going from here? Uh, my dream is to one day become a professional bodybuilder. I love the sport. I have a passion for health and fitness and having a passion for the sport and I'd like to be able to make a career out of it. How long you been training for? I started training with my dad when I was about 13 years old. So about 10 years. I'm 23 and uh every with sports in high school and it just training took off and then after I got out of sports it just kind of took it to a new level. Bodybuilding, staying in the competitive mindset and uh just just kind of took off. Definitely shows how long you've been training. 23 years old with this physique and um where do you see yourself going from here after this show? Uh right now I'm going to go home and uh get a nice meal somewhere, go out somewhere and eat and then I'll start thinking about uh what uh what my plans are for this spring and this summer as far as competing in more shows. But uh I'm in the best shape of my life right now. Each and every show I do, I get leaner and I can't wait to see where I can go from here. here with Mike Kunla, the men's overall physique champion at the NPC Metro Ohio 2016. How you feeling, man? Pretty good. Pretty excited. Still hasn't really hit me yet. First and they took it away. It's your first show or how many shows have you done? My second show. Yeah, I did one in uh Indianapolis in August and I won the overall on that, too. So, two in a row. It's pretty good. Awesome. What made you want to try out physique versus bodybuilding? And uh I just more about I just like the proportionality of it. It just uh it's something that clicks with me. Um I don't know. Bodybuilding never really like seemed like something I wanted to do and I didn't want to wear a speedo on stage. So yeah. Where do you see yourself going from here? Like next next step, next show. Next show is Team Universe. It's for my pro card. Um and that's in July in Tene New Jersey. So Okay. Hopefully I can go there and kill it and then uh if I do well there I can represent the whole the United States. Should be sweet. So you going to eat anything good tonight? Yeah, dude. My my girlfriend made this like brownie cookie dish, deep dish thing that I'm going to slam once I get done with this and then we're all going out for drinks and uh and beer and pizza and everything like that. So awesome. Yeah, it's Mike Kunla, overall men's physique champion. Jeff carsmuscle.com.