Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Tuesday, May 12th, 2015. Let's get to it. We had another action-packed weekend in the bodybuilding world, highlighted by another exciting rendition of the New York Pro. After weeks of speculation and anticipation heading into the event, the action on stage certainly lived up to the billing. In the men's open bodybuilding, Juan Morell continued his rise toward greatness with a heroic win, edging out an extremely impressive Victor Martinez. In the 212 division, we saw Guy Sister Nino continue his rampage through the ranks as he captured yet another victory. And in men's physique, George Brown emerged victorious over a deep field of almost 50 competitors. In the process qualifying for his very first men's physique Olympia for all the results, photos, and wrap-ups, be sure to log on to rxmuscle.com. While the New York Pro men's show certainly lived up to the pre-contest hype, the leading ladies of the IFBB put on quite a performance in their own right this past weekend. In the figure division, the best version of Latoya Watts we've seen to date completely decimated the competition. In the women's physique, former NPC Nationals overall bodybuilding champion Michelle Cummings brought a stunning package to the stage and captured her first pro victory. And in bikini, India Paulino made a bit of history with her win, passing Amanda Latona and bikini Olympia champ Ashley Cwaser for the title of winningest woman in bikini history. For the complete women's placings, contest photos, and winner interviews, check out rxmuscle.com. October is National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, but it's never too early to draw attention to a disease that impacts millions of lives each year. And over the weekend, men's physique star Rodney Razer did his part to help raise funds for the Susan G. Coleman Foundation when he hit the road with industry personality Jamie Een for a 5K fundraiser. The bodybuilding world has made a strong push over the past few years to raise funds to help support the fight against breast cancer. As fans might remember, last year's inaugural Pink Muscle Classic put on by Chad Nichols that donated all of the proceeds from the show to breast cancer charities. For more information about how you can support the fight against breast cancer, head over to national breastcancer.org. Species nutrition athlete Heather De's is making headlines again. Coming off a back-to-back top eight finish at the Arnold Classic in Arnold Australia, De's hard work looks to be paying off in spades. In the most recent edition of Oxygen Magazine, Dez is featured in a multi-page article where she gives her fans an inside look at how to achieve the sculpted physique of their dreams. With so much momentum generated by this great magazine feature, it'll be interesting to see how the rest of the year shakes out for one of the most talented competitors in the entire figure division. It looks like it's business as usual for German bodybuilding sensation Roman Fritz. The 2014 amateur Olympia champ released a few new photos last week showing off his trademark intensity in the gym that's turned him into one of the most promising young talents in the sport. Fritz looks to be packing on some significant size to his tremendous frame, which is going to serve him well when he decides to bring his talents to a pro stage for the first time. And at just 26 years old, Fritz is only just beginning to scratch the surface of his talents, which is very bad news for the competition. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. I'm your host Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.