Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Monday, February 13th, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. You don't become a twotime Arnold Classic champion and a generational icon without being willing to drag your ass through hell and high water when most of the world would have packed up their bags and went home. But then again, I guess that's what makes Branch Warren so special now, isn't it? Nearly two decades into a career that is truly Hall of Fame worthy, the Texas Titan is still one of the baddest men in the business. After putting the brakes on his 2016 season to focus on taking time off to get his body back in order, it looks like Branch Warren is finally feeling his old self again. And once he's ready to get back to business, I think we're going to see him return to vintage Branchw Warren form. Speaking of Metrolex legends, once upon a time, the best back in the history of bodybuilding was forged right there in the heart of Texas. Earlier this week, the great one himself was spotted sneaking in a quick back workout down at his old stomping grounds and looking pretty damn good if you ask me. Almost six months removed from surgery, it seems like the former eight-time Mr. Olympia Ronnie Coleman is starting to get his groove back. Over the last few weeks, it seems like slowly but surely, King Ronnie has been starting to regain some of that magical momentum that turned him into the greatest bodybuilder to ever walk the planet. And as long as he can keep the injury bug at bay, I have absolutely no doubt in my mind that Ronnie still has one more unbelievable moment left in the tank. Anger could be one hell of a motivator in sports. So, if I were an athlete heading into this year's New York Pro, I'd keep my head on swivel because Clarence Deise is training like a man who's mad at the world right now. Late last week, some new training footage surfaced of Devis looking angrier and more focused than he's ever been as he continues his war path back to the stage in 2017. I don't know what's gotten into Devise over the last 18 months, but whatever it is is clearly working. A bigger, harder, fuller version of Devis is dangerous anyway you try to spin it. So don't be surprised if he shows up in New York and creates some major waves. For anyone out there who thought the pressure of being a two-time Olympia champ was going to sink Jeremy Buia's ship this year, you might want to think again. The reigning and defending two-time men's physique Olympia champ has spent his entire offseason getting back to basics and completely retooling his game plan and sharpening the edges on his blade. Despite having so many challenges throw rocks at the throne over the past two seasons, Buenia has proven time and again that he's unquestionably the toughest man in the sport right now. And until somebody can prove otherwise, he has to be considered an overwhelming favorite to win his unprecedented third straight sand out later in the season.