Heat. Heat. Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here with Chris the technician Aceto and we're here in Miami, Florida at the 2015 NPC National Bodybuilding Championships and the men's prejudging just let out Chris and the super heavyweight class proved to be the most exciting of the contest. A twoman show between Sergio Oliver Jr., the myth's son himself, and Eddie Breamontes. Ironically enough, two guys that you trained. Is this plan bothering you? Uh, yeah. It's uh it's uh it's a two-man race. I mean, I think and um it it it was exciting. Uh you know, and it's a contrast in physiques. Well, we did see we did see a final call out with Jonathan Irizari in there. So, technically it's a three-man race, but I truly believe that it's between Eddie Burkamontes and Sergio Oliva Jr. who is uh you know, I think leading by a little bit at this point. Yeah. you know, I I the the scuttlebutt I've asked around a couple people um and you know, it comes down to, you know, it seems like some people are saying Sergio's width in the lineup, it was like a deciding factor. Um that and it I I think they said his front double where he opens up more, you know, it shows like a bigger structure. I think that Sergio Oliver Jr. has more potential. He's got more wow, but I do think that Eddie Burkamontes is in better shape. He's got a better tan and better presentation. Having said that, once again, sometimes wow factor does come into a lot of play. Obviously, Sergio's conditioning is excellent. Uh Sergio's presentation is is unique almost like a Cedric McMillan. He likes to hit the poses the way he wants to hit them, which is not conventional. Yeah. Now, you could do that in the in your pre free judging round. excuse me, your free posing round, but sometimes in the prejudging it's it's annoying. Kai Green had to kind of get out of that little bit of a weird type of, you know, prejudging posing. Who did you think? Now, you could be completely honest. Obviously, you helped both guys. Who did you have after prejudging? Um, I I think that Eddie would I I would probably give the edge to Eddie. And here's the reason why. When he first came out, I think he he blew the roof off the auditorium in terms of his level of conditioning. And I am not like the glutes and ham guy. Like I don't think shows should be won on glutes and hams, but a lot of times they are one on glutes and hams. And his glutes and hams in the lineup just standing were just, you know, inside out. Um he had, you know, really impressive quarter turns and polish. U so for me, I thought that when he first came out that it was a a clincher. Um, and I I thought his condition would just uh overwhelm everyone in the class. But when they compared them, what you could see is that Sergio's uh is he bigger? Like a bigger guy? I don't know if it's muscle bigger frame. Bigger frame. And you can see that in the front last spread, the back lat spread. And he has kind of a a little bit of freak factor going on when he does that myth the one from the back. From the back he does. say when he does the myth pose I he he wins me over right there. I can't I got to give it to him. Let's face it. He is a the son of a legend, a threetime Mr. Olympia. It's got to count for something. You're we're all historical buffs here. Every judge on that panel is a bodybuilder who followed bodybuilding their whole life and probably looked up to Sergio when he was a kid. It's close between the two of them. And I think that the edge might go to Sergio because of that. I mean, hey, who would you rather see win the NPC National Bodybuilding Championships overall? Uh, you know, we know both guys are going to get pro cards, but when you hear Sergio Oliver Jr. as the new national champion, it does have a little bit of wow to it. Yeah. And I'm I'm also going to be preparing for men's classical bodybuilding. Patrick Schwarzenegger. So, no, I'm not. Derek Farnsworth is going to classic bodybuilding. You know, I think a lot of people who are I think classic bodybuilders is you're going to see a lot of people Victor Prrisk actually just told me our good friend Dr. Prrisk is is doing he's contemplating masters. Did they ever have a master class? He's doing classic uh physique pro, you know, he said Jim Magn asked him to do it. So, and he's got a good physique for that, too. Him and Farnsworth will be battling it out probably in that same uh height weight class. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I I I still haven't mastered like how the weight has to fit into the height or the height. They're both about the same height, right? No, they're both about the same height. Yeah. Marvin Ward. There you go. Another That's another great guy, isn't it? He has got the classic. He's got He may gotta get Ben Carson. I told earlier me and Dave finished each other's sentence in terms of saying, "Wow, this guy guy looks great." or critique of someone and I said Ben Carson of course uh who's somehow second in the polls is uh a famous neurosurgeon who re removed conjoined twins at the brain. That was his like specialty. But he but he believes that this the evolution doesn't exist. Right. Well, the their ether is like 450 years old, I think. Okay. Now, is it true that you you poached Sergio Oliver Jr. away from George Farah? Um, no, I I did. They called me. I don't know why they called me. I don't know why. Uh, no. I I saw Sergio at the Olympia and uh he was looking to make a change and um he said uh so I give him the Roden plan, right? I give you the rodent plan. And I and I said, I don't care if you work with me or anyone. I mean, you could, you know, I And uh the next day I saw him, I I just like bumped into him and uh he said, you know, did you mean that that you don't care? And I said, I mean, don't take it the wrong way, but you know, you're probably going to be a great bodybuilder. Did you tell him that you helped Did you tell him you helped Arnold beat his father? No, I didn't tell him that. The 73 George gave him that line, right? No, may have. May have. Regardless, um the battle really came down to those two and Jonathan Irizari, a close second. Good comeback for him because last year he was like a different bodybuilder. Comes back. I think it was a mistake. I think he should have gone into that heavyweight class. Giant mistake. He should have dropped down to that heavyweight class and he would have easily won that class. He easily won. He he uh he was very competitive here. He just he doesn't have the frame and size of Sergio and he he doesn't have the like wacky condition that Eddie had. But if you take those two out, he would have won this class. But you can't take those two out. There's always going to be those two, you know, as super. So, you got to move down. And then we got Rasheed Older, who is the biggest guy in the super heavyweight class, you know, arguably. I mean, this guy comes in a little tighter and he's he he could have beat the whole class. He could dominate. I was I was This is how good he is. is that when I was watching the show, I I I get I get chills just thinking of it now. Literally, when they moved him to the edge, I said, cuz you can't if you if he's next to Eddie, you're going to say he's too big for Eddie and Sergio, who's supposed to be big. If he's next to Sergio, he's bigger than Sergio. Bigger than everyone in that class. So, he's bigger than everyone. So, I figured either he might get plunked down in the middle, but because their conditioner was better than his, maybe they'll put him on the edge. I definitely had him ahead of Jonathan as as good as Jonathan like I'll never be able to say that name. How do you sayari you know I told you know obviously I work with Rasheed and I told him I said next year you got to come in put in what you put in energy-wise to the last three weeks put it into the whole diet and no one will touch you. I mean he's got everything. He's got no weaknesses. He's he's he's he's probably one of the better or most dangerous super heavyweights that I've seen in a long time. And I and I mean not only in the super heavyweight class here, but he could win this show and then go into a Europa show and win a show like that. I really believe that procure muscle for sure. Let's talk about the men's heavyweight class where Charles Griffin was super impressive in this class. It was a weak class. Let's face it, there were guy, no one really delivered, but this guy had the most of what he needed to do to win this class. Shape, conditioning, a lot of muscle on his body. Um, but you know, is he a door closer? No. But I think once again, he was the best guy here tonight. Yeah. No, I thought he was the best and I thought he was going to clearly win the class. Uh, until they started like this. That's why we have the comparisons until they started comparing them. You know, I could see where he became vulnerable to the guy who ended up second who we'll talk about his tremendous shape and condition. But yeah, he was a, you know, great winner. He's got a lot of like thick dense muscle with a, you know, great taper. And from behind his his hamstrings are just, you know, really thick and developed. You don't see that much anymore. Thick and you see people with like detailed hams, but you don't see like thick hams with thick glutes and, you know, everything popping in the right place in the back double. He for me, he was still the winner. Devin Burgess, superstar. I mean, this this guy has got he's tall and usually tall guys don't do well. or lanky when he starts hitting shots. I mean, his waist has got to be 26 in. And he is just incredible with that hands- on hip, most muscular from the back, the glutes and hamstrings. I mean, you talk about, you know, a guy with genetic potential. This guy, if he puts on 20 pounds of muscle, he could be Mr. Olympia. Uh, that sounds ridiculous, you know, to people listening because, you know, they've never heard of him. This guy is like a rodent all the way where you you when he comes out, you might say, "Well, he could use more muscle." The minute he gets compared to people, he looks way bigger than them. And he's got the back. He's got the development everywhere. He's got the craziest midsection. He's got a hands-on hips most most muscular that looks like Tony Pearson with better pecs from like and better legs. Brian Buchanan. Yeah, Brian Buchanan. I mean, he's really a phenomenal bodybuilder. Um, he'll definitely get his pro card here and he'll he'll probably be able to do some of these shows right off the bat and be in AI think I I think he should take some time off and put some muscle on. I mean, he takes the rest of the year off, maybe competes early 2017 because he's got tremendous shape and he can hold an enormous amount of muscle on his body. When you can hold that kind of muscle on your body and come in with that kind of conditioning, dangerous, dangerous, dangerous. All right, let's talk about the men's light heavyweight class where Germaine Todd uh seems to have seized the best of the class here, Chris. First of all, the lights went out. Literally the lights went out in the auditorium for that class and they could not get them back on. We had some light, but it was hard for me to tell. So, I'm going to defer to the judges on this because they were sitting a lot closer, but I thought Germaine Todd had the win after prejudging over Nick Medici, who is a former team national champion who won the Eastern USA a couple weeks ago. Uh, talk to me a little bit about Germaine Todd. Um, he had the most he had the the most amount of muscle in the in the class and uh and really the most amount of condition in the class to to to to I mean I thought it was clearcut. Um I don't think the class was quote a super great class. Then again it was in the dark so I don't know. I'll tell you one thing. Nick Medici who to me his his waist could be a little small. I like him. He's got a lot of mass and and gnarly muscle. I thought his conditioning might have been a little harder, but I gotta tell you, in the dark he looked way better. I think it really helped him to be honest with you because I think it pushed him ahead of a couple other guys that might have had a little better shape than him, but in the dark he looks so gnarly, you know, and grainy that I I think it really helped him. And I'm not making a joke about it. You know, you got to you got to roll with the conditions, right? Yeah, you you do. And and you it sound you you're right. I mean, when I I thought when he first came out that there was uh a flat look to him, and that's usually when guys do the easterns and they qualify and they come here, it's hard to Well, you had trouble making weight is what happened cuz And that's always difficult when you when it's hard to make weight and you have to force your body down and you do a second show, you're never as good as the first show. Meaning, you can make the weight the first time and then suddenly the second time it's easy to make weight and you say, "Oh, easy. I must be in better condition." But your body's starting to fall apart. And that's probably what happened. Not that he fell apart, but I I think he had a denser, harder look from the pictures that I saw ago. Yeah, he did. He did. But you know what? I think, you know, once again, the great thing about the NPC Nationals now, two pro cards in every class. So, congratulations to those guys. Obviously, we're not going to know what happens. I think they might even I think they'll probably rejudge his class tomorrow because they have to cuz the light just was not fair. I did see a small little uh gray mushroom cloud come off your computer. I thought the and it overheated. plugged it in. It killed the lights. The computer overheated and it may have caused the the uh I drew too much electricity maybe or the the intergalactic league president may have just pulled a plug somewhere on the power like outside the the venue. You never know. Let's talk about the middleweight class. Chris Pabler Ruiz, maybe the most complete bodybuilder of the entire show, packing oodles of muscle, great tan, good presentation, gnarly conditioning, edging out David Robinson, I think. And David Robinson was our pick after we saw the individual posing routines. Yes. I thought after the individual when they came out, I said I thought David Robinson was going to win. Clear cut. I thought there's no way this good guy is going to lose this class. And what happened was was it Pablo or Pablo? Pablo. Pablo. When he c when they were compared, he just his level of conditioning um especially from behind. I never saw this guy before either. And that's what's I love to see guys come out of the woodwork and just dominate. He came in here. I mean, I don't even think it's close. No, I don't think it's close either. You know, if if you're if you're a conditioning buff and you're a density uh buff, he had, you know, three out of out of the mandatories where he was just looked like cement. And how how about David Robinson in classic physique next year in the pro ranks? Well, you know what? This is a guy who like we've been talking about some of these really good guys if they added 20 pounds of muscle they could be tremendous. Doesn't need to add 20 pounds of muscle in the classic physique division. Then he he's then a lot of these guys who think classic physique is going to be a cakewalker going to be in for a surprise if people like him switch over. Seriously dangerous David Robinson keep an eye on him. Let's talk about the men's middleweight class where Theodore Atkins Jr. was battling with John Duranti. John's been competing for a number of years. I thought this was his best look ever. I thought he had nice um lines. I thought his presentation was professional. His legs are ridiculous. He was strided from behind. I thought Theodore Atkins Jr. has a lot more wow, but I thought his presentation hurt him a little bit. Yeah, you know, he he had he does have more wow. He has more flow for for sure. Um he's got that Dexter lookalike going on. He's he's he's uh he's he's he's got decks the decks to look alike, but his present some some of the shots that he hit, you know, he presented his body a little odd or weird, and I think that hurt him. It sounds silly because, you know, if you you think if you got a physique like that, then it, you know, the poses come naturally, but they they look like he was overstimulated on stage a little bit. He was like getting a little goofy. Yeah. Over trying. So, um, you know, I I again, I thought he might win the class and then when they got compared, I think, you know, he was, although he's in very good condition, he he ended up being out conditioned. And how many times have you said conditioning win shows? And Duranti also has the the experience on stage. He's been doing this for a number of years. I thought this was his best look ever. And I think that John Durant is going to go home with the title. Uh, doesn't really matter who wins because both men will get that pro card, though. Yeah. you know, it it I I I love that that they're given two pro cards. Um because as the depth we're seeing in these classes. Yeah. I mean, by the way, the when we moved up in classes, people's conditioning started to move out, but the lighter classes from the the middleweights down, there were a lot of guys with tremendous But all the w But all the winners seem to be very the depth. Yeah. But the depth in the lower classes was, you know, in terms of condition was beyond spot on. Talking about Chris, amazingly deep classes. The men's lightweight class probably had 10 guys who on any other year could have won that that that it's not an exaggeration. I mean, easily the top six, easily the first call in the top. You and I helped two guys that that that that didn't even really make it into that top three because that's how good the class was. Jose Fortuna, you know, just dominates this class. I mean, I think that he brings for a lightweight, I mean, oodles of muscle, tremendous conditioning. To win this class, you had to be that good. This might have been the most competitive class of the entire show. I I I agree. I think it was a had the most depth, had the most level of completeness, most level of conditioning, lack of flaws, and the winner, you know, looking up there on stage, you know, left me thinking, how does someone like this guy make the weight? meaning, you know, he looks too big for the class. You know, he he's he's super tight and he's taller. So, you think it does it doesn't doesn't add up. You know, it added up to me because it added up to him, too. But not I mean, you couldn't predict this class from seeing the individual posings. You had to see them together. Once you saw these comparisons, then you saw the guys and you saw the flaws in some of the other guys. And and Jose really really raised his glass up another notch and he'll come home with this victory. I'm pretty sure of that. And finally, Chris, in the men's banttom plate class, Ron Paramore uh kind of slips into that class at the last minute. I think he had trouble making the weight. He does make the weight. He gets into this class. Uh we didn't even know we were calling him number 47 in the wrap-up, I should say, in the playbyplay. He dominates this class, I think, and pretty easily w pretty candidly wins it. I mean, just terrific shape, small waist, doesn't look like a banner weight. Talk about guys that look bigger than they really are. This guy really earned that win, I think. You know, he just um like the lightweight winner, he didn't look like he belonged in the class, meaning he looked like he was too too big, too much, too developed to be able to make that weight, which apparently made it. The idea that he made it was very important because if this guy had been in the middle in the lightweight us, he would not have placed. No, no. That's how how tight the lightweight class someone asked. Good move for him to make that. Yeah, absolutely good move. And you know to get back to one more point just to reiterate that lightweight class that that's probably the top five anyone could have won two and three years ago this show easily. I said top 10. Top 10. Okay. Let's go top 15 then. But I agree with you. Well once again all the conditioning in the top two or three guys and all the classes were really admirable. Chris and I were were super excited to critique it, to watch it. And you know what? It's not over. And it ain't over till it's over. The old Yogi Bara saying, "Well, it ain't over." Uh, tomorrow night will be the NPC National Bodybuilding Finals. We will be doing the live playbyplay and of course the final wrap-up. Until then, we are out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo with Chris the Technician Aceto here in Miami, Florida, rxmuscle.com.