If you go back to the 90s and the physiques were good. I'm not going to compare who's are better, okay? Let's assume they were equivalent, okay? And maybe the guys in the 90s had just better genetics, so that's why there was a bunch of freaks during that time. But I think the sizes of the guys were pretty comparable, right? And back then, I know what guys used. No one used exorbitant amounts. There might have been one person that was out of his mind. Heat. Heat. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Any difference in dumbbell and doing dumbbell bicep curl standing or seated? standing more weight, both good control and squeeze. Yeah. I mean, when you're seated, you're kind of locked into not being able to cheat as much, right? Except if you're Jimmy the Bull, that is. He I Jimmy the Bull, let's get back to Jimmy the Bull. The one the most impressive lift that he ever did. And I told him this a million times. He would do seated, okay? He would be on a bench with the, you know, the back seated dumbbell curls with 150s. And he wouldn't just do one rep with it. He would do 15 reps with each arm. That for to me and he would do good. He would actually lift it up like this high because he used a lot of front delt in there and and bicep. He would it was the most incredible thing I've ever seen. That was his best lift because he did full range of motion with them and it was it was just crazy because the weight try to do a try to do a a dumbbell curl even with 100 pounds much less 150 you tear your bicep. Okay. This guy was the strongest person I've ever seen. uh do those those dumbbells. I never seen anyone else do it. A matter of fact, he did a demonstration. I don't know if it was in Fibo or if it was in on the Arnold Classic stage. There was a guy at the time by the name of Manfred Hullberg. He was this German guy and he he had like the first synthol arms, but he had but he had really big arms, too. They he was a very big muscle guy, you know, he was one of the first strong men. And him and Jimmy the Bull were going to have this curl off. And so they were they were doing some kind of demonstration on the stage. They came out, Manfred got the 150s and he and he had these big arms and he and he I think he did one or two reps with each arm and then Jimmy came out after him and did like 15 or 18 reps with each arm and and showed him up and you know at the time Manford had been competing as a strong man. Jimmy was just doing demonstrations of but people were like blown away because it was it was that incredible of a of a lift. So personally I like the seated ones because you're not cheating as much. you're getting more bicep. Standing, you can kind of like swing them a little bit more. Jimmy likes that swinging action. So, it's really whatever you whatever you like better. It doesn't really matter. I, you know, once again, I'm more about form, you know, and trying to, you know, really control the weight a little bit more, but, you know, whatever works. Here's an interesting one. It's about um a current trend that you have to run three, four, five, or six plus grams of gear to get big. Olympians pros are coming out sharing their cycles now and still aren't believed when it's a modest one and a half grams. Yeah. You know, I I think that um if you go back to the 90s and the physiques were good. I'm not going to compare who's are better. Okay, let's assume they were the equivalent. Okay. And maybe the guys in the '90s had just better genetics, so that's why there was a bunch of freaks during that time. But I think the sizes of the guys were pretty comparable, right? And back then, I know what guys used. No one used an exorbitant amounts. There might have been one person that was out of his mind, but you know, people used a thousand milligrams of testosterone a week. They used about another, you know, maybe another 6 to 800 milligrams of of anabolics on top of that. So, they were under two grams a gear total per week. And most of them used anywhere from like 3 to four I use a GH max if they could even afford the GH. And people were huge. Now, we can say there's an explanation for that. We can say, well, the gear was better back then because it came fromarmacies, came from overseas, it was it was there was no underground, you know, crap that people were using. Okay, that's a possibility. But if we are to assume that the gear is the same as, in other words, dosed properly, um there's no reason to be doing three, four, five grams of gear a week. Um I I it's overkill. All you're getting is more fluid retention and more side effects. I'm telling you, if I thought more was better and I've tried every, you know, I've experimented. I would recommend that. I'm hardly conservative by any means, but I know what works and I know what what gives the best results with the least side effects. So, when I recommend that people use, you know, under two grams of gear, which is what I have my guys doing, they're probably at about, you know, 1,800 milligrams most a week. Um, that's the ideal dosage. If you're going to take more than that, you're wasting your time, your money, and your health. and and that's just the that's the honest truth. Now, if some people have to take three, four grams of gear because they're not getting any results, maybe their gear is underdosed. That is that was the Boston Lloyd um theory about gear today, that it's just not dosed properly. But if you know you're getting gear that's dosed properly and you've tested it or it comes from a pharmacy, there's no reason to do that much. I'm telling you, you're wasting your time and you're just causing more side effects. So, I do not I'm not saying that the guys don't use more gear today. They probably do because the guys are very honest. Most people are very transparent on social media because they get more views that way. So just because those guys are using that much gear doesn't mean you need to use it. It's not going to make you bigger. Okay? The training, the eating, the consistency is what's going to put the size in you. We know what the threshold amount of gear you need to do to get big. I was 319 pounds on what I'm telling you I was taking. Okay? Therefore, and I and I'm hardly I'm hardly a genetic freak in terms of size. I when I started out it was very skinny right so um I know what works dosage wise so the other components are the most important the training the eating and the consistency thoughts on smearillin but then the secondary to that is best peptides for building muscle yeah I like smearellin I like all the growth hormone releasing peptides I think they're good alternatives to taking GH they're not anywhere near the same as taking GH because you're hoping Basically, you're taking a GH releasing peptide and then praying that your pituitary can produce enough GH in response to that that you'll get an effect from it. That that's what you're doing, right? Same thing when you take HCG. You take an H shot of HCG and you hope your testicles are going to produce enough testosterone to give you some sort of a benefit. But more than likely, taking, you know, two shots of testosterone a week is is far superior to taking any HCG. Just like taking two three IUs of GH a day is far superior to any serarellin or CJC or any of the other hexarellin any of the other GH releasing peptides. That's just the reality of it. Does it mean that you're not going to get any results from serarellin? No, it it works. But you're not going to get the results you're getting from two three IUs of GH a day. It's just not the same. Because when you're taking the GH, you're actually putting growth hormone into your body and you're getting a b a pharmacological effect from that. When you're taking a releasing peptide, your your body is releasing its own and you only have so much ability to produce GH out of your pituitary gland. Some people are better releasers than others, too. So, some people get better results, other people get no results. And that's the that's the the truth and the fact of it. So, is it better than, you know, nothing? Yes. Is it better than taking GH itself? No. And it's not even comparable. However, you you did mention what are the best muscle building peptides? GH is a peptide. IGF-1 is a peptide. Those are muscle building peptides. To me, if I'm going to spend my money on any peptides, I don't know of anything that in recent memory, new compounds that have come out that that is even close to BPC57. It's the greatest healing. It's the greatest new peptide I think that's that's come out, period. Because BPC57 actually causes healing and recovery. I know because I don't use growth hormone anymore. Ever since I had thyroid cancer, I won't take it at all. And so I use BPC when I'm when I'm hurting. And you know what? When I take it, the the injury goes away in days. You know, sometimes my ankle hurts where I had the surgery. I take a couple shots of that. You know, I get from Titan Medical Center. And you know what? It goes away. The pain goes away. It actually works. And I feel like I'm recovering better from workouts on it. So, I'm telling you, if you're going to use a peptide in in today's day and age, that's what I would spend my money on. That stuff works, you know. And now I know Titan Medical now has the the the combo of BPC57 and TB-500. I think they call it the Hercules formula or something like that. That's that's that's it. That's what you should be using for healing and recovery. If you want to grow, take steroids and and GH and IGF-1. That that's how you're going to we know that those are the most potent builders of muscle. There's nothing better than that.